09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid surge, PM stresses on the need to ‘test, track & treat’ more||Amid growing concerns over vaccine shortage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told the Chief Ministers of the States that the surge of COVID-19 — crossing peak levels of the first wave — required a firm strategy of “Test, Track and Treat”, while seeming to rule out any kind of large scale lockdown. Intensive testing, testing 100% in well-defined micro containment zones, tracing at least 30 contacts of every positive case and ensuring that all eligible people were vaccinated was the strategy required, Mr Modi said. The Prime Minister was addressing Chief Ministers online as the country battles a massive second wave of COVID-19 infections. He stressed on the need to demarcate specific micro containment zones, almost ruling out large scale lockdown of towns and cities. “Many States have faced criticism due to high cases, but I tell them that you need not bother; keep testing rates high, trace as many contacts, and test 100% in micro containment zones. These zones cannot be large undefined areas. If cases arise in a block of flats that tower can be a micro containment zone, the entire complex cannot be a containment zone,” he said. Mr Modi pointed out that during the last year when the pandemic first hit, the country was facing challenges of not having either enough testing labs, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, ventillators and oxygen. “Now, at least we have the experience and access to these resources when we take on this second wave,” he said. He admitted that the long battle against COVID19 may have led to “COVID fatigue” among people and local administration, but that it needed to be gotten over and urged that governors of States and civil society members, people of influence be roped in to emphasise COVID appropriate behaviour again. ‘Teeka Utsav’ “As far as night curfews are concerned, we must call them Corona curfew to stress the reason why this has become neccessary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-surge-pm-stresses-on-the-need-to-test-track-treat-more/article34276355.ece
09 April 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 56,286 fresh cases, 376 more deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday yet again recorded more than 50,000 COVID-19 cases, reporting 56,286 infections, as its active case tally surged to 5,21,317. The State also recorded an all-time high fatality spike of 376 deaths (136 of which were reported in the last 48 hours, while the rest were from an earlier period), pushing the total death toll to 57,028. The case fatality rate has dipped to 1.77%. A total of 36,130 patients were discharged and the State’s recovery rate dipped to 82.05%. While the total case tally has now reached 32,29,547, the cumulative recoveries stand at 26,49,757.  Record samples tested A record 2.35 lakh samples were tested as well. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “Of 2,13,85,551 laboratory samples tested so far, 32,29,547 (with the average case positivity rising to 15.10%) have returned positive, with over 2.35 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours.” Pune district recorded yet another huge surge of more than 12,300 new cases to take its total tally to 6,19,091. As per State Health Department figures, 46 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 8,532. As per the district authorities, however, the active case tally has crossed 87,000, while the total death toll has crossed 10,400. 8,938 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 8,938 new cases, taking its case tally to 4,91,980, of which 83,693 are now active. Twenty-five deaths took the toll to 11,881. Mayor Kishori Pednekar said the vaccination drive in the city would stop from Friday as stocks were on the verge of being exhausted. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 1,310 cases to take its tally to 94,931, while seven more deaths took the toll to 1,151. Spike in Nagpur Nagpur district reported nearly 6,000 cases as its tally reached 2,65,271, of which 61,711 are active. As per the State Health Department, 36 deaths took the toll to 4,193. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported over 1,200 new cases to take its total tally to 95,003, of which 18,082 are active. Four more deaths took the total toll to 1,449. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported a spike of more than 3,300 new cases, taking its total case tally to 2,09,392, of which 34,919 are active. Twenty-seven deaths took its toll to 2,380. A total of 27,02,613 people across the State were in home quarantine and 22,661 were in institutional quarantine facilities, Dr. Awate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-56286-fresh-cases-376-more-deaths/article34277057.ece
09 April 2021||MYSURU,||Govt. shoots down Mysuru DC’s directive on COVID-19||The State government has torpedoed the advisory issued by Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on carrying RT-PCR negative report if travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru or visiting places of tourist interest. Ms. Sindhuri on Thursday said that carrying RT-PCR negative report was an advisory if travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru, but would not be checked or considered mandatory. However, she said that a negative report was must for people to visit places of tourist interest in Mysuru. The district administration also announced that an RT-PCR negative report was mandatory to watching films in theatres. The announcement was greeted with a barrage of criticism on the grounds that it was not practical, given that thousands of people commuted daily/regularly between the two cities. Within hours, the State government issued a circular stating that the Deputy Commissioners of various districts were not authorised to announce separate contingency plans to combat the pandemic. It directed that such orders be withdrawn. The government circular, issued by Principal Secretary N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also member-secretary (Disaster Management), was addressed to all the Deputy Commissioners and other officials in the bureaucracy, and not any particular individual. The circular stated that the government was trying to ensure uniformity in the protocols being followed to fight the pandemic and was complying with the norms issued by the Centre. It stated that any orders or directives on containment, traffic movement, restrictions on congregations and more should be issued under the seal of the Chief Secretary after seeking the consent of the Chief Minister. “Yet, it has come to the notice of the government that certain Deputy Commissioners are issuing directives independently and at variance with the Chief Minister’s directives for uniformity in policy decisions,” Mr. Prasad said in the circular. Hence, he said, any separate directives issued by department heads, Deputy Commissioners, and local corporations should be rescinded.  This is the second time that the State government has stepped in to overrule a decision of the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru on the issue of combating the pandemic. In October last year, the district administration barred people from visiting places of tourist interest during Dasara. This triggered a protest from stakeholders. But the Chief Minister overruled the decision, following which the district administration’s original directives were withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-shoots-down-mysuru-dcs-directive-on-covid-19/article34276620.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses pleas to quash CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Thursday delivered a blow to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and former State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh by refusing their pleas to quash a CBI probe into allegations of corruption levelled by transferred Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against Mr. Deshmukh in a letter. ‘Public confidence’ A Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta upheld the Bombay High Court order for a CBI probe, saying the dramatis personae involved — Mr. Deshmukh and Mr. Singh — and the “seriousness of the allegations” required investigation by an independent agency. “It is a matter of public confidence,” Justice Kaul observed. Both the Maharashtra government and Mr. Deshmukh had appealed to the Supreme Court against the Bombay High Court order for a preliminary enquiry by the CBI into the contents of Mr. Singh’s allegations against Mr. Deshmukh. “Allegations are extremely serious and things have got curiouser and curiouser,” Justice Kaul said. “You see, both were heading their respective institutions when things went wrong between them... One was a Home Minister and the other one of the seniormost police officers. This is not an everyday issue ... These are two persons who closely worked with each other until they fell apart. So, an independent agency should enquire. The High Court is right,” he told Maharashtra counsel, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi. Resignation given Mr. Singhvi argued that Mr. Deshmukh had resigned within hours of the High Court order. The basis of the High Court order for a CBI probe was no longer there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rejects-pleas-to-quash-cbi-probe-against-deshmukh/article34276352.ece
09 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Minister rules out lockdown, night curfew in Assam||Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has ruled out the imposition of another lockdown or night curfew in the State to check the spread of a new variant of the novel coronavirus. But he said people in the State would celebrate the mid-April Rongali or Bohag Bihu festival with certain restrictions due to the “second wave” of the COVID-19 pandemic. “There is no possibility of a lockdown. Bihu will be celebrated with fanfare, but we need to take precautions as the second wave of COVID-19 has started,” he told journalists on Thursday. The month-long Rongali Bihu, marking the start of the Assamese New Year and characterised by a series of cultural events, could not be celebrated in 2020 due to the COVID-19 outbreak.  “The local artistes had suffered huge financial losses last year. We cannot let that happen again. We will conduct more tests and issue an SOP (standard operating procedure) for people to celebrate Bihu,” Dr. Sarma said. One of the steps likely to be taken is to restrict the cultural programmes beyond 12 midnight. Such programmes during normal Bihu season carry on till close to dawn. “We will follow the strategy of three Ts – test, track and trace. Although there is no need to panic now, people should remain alert. They should get themselves tested if they have the symptoms,” the Minister said. He also said the government plans to conduct one lakh tests per day to detect people who could be infected. About 18,000 tests were conducted on Wednesday, he added. On Wednesday, 195 people had tested positive for COVID-19, and 104 of them were from the Kamrup (Metro) district of which Guwahati is the headquarters. The number of infected people was 92 on Tuesday. The State government had earlier made it mandatory for air passengers, travelling from Mumbai and Karnataka, to undergo the RT-PCR test in Assam. Tests were also made compulsory for train passengers arriving from or having travelled through Karnataka and Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-rules-out-lockdown-night-curfew-in-assam/article34276572.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,||Passengers face hardship for the second day in Hubballi||Commuters and the general public continued to face hardship on Thursday as the indefinite strike by the transport employees entered the second day. Although some alternative arrangements were made by the officials of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation, they were not of much help to the travelling public. Traders and businessmen felt the heat of the strike as their employees did not turn up for work citing lack of bus facilities. Both Hubballi-Dharwad put together, the officials somehow managed to run 19 buses on different routes. Among them, five were operated by the city transport division and two under Bus Rapid Transit System and 12 by the Moffusil Division to different towns and cities. Private players were also allowed to operate from the public bus stands on temporary permits in view of the strike. Meanwhile, Managing Director of NWKRTC Krishna Bajpai made an appeal to the striking drivers and conductors to call off the agitation and resume their duties. He said in his appeal that the demands of the employees could be resolved amicably. In his appeal, he said that continuation of the strike would result in huge losses to NWKRTC and it would not be in the interest of drivers and conductors. Mentioning that 14.5 lakh people were dependent on public transport buses for commuting every day in the nine divisions of NWKRTC in six districts, he said that the strike had caused inconvenience to thousands of people. Notice While on the one hand, the Managing Director made an appeal to the employees, NWKRTC officials began issuing notice to the striking employees on the other. As many as 12 trainee drivers and conductors attached to Hubballi Dharwad City Transport Division were served with show-cause notice on Thursday asking them to report to duty with written clarification on Friday failing which disciplinary action would be taken against them. Employees residing in the staff quarters of the transport corporation were also issued notice asking them to report to their duties and with a warning that disciplinary action will be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/passengers-face-hardship-for-the-second-day-in-hubballi/article34276489.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ramp up COVID rules enforcement: HC||The Telangana High Court on Thursday told the State government that it required to ramp up enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines, observing that the police department was lax in cracking the whip against people not adhering to rules. Referring to statistics of cases booked in a status report filed by Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy in a batch of PIL petitions on COVID-19, the HC said the “numbers were not impressive” and the “police department needs to ramp up the enforcement”. Citing the 1,16,467 cases booked for not wearing masks from March 24, 2020 to April 1, 2021, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said that many more number of cases could be in Hyderabad city alone. Citing the figures of 2,456 cases booked for not maintaining social distance, the bench felt the number was abysmally low compared to the long queues witnessed before wine shops, pubs and bars. “Wine shops and bars may be sources of revenue for the government, but they are sources of infection as well,” the bench remarked. Stringent actions like suspension of licences should be initiated instead of merely booking cases in case of violation of COVID-19 norms, the bench observed. Chief Justice Hima Kohli said that law-enforcing agencies can find numerous violations of COVID-19 guidelines if they visit localities in Old City. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy specifically told Advocate General B.S. Prasad to convey to police department about the crowds at bars and pubs on road Nos. 36 and 45 of Jubilee Hills. “Traffic police check persons driving vehicles after consuming liquor outside the bars. But police should put in place strict mechanism to bring down footfall at bars and pubs,” he observed. The judge said the youngsters were in a holiday mood after long periods of lockdown and flocking to pubs and bars unmindful of the possible escalation of coronavirus spread. The police required to find a mechanism to check this, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ramp-up-enforcement-of-covid-protocols-hc/article34276973.ece
09 April 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,||Two die of COVID-19 in Virudhunagar district||Two persons have lost their lives to COVID-19 infection in Virudhunagar district since Wednesday. The death of a 42-year-old man from Ayyanar Nagar in the town on Wednesday was the first COVID-19-related fatality in Virudhunagar district in 2021. Deputy Director (Health Services) A. Palanisamy said that the man had fever for four days and was admitted to Virudhunagar Government Hospital. After he tested positive and developed breathlessness, he was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, where he died on Wednesday. The second death was that of a Communist Party of India (Marxist) functionary, R. Chandramohan, who too succumbed to the viral infection at the GRH on Thursday morning, according to a statement from the party’s Virudhunagar district unit. A senior official said the number of new cases that remained in single digit till a month back had now increased to double digit. “When the election campaign was in peak, people had gathered in large numbers everywhere without wearing mask or maintaining social distance despite repeated warnings by the Health Department,” the official added. Besides, a huge gathering was reported in a temple festival that went on for three days since Tuesday. The Collector said after 24 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday, the number of samples collected, which remained at 1,000 a day, was increased to 1,500 on Thursday, when 13 new positive cases were recorded. As of now, COVID-19 patients were treated only at Virudhunagar GH.  ‘Keep hospitals ready’ However, the health officials had been instructed to keep ready other government hospitals too. “We will also revive COVID care centres in the district, if needed,” the Collector said. Contact tracing and testing would be taken up intensively, Dr. Palanisamy said. He added that containment zones would be introduced in the district if there were three or four new cases in a street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-die-of-covid-19-in-virudhunagar-district/article34276397.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM tests positive for COVID-19||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been admitted to one of the VIP wards of the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Though he does not seem to have any symptoms of the disease now, as a matter of caution, the Health Department has advised that he be moved to the MCH, where a medical board would be put in charge of his treatment. Two of his family members, his daughter and son-in-law, too had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier in the week. Though the Chief Minister is always seen wearing a mask, he had been engaged in hectic election campaigning all of last month and had been leading many election meetings and roadshows in which thousands had participated, in total violation of all COVID-19 protocols. He has tested positive at a time when COVID-19 cases are once again rising in the State and the health administration is bracing to face a second wave of the pandemic. Vaccine taken Mr. Vijayan had been administered the first dose of vaccine in the first week of March, when vaccination had been opened up for all above 60 years. It is a fact that while vaccination might not prevent all infections, even one dose affords a certain level of protection against serious disease. With the Chief Minister testing positive, the Health Department has directed all members of his personal staff and their families as well as other officials who have been interacting with him closely these past few days to go on quarantine and to get themselves tested at appropriate time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34276543.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Maoists release CRPF commando||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando who was abducted by the Maoists after the April 3 encounter at Tarrem in Chattisgarh’s Sukma was released on Thursday. On the request of the Chattisgarh police, social activists Dharampal Saini, 91, Tellam Boraiah and seven journalists secured the release. The commando, Rakeshwar Singh Minhas is from the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) of the CRPF, a unit specially trained for operations in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas. Recalling the events leading to Mr. Minhas’ release, Bijapur-based journalist Ganesh Mishra told The Hindu that he first received a WhatsApp call from a Maoist leader on April 5 confirming that Mr Minhas was in their custody. “The caller (Maoist leader) said that they found Minhas in an unconscious state on April 3, they said he was safe. They demanded that a team of mediators be appointed on behalf of the government. I contacted the police,” Mr. Mishra said. He said police roped in Dharampal Saini, who was awarded Padmashri in 1995 for educating tribal girls, and Ms. Boraiah, leader of the Gondwana community, to speak to the Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoists-release-crpf-commando/article34276350.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Minor incidents mar MPTC, ZPTC polls||The State Election Commission (SEC) conducted elections to the Mandal Parishad and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies (MPTC, ZPTC) in the State on Thursday. The elections were held after a Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court struck down an earlier order by a single judge Bench staying the poll process. Polling began at 7 a.m. and continued till 5 p.m., except in Agency areas where the polling concluded by 2 p.m. The polling was by and large peaceful except for minor incidents. The polling percentge was put at 60.91. One person was injured in a clash between the supporters of the YSRCP and the Jana Sena Party at Pedapatnam Lanka under the Nagaram police station limits in East Godavari district. Confusion over the conducting of elections till the last minute and scorching sun led to a drop in voting percentage in some districts. For the first time, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) boycotted the parishad elections. The impact of the TDP’s boycott could be seen at some places in the State. Following a gaffe, the authorities conducted a repoll for 11 votes after the voters found mismatch of the details of the candidates printed on the ballot papers at Saakuru Gunnepalli polling station in East Godavari district. The elections were held without any fanfare in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. Elections were held for 419 MPTCs and 33 ZPTCs in Chittoor district. When the notification was issued in March last year, YSRCP candidates in 30 ZPTCs and 433 MPTCs were elected unanimously. Of the 660 ZPTCs in the State, elections were held for 515 seats with 2,058 candidates in the fray. Elections were not held for eight seats for various reasons, and elections to 11 seats were postponed as candidates of different political parties died since March 2020 when the election notification was originally issued. With regard to the MPTCs, elections were held for 7,220 seats and 18,782 candidates were in the fray. While there are 10,047 MPTC seats in the State, elections were not held for 375 seats for various reasons and 2,371 seats were unanimously elected. Elections were not held for 81 seats as candidates of different political parties in the fray died since March 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-incidents-mar-mptc-zptc-polls-in-ap/article34276321.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State can’t afford another lockdown: CM||Expressing concern at the rising number of COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy called for a concerted effort to control it so as to avoid another lockdown, which cost the State dearly last year. “COVID caused a staggering loss of Rs. 21,000 crore to the exchequer (in 2020). We cannot afford to go back to those days as the economy will suffer a devastating blow,” he observed, ordering that wide publicity be given to COVID prevention and management. On being informed that the existing stocks of COVID vaccine would be sufficient for only two days, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed that an indent should be immediately placed with the Central government and enough number of doses procured at the earliest. The State has 3 lakh doses of the vaccine at present. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that the vaccination of about one crore people aged above 45 should be completed in a month as inoculation was the only way to curb the menace. The target should be to administer the vaccine to four lakh people in rural areas per day and two lakh per day in cities and towns. He instructed the officials to strictly deal with those not wearing masks and to ensure that the COVID patients were not exploited in private hospitals. Officials of the Health, Medical & Family Welfare Department told the Chief Minister that there were 66 COVID hospitals and 22 COVID care centres in the State. He directed them to make beds available in hospitals immediately when COVID-infected persons ask for them through toll-free number 104. He also wanted enough stocks of Remdesivir injection to be maintained for treating those who fell seriously ill due to COVID. Besides, there should be no dearth of COVID medicine kits required by those in home isolation. Reviewing the progress of infrastructure works taken up in hospitals under the Nadu-Nedu programme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said funds should be released without inordinate delays and that the YSR Health Clinics be painted with vibrant colours and all facilities stipulated by the government are provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-cant-afford-another-lockdown-says-jagan/article34276346.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Green spaces in city are 2.23°C cooler: Study||Green cover, even in the heart of a dense city, can serve as nature’s very own eco-friendly and effective air-conditioners. In Bengaluru, urban green spaces (UGS) are on an average 2.23 degrees Celsius cooler than surrounding areas. Not only that, the average UGS provide local cooling effects 347 metres beyond its boundary. These are some of the key findings of a recently published study conducted by a team from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar. The study, which focussed on Bengaluru, is touted to be one of the first to quantify the role of urban green spaces in localised surface temperature reduction for a large Indian city. Published earlier this year in Science Direct , it analysed the cooling effect for 262 UGS in Bengaluru. The researchers used high-resolution Landsat and Google Earth data and integrated it with spatial statistical analysis to quantify the cooling effects provided by UGS beyond their boundaries. Construction activities “The findings of this study are important in the context of India’s Smart Cities Mission that has been criticised for an inadequate focus on urban greening,” said the authors, Arpit Shah, Amit Garg, and Vimal Mishra. Mr. Shah, a post-doctoral researcher at IIMA, told The Hindu that the study was conducted in 2017, but the findings would still apply today, especially given that like most cities, Bengaluru too has seen increased construction and reduced green spaces in recent times. He explained that the criteria for choosing the UGS was for the space to be at least one acre in size and with canopy cover. They did not account for waterbodies. The scope of the study included prime lung spaces in the city such as Cubbon Park and Lalbagh. “The average temperature difference between a green space and its surroundings, for the 262 green spaces in the study area, increased with distance from the green space. Cooling effects were maximum near the green space and subsided with distance. The temperature of the average green space was 2.23°C lower than the temperature at its inflection point, where the cooling effects of the UGS subsided. The median cooling extent of a UGS was 270 metres, and the average cooling extent was 347 metres, after which the cooling effects of the green space subsided,” the paper stated. This, explained Mr. Shah, can be looked at with the example of local pharmacy shops. Just like how one benefits from a local shop rather than a concentration of such shops in one part of the city, urban planners need to think of green spaces to be available within 100-150 metres of residents. This analogy also applies to the concept of compensatory afforestation, wherein agencies choosing to plant trees in a place much away from where deforestation took place has been the subject of criticism. Waterbodies too have a similar impact as that of green spaces, offering localised cooling effect, he added.  But the same principles apply for both: they need to be distributed in different parts of the city, even if it means on smaller patches. “If vacant spaces can be converted now into green spaces, one can see the long-term effects in a few years,” he pointed out. “The study points to the need for conserving green spaces in rapidly growing cities in India. This is more critical when India's urban population is expected to double in the next three decades. Potential solutions to urban cooling could include introducing green cover at different locations in cities to enhance local cooling effects. Our results indicate that small green spaces that are spatially dispersed across the city could be useful in providing cooling effects,” the study concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-spaces-in-city-are-223c-cooler-study/article34276876.ece
09 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||New species from Arunachal added to India’s bird list||A bird spotted in Arunachal Pradesh at an altitude higher than its recorded perch in adjoining China has become the 1,340th species of the bird family in India. The three-banded rosefinch is a resident of southern China and a vagrant in Bhutan. A team of scientists from Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) spotted and photographed this rare species of bird in Arunachal Pradesh on February 8. The team comprising BNHS assistant director Girish Jathar and researchers Atharva Singh and Himadri Sekhar Mondal published their finding in the latest issue of the journal Indian Birds . The new species of bird was found during an intensive survey of finches across the Eastern Himalayas as a part of an ongoing study. The survey team members spotted the three-banded rosefinch with a flock of white-browed rosefinch, a species commonly seen in this landscape. “A male and a female three-banded rosefinch were seen at Sela (mountain pass on the border between Tawang and West Kameng districts of Arunachal Pradesh) at an altitude of 3,852 metres above sea level,” Dr. Jathar said. “The altitudinal record of the sighting of this species from India is higher than its previous known altitudinal record from China. This has opened up interesting ecological research on this species,” he added. The three-banded rosefinch belongs to the family Fringillidae, which are seed-eating passerine birds with a distinctively conical bill. “The three-banded rosefinch may be using the high altitude temperate coniferous forest of Arunachal Pradesh as a passage while migrating from China to Bhutan,” said Mr. Singh, the lead author of the paper on the new species. “Little information is available on the ecology of this species,” Mr. Mondal added. Prior to the addition of the three-banded rosefinch in the bird list of India, there were 1,339 avian species reported from across the country. Fresh sightings Since 2016, the bird checklist has increased by 104 species new to India. There were three additions to the checklist of India while the three-banded rosefinch was the fifth new species recorded during the current year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-species-from-arunachal-added-to-indias-bird-list/article34276576.ece
09 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Night curfew imposed in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut||Taking into account the surge in COVID-19 cases, a night curfew has been imposed in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh from Thursday night. The night prohibition/regulation order will remain in effect from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. till April 17 in Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad and April 18 in Meerut. While G.B. Nagar reported 134 fresh cases, Ghaziabad saw 108 new cases. Meerut reported a spike of 222 cases over 24 hours. According to an official bulletin, G.B. Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut have 652, 442 and 917 active cases respectively. Emergency services have been kept out of the restrictions. Media persons and those travelling outside the city would be allowed to move with valid documents. The decision was taken after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting with District Magistrates on Wednesday and directed them to take a call according to the ground situation. All educational institutions in G.B. Nagar and Ghaziabad would remain closed till April 17 and till April 18 in Meerut, stated the orders issued by the three DMs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-imposed-in-gautam-buddha-nagar-ghaziabad-meerut/article34276663.ece
09 April 2021||KANNUR,||UDF walks out of peace meet in Kannur||The United Democratic Front (UDF) boycotted a peace meeting convened by Kannur District Collector T.V. Subhash on Thursday, in the wake of violent incidents following the murder of Mansoor, a Muslim Youth League member, at Koothuparamba, on Tuesday, the election day. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary Abdul Kareem Cheleri said that even 48 hours after the murder, the culprits had not be apprehended. He said the party would launch an agitation from Thursday till the accused were arrested. Case registered “The police have registered a case against only those detained by local people at the site where Mansoor was murdered,” he said. He said the UDF would support peace talks once the accused in the case were arrested. Mr. Cheleri also claimed that the police arrested and brutally beat up 24 IUML activists for “vandalising CPI(M) offices.” Mr. Subhash led the peace meeting in the presence of Minister for Ports Kadannappally Ramachandran. Half an hour into the meeting, the UDF leaders walked out, while leaders of the CPI(M) and the BJP stayed back. March taken out Activists of the IUML and the MYL later took out a march to the Kolavallur police station, where the IUML activists are detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udf-walks-out-of-peace-meet-in-kannur/article34276536.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State imposes curbs at public places||The State police on Thursday spread out across public places to insist that people wear masks and maintain social distance. The grim shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic appeared to lengthen in Kerala amidst widespread apprehension that laxity in observing the pandemic prevention protocol during the elections could seed new outbreaks. High-level meet A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy reportedly weighed stricter restrictions on mass gatherings given the prediction that Kerala could witness a spike of infections in the next three weeks. The government has already insisted that public transport buses do not admit passengers above the legal seating capacity. It has also restricted the number of travellers in autorickshaws to not more than two. An official said the Centre and State governments were against a total lockdown given its socio-economic implications. However, the administration has set in motion a return to COVID-19 precautions. It would also identify outbreak points and ensure the infection did not radiate out from the hotspots. They were calling on marriage hall managements to restrict the number of attendees to less than 100. The law enforcement reminded supermarkets and malls to discourage overcrowding. The police have increased their presence in open markets, beaches, parks and other places where people tend to congregate. It has also stepped up vigil at border check-posts to ensure travellers wore masks and observed the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-imposes-curbs-at-public-places/article34276539.ece
09 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||Varanasi court orders ASI survey of mosque adjacent to temple||A local court in Varanasi on Thursday directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to conduct a survey of the Gyanvapi Mosque, adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, to find out whether it was a “superimposition, alteration or addition or if there is structural overlapping of any kind, with any other religious structure”. The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board said it would challenge the order in the Allahabad High Court, terming it “unwarranted”. The court also directed the DG of the ASI to constitute a five-member committee of experts, two out of whom should belong to the minority community.  The panel would “trace as to whether any Hindu temple ever existed before the mosque in question was built or superimposed or added upon at the disputed site,” said senior civil judge Ashutosh Tiwari, in his order seen by The Hindu . The court said the committee would be entitled to enter every portion of the religious structure situated at the disputed site but shall first resort to only Ground Penetrating Radar or Geo-Radiology System or both to satisfy itself whether any excavation or extraction work is needed at any portion of the religious structure. If excavation or extraction is to be done at any portion of the structure, it should be first done by trial trench method vertically and that too at a very small scale and not more than four square feet at a time, the court said. The order came on a petition demanding the restoration of the land on which the mosque stands to the Hindus claiming that Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb had pulled down parts of the old Kashi Vishwanath Temple to build the mosque. Comprehensive survey The DG of the ASI is directed to get a comprehensive archaeological physical survey be done of the entire settlement plot no 9130 located at Mauja Shahar Khas, Pargana Dehat Amanat, including the Naubat Khana of the northern gate of the Gyanvapi compound and the house towards the northern gate of the naubatkhana, the court said. “The prime purpose of the archaeological survey shall be to find out as to whether the religious structure standing at present at the disputed site is a superimposition, alteration or addition or there is structural overlapping of any kind, with or over, any other religious structure,” the judge said. The committee has also been tasked to prepare a comprehensive documentation along with the drawing, plan, elevation site map with precise breadth and width of the disputed site marked with hatched lines in the plaint map. The court also asked the ASI to appoint an expert as an observer for the committee, preferably a scholarly personality and established academician of any central university. The cost and expenses of the entire survey would be borne by the ASI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asi-will-survey-mosque-orders-court/article34276353.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Maoists release CRPF commando Minhas||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando who was abducted by the Maoists after the April 3 encounter at Tarrem in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma was released on Thursday. On the request of the Chhattisgarh police, social activists Dharampal Saini, 91, Tellam Boraiah and seven journalists secured the release. The commando, Rakeshwar Singh Minhas, is from the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) of the CRPF, a unit specially trained for operations in Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-affected areas. Recalling the events leading to the release, Bijapur-based journalist Ganesh Mishra told The Hindu that he first received a WhatsApp call from a Maoist leader on April 5 confirming that Mr Minhas was in their custody. “The caller (Maoist leader) said that they found Minhas in an unconscious state on April 3, they said he was safe. The next day they called again and said that he will be released in two days,” Mr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoists-release-crpf-commando/article34276405.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Bus strike in State set to enter day three||The indefinite bus strike that has affected services across Karnataka is set to continue for the third day with neither the government nor striking road transport corporations backing down. Commuters in the city relying on Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation services and those who needed to travel out of the city who depend on RTC services claimed that private operators, who have been roped in by the government, were fleecing them. At a press conference on Thursday, Principal Secretary ofTransport Anjum Parvez appealed to employees, who are seeking the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission, to return to work. The government, meanwhile, has also resorted to action such as suspending trainee employees. “The Chief Secretary has already said that pay revision cannot happen as per 6th Pay Commission recommendations. He had said that the State government is ready to give interim relief of 8% salary hike. In future, if there are any further changes in pay revision, employees will definitely get their arrears,” said Mr. Parvez. However, striking employees refused to climb down on their demand. In an effort to ease some of the hassles passengers are facing, RTCs have decided to rope in retired drivers and conductors to operate some of the buses. In a notification issued on Thursday, the KSRTC said that drivers and conductors aged below 62 and retired in the last two years would be employed on contract basis. Apart from permit relaxations to private operators, the State government has also requested RTCs of neighbouring states to run more buses for the benefit of the general public especially during Ugadi. Mr. Parvez said the strike has hit the cash-strapped corporations as they are looking at Rs. 20 crore revenue loss. Reacting to a question on initiating action under Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA), the official said, “ESMA is already in place and the question of invoking ESMA does not arise. If we reach a point where action needs to be taken by using certain provisions of ESMA, wewill do that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-strike-in-state-set-to-enter-day-three/article34276877.ece
09 April 2021||Mumbai,||CBI seeks security scare case papers to quiz Vaze||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday approached a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court seeking access to papers related to the Antilia bomb scare case for preliminary inquiry into graft allegations against former minister Anil Deshmukh. The CBI claimed documents related to the case will aid it in questioning suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, a key accused in its custody. The special court kept the matter for hearing on Friday. Meanwhile, the CBI recorded the statements of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Mr. Vaze and two others in connection with the allegations against Mr. Deshmukh, an official said on Thursday. “The CBI team also recorded the statements of Mumbai ACP Sanjay Patil and advocate Jayshree Patil [on whose criminal writ petition the high court ordered the CBI probe against Mr. Deshmukh],” the official said. After the high court’s directive on Monday, a CBI team arrived in Mumbai from Delhi two days ago for the preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Mr. Singh against Mr. Deshmukh, the official said. “The CBI team has recorded the statements of Param Bir Singh and Sachin Vaze in connection with the allegations. Their statements were recorded on Wednesday and Thursday,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-seeks-security-scare-case-papers-to-quiz-vaze/article34277054.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Reinstate three police officers: AIADMK||The AIADMK on Thursday demanded that three police officers be transferred back to their original posts. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, joint secretary of the party’s advocates wing R.M. Babu Murugavel recalled that the officers – H.M. Jayaram, IG (Central Zone), Dhinakaran, IG (West Zone) and Arul Arasu, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore (Rural) – were transferred on March 31 and in their place, Deepak M. Damor, A. Amalraj and Selva Nagarathnam were posted respectively. Davidson Devasirvatham was posted as Commissioner of Coimabtore. Mr. Murugavel said the officers, who were recently posted, had “acted against” his party and they were “hand in glove” with the DMK. They had allowed the DMK to indulge in “several illegal activities” such as cash distribution for voters, he claimed. Mr. Murugavel argued that as the officers were posted for election duty and polling was over on Tuesday, they should be sent back to their original posts and the earlier set of officers should be reinstated to their old posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reinstate-three-police-officers-aiadmk/article34276396.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu reintroduces restrictions from April 10||Multiple restrictions will be reintroduced from April 10 to curb the steady increase in COVID-19 cases across Tamil Nadu, according to a government order issued on Thursday. The restrictions have been brought back days after the voting for the Assembly election. The government said the case load had increased in some districts “owing to functions, events, meetings and non-compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, including wearing of masks by the public, and non-implementation of the protocol at many offices and organisations”. It said the restrictions would be in place until further orders. There would be a ban on international flights, except those allowed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, festivals and religious events, fruits and vegetable retail outlets in the Koyambedu market complex and at wholesale markets in all districts. Containment zones will be under a total lockdown. Private and government buses plying between the districts and MTC buses running in Chennai will be operated only with seated passengers. No standing passengers will be allowed. Buses plying between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka will operate only with seated passengers, the order said. Following the protocol, fruits and vegetable shops, grocery and all other stores, shopping malls, all retail showrooms, jewellery shops and big format stores will be allowed to operate only with 50% capacity at any point in time till 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-reintroduces-restrictions-from-april-10/article34276401.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chandy too tests positive||Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Mr. Chandy, who had been experiencing some symptoms, had been under observation at his residence for the past two days. Tests done on Thursday confirmed that he had contracted COVID-19. He would be shifted to a private hospital here soon for treatment, reports said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chandy-too-tests-positive/article34276547.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Health first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-first/article34276465.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,||New mining policy by month-end||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Thursday said that the new mining policy, with a chapter for three coastal districts, will be released by this month-end. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Nirani said that the draft of the policy was ready. And, it would be sent to district level officials, experts and senior journalists for vetting and getting suggestions. The department was also preparing Vision 2050 so as to plan for the next 30 years seeking suggestions from various stakeholders regarding environment-friendly mining activities.   The Minister said that a majority of stone quarry owners in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi had demanded exemption from obtaining explosive licence from the Directorate General of Mines Safety as they operated on less than five acres of land. The government has accepted their demand while those operating in more than five acres of land were asked to procure the licence within 90 days. The Hatti Gold Mines, from where about 1.7 tonnes of gold are being obtained annually, will be renamed as Karnataka Hatti Gold Mines Ltd. on April 30 on the occasion of Gani Adalat in Bengaluru. The department is planning to sell mined gold in the form of coins with the State emblem on the one side and images of prominent personalities of the State on the other, instead of in gold bars to popularise the name of the State. Vast quantity of tailing (mineral sand) will be examined as to the content of gold at Hatti as well as Kolar Gold Fields and if found feasible, tailing will be reprocessed to obtain gold. The new policy, Mr. Nirani said, proposes to offer sand to people building houses for less than Rs. 10 lakh at a nominal rate of Rs. 100 per tonne excluding transportation cost. Others would have to buy sand at the prescribed rates after paying royalty to the government. There was no dearth of sand in the State, the Minister said and added that the department would rectify gaps between demand and supply. The department would also arrange for a single-window system for obtaining mining licences to save entrepreneurs from approaching at least seven other departments involved in the process. It would construct its own buildings, Khanija Bhavans, in all district headquarters at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore each, Mr. Nirani added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-mining-policy-by-month-end/article34277032.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Resisting restrictions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/resisting-restrictions/article34277053.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Night curfew soon in seven district centres||In light of the rising cases of COVID-19, seven urban centres across the State, including Bengaluru, will be under 10-day “night corona curfew” between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. from April 10 to 20. The curfew will be in place in Bengaluru city, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Bidar, and Udupi-Manipal. Stressing that night curfew would not affect inter-district movement and supply of essential commodities, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday announced the State’s decision following a virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “To begin with, the curfew is being imposed in select district centres. This is to prevent the spread of the virus... People have to cooperate to prevent the imposition of a lockdown,” he said. “In case the virus spreads further, curfew will be implemented across the State.” Mr. Yediyurappa said a vaccination drive would be taken up between April 11 (Jyotiba Phule’s birthday) and April 14 (Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s birthday), as per the directions of the Centre. Besides, Mr. Yediyurappa said there would be strict enforcement measures such as wearing of masks, social distancing, and preventing the formation of groups.    Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar described the night curfew as “an experiment to create awareness” about the pandemic, adding sarcastically that there would be “scientists” that would question the move. “This will curb unnecessary movement of people and operation of commercial establishments.” Earlier, the State appealed to the Centre for supply of Oxygen generators under the PM-CARES funds as a precaution. The State also informed the Centre that though there has been a surge in number of cases, the fatality rate remains low in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-soon-in-seven-district-centres/article34276487.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Up in flames||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-in-flames/article34276665.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Twist to tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twist-to-tradition/article34276400.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Adhering to COVID-19 protocol||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adhering-to-covid-19-protocol/article34276546.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to order release of Rohingya||The Supreme Court on Thursday refrained from ordering the release of Rohingya detained in Jammu. It, however, said they should not be deported without proper procedure. A Bench, led by the Chief Justice of India, held that though rights to equality and due process of law enshrined in the Constitution are available to both citizens and foreigners, the right “not to be deported” is ancillary to citizenship. “The rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality) and 21 (due process of law) are available to all persons who may or may not be citizens.” But the right not to be deported is ancillary to the right to reside or settle in any part of India under Article 19(1)(e),” the court said. Article 19 (1) (e) of the Constitution guarantees to every citizen of India, the right “to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India”. In its six-page order, the court said it was “not possible” to agree with the plea of Mohammad Salimullah, a member of the Rohingya community represented by advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl d’Souza, to “release the detained Rohingya refugees immediately and direct the Union Territory government and the Ministry of Home Affairs to expeditiously grant refugee identification cards through the FRRO for the Rohingya in the informal camps”. However, the CJI, who pronounced the order, made it clear to the authorities that the “Rohingya in Jammu shall not be deported until the procedure is followed”. The direction is in response to a request by Mr. Salimullah for an order to the Centre to refrain from implementing any orders on deporting the Rohingya refugees who have been detained in the sub-jail in Jammu. “They are illegal immigrants. We are in touch with Myanmar. Once Myanmar confirms their nationality, they will be deported... India is not the capital of the immigrants of the world,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, had argued. “But will the word of a military government that has seized power through a coup be enough for the Indian government? Is this country not obliged to maintain the guarantee of right to life,” Mr. Bhushan had asked. But the Supreme Court order refrained from passing any remarks about the “present state of affairs in Mynamar”. “We cannot comment upon something happening in another country,” the Supreme Court said. The court had earlier refused Mr. Bhushan’s plea to hear out the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the issue. The court agreed with the government’s contention that “India is not a signatory either to the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, 1951, or to the Protocol of the year 1967”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-refuses-to-order-release-of-rohingya/article34276340.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Double mutant’ strain named||The “double mutant” virus that scientists had flagged last month as having a bearing on the spread of the pandemic in India, now has a formal scientific classification. It has been named B.1.617.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/double-mutant-strain-named-b1617/article34276347.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||New cases cross 1.15 lakh again||As of 10 p.m. on Thursday, India reported 1,18,993 COVID-19 cases and 698 deaths. Daily infections in India have crossed the one-lakh mark for the second consecutive day on Thursday.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-cases-cross-115-lakh-for-second-day/article34276348.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||India sees 180 AEFI deaths||According to a presentation made to the National AEFI Committee during a meeting on March 31, there have been 617 severe and serious (including deaths) adverse events following immunisation.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/180-aefi-deaths-reported/article34276349.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC turns down release of Rohingya in Jammu||The Supreme Court on Thursday refrained from ordering the release of Rohingya reportedly detained in Jammu. It, however, said they should not be deported without proper procedure is followed. A Bench, led by the Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, held that though rights to equality and due process of law enshrined in the Constitution are available to both citizens and foreigners, the right “not to be deported” is ancillary to citizenship. “The rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality) and 21 (due process of law) are available to all persons who may or may not be citizens. But the right not to be deported is ancillary or concomitant to the right to reside or settle in any part of India under Article 19(1)(e),” the Supreme Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-turns-down-release-of-rohingya-in-jammu/article34277171.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 7,437 fresh cases, 24 deaths||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in Delhi with 7,437 new cases and 24 deaths being reported over 24 hours – the highest in more than four months. The total number of cases stood at 6,98,005, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The last time more cases were reported was on November 19, when 7,546 people tested positive in a day. Of the total cases, 6,63,667 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-7437-fresh-cases-24-deaths/article34276952.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||Campaign ends for poll in fourth phase in Bengal||Campaign bells fell silent on Thursday evening for the fourth phase of election in West Bengal. Forty-four Assembly segments across five districts — two in north Bengal and three in south Bengal — will go to the polls on April 10. These include 11 seats in South 24 Parganas, 10 in Hooghly, nine in Howrah and Cooch Behar and five in Alipurduar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaign-ends-for-poll-in-fourth-phase-in-bengal/article34276573.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata dares EC to file complaints against PM||A day after the Election Commission (EC) issued notice to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), she responded saying there was no point in issuing notices against her as her reply would remain the same. She also wondered how many notices the EC had issued against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She also accused the PM of dividing voters on communal lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-dares-ec-to-file-complaints-against-pm/article34276574.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Cannot ban traffic in Cubbon Park, says govt.||After reviewing the opinions of all departments, the State government has come to the conclusion that movement of vehicles within Cubbon Park cannot be avoided. This decision of the government, taken on November 21, 2020, was submitted to the High Court in a contempt of court petition filed by Cubbon Park Walkers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cannot-ban-traffic-in-cubbon-park-says-govt/article34276880.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Yuvarathnaa goes OTT way after theatre run||Film exhibitors expressed dismay and anger following the announcement that the Puneeth Rajkumar starrerYuvarathnaawill start streaming on Over The Top (OTT) platform Amazon Prime from Friday, just eight days after its release. They are reeling under losses due to the lack of business last year and restrictions on theatre occupancy that came into effect on Wednesday. They were banking onYuvarathnaato tide them over this tough period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yuvarathnaa-goes-ott-way-after-theatre-run/article34276881.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 testing to go up to one lakh a day||With the city reporting over 4,000 COVID-19 cases, Health Department has decided to ramp up testing to one lakh a day, besides reactivating booth-level committees that were set up earlier. “The earlier target for testing for the BBMP was 40,000 a day. But there is a need to increase this to one lakh, since the target for contact tracing for every positive case is 20,” said Health Minister K. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-testing-to-go-up-to-one-lakh-a-day/article34276882.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘No Vote to BJP campaign is part of agitation’||Farmers leader Babagouda Patil has said that the “No Vote to BJP” campaign was part of the ongoing farmers agitation and through the campaign, they want to send a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing presspersons in Belagavi on Thursday, Mr. Babagouda Patil announced that they would not vote for the BJP which was firm on implementing the new farm laws despite the protest by farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-vote-to-bjp-campaign-is-part-of-agitation/article34276490.ece
09 April 2021||KALABURAGI,||Bus converted into toilet for women||North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation has, in collaboration with SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd., converted an old bus that was scrapped into a mobile rest room exclusively for women. SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd. and NEKRTC have together spent around Rs. 9 lakh on the bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-converted-into-toilet-for-women/article34276492.ece
09 April 2021||PUNE,||Centre will help State fight COVID-19: Pawar||Amid the Centre-State stand-off over the availability of vaccines in Maharashtra, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar said on Thursday that the Centre has promised to help the State combat the pandemic. In a live address on Facebook, Mr. Pawar said he spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-will-help-state-fight-covid-19-pawar/article34277055.ece
09 April 2021||Pune,||Harsh Vardhan must apologise: Nana Patole||A day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan accused the Maharashtra government of attempting to cover up its ‘failures’ by making misleading statements regarding vaccine availability, the Congress on Thursday hit out at Mr. Vardhan with Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee chief Nana Patole demanding that he apologise to the State. Mr. Patole also accused the BJP of playing politics at every level at a time of grave crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harsh-vardhan-must-apologise-nana-patole/article34277056.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Testing to be increased in Bengaluru||With Bengaluru city reporting over 4,000 COVID-19 cases, Health Department has decided to ramp up testing to one lakh a day, besides reactivating booth-level committees that were set up earlier. “The earlier target for testing was 40,000 a day. But there is a need to raise this, since the target for contact tracing for every positive case is also 20,” said Health Minister K. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/testing-to-be-increased-in-bengaluru/article34276621.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Private operators are fleecing us: passengers||Many commuters relying on private bus operators, who have been given permits by the government on account of the indefinite strike by road transport corporation employees, have claimed that they are being fleeced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-operators-are-fleecing-us-passengers/article34276622.ece
09 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Five killed, four hurt in Bijnor cracker unit fire||Five persons died and four were injured when a cracker factory in a village in Bijnor caught fire on Thursday, police said. The owner of the factory has been arrested. Locals said the building was also used as a godown to store crackers. Those dead belonged to the neighbou-ring Bukhara village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-killed-four-hurt-in-bijnor-cracker-unit-fire/article34276668.ece
09 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Night curfew in Meerut, Ghaziabad, G.B. Nagar||Taking into account the surge in COVID-19 cases, a night curfew — from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. — has been imposed in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-in-meerut-ghaziabad-gb-nagar/article34276951.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||Campaign ends for fourth phase in West Bengal||Campaign bells fell silent on Thursday evening for the fourth phase of election in West Bengal. Forty-four Assembly segments across five districts — two in north Bengal and three in south Bengal — will go to the polls on April 10. About 373 candidates are in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaign-ends-for-fourth-phase-in-west-bengal/article34276667.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,||4,276 more persons test positive for COVID-19||After over five months, the number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in a day crossed the 4,000-mark in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. A total of 4,276 persons tested positive for the infection and 19 persons died in the State. In Chennai, 1,520 persons tested positive. The State last recorded over 4,000 cases a day on October 17 (4,295 cases). The fresh cases have pushed Tamil Nadu’s tally to 9,15,386, and its active caseload has touched 30,131.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4276-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34276403.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N. has vaccine stock for 10 days: health officials||Chennai With a few States flagging concerns on shortage of COVID-19 vaccines in the last few days, Tamil Nadu’s stock of COVID-19 vaccines will last for 10 days, according to health officials. “Going by the current rate of utilisation, we presently have stock for 10 days. We have 18 lakh doses now,” an official from the Directorate of Public Health and Prventive Medicine said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-has-vaccine-stock-for-10-days-health-officials/article34276404.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||India silent on back-channel dialogue||The Indian and Pakistani High Commissions in Islamabad and Delhi, respectively, are an “effective channel of communication”, the External Affairs Ministry said on said, sidestepping a slew of media reports on a “back-channel dialogue” between the two countries on a number of initiatives. Earlier in the day, two Pakistani news websites reported that the current round of negotiations date back to 2018, and among the issues discussed by Indian and Pakistani officials was the possibility of Prime Minister Narendra Modi attending a SAARC summit in Pakistan in October 2021. “Our respective High Commissions exist and are functioning. That is a very effective channel of communication. Regarding speculation about SAARC summit, I have nothing to share with you at the moment,” Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told presspersons when asked about the reports by a number of Indian and international news media outlets quoting unnamed senior government officials that have suggested that the back-channel dialogue is being overseen by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Bajwa, and that they have been facilitated by other countries such as the UAE. At a press conference on Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who visited Islamabad after talks in New Delhi, “welcomed the recent steps taken by India and Pakistan to normalise bilateral ties”, further fuelling reports about the existence of a rapprochement process. The latest report carried by Pakistan’s Dawn newspaper said the country’s U-turn last week on approving imports of cotton and sugar from India, and then putting off the decision after opposition within the Cabinet, was an “avoidable” mistake due to “haste” in announcing the decision too early, without preparing all stakeholders. The report said the Pakistan government had hoped for the Modi government to announce a restoration of “Statehood” for Jammu and Kashmir, and a visit by Mr. Modi to J&K as signs that India was willing to soften some of its moves made on August 5, 2019. According to the “insiders” quoted, Indian and Pakistani officials had met at a number of “secret locations” in a dialogue that began in 2018, broke off for a period of prolonged tensions in 2019, and was restarted some months ago in 2020. “Indian officials raised the issue of what they call ‘cross-border terrorism’. Pakistani officials assured them that Islamabad was strictly following a policy of not allowing non-state actors to engage in any armed activity,” the Dawn news report added about the talks where the issue of terrorism and Kashmir were reportedly discussed. In a separate report published on Thursday, a Pakistani website, Global Village Space , said more confidence-building measures had been proposed through the alleged back-channel dialogue, adding this was the “first time that Pakistani government sources have confirmed the existence of back-channel engagement with the Modi government”. The Indian External Affairs Ministry did not respond to the specific details in either report, and has maintained silence over previous reports citing the dialogue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mea-silent-on-back-channel-dialogue/article34276278.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC meeting on vacancies inconclusive||A meeting of the five-member Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday on names to fill the five judicial vacancies in the court ended on an inconclusive note. This may be one of the last meetings of the Bobde collegium before he retires on April 23. Though Chief Justice Bobde steered the top court through an unprecedented time, chances are high that he may retire without a successful judicial appointment to the Supreme Court during his tenure as top judge. Last year, the court successfully used the virtual medium to hear cases and functioned without missing a day of work through the pandemic and lockdown months. The Thursday meeting ended with the collegium deferring its decisions for a later date. Another meeting It is to be seen if Chief Justice Bobde would call another meeting in the few days left before his retirement, or, in the alternative, pass the baton to his successor and Chief Justice of India-designate, Justice N.V. Ramana, who takes over on April 24. Normally, the incumbent Chief Justice does not involve with the Collegium work during his final days in office and after the presidential appointment of his successor is notified. The time is used to effect a smooth transition. Justices Rohinton F. Nariman, U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar are the other members of the collegium. Several past meetings of the Bobde collegium in the past weeks, even before the CJI’s recommendation of Justice Ramana as the 48th Chief Justice, were inconclusive as the judges could not reach a consensus on the names. The collegium has been discussing diverse opinions from within on issues such as proportionate representation from various High Courts and seniority among High Court judges before finalising the names to recommend to the government for appointment. Proportionate representation and seniority, though only conventions and not constitutional or legal mandates, carry weight during the appointment process. The last appointments to the Supreme Court were of Justices Krishna Murari, S. Ravindra Bhat, V. Ramasubramanian and Hrishikesh Roy in September 2019. The past several months have seen the Supreme Court function under a series of challenges posed by the pandemic, even as its judicial strength has come down to 29 with the recent retirement of Justice Indu Malhotra. Oldest vacancy The oldest vacancy of the lot of current five in the Supreme Court was that of Justice Ranjan Gogoi, who retired on November 17, 2019. The year 2021 would further see four retirements in the top court, starting with Chief Justice Bobde, Justices Ashok Bhushan, Rohinton Nariman and Naveen Sinha. The latter two retire a few days apart in August. Several HC judges The names of several High Court judges are in the zone of consideration. Information published by the Law Ministry on March 1 show that the senior-most among the current Chief Justices of the 25 High Courts, as per their initial appointment in 2003 and 2004, are Chief Justices A.S. Oka (Karnataka), Akil Abdulhamid Kureshi (Tripura), D.N. Patel (Delhi), Govind Mathur (Allahabad), Vikram Nath (Gujarat) and T.B. Radhakrishnan (Calcutta). The name of Justice B.V. Nagarathna from the Karnataka High Court is also under consideration for the vacancy left by Justice Indu Malhotra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-meeting-on-vacancies-inconclusive/article34276288.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Double mutant’ strain named B.1.617||The “double mutant” virus that scientists had flagged last month as having a bearing on the spread of the pandemic in India, has a formal scientific classification: B.1.617. The variant is common in India — how much in every State is unclear though — and has a couple of defining mutations, E484Q and L425R, that enable it to become more infectious and evade antibodies. Though these mutations have individually been found in several other coronavirus variants, the presence of both mutations together were first found in some coronavirus genomes from India. Certain variants of the coronavirus, for instance, B.1.1.7 and B.1.351 — have been termed the “United Kingdom” and “South Africa” variant, respectively, because they have mutations associated with large spikes in these countries or reduce the efficacy of vaccines and are termed “variants of concern (VOC)”. According to a note from the INSACOG, the consortium of laboratories that is sequencing a sample of genomes from COVID-19 patients in India, B.1.617 was first detected on December 7, 2020. Though now present in at least eight countries, nearly 70% of the genome sequences that have the mutations characterising B.1.617 and submitted to the global database GISAID (Global Initiative on Sharing Avian Influenza Data) are from India. This is followed by the United Kingdom (23%), Singapore (2%) and Australia (1%). “That suggests that this variant is fairly common in India. It is worrying because the mutations E484Q and L452R are linked to increased infectivity. It’s been linked to 20% of the cases in Maharashtra but we have to also see the role of the variant (from further genome studies) in say West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh where there are massive crowds from elections and the Kumbh Mela [respectively],” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and Director, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University. An explainer note by the INSACOG on the significance of the mutations says that it has as many as 15 “lineage defining mutations”. Other than the two mutations, there is a third significant mutation, P614R. All three concerning mutations are on the spike protein, the operative part of the coronavirus that binds to receptor cells of the body. Resistant to T cells L452R, some studies show, could even make the coronavirus resistant to T cells, a class of cells necessary to target and destroy virus-infected cells. India has not yet conducted studies on how vaccine efficacy is influenced by variants, except for limited laboratory trials, but international studies have shown reduced efficacy of vaccines — particularly those by Pfizer, Moderna and Novavax — to certain variants. However, the vaccines continue to be significantly protective in spite of this. So far, only three global VOCs have been identified: the U.K. variant, the South African and the Brazilian (P.1) lineage. Of the 10,787 samples from international passengers, 771 instances of these VOCs have been identified in 18 States of the country, according to a statement from the Health Ministry in March. A scientist associated with the INSACOG said vaccine makers should now be accounting for the variations in the spike protein in designing future vaccine. “That’s the real purpose of genomic analysis. To design appropriate vaccines but so far there are hardly such studies out of India,” the scientist pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/double-mutant-strain-named-b1617/article34276304.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||Campaign ends for fourth phase in Bengal||Campaign bells fell silent on Thursday evening for the fourth phase of election in West Bengal. Forty-four Assembly segments across five districts — two in north Bengal and three in south Bengal — will go to the polls on April 10. Eleven seats in South 24 Parganas, 10 in Hooghly and nine in Howrah will go to the polls in south Bengal, while voters across nine Assembly seats in Cooch Behar and five in Alipurduar district will also exercise their franchise. About 373 candidates are in the fray. About 1.15 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise across 15,940 polling stations on Saturday. Contestants Among those contesting in the fourth phase are senior Trinamool Congress leader and Education Minister Partha Chatterjee from Behala Purba and Public Works Department and Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Aroop Biswas from Tollygunj in South 24 Parganas. Minister for North Bengal Development Rabindranath Ghosh is in the fray from Natabari in Cooch Behar and Minister for Agriculture Marketing Arup Roy is contesting from Howrah Madhya. Three BJP MPs are contesting the Assembly polls in this phase. Babul Supriyo, MP from Asansol, is locked in a bitter contest in Tollygunj against Mr. Biswas, while Locket Chatterjee, MP from Hooghly, is contesting from Chinsurah in Hooghly district. Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik is contesting from Dinhata. Another key BJP candidate is a former Minister in the Trinamool government, Rajib Banerjee, who is contesting from Domjur in Howrah. Singur seat The other Trinamool MLAs who are in the fray as BJP candidates include Prabir Ghosal from Uttarpara in Hooghly, Baishali Dalmiya in Bally, and Mihir Goswami from Natabari in Cooch Behar. In the Singur Assembly seat in Hooghly, which has witnessed a lot of political activity in the past two decades on the issues of land acquisition, return of land and the promise of industry, former Trinamool MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya is contesting on BJP ticket. For Samyukt Morcha, the key candidates include Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan, contesting from Champdani in Hooghly district; leader of the Left Legislature Party Sujan Chakraborty, who is in the fray from Jadavpur; and CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Mohammed Salim, contesting from Chanditala in Hooghly. Naushad Siddique, the brother of Indian Secular Front founder and Furfura peer Abbas Siddique, is contesting from Bhangar in South 24 Parganas. New dimension The BJP has an advantage in the 14 seats going to the polls in north Bengal’s Alipurduar and Cooch Behar as the party won both the Lok Sabha seats in these districts in 2019. In the 11 seats going to the polls in South 24 Parganas, both in the rural areas and the urban areas adjoining the city, the Trinamoolhas an advantage, going by the results of past elections. In Hooghly and Howrah, defections have given new dimension to the political contests. The seats going to the polls have witnessed hectic campaigning with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and BJP president J.P. Nadda campaigning till the last hours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also campaigned for the BJP in regions where the 44 seats are located. The Trinamoolalso had star campaigners like party leader Abhishek Banerjee and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-ends-for-fourth-phase-in-bengal/article34276250.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fertilizer company hikes prices||India’s largest fertilizer maker IFFCO Limited (Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited) has effected a sharp hike in fertilizer prices, with as much as a 58.33% hike in the price of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), and its CEO staved off criticism by seeking to delink the move from the government, citing “decontrolled” prices and a spurt in global raw material costs. The IFFCO chief, however, said the existing stocks of 11.26 lakh tonnes of complex fertilizers would be sold at the old rates. In fact, he asserted that the new prices were “only tentative” and used for printing on bags for fresh production of fertilizers. “The material with new rates is not for sale to anyone,” IFFCO managing director & CEO U.S. Awasthi said. The new prices are to kick in from April 1, as per the memo revising maximum retail prices of different products sent out by the co-operative firm’s marketing services department on April 7. The development assumes significance, coming after the end of voting in four Assembly elections. A section of farmers is protesting the government’s new agricultural laws even as high fuel prices are feeding into high retail inflation. Apart from the over 58% hike in DAP, the new retail prices for different formulations of NPKs (Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potash and Sulphur) fertilizers were raised in the range of nearly 46% to 51.9%. Responding to the backlash on social media, Mr. Awasthi wrote a series of tweets on Thursday afternoon to defend the move. “We at #IFFCO, take strong objection for tweets, news linking any political party or Govt for an increase in price of complex fertilizers. They are decontrolled. No linkage to any political party or government,” he said.  Unprecedented: CPI(M) Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Sitaram Yechury called for a withdrawal of what he termed an “unprecedented fertilizer price hike”. “This one & a half times price hike is yet another of those that never happened in the last 70 years! Destroys not only our agriculture & farmers but crores of lives with consequent rise in food prices… Obstinately refusing to repeal agri laws, in India’s interest, as demanded by lakhs of our annadatas for over 4 months, BJP govt, by this hike, insults over 350 martyrs in this struggle. Intensify people’s resistance. Withdraw this hike,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fertilizer-company-hikes-prices/article34276280.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||India and China to hold 11th round of talks on LAC today||India and China are scheduled to hold the 11th round of Corps Commander talks on Friday to discuss the second phase of disengagement in Eastern Ladakh. The talks will be held at Chushul and are scheduled to begin at 10.30 a.m., a defence source said on Thursday. There could be some movement on the issue of disengagement from Patrolling Points (PP) at Gogra and Hotsprings during the talks, a second source said. In February, the two sides reached an agreement and completed the first phase of disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso. Within 48 hours, the 10th round of talks were held to take forward the process, during which they agreed to push for a mutually acceptable solution of the remaining issues in a “steady and orderly” manner to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. However, no agreement has so far been reached on the second phase of disengagement. With disengagement now complete at Pangong Tso, the focus of the talks will be to work out a phased disengagement plan for the other friction areas in Eastern Ladakh. These include Gogra, Hot Springs, Depsang and Demchok. Partial disengagement has already been undertaken by both sides from Gogra and Hot Springs last July, before tensions flared up on the south bank of Pangong Tso. Responding to questions on the talks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing that India and China were in communication for holding the 11th round of talks and there was no delay in the meeting. “I want to stress that the merits of the situation at the India-China border are very clear and the responsibility does not rest with the Chinese side. We hope the Indian side will work with China to follow through the important consensus of our two leaders, abide by relevant agreements and treaties to de-escalate the tension at the border,” Mr. Zhao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-china-to-hold-11th-round-of-talks-on-lac-today/article34276291.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Commando freed in the presence of villagers||Bijapur-based journalist Ganesh Mishra, who was part of the team of journalists and activists who negotiated the release of Rakeshwar Singh Minhas of the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action unit (CoBRA) of the CRPF on Thursday, said the Maoist leader asserted that they did not harm the commando as he was found in an unconscious state and it would have been against “battle ethics”. Recalling the process that led to the release of the abducted commando, Mr. Mishra said he got a call on April 5. “The caller [Maoist leader] said they found Minhas in an unconscious state on April 3. They said he was safe. The next day, they called again and said he will be released in two days. They demanded that a team of mediators be appointed on behalf of the government. I contacted the police.” He added that the police roped in Dharampal Saini, who was awarded the Padma Shri in 1995 for educating tribal girls, and Tellam Boraiah, a leader of the Gondwana community, to speak to the Maoists. A senior woman cadre of the Maoists, the area commander of the Pamed area, led the talks with Mr. Saini and Ms. Boraiah, Mr. Mishra said. Mr. Mishra said they were asked to reach a village at the Bijapur-Sukma border, over 400 kilometres from Raipur. “We left Bijapur at 5 a.m. on Thursday on motorcycles and reached the location at 9 a.m. After waiting for more than five hours, 60-70 Maoists arrived with the commando. His hands were tied. The two mediators spoke to the Maoists for an hour and the commando was released in the presence of the villagers. The woman leader told us that the commando was being released on humanitarian grounds without any conditions,” said Mr. Mishra, who contributes to various news organisations. The Maoists said the commando was treated for dehydration and was in good health now. The other journalists who were roped in were Mukesh Chandrakar, Raja Rathore, Shankar and three others. Sundarraj P., Inspector-General, Chattisgarh police, said the abducted commando returned to Tarrem police station around 4.30 p.m., along with the facilitators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoists-release-cobra-commando-unhurt/article34276294.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,||180 AEFI deaths reported in India||According to a presentation made to the National AEFI Committee during a meeting held on March 31, there have been 617 severe and serious (including deaths) adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). As on March 29, a total of 180 deaths (29.2%) have been reported following vaccination across the country. Complete documentation is available only for 236 (38.3%) cases. In all, 492 severe and serious AEFI have been classified by the AEFI Secretariat of the Immunisation Technical Support Unit (ITSU) at the Health Ministry. Classification has been completed for 124 deaths, 305 serious events that required hospitalisation, and 63 severe events that did not require hospitalisation. The classification by the AEFI Secretariat was on the basis of case reporting forms (CRF) and case investigation forms (CIF) submitted at the district level. In the meeting, individual AEFI cases were presented and brought up for discussion by experts in the AEFI causality assessment committee. Of the 124 deaths, more than 63 deaths (nearly 51%) have been categorised as being caused due to acute coronary syndrome (a range of conditions associated with sudden, reduced blood flow to the heart) or heart attack. Another 11 deaths (12%) of deaths are due to stroke. As on March 17, the details of the causality assessment of only 13 AEFI including 10 deaths have already been made public by the national AEFI committee. The vaccine was not found to have caused death in any of the 10 vaccinated people. However, in many cases post mortems have not been conducted. For example, in at least six out of 10 cases where the National AEFI Committee has completed causality assessment, no post mortem has been done, says Malini Aisola, a public health researcher based in Delhi. Not evenly distributed Virologist Dr. Jacob John, formerly of CMC Vellore, says that if deaths are not associated with vaccination, then they would be nearly evenly distributed across weeks post vaccination. However, there are 93 deaths in the first three days (31 deaths per day) and 18 deaths in four-seven days (4.5 deaths per day) after vaccination. There have been 11 deaths in 8-28 days (0.5 deaths per day) post-vaccination. If deaths are seen on a weekly basis, there have been 111 deaths in the first week (nearly 16 deaths per day) but in the next three weeks, there have been only 11 deaths (0.5 deaths per day). “If the deaths are unrelated to vaccination, then deaths should be evenly distributed across weeks after vaccination. There are an extraordinary number of deaths in the first week but in the next two-four weeks there are only about four deaths per week,” says Dr. John. There have been 59 deaths due to sudden, reduced blood flow to the heart (acute coronary syndrome) or heart attack in the first week but only four in the second-four weeks after vaccination. Similarly, deaths due to stroke are 13 in the first week but only one death in two-four weeks after vaccination. There have been nine “sudden deaths” during the first week but only one death in two-four weeks after vaccination. In the case of AEFI requiring hospitalisation, there have been 291 AEFI needing hospitalisation in the first week compared with only 13 in two-four weeks after vaccination. “The number of hospitalisations in the first week stands out strikingly different,” Dr. John says. Weakness in one, two or all four limbs (mono/para/quadriparesis) seen in 17 people hospitalised is similar to transverse myelitis seen during the trial in the U.K., says Dr. John. About 15 cases of seizure in the first week and no such cases in the two-four weeks after vaccination is abnormal, he says. “There is something going on in the central nervous system. Also, 17 cases of mono/para/quadriparesis in four weeks needs thorough investigation,” he says. According to him, 59 cases of severe AEFI not requiring hospitalisation in the first week and four such cases in two-four weeks may be a signal. “Since Covishield is the same vaccine as AstraZeneca, updated warnings related to these rare conditions, information for vaccine recipients and the public about when to seek medical attention, and information for health providers about how to identify and treat such occurrences needs to be done for the vaccine,” says Ms. Aisola.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/180-aefi-deaths-reported-in-india/article34276306.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Middleman supplied documents to Dassault: report||Arms dealer Sushen Gupta, chargesheeted by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal, supplied classified documents to Dassault Aviation on the Indian negotiating team when talks were gridlocked over benchmark pricing in the €7.87-billion Rafale deal, according to French media outlet Mediapart. According to information gained by Mediapart, one of those “other defence deals” in the ED investigation which was not identified in the chargesheet, is the Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) signed in 2016 for 36 Rafale jets. In the official chargesheet dated May 20, 2019 against Mr. Gupta, the ED wrote that he had gained “sensitive data which should have only been in possession of the Ministry of Defence”. It also said “since kickbacks from the other defence deals are not a subject matter of the present investigation” about the AgustaWestland scandal, “separate investigations would be undertaken” regarding the other deals,” according to the report. The report said according to information gained by Mediapart, one of those “other defence deals” in the ED investigation, which was not identified in the chargesheet, is the Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) signed in 2016 for 36 Rafale jets.  Referring to the CAG audit of the deal which found that the final cost of the Rafale jets was 17% less than the initial MMRCA tender offer and the Supreme Court ruling in 2019 that there were insufficient grounds for opening an investigation into the matter, the report said, “But that decision was made without the information gathered in the AgustaWestland probe by the Enforcement Directorate.” After “benchmark” calculations, the Indian negotiators concluded, in a confidential report dated August 2015, that the overall purchase price for the jets, including their weaponry, should be €5.06 bn, the report said, while in January 2016, Dassault proposed €10.7 bn excluding the missile equipment. The talks got gridlocked over this as per the report and Mr. Gupta, obtained documents which included the minutes of meetings by the Indian Negotiating Team (INT), the arguments they had prepared to present to the French, and detailed notes on the calculations of the costs and the methodology employed. Mr. Gupta even obtained an Excel sheet created by one member of the INT, the report said. The report also referred to a series of investigative reports by the The Hindu which showed how the anti-corruption clauses were removed from the deal and also the INT was sidestepped and the Prime Minister’s Office directly negotiated the deal. In March 2017, one of the Gupta family’s Indian companies, Defsys Solutions, invoiced Dassault for 1 million euros for the production of 50 replica models of the Rafale jet as stated in the part one of the three part Mediapart series. Defsys Solutions also became, as announced in a statement released by Dassault, one of the subcontractors to the Rafale deal, the report said adding, Dassault declined to disclose to Mediapart the nature or the cost of that contract. In addition, documents also show that Dassault and its French industrial partner Thales paid Mr. Gupta several million euros in secret commissions to offshore accounts and shell companies, using inflated invoices for software consulting. Mr. Gupta, who was contacted by email, and re-contacted on several occasions, did not respond to Mediapart’s request for an interview, the report said. A Dassault Aviation spokesperson said in a statement that numerous controls are carried out by official organisations, including the French Anti-Corruption Agency and no violations were reported, notably in the frame of the contract with India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/middleman-supplied-documents-to-dassault-report/article34276273.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||In Tollygunge, a battle of heavyweights||The high-profile Tollygunge seat, considered a hub of the Bengali film industry, is all set for a clash between Union Minister Babul Supriyo of the BJP and West Bengal Public Works Department Minister Aroop Biswas of the Trinamool Congress. The CPI(M) has fielded a fresh face, actor Debdut Ghosh, in the constituency which will go to the polls in the fourth phase on April 10. ‘Syndicate raj’ With the Trinamool and the BJP locked in a bitter battle for power, the film industry has now been polarised on political lines. Both the parties have fielded several high-profile actors. But control over the industry is incomplete without a victory in Tollygunge in posh south Kolkata and home to Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, the upper-middle class, refugees, and Hindi-speaking people. Mr. Supriyo, who is also a well-known singer, is confident of unsettling his rival, Mr. Biswas, who has a long association with the film industry. “A syndicate raj has been established in the film industry by the Trinamool and the Biswas brothers [Aroop and Swarup]. This has to end,” he said. The Union Minister alleged that the studio area — the neighbourhood of New Theatres studio, Technician’s Studio and the NT1 studio — has witnessed “unprecedented coercion” by the brothers who have forced technicians and artists to either follow their diktats or go without a job for over a decade now. “We will end this dictatorship,” Mr. Supriyo said. The BJP leader also said that the “syndicate raj and cut money culture prevalent in the construction sector” in Tollygunge must stop. In West Bengal, the term ‘syndicate’ refers to a business run by persons allegedly enjoying political patronage, who force promoters and contractors to buy construction materials, often of inferior quality, at high prices. ‘New heights’ Mr. Biswas contended that the TMC has worked for the film industry’s development and has taken it to new heights in the last 10 years. “The BJP and Bengali culture are the anti-thesis of each other. Both can never go together,” he said. Rubbishing Mr. Supriyo’s allegations, Mr. Biswas said, “The government only comes in when there is a crisis in the film industry and various bodies seek its intervention.” He claimed that unlike the CPI(M) regime, there had been no interference in businesses and entrepreneurial activities in the past 10 years. Mr. Ghosh said although the Trinamool has established a “reign of terror in the industry”, choosing the BJP would be “ harakiri (suicidal) ” as the parties are two sides of the same coin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-tollygunge-a-battle-of-heavyweights/article34276245.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘No ad hoc judges in place of regular recommendations’||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed that a plan to appoint retired judges on an ad hoc basis to reduce pendency in the High Courts should not become an excuse to stop or further delay the appointment process of regular judges. As on April 1, the High Courts have a total vacancy of 411 regular judges against the sanctioned judicial strength of 1,080. The working strength in the High Courts is 669. For one, the Chief Justices of the High Courts should opt for ad hoc judges only if their efforts to fill the judicial vacancies in their respective High Courts have hit a wall, even as pendency has reached the red zone. “Ad hoc judges should not be appointed in lieu of regular recommendations,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde, heading a Special Bench of Justices S.K. Kaul and Surya Kant, noted. “Yes, there should not be a move for the appointment of ad hoc judges unless a Chief Justice has made the recommendations for all the existing vacancies in his or her High Court,” senior advocate Vikas Singh submitted. “That is why we want the Supreme Court Collegium to be kept in the loop about the ad hoc judges’ appointments,” the CJI said. “The procedure should explain when a Chief Justice can initiate the appointment of an ad hoc judge; what should be the threshold of pendency for such appointments; for how long should such ad hoc judges continue; what should be their allowances, etc.,” Chief Justice Bobde remarked. The Bench asked senior members of the Bar appearing for various High Courts, Additional Solicitor-General R.S. Suri and senior advocates Arvind Datar and R. Basant, among other Bar leaders, to convene a meeting and prepare a draft plan on the procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-ad-hoc-judges-in-place-of-regular-recommendations/article34276290.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,||With 1.31 lakh new infections, highest single-day spike seen||As of 10 p.m. on Thursday, India reported 1,18,993 COVID-19 cases. As many as 698 deaths were also recorded on the day. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Ladakh U.T., Lakshadweep and Sikkim. The data is sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. Daily infections in India have crossed the one-lakh mark for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The rise in detected cases in the last two days was primarily due to a high number of tests being held recently. Wednesday marked the third consecutive day with more than 12 lakh daily tests. The last time daily tests crossed the 12-lakh mark was on November 28, 2020. The country has so far reported a total of 1,30,45,065 cases and 1,67,592 deaths. Maharashtra reported 56,286 infections (accounting for nearly 48% of the new cases) on Thursday, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 8,474 new cases and Delhi with 7,437 new infections. Maharashtra also recorded the maximum casualties (376) on Wednesday. Punjab followed with 56 new deaths while U.P. registered 39 new casualties. The number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered exceeded the 9 crore mark, with 9,01,98,673 shots given as of 7 a.m. on Tuesday. The number of daily vaccinations recovered from the low figures recorded during the last few days of March and peaked at 42 lakh doses on April 2. As of 7 a.m on Thursday, 29.79 lakh vaccine doses were administered across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-case-count-crosses-1-lakh-mark-for-second-day/article34276309.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Find solution to farmers’ protests, Kharge urges Modi||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, at a meeting of the committee chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to organise the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Sikh Guru Teg Bahadur, raised the issue of the farmers’ protests and requested him to end the stalemate. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah were among those who attended Thursday’s virtual meeting. “I would also like to make a request. The farmers’ movement has been going on for 133 days. The farmer of the country also represents the Guru and has the largest participation of the farmers of Punjab. The Prime Minister had said he was at a distance of a phone call. But that distance is not yet over. I urge the Prime Minister to take the initiative to find a solution by paying immediate attention to the demands of the farmers,” Mr. Kharge was quoted as saying in a statement released by the Congress. He also noted that the celebration should should not be viewed from a religious point of view and publicity should be given to the fact that Guru Tegh Bahadur made the supreme sacrifice for religious freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/find-solution-to-farmers-protests-kharge-urges-modi/article34276275.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Biden will restore credibility on climate change, says U.S. envoy||The Trump administration damaged the U.S.’s credibility on climate change issues, which the Biden administration is trying to restore now, said U.S. special envoy John Kerry here on Thursday. He promised to fulfil Washington’s earlier commitments towards developing countries, including a $3 billion contribution to the Green Climate Fund. The issue about U.S. commitments had been raised by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during a meeting with Mr. Kerry this week, as the U.S. envoy pushed for more ambitious targets on cutting emissions. “[Former President Trump] shot America’s credibility in the head and turned his back on science,” Mr. Kerry said in response to a question from The Hindu at a media roundtable at the end of his visit, referring to the U.S. decision to pull out of the Paris agreement (UNFCCC) on climate change in 2017. “The United States comes back to the table understanding this obligation, understanding what we need to do. We come back with humility. We come back knowing that for the last four years we’ve disappointed people,” he added, but pointed out that many U.S. states and cities had stayed the course on climate change mitigation despite Mr. Trump’s pull-out from the agreement. During his visit, where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Kerry said he stressed the need to bring forward the commitments for carbon emission cuts from the earlier timeline of 2050 to the next decade, where he said “decisive actions” will be taken. “Prime Minister Modi and special envoy Kerry agreed to collaborate on a 2030 agenda with a focus on a clean and green agenda through enhancing the availability of climate finance, building resilient infrastructure, energy storage and green hydrogen,” said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, when asked about the meetings and whether India had given any specific commitments on emissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biden-will-restore-credibility-on-climate-change-says-us-envoy/article34276285.ece
09 April 2021||PUNE,||Centre has pledged support, says Pawar||Amid the Centre-State stand-off over the availability of vaccines in Maharashtra, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar said on Thursday that the Centre had promised to help the State, the worst-hit in terms of soaring COVID-19 cases and fatalities. In a live address on Facebook, Mr. Pawar, whose NCP is in alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the Uddhav Thackeray-led ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ (MVA) government, said he spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday and that the latter had said he would help Maharashtra combat the pandemic. The situation in the State was alarming, Mr. Pawar said as he defended the stringent restrictions imposed by the State government. The rapid spread of the virus and the dramatic daily case spikes had left the government with no option, he said. “The situation in Maharashtra is grim. Health workers in the State are doing their best to control the spread of the infection. But to preserve the health and save lives, stern measures are imperative and the State government is taking them. Everybody’s cooperation here is of the utmost importance,” said the NCP chief. The Centre, too, was in favour of tightening restrictions to break the virus chain, he said. There was apprehension among labourers, farmers and traders that the new curbs would affect them severely, but people could not ignore reality. “Hence, I appeal to all stakeholders, including the Opposition, to cooperate with the government. To protect the lives of citizens, some stringent measures are imperative,” Mr. Pawar said. Mr. Pawar’s attempt at mending fences with the Centre comes a day after State Health Minister Rajesh Tope urged the Centre to expedite the delivery of vaccine doses, warning that Maharashtra had barely three days’ stock left. In response, Mr. Harsh Vardhan had come down heavily on the Maharashtra government, accusing it of trying to cover its “failure” to contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-has-pledged-support-says-pawar/article34276297.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||PM gets second dose of Covaxin at AIIMS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. He received the first dose of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on March 1. In a tweet, the Prime Minister shared a picture of himself taking the second dose of the vaccine and said: “Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus. If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on CoWin.gov.in.” The two nurses who administered the vaccine were P. Niveda from Puducherry and Nisha Sharma from Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-gets-second-dose-of-covaxin-at-aiims/article34276302.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata dares EC to file complaints against PM||A day after the Election Commission (EC) issued notice to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), she responded saying there was no point in issuing notices against her as her reply would remain the same. She also wondered how many notices the EC had issued against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “There is no point even if you lodge 10 show cause notices against me; my reply will be the same. I am telling everyone to vote without any division of votes,” Ms. Banerjee said, addressing a public meeting at Domjur in Howrah. Ms. Banerjee also accused the Prime Minister of dividing the electorate on communal lines. Violation of Model Code “How many notices have you issued against Narendra Modi; every day he is engaged in a Hindu-Muslim debate,” she said. In the notice issued to her, the EC pointed out that her appeal to minority voters not to divide their votes was a violation of the MCC. Addressing another public meeting at Behala, the Trinamool Congress chief accused Mr. Modi of mocking her at public meetings. “The Prime Minister is mocking me regularly, almost on a daily basis. Do you like it,” Ms. Banerjee asked the crowd. The Chief Minister added that she spoke the way she could and asked why that should result in mockery. Earlier the Trinamool Congress leadership had raised objections to the Prime Minister’s taunt, addressing the Chief Minister as “Didi, O Didi”. The Chief Minister said that in politics everyone should maintain “ lakshman rekha (no-go areas)”. Mr. Banerjee also accused the BJP of trying to forcibly occupy the State with the help of central agencies. She urged the people to file police complaints against central forces if they indulge in excesses during elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-dares-ec-to-file-complaints-against-pm/article34276252.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SC turns down release of Rohingya in Jammu||“The rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality) and 21 (due process of law) are available to all persons who may or may not be citizens.” But the right not to be deported is ancillary to the right to reside or settle in any part of India under Article 19(1)(e),” the court said. But the right not to be deported, is ancillary or concomitant to the right to reside or settle in any part of the territory of India guaranteed under Article 19(1)(e),” the court observed. Article 19 (1) (e) of the Constitution guarantees to every citizen of India, the right “to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India”. In its six-page order, the court said it was “not possible” to agree with the plea of Mohammad Salimullah, a member of the Rohingya community represented by advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl d’Souza, to “release the detained Rohingya refugees immediately and direct the Union Territory government and the Ministry of Home Affairs to expeditiously grant refugee identification cards through the FRRO for the Rohingya in the informal camps”. However, the CJI, who pronounced the order, made it clear to the authorities that the “Rohingya in Jammu shall not be deported until the procedure is followed”. The direction is in response to a request by Mr. Salimullah for an order to the Centre to refrain from implementing any orders on deporting the Rohingya refugees who have been detained in the sub-jail in Jammu. “They are illegal immigrants. We are in touch with Myanmar. Once Myanmar confirms their nationality, they will be deported... India is not the capital of the immigrants of the world,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, had argued. “But will the word of a military government that has seized power through a coup be enough for the Indian government? Is this country not obliged to maintain the guarantee of right to life,” Mr. Bhushan had asked. But the Supreme Court order refrained from passing any remarks about the “present state of affairs in Mynamar”. “We cannot comment upon something happening in another country,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-order-release-of-rohingya/article34276269.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Need to document social service by Sikhs, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said there was need for research and documentation about the social service aspect of Sikhism, while addressing a meeting of the high-level committee for the commemoration of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Addressing the meeting via video conferencing, Mr. Modi spoke of the need to make the younger generation understand the lessons of Guru Tegh Bahadur. “He said that the organisation of activities should be such that not only the life and teachings of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, but of the entire Guru tradition is propagated world over. Hailing the social service done by Sikh community and gurdwaras all over the world, the Prime Minister said that proper research and documentation on this aspect of the Sikh tradition should be done,” a government statement said. The meeting was attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/need-to-document-social-service-by-sikhs-says-pm/article34276270.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Varanasi court orders survey of mosque||The court said the committee would be entitled to enter every portion of the religious structure situated at the disputed site but shall first resort to only Ground Penetrating Radar or Geo-Radiology System or both to satisfy itself whether any excavation or extraction work is needed at any portion of the religious structure. If excavation or extraction is to be done at any portion of the structure, it should be first done by trial trench method vertically and that too at a very small scale and not more than four square feet at a time, the court said. The order came on a petition demanding the restoration of the land on which the mosque stands to the Hindus claiming that Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb had pulled down parts of the old Kashi Vishwanath Temple to build the mosque. The DG of the ASI is directed to get a comprehensive archaeological physical survey be done of the entire settlement plot no 9130 located at Mauja Shahar Khas, Pargana Dehat Amanat, including the Naubat Khana of the northern gate of the Gyanvapi compound and the house towards the northern gate of the naubatkhana, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varanasi-court-orders-survey-of-mosque/article34276282.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||PM stresses on need for more ‘test, track & treat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi also suggested that a “Teeka Utsav” (Vaccination Festival) be organised between April 11 (birth anniversary of social reformer Mahatma Jyotiba Phule) and April 14 (birth anniversary of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar) as a way of ensuring maximum vaccinations of those eligible. “A set out festival like this can be used to motivate many people to get themselves vaccinated,” he said. Addressing the issue of shortage of vaccines raised by several States, the Prime Minister again urged that strict testing and raising the share of testing by RTPCR to 70% of all tests be undertaken, stating that “vaccination will be a long process which will go on side-by-side.” “If you look at the way rich countries with easy access to vaccinations have carried out their vaccination drives, you will find that India too has more or less followed the same pattern. I urge the youth, instead of waiting for the vaccine, to not just follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, but also urge others and help those with less digital literacy and in the eligible category to be vaccinated,” he said. “For those politicising the handling of vaccination or the pandemic, they can continue to do so, I am here to serve the people,” he said, an oblique referrence to several chief ministers, especially in States of Maharashtra and Punjab, who have said that they were running out of the vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-stresses-on-need-for-more-test-track-treat/article34276284.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to hold competition again for ‘iconic structure’||The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry will launch a “restructured” second round of its design competition for the “iconic structure” to commemorate 75 years of Independence, after the first round entries failed to make the cut, a top Ministry official said on Thursday. The Ministry’s Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had launched the competition in November 2020 and the results were to be announced by the end of December. However, the deadline has been pushed several times since. The structure, which can be a tower or sculpture, will be built at the proposed New India Garden on the banks of the Yamuna as a notional extension of the Central Vista, according to the CPWD’s plan. Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra told The Hindu that 126 entries had been received for the competition, which was open to Indian citizens and organisations. While there were some good entries, the project was “more ambitious”. He said a restructured competition would be announced by May-end or June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-hold-competition-again-for-iconic-structure/article34276286.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Chidambaram speaks up for Maharashtra||Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Thursday came to the defence of the Maharashtra government over the State’s record on vaccination and COVID-19 management. “The Centre is targeting Maharashtra ignoring hard facts. Maharashtra has vaccinated 80% of healthcare workers. Nearly 20 States are behind Maharashtra,” Mr. Chidambaram said. He said the State has vaccinated 73% of frontline workers, a record only five States have improved on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-speaks-up-for-maharashtra/article34276307.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SC refuses pleas to quash probe against Deshmukh||“Allegations are extremely serious and things have got curiouser and curiouser,” Justice Kaul said. “You see, both were heading their respective institutions when things went wrong between them... One was a Home Minister and the other one of the seniormost police officers. This is not an everyday issue ... These are two persons who closely worked with each other until they fell apart. So, an independent agency should enquire. The High Court is right,” he told Maharashtra counsel, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi. Resignation given Mr. Singhvi argued that Mr. Deshmukh had resigned within hours of the High Court order. The basis of the High Court order for a CBI probe was no longer there. “But he was the Home Minister when the High Court passed the order. It was after that, he resigned. He was clinging to his office,” Justice Gupta reacted. “But should I [Mr. Deshmukh] not have been heard first before the High Court passed the order for CBI probe?” senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Mr. Deshmukh, asked. “Why should a suspect be heard before registration of an FIR?” Justice Gupta responded. Mr. Sibal replied that the allegations in the letter were hearsay and not admissible as evidence. “Mr. Sibal, that is why the court has ordered a preliminary enquiry, to find out whether there is evidence at all. This is a serious matter concerning a Home Minister and a senior police officer,” Justice Kaul replied. The senior lawyer said he fervently hoped the court would not uphold an order for CBI probe without hearing the affected party. “We hope no DGP will have to make allegations against his Home Minister in future,” Justice Gupta reacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pleas-to-quash-probe-against-deshmukh-rejected/article34276281.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Delightful Krishna||It is the Krishna avatara that has been the delight of Azhvars and of many poets, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Krishna gave the world the Bhagavad Gita, which is full of advice on how to live life and on how to attain moksha. And yet, it is His pranks and playfulness as a child that have stolen our hearts. In the Ramayana, we are told of the birth of Rama and then after a few verses, Valmiki jumps to the scene where Viswamitra comes to Dasaratha’s court. The sage asks the king to send Rama to kill the demons who have been tormenting the sages. So we get no details about Rama’s childhood. But in the case of Krishna, His mischievous deeds as a child and also His amazing acts such as the killing of Putana and Cakatasura are all described. We are filled with wonder at His simplicity in hiding His Supremacy and his mingling without reserve with the Gopas and Gopikas. Equally we are filled with amazement at the proof of His Supremacy, which we find in such acts as the lifting of the Govardhan hill and His surmounting all the dangers that come His way. Kooratazhvan says that Krishna was lucky to have two of everything — two sets of parents and two wives. Rukmini and Nappinnai, the girl from Gokula, were His wives. Nappinnai is the daughter of Yasoda’s brother. Kooratazhvan says that Krishna deliberately chose to be born to Vasudeva and to grow up in Nandagopa’s house. Because Rukmini was a princess, she would be given in marriage only to royalty. So Krishna was born as Vasudeva’s son, for the latter was a king. Had He not grown up in Gokula as the son of Yasoda, Nappinnai would not have wed Him. So in order to wed both Rukmini and Nappinnai, He was born to one set of parents and grew up as the son of another set of parents!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delightful-krishna/article34276295.ece
09 April 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra not lagging behind in fight, Uddhav tells PM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the State was not lagging behind in the fight against COVID-19, and urged him to affirm that there should be no politics in this effort. He was speaking during a videoconference with Mr. Modi to review the novel coronavirus situation in the country. His statement comes a day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan made a stinging attack on the Maharashtra government, saying that it had “singularly bogged down” the entire country’s effort to fight the virus. A statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office said that Mr. Thackeray requested the Prime Minister to address the leaders of all political parties, asking them to refrain from indulging in politics on the issue. He said Maharashtra had increased the number of daily tests and requested for additional vaccine doses. He also sought the PM’s help in procuring oxygen and ventilators from other States. Mr. Thackeray urged Mr. Modi to approve the proposal of Haffkine Institute to manufacture anti-coronavirus vaccine. During the meeting, the Union health secretary expressed satisfaction that out of the total tests conducted, 71% were RT-PCR tests and 28% rapid antigen tests, and said that the numbers should be increased, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-not-lagging-behind-in-fight-uddhav-tells-pm/article34276577.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army chief leaves for Bangladesh||Army Chief Manoj Naravane on Thursday left on a five-day visit to Bangladesh during which he will interact with the Force Commanders of the United Nations Missions in Mali, South Sudan and Central African Republic and the Deputy Chief Operations Officer of the Royal Bhutanese Army. “He will also attend the closing ceremony of Exercise Shantir Ogrosena, a U.N.-mandated counter-terrorism exercise comprising the armed forces of India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka along with observers from the U.S., U.K., Turkey and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia among others,” the Army said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-chief-leaves-for-bangladesh/article34276271.ece
09 April 2021||Patna,||No rule of law under Nitish regime: RJD||The Opposition parties in Bihar have blamed the local administration and politicians for patronising Pravin Jha, the main accused in the killing of five people in Madhubani district on March 29. Jha, along with five others, was arrested on April 7. He allegedly runs the private militia Ravan Sena, comprising members of a dominant caste. The ruling JD(U) on Thursday said “nobody committing a crime will be spared”. Five people of a family in Mahmudpur village were killed on Holi day, allegedly by members of the Ravan Sena. Among those killed was an BSF assistant sub-inspector. In all, 35 people, including Jha alias Ravan, were named as accused in the case. Among them, 18 are Brahmins, 13 Rajputs, one a BC and others are from Extremely Backward Castes. After the incident, leaders of political parties met the grieving family members of Surendra Singh, whose sons and cousins were killed in the incident. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav visited the village on April 6. “The main accused Pravin Jha is being patronised by the district administration and a BJP leader,” he said, adding “law and order has completely failed in Nitish Kumar’s regime.”  Ruling out a caste angle, the police said the incident was a fallout of personal enmity between two groups over ownership of a fishing pond in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-rule-of-law-under-nitish-regime-rjd/article34276283.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC notice to Suvendu Adhikari||The Election Commission on Thursday sent a notice to the BJP candidate from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikari in connection with a “hate speech” complaint against him. The EC said it received a complaint from CPI(ML) Politburo member Kavita Krishnan alleging that Mr. Adhikari had delivered a hate speech in Nandigram on March 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-notice-to-suvendu-adhikari/article34276866.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI records statements of Param Bir Singh, Vaze||The CBI on Thursday recorded the statement of former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and others in connection with a preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. “The statements of a complainant in the matter, Jayshree Patil, and Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil have also been recorded, while Deputy Commissioner of Police Bhujbal has been asked to join the probe,” said an agency official. HC directive The preliminary enquiry is being conducted on the directions of the Bombay High Court. Mr. Deshmukh had resigned after the High Court ordered the initial CBI probe. In their applications, the former Mumbai police chief had alleged that some police officers had been told to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from the bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Mr. Vaze is also being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) with respect to a bomb scare in Mumbai and the alleged murder of one automobile parts dealer, Mansukh Hiran. He was earlier arrested by the NIA in the bomb scare case. The NIA later also took over the alleged murder case from the Mumbai police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-records-statements-of-param-bir-singh-vaze/article34276868.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Russia ties not dependent on others: MEA||Two days after the visit of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, India on Thursday reiterated that the “time-tested ties” with Moscow were not dependent on third parties. India’s comments were prompted over reports that suggested growing military ties between Russia and Pakistan. “The visit of the Russian Foreign Minister was a good opportunity to renew our special and privileged partnership. A broad range of issues were discussed. India’s close, time-tested and strategic relations with Russia stand on their own merit and are not influenced by relations with other countries,” said Arindam Bagchi, official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs in response to a question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/russia-ties-not-dependent-on-others-mea/article34276869.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hold charcha on fuel prices, says Rahul||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held his annual pariksha pe charcha (discussion on exams) with students via video conferencing, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi took a dig at him, asking him why there has been no discussion on high fuel prices. He demanded a kharcha pe charcha (discussion on expenditure). “Tax collections by the Centre has made the experience of filling fuel in one’s car no less than an exam, then why doesn’t the PM discuss it? Kharcha pe bhi Ho Charcha ! [A discussion should also be held on expenses],” Mr. Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. With petrol prices crossing Rs. 100 a litre, the Congress has been targeting the Centre for imposing high taxes on petroleum products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hold-charcha-on-fuel-prices-says-rahul/article34276276.ece
09 April 2021||Patna,||Lone LJP MLA joins ruling JD(U) in Bihar||Lone Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) MLA Raj Kumar Singh has formally joined the JD(U) in the presence of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and other senior party leaders. Mr. Singh earlier supported the ruling JD(U) during the election for the post of the Deputy Speaker in the State Assembly and was unofficially considered a member of the party. A month ago, he had met Mr. Kumar and a State Minister close to the Chief Minister, which finally paved his way to JD(U). Recently, LJP MLC Nutan Singh had quit the party and joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lone-ljp-mla-joins-ruling-jdu-in-bihar/article34276292.ece
09 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP will form anti-Romeo squads: U.P. CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that ‘anti-Romeo squads’ will be formed in West Bengal if the BJP is voted to power in the State. West Bengal is not a safe place for women under the Trinamool Congress government, Mr. Adityanath said while addressing three rallies in Hooghly and Howrah districts of Bengal. He said if the BJP is voted to power, it will stress on women’s education, prevent cow slaughter, and put an end to “hooliganism”. “Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? [If the BJP is voted to power], education and transport will be made free for girls and anti-Romeo squads will be formed to deal with those who loiter around girls’ schools,” he said. Anti-Romeo squads were launched in U.P. to ensure safety of women soon after Mr. Adityanath assumed power in 2017. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has often referred to the Hathras gang-rape case of September 2020 while speaking of the poor law and order situation and the status of women in U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-will-form-anti-romeo-squads-up-cm/article34276246.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||59%||the average voter turnout in 2021 in Chennai district in Tamil Nadu's Assembly election||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/59/article34276247.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||70%||the average voter turnout in 2021 in Thiruvananthapuram district in Kerala's Assembly election||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/70/article34276248.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Men register a higher turnout in city seats||All 16 constituencies of Chennai district registered a higher turnout of male voters during the Assembly election held on April 6. According to data compiled by the Chennai District Election Office, the turnout of men was 3.39 percentage points higher than that of women in the city. About 60.83% of men on the electoral rolls voted, while only 57.44% of women voters did. As many as 12.13 lakh men and 11.84 lakh women voted during this election in the 16 constituencies in the city. However, the number of men on the electoral rolls is lower than that of women. According to data from the Chennai District Election Office, 19.94 lakh men and 20.61 lakh women are on the electoral rolls. The highest turnout of men was registered in Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar constituency with 72.34% of men voting. Just 69.76% of women electors voted there. The turnout of men was the lowest in Velachery, with 57.06% of the 1.55 lakh men voting. The difference in the turnout between men and women was the highest in the Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni constituency. Of the 2.34 lakh electors, 62.17% of men and 54.8% of women voted. The difference in the turnout between men and women was more than 7 percentage points in the seat. Most other constituencies registered a smaller difference of less than 3 percentage points between the turnout of men and women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/men-register-a-higher-turnout-in-city-seats/article34276906.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. launches door-to-door fever survey in all localities||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched a door-to-door fever survey in the 15 zones of the city. The fever survey workers will also assist the residents in getting vaccination at the nearest centre of the Corporation. At least 9 lakh residents in Chennai have been vaccinated. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the civic body had restarted door-to-door surveys and fever clinics along with contact tracing and intensive focused testing. “In addition, we are going to be very strict while enforcing COVID-19 safety norms, for which the GCC Revenue Team is fully geared up. Vaccination, of course, remains our top priority. We will increase the pace and are confident that the turnaround will come in a month’s time,” he said. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese said each of the 6,000 fever survey workers would visit households once in two days. In addition to the 6,000 fever survey workers, 1,000 FOCUS volunteers would also start work in a few days. FOCUS volunteers The volunteers will have the responsibility of getting essential commodities for COVID-19 patients in the city. Zones such as Teynampet, Anna Nagar, Royapuram and Kodambakkam have reported a large number of COVID-19 cases. Corporation officials have also started administering COVID-19 vaccination on the premises of industrial units and commercial establishments. “We are guiding the workers of small units to get vaccinated at the nearest hospital. For large commercial establishments, vaccination is administered for employees on their own premises. Employees of government offices, such as Ezhilagam, have also received the vaccine on the premises without having to visit hospitals. Major industrial units, such as the Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, have also received assistance in getting vaccination for their employees. Over 460 centres for vaccination are located in the city,” an official of the Corporation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-launches-door-to-door-fever-survey-in-all-localities/article34276916.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surgery performed for rare ear condition in 26-year-old man||A 26-year-old man recently underwent surgery in a city hospital in his middle ear for a rare condition. Venkat Ramanan had been suffering from a ringing in his ear since April 2019 and he tried conventional medicines but got no relief. The condition is known as tinnitus, a problem in the middle ear. He could not sleep well and lost focus on daily activities. Doctors could not find the reason for the condition. He was finally referred to the Institute of Neurosciences and Spinal Disorders at MGM Healthcare. Investigations revealed that the (labyrinthine) artery abutting the auditory nerve was the problem, said K. Sridhar, director and group head of the institute. “The MRl showed a possible blood vessel hitting the nerve. Various options were considered for two-and-a-half months before the doctors decided to go in for surgery,” he said.  The procedure was to relieve pressure on the nerve from the artery. “The surgery, microvascular decompression (MVD) of the cochlear nerve, entailed a highly precise and delicate microsurgical procedure under high magnification to move the artery away from the nerve and ensure that it stays that way, thus eradicating the problem,” he explained. Even a small error could result in the patient becoming deaf and developing facial weakness as a bunch of nerves are bundled in the region, he said. Dr. Sridhar said he made a small incision in the back of the ear and separated the blood vessel pressing on the nerve. A few muscles, the size of finger nails, were placed between the nerve and the artery to separate the two. The patient was able to walk the next day. Usually tinnitus affects older people. In such young persons it is a rarity, Dr. Sridhar said. MVD is offered to treat trigeminal neuralgia (shock like pain over the face due to compression of nerves) but it was used in treating tinnitus for the first time now, he added. According to him, there are just 44 recorded cases the world over and none in the country till date.  Various options were considered for two-and-a-half months before the doctors decided to go in for surgery K. Sridhar Director, Institute of Neurosciences and Spinal Disorders, MGM Healthcare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-performed-for-rare-ear-condition-in-26-year-old/article34276912.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After over 5 months, cases cross 4,000||After more than five months, the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu crossed the 4,000-mark on Thursday. A total of 4,276 people contracted the infection and 19 persons succumbed to it. The State last recorded over 4,000 cases a day on October 17 (4,295 cases). The fresh cases have pushed Tamil Nadu’s tally to 9,15,386, and its active caseload has touched 30,131. Of these, Chennai accounts for 11,633 people who are still under treatment. Chennai’s daily count exceeded 1,500 on Thursday, with 1,520 more people testing positive for the infection. The city’s overall tally touched 2,59,320. In Coimbatore, 427 people tested positive, followed by 398 in Chengalpattu. Eight districts recorded over 100 cases each — Tiruvallur (199), Tiruppur (154), Tiruchi (131), Thanjavur (125), Nagapattinam (118), Madurai (115), Kancheepuram (107) and Salem (103). A total of sixteen returnees, including nine from West Bengal, were among those who tested positive for the infection. Chennai accounted for six of the 19 fatalities, while Chengalpattu, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur recorded three deaths each. Five of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. This included a 33-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on April 4. He died on April 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Among the deceased who had co-morbidities was a 36-year-old man from Tiruvarur. Three persons in their 40s also succumbed to the infection. The State’s toll rose to 12,840, even as 1,869 more people were discharged from various facilities after treatment. Till date, 8,72,415 people have been discharged. In the last 24 hours, 85,281 samples were tested for the infection, taking the total figure to 2,02,58,907. Nearly 35 lakh jabs A total of 86,179 people, including 43,182 aged between 45 and 59 and with co-morbidities and 37,016 senior citizens, were vaccinated on Thursday, taking the total figure so far to 34,87,036. Of the 86,179 people, 1,888 healthcare workers, 3,451 frontline staff, 37,212 people aged 45-59 with co-morbidities and 31,864 senior citizens received Covishield, while 263 healthcare workers, 379 frontline staff, 5,970 people with co-morbidities and 5,152 senior citizens got Covaxin jabs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-over-5-months-cases-cross-4000/article34276442.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools struggle to make time for revision||With under a month to go for the Class 12 exams, State Board schools are struggling to find time for revision sessions and tests for students. Students of Class 12 came back to campus in January after schools remained shut for 12 months owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. On Wednesday, students returned to several schools after a five-day break after institutions stayed shut from Friday to Tuesday. Following the Assembly election on Tuesday, several schools that were used as polling booths were disinfected and sanitised. Concepts taught “Even though we had online classes when schools remained shut, many schools have spent a considerable amount of time since January, when physical classes began, to teach students several concepts. Since learning is still going on, most schools will definitely will not find time to help students revise,” said R. Visalakshi, president, Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association. “During any other academic year, students would have had multiple tests, and teachers would have held special classes though the year to prepare them for the boards,” she added. Practical exams for Class 12 students are scheduled to be held from April 16 to 23, and board exams are set to begin from the first week of May. The number of COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the State, and this has added to the concerns of students and parents as well. “While we are trying our best to hold revision tests for the completed portions and seek out students who need extra help, teachers are facing a few attitudinal challenges from students. Since they came back to school after a long gap, some of them are yet to grasp the seriousness of the exams and are struggling to keep up regular preparations for them,” said A. Ramu, State president, Directly Recruited Post-Graduate Teachers’ Federation. Prepping the students In a few districts, government schools have managed to conduct one round of revision exams for a part of the completed syllabus. “Any other revision that we plan can be done only after the practicals. We need at least five days before the practicals to prepare the students since they hardly had any time in school laboratories this academic year,” said a science teacher from Dindigul. Despite a reduction in syllabus, he said the remaining portions were vast for teachers to finish quickly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-struggle-to-make-time-for-revision/article34276935.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on Parkinson’s to be organised on April 10||As part of The Hindu Wellness Series presented by MIOT Hospitals, a webinar on ‘Reclaiming life from Parkinson’s’ will be organised on April 10 at 11.30 a.m. to mark World Parkinson’s Day. The initiative aims to spread awareness about Parkinson’s disease among people. Some of the topics to be discussed will include what Parkinson’s Disease is, its causes, signs and symptoms, its effect on a person’s life and the treatment options available. The panellists for the webinar are Shankar Balakrishnan, interventional neurologist, MIOT International, and K. Subramanian, senior neurologist, MIOT International. R. Sujatha, deputy editor, The Hindu , will be the moderator for the event. To participate in the webinar, register at https://bit.ly/3w DYMim or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-parkinsons-on-apr-10/article34276410.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Four counting centres come under three-tier security||A three-tier security arrangement has been made at all the four counting centres where polled electronic voting machines (EVMs), along with voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) units, have been kept in strong rooms. Personnel of the Central Armed Police Forces, the Armed Reserve, the Tamil Nadu Special Police and the city police are guarding the centres round the clock. The counting centres are Loyola College, Queen Mary’s College, Anna University and Madras Christian College. All EVMs and VVPAT units were sealed after the April 6 polling for the Assembly election and brought to these centres amid tight security. Counting is scheduled for May 2. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and District Election Officer-cum-Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash have been visiting these centres to inspect the security. “As per the guidelines of the Election Commission of India, we are providing three-tier security to these centres. In the first tier, which is the innermost perimeter, the Central Armed Police Forces personnel mount guard with arms round the clock. The second tier is manned by the State armed police and the third tier is covered by the local police. No one is allowed to enter the inner perimeter without following the protocol. The premises are under the surveillance of CCTV cameras, and representatives of the political parties or the candidates can access the images,” Mr. Aggarwal said. The Central Armed Police Forces are maintaining a log book to register the name of anyone crossing the security ring — the middle perimeter — besides the date, time, and duration of the visit. Even the visits by observers or the District Election Officers or the SPs or the Commissioners of Police or the candidates or their agents or any other person are logged. Video cameras have been given to the contingent to record all visits. The Returning Officers or the District Election Officers should visit the storage campus every morning and evening and check the log book and video footage. They will have to send a report every day, say the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-counting-centres-come-under-three-tier-security/article34276914.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Let semi-wholesalers, retailers work in rotation, say traders||Traders at Koyambedu want the State government to consider allowing semi-wholesalers to function on a rotational basis instead of enforcing a total shutdown as it would severely affect the livelihood of several merchants and labourers. This demand comes after the government’s directive to close fruits and vegetable retail outlets in the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex as part of the new restrictions following the second wave of COVID-19. Such a sudden closure could also lead to a shortage of vegetable and fruits and a rise in prices. Merchants noted that nearly 1,800 semi-wholesale and retail shops, which were the final segment to reopen after the lockdown in November, were yet to stabilise their business. Another shutdown would severely affect families dependent on them. G.D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of KWMC Periyar Market, said the traders resumed business after nearly six to eight months. They were not given space at the temporary market in Thirumazhisai. “Instead of a complete shutdown, the government must consider 50% shops to remain open on a rotational basis. The traders’ body was not consulted before the announcement of the closure. We are planning to hold a traders’ meeting and also meet the authorities concerned on the issue,” he said. Similarly, fruit merchants also noted that semi-wholesalers were an important link, who sourced fruits such as watermelon, guava and pomegranate. In addition, they said that there was no clarity on the section of the shops to be closed. The authorities concerned must hold talks with the traders’ body as semi-wholesalers were often affected. Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramiappu also opposed the move to prohibit retail trade in wholesale markets without consulting the traders. Only 40% of the semi-wholesale and retail trades had resumed at Koyambedu and another shutdown would have a bad impact on merchants, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-semi-wholesalers-retailers-work-in-rotation-say-traders/article34276918.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. reconstitutes COVID-19 Field Support Teams||The Tamil Nadu government has reconstituted the Field Support Teams, comprising senior IAS officers, District Revenue Officers, police officers and medical officers, in all zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to ensure effective implementation of preventive measures against COVID-19. The government has directed that the officers concerned should visit specified zones of the GCC in coordination with the Corporation Commissioner to ensure monitoring and prompt contact tracing of COVID-19 patients and other cases on a day-to-day basis, ensure quick sampling, testing and release of results in a time-bound manner, monitor quarantine and containment areas, identify and test symptomatic persons. The teams will also monitor the delivery of essential supplies in quarantine and containment areas, check the availability of protective medical materials like masks, PPEs and testing kits and their proper use, monitor severe acute respiratory infections and fever cases, ensure proper treatment protocol in COVID-19 isolation beds, care centres and hospitals, including private ones. The teams will also keep track of the implementation of various Standard Operative Procedures issued by the government, and monitor vaccine administration on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-reconstitutes-covid-19-field-support-teams/article34276922.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary demands reinstatement of three police officers||The ruling AIADMK on Thursday demanded that three police officers be transferred back to their original posts. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, the party’s joint secretary for the advocates wing R. M. Babu Murugavel, recalled that the officers — H.M. Jayaram, IG (Central Zone), Dhinakaran, IG (West Zone) and Arul Arasu, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore (Rural) — were transferred on March 31 and in their place, Deepak M. Damor, A. Amalraj and Selva Nagarathnam were posted, apart from Davidson Devasirvatham as Commissioner of Coimabtore. The AIADMK functionary alleged that the officers, who were recently posted, had “acted against” his party and they were “hand in glove” with the Opposition party, DMK. Illegal activities They had allowed the DMK to indulge in “several illegal activities” such as cash distribution for voters, he claimed. Mr. Murugavel argued that as the officers were posted for election duty and polling was over on Tuesday, they should be sent back to their original posts and the earlier set of officers — Mr. Jayaram, Mr. Dhinakaran and Mr. Arul Arasu — be reinstated to their old posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-functionary-demands-reinstatement-of-three-police-officers/article34277100.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh restrictions dampen business||The State government’s decision to restrict the number of people visiting malls, entertainment parks, cinema halls and amusement parks from Saturday to control the spread of COVID-19 has dampened the spirits of businessmen whose balance-sheets had just started showing positive signs after the lifting of the lockdown. Those representing the mall sector said from January, business had started bouncing back in most malls and until February, business was good (compared to the pre-COVID-19 levels). But since March, footfalls had started dwindling. “Many retailers have already cut down on the number of outlets and have even curtailed expansion plans,” said a retailer. Some retailers are confused as to how they will ensure 50% occupancy as a mall is a large space and there is no one to keep count of people. M. Ravi, president of the Chennai Hotels’ Association and chairman of Vasanta Bhavan Hotels India Pvt. Ltd, said the industry was ready to cooperate but the government should also understand the problems hoteliers had to face. He lamented that over 2,000 small, medium and big restaurants had wound up and restrictions would further hamper their operations. He suggested that instead of the new restrictions, the government could roll out vaccines for all working people. “The government should also support us by reducing tax, and giving industry people time to repay loans that they have taken. Many hotels have just pumped in money to revive businesses,” Mr. Ravi said. Theme park operators said they already had all SOPs in place from the time they resumed operations. “This is a seasonal industry and we get maximum footfall in March, April and May. Last year, we were under lockdown and businesses were wiped off. This year too seems bleak,” said V.G.P. Ravidas, managing director, VGP Universal Kingdom. According to the Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries, there are 150 parks, and they projected a revenue loss of over Rs. 1,100 crore in 2020. Multiplexes and stand-alone theatres that were gearing up for the release of the Dhanush-starrer Karnan have had to realign ticketing and other plans after news of 50% occupancy was intimated. Some theatres said they had already sold tickets fully for April 10 and 11, and it would irk fans if they cancelled them now. They are considering approaching the government to run shows this weekend for tickets they have already sold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-restrictions-dampen-business/article34276431.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspended poll staff summoned for inquiry in EVM, VVPAT case||Personnel from the Velachery police station issued notices summoning four election staff for an inquiry in connection with their carrying electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) units on their two-wheelers without authorisation. The Corporation staff were caught by functionaries of the DMK and the Congress when they were carrying the machines on a two-wheeler on Tuesday night. Assistant engineer Senthil Kumar, conservancy supervisor Velankanni and conservancy worker Saravanan were placed under suspension based on the instructions of the Returning Officer. In connection with the incident, the police issued notices to the three and to another person to join the inquiry on April 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-poll-staff-summoned-for-inquiry-in-evm-vvpat-case/article34276907.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prisoner attempts to end life in court||A prisoner attempted to end his life in front of a sessions judge on Thursday in the family court complex on the Madras High Court campus. The prisoner has been identified as Pandian, 57, of Ennore. Hearing of casee He was brought from the Puzhal Central Prison for a trial hearing at the additional sessions court. Around 1.30 p.m., Pandian slashed his neck using a blade he had concealed on his person while standing in the box before a sessions judge. The court staff and advocates reacted quickly and rushed him to the Government Stanley Hospital. Harassment allegations Pandian complained to the judge about alleged cruelty and harassment meted out to him by personnel in the prison.  (Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prisoner-attempts-to-end-life-in-court/article34276920.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Exchequer does not incur loss due to non-collection of toll from certain vehicles’||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Thursday told the Madras High Court that the public exchequer did not incur any loss due to the non-collection of toll from vehicles with party flags and those used by VIPs. The court was informed that private agencies engaged for operating toll plazas would have to bear the brunt if they failed to collect toll from such vehicles. Filing an additional counter affidavit before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy in response to a public interest litigation petition, the NHAI said it collected a fixed amount towards daily collection from private agencies engaged for toll collection, and therefore, the question of the government suffering loss due to exemption granted to certain vehicles would not arise at all. Since the PIL petition pertained to two toll plazas between the Tambaram and Tindivanam section of the Chennai-Madurai National Highway, the NHAI said it had been collecting Rs. 29.18 lakh a day and Rs. 23.68 lakh a day from the agencies, which had been authorised to collect toll at the Paranur and Athur toll plazas respectively. The agencies were bound to remit the amounts quoted by them. “As such there will be no loss to the government exchequer on account of allowing vehicles, if any, by the toll operator at his risk and cost,” the additional affidavit read. It was filed in response to a query raised last year when the present PIL petition was heard by another Division Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan, who feared that it might take decades to recover the capital cost incurred for laying highways if many vehicles were exempted from paying toll. On Thursday, the litigant’s counsel, M.J. Jaseem Mohamed, contended before the first Bench, led by the Chief Justice, that the NHAI had indulged in “daylight robbery” by continuing the collection of toll at Paranur and Athur without any end in sight. After hearing him for some time, the first Bench granted him two weeks to come up with exact details regarding the quantum of toll collected from different types of vehicles at the two plazas. The NHAI had already filed a main counter affidavit in the case last year, stating that the collection of toll on National Highways could not be stopped on the expiry of agreements entered with private concessionaires on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis. The authority said it was entitled to continue the collection till the full recovery of capital cost of individual projects, even if it took more than three decades to do so. The court was informed that the NHAI had entered into an agreement with GMR Tambaram-Tindivanam Expressways Private Limited on October 9, 2001, for carrying out four-laning of the stretch on BOT (payment of annuity) basis. The appointed date for the project was declared on May 9, 2002, and as per the agreement, the concession period expired on November 8, 2019. However, between May 2005 and November 2019, the NHAI paid an annuity of Rs. 1,219.39 crore to the concessionaire at the rate of Rs. 41.856 crore every semester. Apart from this concession agreement, the NHAI entered into separate agreements with private entities for building toll plazas, operating them and collecting toll. Accordingly, user fee collection at the Athur and Paranur toll plazas began on April 1, 2005, and till November 30, 2019, only Rs. 245.07 crore was collected from Paranur, and Rs. 203.84 crore from the Athur plaza. Further, stating that the total cost incurred for executing the project, indexed to the year of construction, was Rs. 922.61 crore, the NHAI said since only Rs. 448.91 crore had been collected so far from the two plazas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exchequer-does-not-incur-loss-due-to-non-collection-of-toll-from-certain-vehicles/article34276436.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rusted rocket shell found in Periyapalayam||A group of youngsters stumbled upon a rusted shell used in rocket launchers in a playground at Periyapalayam in Tiruvallur on Wednesday. The police said the youngsters spotted the metal jutting out of the ground near the Bhavani Amman temple. They dug out the object and sensing something fishy, they alerted the police. Personnel from the Periyapalayam police station took the shell to Gummidipoondi and stored it along with other explosives being destroyed by the Army. “The shell may have been abandoned here at least 15 years ago. The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad have taken it to Gummidipoondi,” said P. Aravindhan, SP, Tiruvallur.  The shell may have been abandoned here at least 15 years ago||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rusted-rocket-shell-found-in-periyapalayam/article34276926.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK demands reinstatement of three police officers||The ruling AIADMK on Thursday demanded that three police officers be transferred back to their original posts. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, the party’s joint secretary for the advocates’ wing R. M. Babu Murugavel, recalled that the officers - H.M. Jayaram, IG (Central Zone), Dhinakaran, IG (West Zone) and Arul Arasu, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore (Rural) - were transferred on March 31 and in their place, Deepak M. Damor, A. Amalraj and Selva Nagarathnam were posted, apart from Davidson Devasirvatham as Commissioner of Coimabtore. The AIADMK functionary alleged that the officers, who were recently posted, had “acted against” his party and they were “in glove” with the Opposition party, DMK. They had allowed the DMK to indulge in “several illegal activities” such as cash distribution for voters, he claimed. Mr Murugavel said that as the officers were posted for election duty and polling was over on Tuesday, they should be sent back to their original posts and the earlier set of officers - Mr. Jayaram, Mr. Dhinakaran and Mr. Arul Arasu - be reinstated to their old posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-demands-reinstatement-of-three-police-officers/article34276470.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corruption has become deeply pervasive: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to apprise it of the structure of vigilance and anti-corruption mechanism set up in the State, the extent of work done by the officials concerned in the last three financial years and the degree of independence accorded to the Vigilance Commissioner and the Directorate. The court ordered that these details must be submitted within three weeks. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy called for the details while dealing with a public interest litigation petition. The judges lamented that corruption had become deeply pervasive in every sphere, including the bureaucracy and the judiciary. They said the process of natural justice slowed down action against corruption and sometimes helped the corrupt get away from the clutches of law. It was also because of corruption that incidents, such as land grabbing and encroaching of waterbodies took place, the first Division Bench added. The observations were made during the hearing of the petition filed by Karuppu Ezhuthu Kazhagam, a Tiruchi-based organisation. Its counsel P. Vijendran complained to the court about alleged largescale corruption prevailing in the Registration Department. He pointed out that the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) had raided the office of the Sub-Registrar at Villivakkam, Chennai, on December 13, 2018, and seized unaccounted-for cash. Subsequently, a case was also registered and on the recommendation of the DVAC, the Sub-Registrar concerned was transferred to Thoothukudi. However, within days thereafter, he was transferred back to Chengalpattu, the lawyer claimed. Contending that officials who enjoyed political support managed to wriggle out of the action taken against them even at the instance of the DVAC, the advocate insisted that the counselling for transfer of officials from one district to another was not being conducted in a transparent manner. According to the lawyer, government officials enjoying a close rapport with Ministers and the likes got transferred easily despite facing corruption charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corruption-has-become-deeply-pervasive-says-madras-hc/article34276924.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for practical examinations||The Director of Government Examinations has issued guidelines for the conduct of practical examinations for students of Class 12 of State board schools. It specified that physical distancing norms be strictly followed. If any student tests COVID-19 positive, the examination for those students shall be conducted later. Students whose schools are in containment zones will be allotted alternative centres where they can take up the practical examinations. These arrangements will be overseen by the Chief Educational Officers. C. Usharani, Director of Government Examinations, said that as part of the guidelines, a floor area of 4 m2 should be made available to each student for working on equipment. The laboratory, as well as the equipment used, should be sanitised before and after the examination for each batch. The practical examinations will begin on April 16, and all Chief Educational Officers have been asked to communicate the guidelines to the headmasters of the schools. All students and staff members must wear face masks. Sufficient hand sanitisers must be provided, and students have also been asked to keep it away from inflammable equipment. Additional guidelines have also been issued, specifying a few changes in the experiments that students are to carry out.  A floor area of 4 m2 should be made available to each student C. UsharaniDirector of Government Examinations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-issued-for-practical-examinations/article34276428.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Endowment in memory of ex-chairman of IIT board||An endowment worth Rs. 4 crore in the memory of A.M.M. Arunachalam, who was chairman of the board of governors during 1978-81, has been created at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. An auditorium bearing his name was also commissioned on Wednesday in the presence of Arunachalam’s son, M.A. Alagappan. Mr. Alagappan, also chairman of the A.M.M. Foundation and adviser, Murugappa Group, said in order for businesses to be globally competitive, it was necessary to aspire to develop and invent in India. “While businesses are constantly seeking to innovate in terms of technology, the academic world has the multi-disciplinary expertise that can be harnessed to accelerate the development of new technologies,” he said. He praised the institute for facilitating and fostering links between academia and industry and for creating positive results for all stakeholders. Finding solutions The Industry Collaboration and Sponsored Research Centre’s approach helped find solutions to complex technical and techno-commercial challenges in a wide range of areas and with a wide range of partners, he said. The collaborations offered the faculty and students opportunity to apply and hone their knowledge to solve real-world problems, he said. Institute director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the Murugappa Group of companies had been early partners of the institute in several research and development projects, paving the way for industry-academia collaboration to build strong technological capabilities in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/endowment-in-memory-of-ex-chairman-of-iit-board/article34276929.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liver transplant centres launched||The Kauvery Group of Hospitals has launched Liver Diseases and Transplantation Centres across all units in Chennai, Tiruchi, Salem, Hosur and Bengaluru. According to a press release, the liver care units would have a dedicated intensive care unit, operation theatres and treatment areas for recovery. The centres recently performed six living donor liver transplants. Among them was a 56-year-old man who developed liver disease and underwent treatment for eight months. He was transplanted with a portion of liver donated by his 31-year-old daughter. K. Elankumaran, head of the Liver Diseases Transplantation and Hepatobiliary Surgery, Kauvery Hospital, said liver transplantations do not take place due to a shortage of organs and the lack of awareness among the public. Manivannan Selvaraj, founder and managing director of Kauvery Group of Hospitals, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liver-transplant-centres-launched/article34276919.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK questions appointment of Tanuvas V-C||DMK general secretary Duraimurugan on Thursday questioned the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor for the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Tanuvas) by Governor Banwarilal Purohit after polling for the Assembly election was completed, although results for the same are awaited. In a statement, he said V-C appointments were for the long term, and said the Governor had made the appointment in haste. It did not reflect well on the position he held, he said. The appointment could have been made after the new government was formed, he said. The Centre, on its part, has appointed former Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan as expert-member in the southern bench of the National Green Tribunal in Chennai, he said. “When you have waited so long, why not wait for a month more?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-questions-appointment-of-tanuvas-v-c/article34276429.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow mosques to stay open till 10 p.m.: MMK||MMK leader M.H. Jawahirullah on Thursday urged the State government to allow mosques to remain open till 10 p.m. to enable Muslims to offer prayers during the holy month of Ramadan. As part of COVID-19 restrictions, places of worship are allowed to stay open only till 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-mosques-to-stay-open-till-10-pm-mmk/article34276432.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges cadre to serve the people||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged party workers to continue the ‘ Ondrinaivom vaa ’ (Let us unite) initiative and create awareness of the second wave of COVID-19. In a statement, he told DMK workers to provide masks, sanitisers and kabasura kudineer to people. He also told them to set up water pandals at public places during the summer. “We will get a favourable election result. But without waiting for it, continue to serve people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-cadre-to-serve-the-people/article34276440.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu has vaccines for 10 days’||With some States flagging concerns over the shortage of COVID-19 vaccines in the last few days, health officials have said that Tamil Nadu’s stock will last 10 days. “Going by the current rate of utilisation, we presently have stock for 10 days. We have a stock of 18 lakh doses now,” an official from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said. The State received an additional supply of 2.14 lakh doses of Covaxin and 11.02 lakh doses of Covishield on April 3. As on April 8, the vaccination programme’s total coverage stood at 34,87,036. This includes those who received both doses of the vaccines. Inquiries across government medical college hospitals in Chennai and medical officers in a number of districts found that vaccines were available across centres in the State. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, on average, vaccinates 500 persons a day, while the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, covers 450 persons, said hospital authorities. Authorities at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital said adequate stock was available for 10 days. “The initial hesitation to get vaccinated no longer exists. We are vaccinating 300-400 persons a day,” an authority said. A doctor attached to a primary health centre said adequate doses of the vaccines were available, but takers in rural areas were still few due to the fear of vaccination. “People should find reasons to get vaccinated rather than give excuses for not getting immunised. Pandemic control is everyone’s responsibility,” T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-has-vaccines-for-10-days/article34276443.ece
09 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to enforce strict preventive measures as COVID-19 cases surge||The Coimbatore Corporation has decided to strictly implement COVID-19 guidelines in the wake of surge in number of cases. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said that use of mask, sanitiser, pulse oximeter and temperature screening of customers at commercial establishments are a must. “Given the increase in number of cases - the daily positive case varies between 180 and 220 - the Corporation has taken a serious view of developments and therefore decided to impose fine.” The same would hold good for commercial establishments as well. “If Corporation staff find that establishments have failed to screen customers or allowed entry to customers without mask, the first time penalty is fine and thereafter it is closure of the establishment for not less than a week.” This would apply to all establishments, big or small, Mr. Pandian said and added that for very small establishments like tea stalls, the Corporation would come out with a practical solution. Currently, the Corporation had not yet taken a decision on restricting the business hours of commercial establishments. Any decision it would take would be only after consulting with the District Collector, who headed the district disaster management authority. The Commissioner also said the restriction on the number of people inside commercial establishment applied to weddings and other gatherings. As of Thursday, the Corporation had quarantined 35 houses where there were more than three positive persons - 11 in South Zone, 10 each in North and East Zones and two each in West and Central Zones. Mr. Pandian also said that from April 11, the Corporation would go in for mobile vaccinations. Vehicles deployed by the civic body would go to a street, vaccinate people at their place. This far, 50,227 have been vaccinated in city. Positive persons, this time, don't have the luxury of home quarantine. For housing positive persons, the Corporation had established centres at a private university in the city outskirts and at Bharathiar University hostel. It was also looking at another in the Codissia Trade Fair Complex, he said. As for testing people, the Commissioner said at present the civic body was lifting 2,000 - 2,500 samples a day.  From April 11, the Corporation will go in for mobile vaccination P. Kumaravel Pandian Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-enforce-strict-preventive-measures-as-covid-19-cases-surge/article34276938.ece
09 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of garbage foiled near Anamalai, trucks seized||Farmers and residents of Semanampathy near Anamalai, on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border, foiled the attempt by a group of men to dump three truckloads of garbage, allegedly from Kerala, late on Wednesday. Police attached to the Anamalai station said people who noticed the movement of trucks laden with garbage in the locality found that they were heading to a private tract of land. They went to the place and found that deep pits had been dug using an excavator to dump the garbage. Around 20 men who were working there fled after people raised objections and sought the intervention of the Revenue Department and the police. People who raised objections told the police and revenue officials that garbage was dumped frequently on the private land. They alleged that the owner of the land was earning money by allowing contractors to dump garbage there. The unscientific dumping of garbage would lead to the spread of diseases, pollution of the water table and air in the locality, they told officials. According to the police, the Revenue Department seized three trucks and an excavator in connection with the incident. However, the police are yet to receive a complaint from the Revenue Department to register a case and start investigation, said a police officer. Revenue Department sources said efforts were being taken to lodge a complaint against those involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-garbage-foiled-near-anamalai-trucks-seized/article34276933.ece
09 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Car of woman leader vandalised near Pollachi||The Pollachi east police have registered a case in connection with the vandalism of the sports utility vehicle belonging to J. Sabarimala (37), State coordinator of Pen Viduthalai Katchi , early on Thursday morning. Ms. Sabarimala has been campaigning for DMK candidate K. Varadarajan in the Pollachi Assembly constituency after the nomination she had filed was rejected. She has been staying in a rented house at Jothi Nagar. According to the police, Ms. Sabarimala lodged a complaint on Thursday claiming that the SUV that was parked in front of the house was damaged by unknown persons in the early hours of the day. The persons also broke the windshield of the car belonging to the house owner Syed Mohammad, said the complaint. The police said that an investigation was under way to trace the miscreants. The Vadakkipalayam police had registered a case against Ms. Sabarimala and three others in connection with a clash that took place between the AIADMK and the DMK workers at Okkilipalayam on March 28. AIADMK functionary’s son stabbed In another incident, a local AIADMK functionary’s son was stabbed by three men late on Wednesday. The police have identified the injured as M. Surendran. The incident took place when Mr. Surendran was riding a two-wheeler on Singanallur – Vellalore road on Wednesday evening. According to Mr. Surendran’s statement, Madhan (24), Dheenadayalan (24) and Naveen Prasad (19) from Vellalore area blocked his two-wheeler and stabbed him. He was admitted to a private hospital. The Podanur police arrested the trio. They were remanded in judicial custody while Mr. Surendran was recovering from the stabs. The police refuted rumours which said that political enmity was the reason for the assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-of-woman-leader-vandalised/article34276448.ece
09 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traders await specific instructions from local officials on restrictions||With the State government issuing fresh guidelines on restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19, trade and businesses here await specific instructions from the local officials. “The guidelines issued on Thursday is only an extension of the protocols in place. Now, the enforcement of these will be strict. Businesses will also have to co-operate in the larger interest of society. However, when there are restrictions, people will not come out for shopping much and it will have an impact,” said C. Balasubramanian, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore. “Usually, the district administration will issue instructions on how the guidelines will be implemented. We are waiting for that. We will communicate the details to our members and ask them to comply,” he said. At the Thyagi Kumaran Market, which has retail and wholesale vegetable sellers, the traders await details from the local officials. At the flower market, the traders said they are asking the customers to follow the standard operating procedures. “We lost business for four months last year. With the spread of the disease, the restrictions are coming back now. We do not know how it will affect business,” said one of the traders. A senior official from the Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) said that all branch managers would be instructed to not allow standees (passengers standing inside buses) from Saturday as per the State government’s instructions. There would be no reduction in the number of bus services operated in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris and Erode districts until further orders from the government, he said. Compliance with wearing of masks for passengers as well as drivers/conductors would be closely monitored from Saturday and strict action would be initiated against non-compliance, the TNSTC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-await-specific-instructions-from-local-officials-on-restrictions/article34276939.ece
09 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of garbage foiled near Anamalai||Farmers and residents of Semanampathy near Anamalai on the Tamil Nadu – Kerala border foiled an attempt by a group of men to dump three truckloads of garbage that allegedly came from Kerala late on Wednesday. The Anamalai police said people who noticed movement of trucks laden with garbage in the locality late on Wednesday found that they were heading to a private land. They went to the spot and found that deep pits had been dug using an excavator to dump the garbage brought in the trucks. Around 20 men who were doing the work fled as people raised objections and sought the intervention of the Revenue Department and the Anamalai police. The people who raised objections told the police and Revenue officials that dumping of garbage was done frequently on the private land, whose owner was allegedly paid by contractors who brought the garbage. The unscientific dumping of garbage would lead to the spread of various diseases, pollution of underground water and air in the locality, they told the officials. According to the Anamalai police, the Revenue Department seized three trucks and an excavator in connection with the incident. However, the police were yet to get a complaint from the Revenue Department to register a case and start the investigation, said a police officer. Revenue Department sources said that efforts were being taken to lodge a complaint against the persons involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-garbage-foiled-near-anamalai/article34276945.ece
09 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi man casts two votes, surrenders before court||A 40-year-old man from Suleeswaranpatti near Pollachi surrendered before a court on Wednesday after he was accused of having cast two votes in the Assembly election held on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as M. Samsudin from Gandhipuram main road at Suleeswaranpatti. According to the Pollachi east police, the man surrendered before the first judicial magistrate court, after he was accused of casting votes in two polling stations, 74 and 74 (A), at Semba Gounder Colony at Suleeswaranpatti on Tuesday. Pollachi east inspector said that Samsudin was granted bail after the surrender and a case was registered against him after getting the court’s permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-man-casts-two-votes-surrenders-before-court/article34276946.ece
09 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three killed, 37 injured as bus and fish-laden lorry collide head-on near Chidambaram||Three persons were killed on the spot and 37 injured in a head-on collision between a State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) bus and a fish-laden lorry at Periyapattu near Chidambaram in the early hours of Thursday. The deceased were identified as Sivakumar, 42, bus driver, and passengers A. Anbarasan and R. Vairavan of Nagapattinam district. While the SETC bus was heading to Chennai from Vedaranyam, the lorry was proceeding to Chidambaram from Cuddalore. Police said the accident took place around 3 a.m. There was no proper lighting and the two vehicles collided while negotiating a dangerous curve at Periyapattu. The bus overturned in the impact of the accident. Lorry driver R. Ayappan, 51, of Neyveli, sustained serious injuries and has been admitted to the Cuddalore Government Hospital. The injured have been admitted to the Cuddalore and Chidambaram General Hospitals. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-lorry-collision-leaves-3-killed-37-injured-near-chidambaram/article34276450.ece
09 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Fear of second wave hits business at Karungalpalayam cattle shandy||The fear of a second wave of COVID-19 pandemic affected transactions at the weekly cattle shandy at Karungalpalayam as traders from Kerala and Karnataka failed to turn up for purchase on Thursday. Farmers from many districts bring their cattle for sale to the shandy that is usually held on Thursdays. Also, traders from Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh visit the shandy and purchase cattle and transport them in lorries and mini-lorries to their regions. Since the model code of conduct was in force for the Assembly election, there was restriction in carrying cash above Rs. 50,000 and many traders kept off the market during the past one month. Though polling was over in Kerala and Tamil Nadu and vehicle checks have stopped, business was not as usual at the shandy on Thursday. A total of 650 cattle comprising 375 cows and 225 buffalo were brought for sale by farmers. While a buffalo was sold between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 45,000, a cow was sold between Rs. 32,000 and Rs. 70,000. Traders from Andhra Pradesh, Goa and a few other States purchased cattle and transported them in vehicles to their respective States. Less than 70% of the cattle were sold as traders from two States did not turn up due to the spread of COVID-19. Since the spread of virus is faster, trading could be affected in the coming weeks, said a farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fear-of-second-wave-hits-business-at-cattle-shandy/article34276473.ece
09 April 2021||ERODE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Security arrangements inspected at counting centres in districts||Erode District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan on Thursday inspected the security arrangements at the counting centre at the Institute of Road Transport and Technology at Chithode where votes polled in six Assembly constituencies in the district were kept in strong rooms and locked. Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and VVPATs used in the constituencies of Erode (East), Erode (West), Modakkurichi, Perundurai, Bhavani and Anthiyur were kept in strong rooms at IRTT while others were kept in strong rooms at Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam. All the strong rooms were sealed and were monitored round-the-clock by surveillance cameras that were connected to a control room at the centres. Three-tier security is in place at the two centres and officials are monitoring the control room. Mr. Kathiravan, who inspected the control room and other security arrangements, said that 96 CCTVs were installed at IRTT while 32 CCTVs were installed at Gobi Arts and Science College. Footages were reviewed through 16 LED screens. A total of 300 paramilitary and State police personnel were posted at IRTT while 200 personnel were stationed at the other centre. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai and other officials were present. In Salem, District Collector and District Election Officer S.A. Raman inspected the counting centre and reviewed arrangements. Mr. Raman inspected the strong rooms of the four constituencies for which counting centre would be Government Engineering College at Omalur. Mr. Raman inspected the strong rooms of Mettur, Omalur, Salem West and Salem North constituencies and reviewed security arrangements. Mr. Raman also reviewed the functioning of CCTV cameras installed on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-arrangements-inspected-at-counting-centres-in-districts/article34276475.ece
09 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand closure of stone crushers||Residents of two panchayats in Shoolagiri have petitioned the Tahsildar demanding closure of stone crushers operating in the villages. In a petition, the residents of Koneripalli and Kamandotti have alleged that the operation of stone crushers was posing health hazards and threat to the safety of property. They also alleged that the crushers were operating without adequate permits from the District Pollution Control Board. According to the residents, the crushers are posing a threat to the public by constant blasts and movement of overloaded heavy vehicles. It has been alleged that the stone crushing unit using explosives to blast stones have damaged houses in the vicinity. The petition said the constant movement of heavy vehicles bearing stone load has also damaged public roads on the one hand and the overspeeding of heavy vehicles threatened the safety of children playing on the streets. The residents called upon the administration to immediately shutter down the units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-demand-closure-of-stone-crushers/article34276486.ece
09 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Lok Adalat to be held on April 10||A Lok Adalat will be held at the integrated court complex and all the other courts here on April 10, Saturday. An administration press release said the Lok Adalat, as a method of dispute resolution to undercut the costs of vexing litigation will be held at the integrated court complex in Krishnagiri, and at the courts in Uthangarai, Hosur, Pochampalli and Denkanikottai. It will be presided over by district judge and chairperson of District Legal Services Authority R. Kalaimathi, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lok-adalat-to-be-held-on-april-10/article34276471.ece
09 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC comes to rescue of medical aspirant||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took note of the plight of a medical aspirant, who missed out on a seat under the 7.5% quota for NEET-qualified government school students. She studied at a private school up to Class VI under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act and from Class VII at a government school. The court heard a petition filed by Shakila Banu, mother of Shabana who missed out on the medical seat. The petitioner said the applications that were made available online for admission to medical courses had no provision to indicate that a student had studied at a private school under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act. There were only two columns: ‘Whether studied from 6th to 12th standard in Tamil Nadu’ and ‘Whether studied from 6th to 12th standard in Tamil Nadu Government School’. As there was no other column to mention her status, the candidate marked the ‘no’ check box. Ms. Shakila Banu sought a direction to the government to consider the plight of her daughter. The government submitted that the candidate was not considered as she had marked the ‘no’ check box. Had she approached counselling officials promptly, her name could have been added to the list. The selection committee would have been informed of the lacuna. Justice V. Parthiban said a deserving candidate was denied the benefit of the preferential Act. Officials responsible for formatting the application had not foreseen the plight of such candidates. The dream of the student to become a medical professional could not be allowed to be dashed because of the failure of the officials to formulate the application properly. The authorities had been grossly negligent or oblivious of the status of students like the petitioner’s daughter, he said. ‘Moral, legal obligation’ He said the government was under a moral and legal obligation to consider Ms. Shabana for admission on a priority basis in the following academic year under the 7.5% quota. He directed the government to reserve a seat for the candidate. The only plausible reparation the government could do was to make amends for the failure to provide a column in the application form for such students, he said.  The medical aspirant studied at a private school up to Class VI under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act and from Class VII at a government school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-comes-to-rescue-of-medical-aspirant/article34276435.ece
09 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Train bank officials to identify signatures of accountholders’||Taking serious note of the fact that the savings of two senior citizens were swindled by using forged signatures, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that it is the duty cast upon the banks to verify the signatures of account holders and then clear the instrument for encashment. Perusing the signatures, Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that even a layman with his naked eye can tell that the signatures varied drastically. The court took serious note of the fact that signatures were sent to a private lab for verification. Such practice needs to be deprecated. Training has to be imparted to bank officials to verify signatures. The banking machinery runs mainly on the verification of signatures. The bank should take responsibility in the event of fraud taking place in their institution. There should be an insurance mechanism in order to protect the interest of their depositors, the judge said. The judge observed that the concept of nationalisation of banks emerged in 1969. The main object apart from developing society was to raise public confidence in the system of banking. The court was hearing a criminal revision petition filed by K. Venkateshwaran of Madurai in 2016. He filed the petition seeking to set aside the order of a Judicial Magistrate for not taking cognisance against the then Manager of Indian Bank, Kochadai branch, and issuing summons to him in the case. The petitioner said his parents sold their ancestral property for Rs. 40 lakh and deposited the amount in Indian Bank, Tallakulam branch, with the help of an acquaintance, the key accused in the case. The couple opened a fixed deposit joint account. When the amount matured, the acquaintance asked the couple to transfer the amount to Kochadai branch. He told them that the branch was near his residence and it would be convenient for him to collect the amount on their behalf. He swindled a total amount of Rs. 49.50 lakh. The judge directed the Judicial Magistrate to take cognisance against the then Branch Manager of the Kochadai branch and issue summons to ascertain whether bank officials colluded with the accused or they exhibited lethargic attitude in verifying and passing the instrument.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-bank-officials-to-identify-signatures-of-account-holders/article34276457.ece
09 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Custodial death case: HC issues directive to Commissioner of Police||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Commissioner of Police, Madurai, to secure and produce before the court four men alleged to be behind withdrawal of a petition pertaining to Avaniapuram custodial death case. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the Commissioner of Police to secure Athi Narayanan, Kathir, Loganathan and Ramesh and produce them before the court. The High Court initiated suo motu proceedings after the petition was withdrawn. The petitioner, P. Muthukaruppan, father of the 22-year-old victim M. Balamurugan, filed a petition alleging that his son sustained injuries in police custody and later died at Government Rajaji Hospital. He sought a CBI probe into the custodial death. It was said that Balamurugan and his associates were arrested by police for their alleged involvement in the kidnap of a youth and ransom demand from his parents. However, in an unexpected turn of events, Mr. Muthukaruppan decided to withdraw his petition. Henri Tiphagne, the advocate who represented the petitioner pro bono in the case, wrote to the High Court Bench stating that the father withdrew the petition because of the threat from local police and that the parents were being coerced not to depose against police officers said to be involved in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-death-case-hc-issues-directive-to-commissioner-of-police/article34277030.ece
09 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||College Day celebrated||Fatima College celebrated its 68th College Day on Thursday. A release from the college said that Madurai Kamaraj University Registrar (in-charge) V.S. Vasantha was chief guest of the event. College principal Sr. G. Celine Sahaya Mary spoke about the growth of the institution and the achievements of the staff and students. Ms. Vasantha appreciated the college for working towards the welfare of students and society. She mentioned two eminent women scientists, Madame Marie Curie and Kamala Joseph Sohonie, to motivate the students of the college. S.J. Kala, president of Fatima College Alumnae Association, and Associate Professor, The Research Department of English, introduced a renowned alumni, Vijayalakshmi Jagadeesh. College secretary Sr. M. Francisca Flora felicitated Ms.Vijayalakshmi Jagadeesh, who received many outstanding awards including the Highest Award for Civilian Contribution in Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-day-celebrated/article34277028.ece
09 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘MSMEs must comply with COVID-19 norms’||All micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) must follow COVID-19 safety precautions issued by the Centre, Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) president B. Muruganantham has said. In a press release, he said all employees must undergo thermal screening on a daily basis before entering the factories and compulsorily wear face masks. They must use hand sanitisers before entering and after exiting the workplace. It must be ensured that all employees aged above 45 were administered vaccination. If there were more than 100 employees eligible for vaccination, arrangements could be made to ensure that they were administered vaccination at the workplace. All such details could be sent to MADITSSIA. Industries that provided information would get preference for subsidies offered by the government. Health officials would inspect industrial units to check compliance of COVID-19 norms and action would be taken against defaulters, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-must-comply-with-covid-19-norms/article34276458.ece
09 April 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Revenue Assistant held||Personnel of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) arrested a Revenue Assistant here on graft charge on Wednesday. The Revenue Assistant T. Appu alias Aplochan (48) allegedly demanded Rs. 15,000 as bribe from the complainant Venkatesan to fix tax for the new house constructed in the name of his wife at Perambalur. Acting on a complaint from Venkatesan, DVAC personnel laid a trap and caught Appu when he obtained the bribe amount in his office from Venkatesan, said DVAC sources adding that the bribe amount was confiscated. The accused was later sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-assistant-arrested-on-graft-charge/article34276418.ece
09 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former CM urges alliance cadre to keep vigil at counting centres||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has appealed to the workers of the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance to be on guard at the counting centres till May 2. “I am certain that people of the Union Territory have voted for those who they think will protect their rights. Workers of the alliance took the election as a challenge to prevent communal forces and political parties who have formed an alliance with the BJP. But the work is not over. People who have been assigned by candidates to be present at the counting centres have to be on the guard. By following the guidelines issued by the Election Commission, the agents of candidates should ensure that nothing wrong was done to the EVMS,” he said in an audio message on Wednesday night. Mr. Narayanaaamy said only if the workers maintained vigil till the votes were counted could the alliance ensure victory.  Expressing concern at the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory, the former Chief Minister said the administration should scale up testing and increase the capacity of beds in government hospitals. The region had been witnessing a daily spike in the number of cases, he said adding that the only way to contain the spread was to increase testing. The Lt. Governor had already visited places to create awareness among the people on the need to get vaccinated and to ensure COVID-19 protocols are followed, he said. The existing rate of Rs.2,400charged by hospitals for RT-PCR testing was very high. The administration should reduce the rate by at least Rs. 500. Several States had brought down the testing fee substantially. Some States had even fixed the rate at Rs. 600, he added. ‘Make tests free’ “We have already made vaccination free for all people in the Union Territory. It will be better if the administration takes necessary steps to make testing also free, and this will encourage people to get tested for the virus, " he added. Advising the people not to take the COVID-19 precautions lightly, he said the second wave of the virus was serious and hence people should take safeguards, including wearing masks in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-tells-cadre-to-keep-vigil-at-counting-centres/article34276931.ece
09 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai Soundararajan visits art and craft village||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday visited the Art and Craft village at Murungapakkam. After a survey of the stalls and exhibited articles, the Lt. Governor enquired with the artisans about their craft and income. The Lt. Governor also discussed with the accompanying officials the measures to be taken to improve the economic conditions of the artisans and increase the State’s revenue by increasing tourist visits. New facilities for tourists Ms. Soundararajan later inspected the Boat House at Nonankuppam and reached Paradise Beach on boat. After inspecting the facilities provided at the Beach, she held discussions with the officials regarding introduction of new facilities to promote tourism and tourism revenue. C. Chandramouli and A. P. Maheshwari, Advisers to the Lt. Governor; T. Arun, Tourism Secretary; and G. K. Maran, Managing Director of Puducherry Tourism Development Corporation, were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-soundararajan-visits-art-and-craft-village/article34277102.ece
09 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Special Excise duty on liquor withdrawn||The Lt. Governor has issued an order withdrawing the special excise duty on liquor that had raised the prices of brands on a par with the rates prevailing in neighbouring Tamil Nadu during the peak of the pandemic last year. A release from the Lt. Governor's Office said, the validity of special excise duty had come to a close on April 7. The special excise duty was imposed on select liquor brands when lockdown restrictions were withdrawn last year. The government had imposed 25% to 100% on these brands of liquor in the Union Territory to dissuade tipplers from other States from thronging Puducherry as a means to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The price of around 150 brands of rum, liquor, and whiskey were brought on par with the rate prevailing in Tamil Nadu. With the withdrawal of the special excise duty, the prices of these brands will revert to the pre-lockdown rate regime. The bars and liquor outlets have been advised to follow COVID-19 norms. The Excise Department has been directed to monitor the functioning of liquor outlets and bars to ensure that COVID-19 norms are followed.  The government had imposed 25% to 100% on these brands of liquor in the Union Territory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-excise-duty-on-liquor-withdrawn-in-puducherry/article34276927.ece
09 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory sees a spike in COVID-19 cases||In a new high for Puducherry, 293 persons tested positive for COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours as the active caseload touched 2,000 on Thursday. Of the new cases, which were detected from 3,451 tests, 181 were in Puducherry, 87 in Karaikal, 15 in Mahe and 10 in Yanam. As of Thursday, 490 patients were in hospitals and 1,510 in home isolation. In Puducherry, 277 patients were under treatment in IGMCRI and 139 in JIPMER. The test positivity rate was 8.49%, case fatality rate 1.59% and recovery rate 93.79%. The tally stood at 687 deaths, a total of 43,242 cases and 40,555 recovered patients. Of an estimated 6.89 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department to date, over 6.33 lakh were negative. Across the Union Territory, 51 healthcare workers, 11 frontline staff and 1,877 members of the public took the first shot of Covid vaccine. So far, 84,754 persons have been immunised in the Union Territory. This included 28,393 healthcare workers, 16,302 frontline staff and 40,059 members of the public. 45 new cases Cuddalore district reported 45 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 26,192. While 25,422 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 379.    In Villupuram district, 18 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,739. Kallakurichi district reported six positive cases, taking the overall count to 11,056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-sees-a-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article34277103.ece
09 April 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Narthamalai Temple car festival cancelled in Pudukottai||The district administration on Thursday announced that the car festival of Arulmigu Muthumariamman Temple at Narthamalai that was scheduled to be held on April 12 has been cancelled in view of restrictions announced by the State government on Thursday following steady rise in COVID-19 cases. Consequent to the cancellation of the car festival, the local holiday announced on April 12 by the district administration in view of the festival also stands cancelled. Collector P. Uma Maheswari said in a press release that restrictions were to be imposed from April 10 for religious meetings and events in view of the spread of the viral infection. Hence, the car festival of Arulmigu Muthumariamman Temple at Narthamalai on April 12 had been cancelled. The Collector appealed to the public to remain cautious by wearing a mask while venturing out, ensure personal distancing in public places, carry out frequent hand washing and avoid going out unless it was essential in order to check the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-car-festival-cancelled/article34276424.ece
09 April 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 6.95-lakh fine collected from SOP defaulters||Officials have collected a little over Rs. 6.95 lakh since March from violators for not wearing masks and neglecting the Standard Operating Procedures, said Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver here on Thursday. Speaking at a review meeting, he said there was a need to tighten the vigil as cases were going up across many districts. Apart from sensitising the people, especially those above 45 years to get them vaccinated, officials and field staff should set up fever camps. Testing, tracing and treating should be the priority. The public have been clearly told to stay indoors. In the event of those moving out, they should wear masks. Any failure to do so should attract a fine of Rs. 200. Similarly, shops and establishments, which failed to regulate the shoppers or if sales persons were found not wearing masks, such outlets should be closed. Public transport should not be allowed for commuters to stand and travel. The officials said that they had formed teams to screen the public at the PHCs. Fresh cases were being treated at hospitals, while in some cases patients were permitted to remain in quarantine at their houses if there was a separate room and a rest-room. The district had 6,665 COVID-19 cases as on Thursday, as per the data released by the State Health Department. Of them, 6409 were discharged and 118 patients were admitted in hospitals after being tested positive to the virus, the officials said at the meeting. Tirunelveli With fresh COVID-19 cases increasing alarmingly in the district over the past two weeks in the wake of the ‘second wave,’ the corporation has intensified operations to contain possible outbreak. After seven cases were detected in Thamirapathi Colony in Palayamkottai on Wednesday, the corporation intensified cleaning operations in the area and the entire colony was sanitized. On Friday, 13 persons from a street in Senthamizh Nagar in Pettai tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday and the street has been consequently converted into ‘containment zone’. Sensing the danger in store, the corporation resumed sprinkling of sanitizing agents in the buses, autorickshaws, ATMs, markets and other places where the people would gather in large number. Sources in the Department of Health Services said 10 persons had tested positive for the viral infection in Palayamkottai talkuk, 6 in Valliyoor, 3 each in Maanur and Radhapuram areas and 1 each in Nanguneri and Paapaakudi areas. “In all, Tirunelveli reported 75 cases on Thursday, the highest among the southern districts, while Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi districts recorded 62 and 47 new cases respectively. Tenkasi had 24 cases,” said the officials of Department of Health Services. With the number of fresh cases increasing alarmingly, number of persons coming to the Tirunelveli Medical College’s Multispecialty for vaccination has increased manifold, sources in the hospital say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-695-lakh-fine-collected-since-march/article34276453.ece
09 April 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Two youth killed and three injured in group clash||Two persons were killed and three others were injured after a clash broke out between Dalits and Vanniyars in Guruvarajanpettai near Arakkonam on Wednesday night. Following the incident, the VCK charged that the murders had been committed by those who were afraid of losing the election. The party has announced protests in all district headquarters on April 10. According to the police, a group of youngsters from the Dalit community were travelling to Guruvarajanpettai when another group from the Vanniyar community rode past them. Police claim that an argument broke out between the youngsters and supporters of both sides gathered. "The Dalit youngsters tried to leave the place, but they were rounded up. They attacked each other with sharp weapons. Two members from the Dalits side — Arjunan, 26, from Soghanur village and Suriya, 26, from Sembedu village — were killed and three of their friends — Madhan, Vallarasu, and Soundarajan — were injured,” police sources said. The Arakkonam Taluk police were informed about the incident. Four persons detained They rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to Tiruttani government hospital. Four persons have been detained in connection with the case. Following the death of the youngsters, a group of villagers staged a road roko in Soghanur on Wednesday night, demanding action against the attackers. Not a caste clash, says SP Ranipet Superintendent of Police R. Sivakumar went to the spot and pacified the residents. “This is not a caste clash, but the outcome of an ego issue,” claimed Mr. Sivakumar. Meanwhile VCK leader Thol Thirumalvalavan reacted in a tweet stating — “Two youngmen murdered in Soganur, near Arakkonam. Three others are in hospital in a critical state. Caste-fanatics committed these murders out of the fear of losing in election. VCK demands arrest of PMK caste-fanatics and sand mafia gangs. We'll hold demos on April 10 at all district headquarters.”  An argument broke out between youths of Dalit and Vanniyar communities in Guruvarajanpettai. The Dalit youngsters tried to leave the place, but they were rounded up. They attacked each other with sharp weapons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-group-clash/article34276398.ece
09 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Containment measures intensified in Salem||With COVID-19 positive cases crossing 100-mark in the district, the Health Department has intensified containment measures to prevent the cases from hitting a peak. The department is planning to intensify the vaccination campaign among the public and thereby reduce mortality due to the pandemic. According to health officials, door-to-door screening is being carried out intensively to identify persons with symptoms of COVID-19. Officials added that facilities have also been identified at various parts of the district to set up COVID-19 care centres, if there is further increase in daily cases. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services said that on an average 1,000-1,500 tests are being done in the district and they are planning to gradually increase it to 2,500 samples per day. He added that they are also planning to increase COVID-19 vaccination among the 45-plus age category as part of containment measures. Dr. Selvakumar said that besides private facilities, vaccination is being done through 110 Amma clinics, 107 primary health centres and 12 government hospitals here. He added that there are two COVID-19 care centres functioning at the moment and two additional places have been identified with 100 beds each for treating COVID-19 patients. However, officials said that there were sufficient bed facilities at the moment in government medical facilities here. Meanwhile, the Salem Corporation is planning to increase door-to-door checks. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that additional health teams have been deployed to conduct screenings. He added that 130 field workers are involved in door-to-door screenings and identifying persons with symptoms. Mr. Ravichandran said that areas with more than three cases would be declared as containment zones and separate officials have been designated for these places for purchasing essentials for the public. He added that they are also planning to increase vaccination by setting up camps in industrial areas here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-measures-intensified-in-salem/article34276480.ece
09 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Silver articles, cash seized||Personnel from the Railway Protection Force seized and handed over silver articles and cash to the election surveillance officials here after two women passengers were found to be carrying it without proper documents. On Tuesday, silver bars and ornaments weighing about 62.3 kg and Rs. 6.43 lakh were seized from the passengers. the RPF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-articles-cash-seized/article34276481.ece
09 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Apron at airport to be expanded||The foundation stone for expansion of the apron at the Salem Airport was laid here recently as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav campaign. According to officials, the event was held as part of a national campaign to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Independence. The work would be carried out at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. Two 72-seater flights could be parked at a time at the airport at present. On completion, the parking bay could handle four 72-seater flights at a time. Two wide-body aircrafts could also be parked here at a time and the facility is expected to improve operations of flights from the airport, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apron-at-airport-to-be-expanded/article34276482.ece
09 April 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘68,607 persons have been vaccinated’||A total of 68,607 persons have been administered the COVID-19 vaccine in Thanjavur district, according to Collector M. Govinda Rao. In a press release, he said that so for 20,597 people in the district have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and 823 were undergoing treatment. Stating that the vaccines were available in adequate numbers in the district, he called upon the people to cooperate with the district administration in controlling the spread of the virus during this second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/68607-persons-have-been-vaccinated/article34276425.ece
09 April 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||AMMK cadre booked||The Kumbakonam East Police have registered a case against a person said to belong to the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam for allegedly distributing `tokens’ to the electorate of Kumbakonam Assembly Segment. According to official sources, the distribution of `tokens’ to the voters by the accused, Kanagaraj of Koranattukaruppur near Kumbakonam came to light after a trader in Kumbakonam put up billboards at his shop on April 7 stating that tokens have been issued in the name of his establishment, apparently as an inducement to voters, and the establishment had no role in it. The tokens will not be honoured, he had said. On receiving a complaint from the District Election Wing officials, the Kumbakonam East Police registered a case under Section 171e (Punishment for bribery) of IPC against the accused, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-cadre-booked/article34276407.ece
09 April 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Extending a helping hand in time||Collector K. Senthil Raj’s timely assistance to a grievously injured persons in a road accident near here saved their life on Thursday. When he was returning to the Collectorate along the Tiruchendur Highway on Thursday, he asked his driver to stop the car on seeing a crowd looking at someone lying on the road. When he got down from the vehicle, he saw two persons lying on the ground with multiple injuries and bruises, apparently caused in a road accident. Though some of the people in the crowd were videographing the victims, who were under the influence of alcohol, none helped. On seeing the Collector, the crowd gave way for him. With the help of his gunman and the personal assistant, he shifted the two persons to his official vehicle. The car sped away to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. “Before the car arrived at the hospital, he had informed the Dean, TKMCH, Revathi Balan, about the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-helps-road-accident-victims-in-thoothukudi/article34277024.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||When broken branches and dry leaves turn an eyesore||Undue delay over clearing broken branches and dry leaves in public spaces and residences by garbage collectors of the Tiruchi Corporation has raised concern among the residents. Though there were sporadic complaints regarding sanitary workers failing to clear the broken branches from roadside trees, the issue came to the fore during the run-up to the annual car (Panguni Ther) festival of Sri Ranganathaswami Temple in Srirangam. To ensure trouble-free run of the car on North, South, West and East Chithirai Streets, volunteers trimmed the roadside trees on both sides of the car route. Some of the protruding branches of household trees were also cut during the process. They subsequently informed the concerned officials of the Tiruchi Corporation to cut branches. However, it was alleged that they were not removed for many days. In spite of reminders, the sanitary workers failed to clear them on time. As the day for the car festival neared, the volunteers were again forced to step in to remove them. “We were waiting patiently for the arrival of the Corporation workers to remove the dead branches and leaves. But they did not turn up on time. Hence, we had no other option but to join hands to clear them,” said a volunteer of West Chithirai Street. The issue is not just confined to one or two areas in the city. Many residents in Kumaran Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar, Woraiyur and others say that garbage collectors collect only domestic waste such as food leftovers, vegetables and discard other items. They refuse to remove the tree branches and dry foliage. Residents say that ever since the garbage bins were removed by the Corporation, they are unable to dispose of the dried foliage safely. The garbage collectors, who visit streets with light commercial vehicles daily, are not willing to collect garbage other than domestic waste. The branches of trees trimmed down by the electricity workers also have not been cleared for many days, they allege. N. Jamaludeen, a civic activist, said that several residents had been fined by the Corporation for keeping the dry foliage and fallen trees in front of their houses. It was unacceptable. Upset over the apathy of the officials, several residents had axed the trees except for coconut and mango trees. The Corporation should collect and remove all types of waste from the households and on the streets. Otherwise, no one would grow trees on their premises, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-broken-branches-and-dry-leaves-turn-an-eyesore/article34276415.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Again Khajamalai campus turns into COVID Care Centre||With the City Corporation beginning to revive the COVID-19 care centre at the Khajamalai campus of the Bharathidasan University, the varsity departments hitherto functioning on the premises will shift to the main campus from Friday. In the wake of a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the district administration readied the hostels in the campus for accommodating the asymptomatic patients. There are separate hostels for boys and girls on the campus. The academic and administrative blocks will not be utilised, but the district administration has taken control of the entire premises to run the COVID Care Centre. The Khajamalai campus accommodates departments of Economics, Education Technology, Social Work, Women Studies, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Department of Lifelong Learning, the Institute for Entrepreneurship and Career Development (IECD), the Bharathidasan University Technology Park (BUTP), Department of Remote Sensing and Academic Staff College. Since online classes were being conducted, one of the hostels in the main campus would be utilised to accommodate these departments temporarily. According to university sources, a hostel constructed for the purpose of accommodating international students will be utilised for the purpose as it was done on the earlier occasion when the Khajamalai campus was taken over by the district administration for housing asymptomatic patients. The staff attached to the Khajamalai campus have been given the option of utilising the transport services of the university. Last time, the Khajamalai campus was under the control of the district administration for a few months at a stretch as COVID Care Centre. This time, too, the staff in the Khajamalai campus expect the duration of control under the district administration to extend into the next academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/again-khajamalai-campus-turns-into-covid-care-centre/article34276422.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Female gaur rescued from well||A female gaur which accidentally fell into an open farm well at Alagasthirippatti village in Thuvarankurichi forest range on Tuesday was rescued in a joint operation by Fire and Rescue Service and Forest Department officials on Wednesday. The adult animal was subsequently released into a reserve forest. Forest Department officials said they received information regarding a gaur having fallen into a 50-feet deep open well on Tuesday morning. The animal was found to be active inside the well which had very little water. Consultations were done with veterinary officials and fire fighters about the operation to rescue the animal. A couple of veterinary doctors, Manoharan from Coimbatore and Kalaivanan from Theni arrived at the spot later to work out the rescue strategy. However, the operation could not be carried out on Tuesday evening due to poor lighting. Ahead of carrying out the rescue operation on Wednesday, it was decided that the animal could be lifted only after administering it with a sedative since it was found to be active. The sedative was administered using a tranquiliser gun after which fire fighters entered the well to carry out the mission. A crane was brought to the spot. The animal which was tranquilised was wrapped with a belt and lifted using the crane. The operation lasted over four hours. The officials said the animal did not have any injury. The rescued animal was examined by the veterinary officers and subsequently released into the Kannuthu reserve forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/female-gaur-rescued-from-well/article34276413.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Work on reconstructing culverts moves at a snail’s pace||The Tiruchi Corporation has been reconstructing culverts on Thillai Nagar main road for smooth flow of drainage. The work, which began nearly seven months ago at some sites is yet to be completed, inconveniencing road users, residents complain. The civic body undertook the work to ensure free flow of sewage and also ensuring space for rainwater to seep in. The work, at a cost of Rs. 99 lakh, is under way at14 places on Thillai Nagar Main Road and Thillai Nagar East Extension as part of the Area Based Development. However, residents of Thillai Nagar and those who travel to the area complain that the work was being undertaken at a snail’s pace. While the project began at Thillai Nagar First Cross months ago, authorities were yet to complete even 50% of the work, residents complained. A large pit filled with drainage water stands in between two hospitals and a few restaurants. A tea shop vendor said that the stench was unbearable. “After 5 pm, we cannot stand here. Mosquitoes wreak havoc but we brave through it as we need to earn a daily living,” she said. Insects breeding in the filthy water would also pose a health risk to residents, she added. The civic body has parked an earthmover near the pit for over 15 days, with no workers in sight, she added. A similar situation persists across most of the streets which have been dug up for the work. Residents are forced to take long detours along badly laid roads to reach their destinations. “I work on Ninth Cross Street, but am forced to take a detour to reach my office daily. The civic body must pay more heed to repair the roads before taking up such projects,” K. Uma, said. Meanwhile, M. Muthu, a senior citizen was of the opinion that a haphazard job has been done with the culverts. “It is a large steep slope which is difficult to climb on foot or on two-wheelers. The convenience of the users has not been kept in mind while constructing it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-reconstructing-culverts-moves-at-a-snails-pace/article34276417.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘How well can we equip students for NEET?’||Government school teachers apprehend that the current batch of Plus Two students may not be thoroughly equipped to face NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) so as to avail the utility of medical admissions under the 7.5 percent reservation quota. Unlike in 2019-20 when students went through the rigour of in-person training in classroom environment until March, when the COVID-19 lockdown began, this time around, there have been only weak signs of government school students deriving the utility of the free NEET online E-box crash course conducted jointly by the School Education Department and Amphisoft Technologies E-Box, according to teachers handling higher secondary classes. Students of government and government-aided schools and those in schools run by local bodies, and welfare schools of Adi Dravidar, tribals, Kallar reclamation are eligible for free training which is completely online with lectures and discussions combined with practice tests. “If in the 2020-21 medical admissions, over 400 students of government schools could secure medical admission under the 7.5 percent reservation quota, it was because of the completion of substantial portions combined with conduct of offline NEET coaching classes. This time, not only have the portions been truncated, the students in government schools also feel like fish out of water due to their inability to cope up with the online training pattern,” a headmaster of a government school said. The school education department had, during January this year, divided the syllabus into compulsory and optional parts. Those preparing for the public exams could avoid studying the optional parts accounting for one-third of the slashed portions. Teachers say that Plus Two public exam is likely during June by when justice could be done only for compulsory portions. Crucial time had been lost due to deployment of teachers for conduct of elections, and right now, the schools were focussed on completing practical exams. “As such, the scope for government schools to complete the optional portions that are vital to put students in a frame of mind to comprehend the contours of NEET does not exist,” another school head said. Last month, the National Testing Agency had announced August 1 as the date for conduct of NEET this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-well-can-we-equip-students-for-neet/article34276406.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sharp increase in cases||The Central districts on Thursday reported 496 fresh cases of COVID-19 among which 125 persons hailed from Thanjavur, 131 from Tiruchi and 118 from Nagapattinam. Five deaths were reported- three in Thanjavur and one each in Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. Two men aged 60 and 63, with no pre-existing ailments and an 85-year-old woman with a history of diabetes and coronary artery disease succumbed to the infection in Thanjavur. A 36-year-old man from Tiruvarur with hypertension and a 58-year-old man from Tiruchi with a history of diabetes hypertension and coronary artery disease died of COVID-19. Tiruchi district recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 131 patients reporting positive. However, senior officials of the health department maintained that no new clusters were identified and the increasing number was due to an increase in the number of COVID-19 tests taken. Thanjavur district reported 125 cases while Nagapattinam district reported 118 cases. In Tiruvarur, 70 patients tested positive. Pudukottai reported 21 and Karur, 11. Ariyalur recorded 11 cases and Perambalur four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-increase-in-cases/article34276423.ece
09 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases go up in Tirunelveli district||With fresh COVID-19 cases increasing alarmingly in the district over the past two weeks in the wake of the ‘second wave,’ the corporation has intensified operations to contain possible outbreak. After seven cases were detected in Thamirapathi Colony in Palayamkottai on Wednesday, the corporation intensified cleaning operations in the area and the entire colony was sanitized. On Friday, 13 persons from a street in Senthamizh Nagar in Pettai tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday and the street has been consequently converted into ‘containment zone’. Sensing the danger in store, the corporation resumed sprinkling of sanitizing agents in the buses, autorickshaws, ATMs, markets and other places where the people would gather in large number. Sources in the Department of Health Services said 10 persons had tested positive for the viral infection in Palayamkottai talkuk, 6 in Valliyoor, 3 each in Maanur and Radhapuram areas and 1 each in Nanguneri and Paapaakudi areas. “In all, Tirunelveli reported 75 cases on Thursday, the highest among the southern districts, while Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi districts recorded 62 and 47 new cases respectively. Tenkasi had 24 cases,” said the officials of Department of Health Services. With the number of fresh cases increasing alarmingly, number of persons coming to the Tirunelveli Medical College’s Multispecialty for vaccination has increased manifold, sources in the hospital say. Fine in Ramanathapuram Officials have collected a little over Rs. 6.95 lakh since March from violators for not wearing masks and neglecting the Standard Operating Procedures, said Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver here on Thursday. Speaking at a review meeting, he said there was a need to tighten the vigil as cases were going up across many districts. Apart from sensitising the people, especially those above 45 years to get them vaccinated, officials and field staff should set up fever camps. Testing, Tracing and Treating should be the priority. The public have been clearly told to stay indoors. In the event of those moving out, they should wear masks. Any failure to do so should attract a fine of Rs. 200. Similarly, shops and establishments, which failed to regulate the shoppers or if sales persons were found not wearing masks, such outlets should be closed. Public transport should not be allowed for commuters to stand and travel. The officials said that they had formed teams to screen the public at the PHCs. Fresh cases were being treated at hospitals, while in some cases patients were permitted to remain in quarantine at their houses if there was a separate room and a rest-room. The district had 6,665 COVID-19 cases as on Thursday, as per the data released by the State Health Department. Of them, 6409 were discharged and 118 patients were admitted in hospitals after being tested positive to the virus, the officials said at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-go-up-in-tirunelveli-district/article34277154.ece
09 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Trials and tribulations of polling personnel||An analysis done on the arrangements made in the polling stations for the overnight stay of the polling personnel, toilet and water facilities for them including women, brings to light the laudable service they have done despite the pathetic condition in which they were forced to work. After allowing the teachers to attend the first two training sessions in their taluk headquarters, they were asked to come to the Assembly segment where they would serve on the poll day for attending the third and the fourth sessions of training. “When I, working in Thoothukudi, was posted at Kovilpatti, I went there for the third phase of training held on April 3 after attending the first two sessions in Thoothukudi. Nothing happened there (during the third phase) after our signatures were obtained around 12 noon. The trainees left the training centre premises one by one as no official was there to give instruction of any kind. Again, we went there on Monday to collect the poll duty orders. What is the harm in conducting the third phase of the training also in Thoothukudi itself? What’s the reason behind obtaining our signatures alone by asking us to come to Kovilpatti”, the teacher asked. A woman teacher from Sattankulam, who is under medication for health issues, had to travel for about 130 km to attend this third phase training at Kovilpatti on April 3 and to commute similar distance to reach her home around 9 p.m. without learning anything. Most of the women teachers who were posted in remote rural areas were left at the mercy of the villagers, who indeed, allowed them to stay in their homes the previous night and even offered them food. “Those who had to stay in the schools without toilet facility, had to plead with the locals for using their washrooms. The worst part was that the women teachers served in remote villages could not get proper transport to reach at least the nearby town to get the bus to reach their places after the EVMs were collected in the odd hours,” a woman teacher, who had been posted in a village beyond badly connected Radhapuram, said. When a woman teacher working with a government-aided school in Palayamkottai landed at the booth in Government Higher Secondary School at Narasinganallur near here on April 5 for election duty, the sanitary worker cleaning the school ahead of the poll advised the teacher not to get into the toilet there in a hurry as a cobra used to visit the relatively cool lavatory. Woman constable Sreeja, attached to the Marthandam police station, suffered snake bite when she was deployed in the booth in the government higher secondary school at Keeripaarai Rubber Estate and was admitted to the Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital. Teachers, who were part of the ‘reserve team’, were kept in a private marriage hall at Kokkirakulam here where there was no water in the toilets on the day of polling. “It was a hellish experience… The officials checked our presence there for every one hour while we could not use the toilet as there was no water. The security there refused to switch on the motor even after repeated requests and complaints with the higher-ups,” said a woman teacher who was part of the ‘reserve team’. Above all, the teachers’ main grievance is that the Election Commission should trust them first and post them for election duty in the Assembly constituency where they live. “If a teacher dares to do something wrong and against the law while on poll duty, he or she cannot escape as the candidates’ agents will be there to watch the polling. Teachers know very well that any wrong thing they do will land them in a soup. Above all, reaching the polling station in the previous day of polling and returning home after the EVMs are safely handed over to the officials concerned will not be an easy affair even during odd hours. If the ECI trusts us, it will encourage most of us to be part of the election duty,” said T. Manoharan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Postgraduate Teachers’ Association, who, on behalf of his Association, has decided to approach the High Court to alleviate these genuine grievances of the teachers. “We’re always ready to serve as it is our democratic duty and service to the nation… Our only request is that please ensure polling personnel-friendly arrangements in the polling stations so that our teachers, especially women teachers will serve even during odd hours,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trials-and-tribulations-of-polling-personnel/article34276463.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Sati’ stone discovered in Tiruppur city||Tiruppur Corporation workers who dug the roads in Old Market Street near the Old Bus Terminus recently were in for a surprise as they discovered a ‘sati’ stone that is estimated to be around 300 years old. According to S. Ravikumar, director of the Tiruppur-based Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre, the artefact was unearthed on April 3. He said that he visited the spot shortly and confirmed that it was a ‘sati’ stone. “The woman is seen to be holding a mirror in her right hand and she is holding the hero with her left hand,” he said, which are the characteristics of a sati stone. These are sculpted to mark the ancient practice of sati, in which a widow jumps into fire to mourn the death of her deceased husband. With a height of about 75 cm and width of 45 cm, what made this sati stone different is that the man in the stone is seen to be holding a firearm in his left hand. Mr. Ravikumar said that the local chieftains, who were responsible for guarding merchants or cattle, were issued firearms during the Nayak period. Based on consultations with former assistant director of the Tamil Nadu Archaeology Department R. Poongundran, the sati stone was estimated to be around 300 years old, he noted. “The practice of Sati was initially restricted with queens. However, it was eventually followed by the widows of local chieftains and even commoners before it was eventually abolished during the British rule,” Mr. Ravikumar said. The sati stone was handed over to the Revenue Department following the discovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sati-stone-discovered-in-tiruppur-city/article34276942.ece
09 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district plans to vaccinate 5,000 a day||With the overall COVID-19 cases crossing the 20,000-mark in Tiruppur district on Wednesday, the Health Department plans to vaccinate at least 5,000 beneficiaries every day. According to Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar, nearly 2,500 beneficiaries are being vaccinated a day in the district and this will be doubled likely by next week in view of the raising COVID-19 cases. “We have sufficient doses of the vaccines,” he said. Over 73,000 beneficiaries have received the vaccine shots as of Tuesday in the district, as per the data available with the Health Department. As many as 24 government-run vaccination centres, including government hospitals and primary health centres and several private vaccination centres are administering the vaccine shots in Tiruppur district, Dr. Kumar said. Earlier this week, about 10 employees in a garment factory in Mulanur near Dharapuram tested positive for COVID-19, following which it was closed for disinfection, he said. In the previous week, around 30 employees working in a garment company in Perumanallur tested positive. To avoid such clusters in industries, all the employees aged 45 years and above working in industries will be vaccinated from Friday in Tiruppur district, according to Dr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-district-plans-to-vaccinate-5000-a-day/article34276943.ece
09 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gaur falls into farmland, rescued||A three-year-old Gaur fell from a height of 15 feet from a retaining wall and into a farm near Rohini Junction along the Udhagamandalam-Gudalur Road on Thursday morning. Forest Department officials said people going to work on the farm noticed that the animal was unable to move and informed the department. Staff and veterinarians from the department rushed to the spot, and used heavy equipment to lift the animal from the field and put it on a vehicle. The officials suspected that the animal fell from the retaining wall while moving between patches of reserve forest at night. Gaur populations residing near major towns usually took advantage of light traffic at night to move within the town and between different habitats. The officials said the animal was injured in the hind legs and that it would be treated before being released into the forest. It would also be scanned to check for any fracture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-falls-into-farmland-rescued/article34276948.ece
09 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tusker translocated to MTR being monitored||A 15-year-old elephant that had problematic interactions with humans in Dharmapuri was captured and translocated to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) where it was released on Thursday morning. The tusker was captured due to intense pressure by people, who had wanted the elephant to be captured as it had allegedly been responsible for the death of two persons in Dharmapuri, and was also known to enter human habitations and destroy crops. Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone), L.C.S.Srikanth, said that forest officials in Dharmapuri were consulted about the behaviour of the elephant prior to its release. The elephant had been entering fields and raiding crops as it had sustained an injury to its mouth, possibly due to biting into a country-made explosive. He said that the two people it had killed had also died due to accidental encounters. “The elephant is quite docile, and is a small tusker. We hope that by releasing him in a remote part of the tiger reserve, we can discourage him from trying to enter human habitations,” said Mr. Srikanth. Forest department officials continue to monitor the animal and also the nature of its injuries. Field Director of MTR, K.K.Kaushal, said that the animal was released in Congress Mattam area and that the nearest village was almost 12 km. away. He said that forest department staff will keep tabs on the animal and ensure that no problematic interactions with humans occur after its release into the tiger reserve. Translocation efforts have had mixed results in MTR in recent years. While Vinayagan, another tusker from Coimbatore was released and continues to survive in the region, another elephant, captured in Hosur and released in the tiger reserve was captured later by the forest department in Karnataka due to it raiding crops there. The animal was made into a captive elephant. Last year, another elephant that was released in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve died shortly after its release due to suffering a fatal fall when it crossed over into Mudumalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tusker-translocated-to-mudumalai-tiger-reserve-being-monitored/article34276467.ece
09 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||71 new COVID-19 cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,912 with 71 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 21,157 have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 400. The district's death toll is 355. In Ranipet district, 29 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,684. In Tirupattur district, 20 new cases were reported on Thursday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,959. In Tiruvannamalai district, 42 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,972. Out of this, 19,430 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 254.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/71-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-vellore/article34277099.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||427 new cases, two deaths in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Thursday registered a steep increase in the daily case load, reporting 427 new cases, as against 332 on Wednesday. As per details provided by the district administration, swab samples collected from 5,050 persons were subjected to COVID-19 test on Thursday. The Health Department said the district had 3,059 active cases on Thursday. A total of 141 persons got discharged from different hospitals and a COVID Care Centre (CCC). Two more deaths reported on Thursday took the toll so far in the district to 698. A 46-year-old COVID-19 patient died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Tuesday and a 73-year-old man died of the disease at a private hospital on Wednesday. Health Department officials said efforts were being made to increase the number of CCCs in the district. Till Thursday, only one CCC was functional in a building belonging to a private university. As part of strengthening control measures, the Coimbatore City Police instructed all police stations to set up help desks outside the building to avoid entry of public into the station. People can approach the help desk for assistance.  Vaccine available at 71 govt. facilities Coimbatore district administration on Thursday said that COVID-19 vaccine doses were available at 71 Government sector facilities in the district, including the two medical college hospitals, 11 government hospitals (GH), 31 urban primary health centres (UPHC), 12 block primary health centres (BPHC), and 15 additional primary health centres. Coimbatore District Collector S. Nagarajan said that anyone aged above 45 can walk into these centres and get the vaccine shot. The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (4,500), the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital (4,000), GHs at Pollachi (2,370), Mettupalayam (1,200), Sulur (870), Seethalakshmi Maternity Home (1,270), Meenakshi Maternity Home (1,040), UPHCs at Vilankurichi (1,260), Thudiyalur (1,080) and Seeranaickenpalayam (1,060), CTM Home (880), BPHCs at Dhaliyur (1,050), Pooluvapatti (920) and Peelamedu (840) were among the centres that had high number of vaccine doses as of Thursday. 154 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district saw 154 new cases that raised the district’s overall tally to 20,155. No deaths were reported on Thursday and the toll so far at 228. A total of 19,093 patients have recovered from the infection, including 55 who were discharged on Thursday from various centres after treatment. The number of active cases is 834. The Nilgiris reported 26 new cases that took the overall tally in the district to 8,840. Totally, 180 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/427-new-cases-two-deaths-in-coimbatore/article34276469.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18 ‘containment’ streets identified in Madurai||The Madurai Corporation has identified 18 streets in the city with three or more positive cases to undertake containment measures there. Officials began barricading the streets on Thursday to restrict movement of residents. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said the streets included Thirupalai, K. Pudur, K.K. Nagar, Kamarajar Salai, Arasaradi, Pasumalai, New Vilangudi, Karisalkulam, Nehru Nagar, Surya Nagar, Sammattipuram, Villapuram and South Gate. Nobody residing with a COVID-19 positive person could leave their residence. Volunteers would be deployed near containment streets to help supply essential commodities to families living there. One volunteer would also be deployed to note down vehicles entering and exiting the streets. Ward-level data obtained from the Corporation showed that the city had 571 active cases as on April 7. Among the four zones, Zone 2 had the highest number of cases (218). Palanganatham had the highest number of active cases at 29. It was followed by Melamadai with 27. Thirupalai had 26 active cases and KK Nagar 24. Wards such as Meenambalpuram, Ponnagaram, Alagaradi, North Krishnan Koil and Subramaniyapuram had no active cases as on April 7. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association president K. Senthil stressed the importance of wearing face masks, frequently washing hands and avoiding crowded places to contain the spread of COVID-19. “At present, cases are spreading rapidly and, hence, it is important that all those aged above 45 get themselves vaccinated," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-containment-streets-identified-in-madurai/article34276455.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reintroduces restrictions from April 10||Following the protocol, fruits and vegetables shops, grocery and all other stores, shopping malls, all retail showrooms, jewellery shops and big format stores will be allowed to operate only with 50% capacity at any point in time till 11 p.m. According to the order, restaurants and tea-shops with seating will be allowed to function only with 50% capacity at any point in time till 11 p.m. Restaurants will be allowed to provide parcel services till 11 p.m. Religious places and places of worship shall be opened for public worship till 8 p.m. Essential rituals shall be permitted only with employees. Recreation clubs can function only with 50% seating capacity. Entertainment and amusement parks, assembly halls, zoos, parks and museums can function only with 50% capacity. Multiplexes, cinema halls in shopping malls, and standalone theatres will be allowed to function with 50% seating, according to the order. Social, political, educational, recreational, sporting and cultural events at indoor venues will be allowed with a maximum of 200 persons. Weddings can be conducted with a maximum of 100 guests and funeral processions with a maximum of 50 persons. According to the order, sporting events at indoor and outdoor stadia are allowed without spectators. Only sports training will be allowed at swimming pools in compliance with the protocol. Business-to-business exhibitions will be allowed at exhibition halls. Television serial and film shootings will be allowed, but production houses must ensure that everyone on the sets undergoes RT-PCR tests, or is vaccinated. Rental taxis and cabs can operate with a maximum of three passengers, apart from the driver, according to the order. Autorickshaws can carry a maximum of two passengers, apart from the driver. The e-registration system for those coming to Tamil Nadu from other States (except Puducherry, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh) or countries will continue. The government said a committee would monitor the implementation of these restrictions and ground-level committees would be formed to assess the situation across the districts. The government also advised those aged above 45 to get vaccinated at government vaccination centres and hospitals and private hospitals within the next two weeks. It also advised those who have COVID-19 symptoms to immediately approach a government hospital nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reintroduces-restrictions-from-april-10/article34276427.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Passes not issued to candidates’ agents to keep vigil of strong rooms: MP||Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has flayed election officials for not issuing identity card/pass to agents of candidates that gives them access to counting centres where EVMs and VVPATs of 10 Assembly constituencies in the district are stored in strong rooms. “It is 36 hours since polling and 24 hours since the EVMs and VVPATs were moved to the four counting centres. But officials are yet to issue passes with photo identity to agents as mandated by the Election Commission,” the CPI(M) MP said. Flaying the officials for their lethargic attitude, he said the very purpose of allowing agents to monitor the strong rooms through the CCTV network installed in counting centres had been defeated. Mr. Venkatesan recalled that the presence of agents helped to nab a woman official who had entered a counting centre in Madurai to get election-related documents without the knowledge of agents during Lok Sabha election in 2019. “We want to ensure that no such incident happens now. For that, each candidate of the 10 Assembly constituencies should have his/her agent to keep a vigil in the counting centre round the clock,” he added. The pass should be issued to three agents for each candidate so that they took turns to be at the counting centres. “The officials claim that they do not even have the format of the identity card/pass to be issued to agents,” the MP said. Collector T. Anbalagan denied the charges and said Returning Officers issued passes to agents after sealing the strong rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passes-not-issued-to-agents-to-keep-vigil-of-strong-rooms-mp/article34276447.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK candidate tests positive||J.K. alias S. Jeyakumar of AIADMK, who contested in Perundurai Assembly constituency tested positive for COVID-19, was admitted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai on Thursday. Since he was unwell, swab sample was lifted from him at the hospital on Wednesday. After test results confirmed positive, he was admitted to the hospital and is undergoing treatment. He had requested functionaries and cadres who were with him during the election campaign to check for symptoms, if any and approach the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-candidate-tests-positive/article34276484.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatiore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Awareness programme on COVID-19 Vaccination, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatiore-today/article34276940.ece
09 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Curious case of three Union Ministers from Belagavi with short terms||Belagavi, the biggest district in the State after Bengaluru, has been represented in the Union Cabinet only thrice since the independence. The tenures of all the three former Union Ministers, however, were cut short by unfortunate events. Byelection to the Belagavi Parliamentary constituency, to be held on April 17, was necessitated by the death of Suresh C. Angadi, the former Union Minister of State for Railways, seven months ago. Of the 17 Lok Sabha members elected from Belagavi so far, Congress leader B.N. Datar and BJP leaders Babagouda Patil and Angadi have served as Ministers. While Mr. Babagouda Patil served as a Minister for nearly two years, Angadi held office for 14 months, and Datar served for just under a year.  First election In the first election, Belagavi was a double-member constituency that sent Datar and S.V. Patil to Parliament. Datar, who won three consecutive polls, became the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs in the Jawaharlal Nehru-led Cabinet in 1962. He died within a year, leading to the first byelection in 1963 in which H.V. Koujalagi won. The upcoming byelection is the second one being held for the seat. The constituency in north-western Karnataka has sent 14 Congress nominees, two BJP leaders, and one Janata Dal candidate to the lower House of Parliament. Shivanand Koujalagi was the first Janata Dal leader go get elected from Belagavi to the Lok Sabha in 1996. Mr. Babagouda Patil, the first Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader to enter the State Assembly in 1989, joined the BJP in 1998 and won the Lok Sabha polls. He served in the A.B. Vajpayee-led Cabinet as the Rural Development Minister. The Lok Sabha was dissolved in 1999, cutting short his tenure. Angadi, served four terms, before succumbing to COVID-19 in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curious-case-of-three-union-ministers-from-belagavi-with-short-terms/article34276518.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing to be increased to one lakh a day in Bengaluru||With the city reporting over 4,000 COVID-19 cases, Health Department has decided to ramp up testing to 1 lakh a day, besides reactivating booth-level committees that were set up earlier. Health Minister K. Sudhakar, who chaired a review meeting with officials from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Bengaluru (Urban) and Bengaluru (Rural) districts, said, “The earlier target for testing for the BBMP was 40,000 a day. But there is a need to increase this to 1 lakh, since the target for contact tracing for every positive case is also 20,” he said. There are more than 8,500 booths across the city. Last year, during the first wave, efforts were made to have booth-level committees comprising health officials, local residents and members of self-help groups, non-governmental organisations etc. ‘Door-to-door survey’ “This was, however, not activated 100% earlier. Now, these committees will be responsible for conducting a door-to-door survey at the booth level, ascertain how many citizens have been vaccinated, how many have symptoms and ensure they get tested, how many have tested positive and ensure that they have been isolated, apart from checking their health parameters,” he said. He added that the existing fever clinics, local pharmacies, private clinics and hospitals had already been directed to report any ILI/ SARI cases. On arrangements in place for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, he said the BBMP had arranged for 250 ambulances, at least one per ward. He also said that there were beds available in government and other hospitals and it was being further ramped up. “The government has already issued an order mandating 50% of beds to be reserved for treatment of COVID-19. We will have further discussion in this regard with private hospitals,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar claimed that there were nearly 1,000 beds available in government health institutions, while also stating that compared to last year, the number of oxygenated beds had increased by six times. He admitted that the city may need 4,000 beds (in government-run and private health institutions). This requirement may be revised based on the trajectory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-to-be-increased-to-one-lakh-a-day-in-bengaluru/article34276506.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passengers say private operators are fleecing them||Many commuters relying on private bus operators, who have been given permits by the government on account of the indefinite strike by road transport corporation (RTC) employees, have claimed that they are being fleeced Citing public interest, the Transport Department allowed private bus and van operators to ferry passengers from major bus stands in the city such as Majestic and Mysuru Road satellite bus terminal. The department also relaxed permit norms, providing tax benefits for a month so that more number of private operators run their vehicles. However, some of the operators, to make a quick bucks, are reportedly overcharging passengers. Sunil, who was waiting at the KSRTC bus station at Majestic, said, “I came from Chikkamagaluru on Thursday morning. Usually, for a non-AC bus, it costs Rs. 260 to Rs. 300, but the conductor charged me Rs. 600. I had some business-related work, so I had to pay double the amount and travel. I don’t know how much I will have to pay for the return journey.” Even in the city, people who usually take Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses to commute to work said they had to pay double the fare for a short-distance travel. With mounting complaints of passengers being fleeced, department officials stepped in and did the rounds of bus stops. The department also held talks with bus operators and instructed them to display routes and fare charges on the windshields of the vehicles. Joint Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban, K.T. Halaswamy said, “Instructions have been given to the operators to follow the fare structure of the KSRTC and the BMTC and not to overcharge. Our squads at bus stops will take necessary action against those who overcharge passengers.” The department claims that around 21,000 buses, vans, and maxicabs are allowed to operate. Principal Secretary of the Transport Department Anjum Parvez claimed that only those vehicles which had fitness certificate and other necessary documents were allowed to operate. Ramachandra, a passenger, said, “In the time of pandemic, transport employees should not have gone on a strike. They are causing a lot of inconvenience to the general public. What would have happened if private bus operators did not come? But this arrangement is temporary. The State government should resolve the issues as early as possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passengers-say-private-operators-are-fleecing-them/article34276530.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress deploys its force in Basavakalyan, Maski||The Opposition Congress has deployed its leaders in big numbers and is carrying out a focused campaign in the two Legislative Assembly constituencies of Basavakalyan and Maski rather than in the Parliamentary constituency of Belagavi, which are headed for byelections. With a week left for campaigning, all top leaders, including KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, and KPCC working presidents Eshwar Khandre and R. Dhruvanarayan, have been campaigning in these two constituencies for the past few days in an effort to retain both the seats the party had won in 2018. In Basavakalyan, Congress smells an advantage since BJP votes are likely to split following the presence of its rebel candidate and former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba. Sharanu Salagar is the official candidate of the BJP. Sympathy factor The Congress is expecting sympathy factor to work in favour of its candidate, Mallamma, wife of the former MLA late Narayanrao. The Congress defeated the BJP by a margin of 17,000 votes in 2018. The JD(S) has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri and it is interesting to watch how the minority community votes here in this election.  Anti-incumbency? In the reserved constituency of Maski, the Congress sees an opportunity because of a perceived anti-incumbency against the BJP candidate and disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil. Three-time MLA Mr. Patil, one of the 17 MLAs who defected and helped the BJP to come to power in 2019, is facing the Congress candidate, Basanagouda Turvihal. Mr. Turvihal had contested on the BJP ticket and lost to Mr. Patil by a slender margin of 213 votes in 2018. The BJP has deployed B.Y. Vijayendra, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurapp’s son, here. A positive outcome in both these constituencies is crucial for the Congress to lift the spirit of its cadre. These polls are vital also for Congress leaders to regain the lost support for the party among the masses, particularly in north Karnataka. The State Congress is yet to register a poll victory under the leadership of Mr. Shivakumar who assumed office as KPCC president last year. The party fought bypolls in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar under his leadership but lost both the seats. Bypolls have been held in 19 Assembly constituencies since the 2018 polls. While the Congress won three seats — Kundagol, Shivajinagar, and Hunsur, the ruling BJP won 15 seats and an Independent won in Hoskote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-deploys-its-force-in-basavakalyan-maski/article34276525.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. looks to establish 100 helipads to boost tourism||Taking a step further on the Centre’s UDAN Scheme, the Karnataka Tourism Department is looking at heli-tourism to build connectivity between important destinations and attract more visitors, as the sector remains hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic for a second year. Though business picked up towards the year end in some parts, a second wave of infections have threatened to derail any progress. In an interview to The Hindu , Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar said new concepts are being introduced to revive the sector, among which is heli-tourism. “We are looking at establishing around 100 helipads, including setting up heliports at Jakkur in Bengaluru, near Lalit Mahal palace in Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kamlapura in Hampi, Hubbali-Dharwad, and Kalaburagi. The idea is to create scientific infrastructure, have permanent fire and water services and make it a permanent heliport after which we will enter into an understanding with private players,” he said. The Minister added that a meeting was scheduled with HAL to provide the Tourism Department with copters. “Foreign tourists who come to Goa do not come to Hampi though it is a World Heritage Site because of lack of connectivity. We will request the government to reduce GST on helicopters. A committee is looking at heli-tourism and experts’ advice will be followed. Private partners will look into the logistics of operations while infrastructure will be ours,” he added. The department is also looking at introducing seaplanes in six to seven places under the UDAN scheme, and sites being looked at are Mangaluru, Udupi backwaters, KRS, Hampi, Almatti, and Tungabhadra. Unexplored destinations Acknowledging that tourism was concentrated in a few parts of Karnataka, mainly Mysuru, Kodagu, Kabini, Hampi, and Chikkamagaluru, he said there were many historically significant sites in the State, especially in Kalyana Karnataka, that are unknown about. They have taken the help of a team from the Central University of Karnataka in Kalaburagi to introduce a course that can yield tourism-ready professionals. He also stressed the need for coordination between departments such as Muzrai, Archaeological Survey of India, and Forest Department to propel the sector in Karnataka. “The government will start building hotels in prime destinations such as Belur Halebidu, Hampi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Badami, etc. under the KSTDC,” he said. He also said those who want to set up hotels in Kalyana Karnataka will be given 25%. As for the long coastal belt, Mr. Yogeshwar said around 30 to 35 spots have been identified for water sports wherein private players can be encouraged to step in. “There are so many spots in the 320-km coastline. Yet, most people go to Kerala and Goa,” he said, pointing out to the lack of activities. Speaking about its neighbouring competitors, he said the Karnataka government will talk to its south Indian counterparts to explore opening a South Indian circuit to mutually benefit from tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-looks-to-establish-100-helipads-to-boost-tourism/article34276508.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second wave: Plasma therapy in high demand again due to surge in cases||Even as the debate over the effectiveness of plasma therapy continues, the demand for the therapy is rising with the rapid surge in cases during the second wave in Karnataka. Several hospitals in the city are prescribing plasma therapy and affected families are literally scouting for plasma donors. Plasma banks in the city said they are getting around 50 requests for plasma every day since the last three weeks. Most private hospital blood banks authorised to take up plasma therapy in the city said there are not enough eligible donors. “With waning immunity among those who have recovered from COVID-19 and the requirement that donors should have high antibody titres apart from other prescribed eligibility criteria, there are not enough fresh donors. There is an urgent need to mobilise fresh plasma donors,” said U.S. Vishal Rao, who heads the State-supported HCG plasma bank. Dr. Rao, who recently met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and apprised him about the need to mobilise plasma donors, said he has also written to BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta in this regard. “I have told the BBMP that if required, a representative from our bank will be made available to work with individuals in the COVID-19 War Room to call potential donors and mobilise them to come forward to donate,” he told The Hindu on Thursday. “I appeal to all those who have recovered from COVID-19 (one month post infection and within three months of infection) to come forward and donate plasma. The therapy is found to be highly beneficial if given within three days after the patient has been put on oxygen. Every individual who has recovered from COVID-19 has the potential to save at least two lives,” he said. Plasma was given to 1,200 donors through the HCG Plasma Bank last year and the therapy was successful in over 60% of the beneficiaries, he said. Volunteers from Mercy Mission, a Bengaluru-based NGO, that runs a helpline to meet plasma, oxygen, ambulance and burial assistance needs of COVID-19 patients, said the demand for plasma has shot up in the last three weeks. “We are getting at least six requests every day and it is difficult to mobilise donors. According to doctors and our experience, the therapy is beneficial if given at an early stage. We have seen many patients recover. Any interested donor can contact Mercy Mission’s helpline on 8660856709. Samples for antibody tests will be collected round the clock in most blood banks. There is also an option for home sample collection,” said Touseef Masood, a volunteer. Abdul Rahaman Shariff, managing trustee of Jeevaraksha Blood Bank, said they have been able to source only ten donors during the last one month and none of them had come voluntarily. “All of them were brought either by patient attenders or came after we called and requested them to donate. We are getting at least 50 requests every day,” he said. Dr. Rao said the American College of Haematology’s updated statement and many other global bodies including the World Health Organisation (WHO) have again recommended convalescent plasma. “Several papers published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) have emphasised on the use of plasma as an important weapon in the armamentarium for the second wave. This suggests that Convalescent Plasma banks across India need to be geared up with fresh plasma stocks for the second wave,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-wave-plasma-therapy-in-high-demand-again-due-to-surge-in-cases/article34276511.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Music university VC’s name was not recommended by search panel, HC finds||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday found that the name of Nagesh V. Bettakote, Vice-Chancellor of the Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University, Mysuru, was not found in the panel of three persons recommended by the second search committee. The court also found from official records that the Chancellor of the University had approved the name of Mr. Bettakote to the post based on the recommendation made by the Chief Minister. A Division Benchcomprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj also noted from the records that a first search committee had recommended three names, which included the name of Mr. Bettakote. However, following a direction issued by the High Court in September 2020 based on a petition filed by an aspirant to the post challenging the selection process, the government had set up the second search committee and this committee had not recommended the name of Mr. Bettakote, the Bench noted. While referring to Section 12 of the KGHMPA University Act, 2009,the Bench pointed that appointment of the Vice-Chancellor could be made from amongst the panel of three names recommended by the search panel. The Bench adjourned further hearing while directing the government to produce particular notings made in the file pertaining to the selection process while allowing the advocate representing Mr. Bettakote to file the statement of objection to the petition. The Bench was hearing the petition by Sri Prasanna Vidya Ganapati Mahotsava Charitable Trust, Mysuru, which had alleged that the Governor, who is the Chancellor of the universities, could not have appointed a person to the post of the Vice-Chancellor when his name was not recommended by the search committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/music-university-vcs-name-was-not-recommended-by-search-panel-hc-finds/article34276523.ece
09 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CPI(M) calls for amicable solution||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Bengaluru North District and South District committees, has demanded the State government to end the ongoing transport workers’ strike in a cordial atmosphere. Secretaries of the CPI(M) Bengaluru North District and Bengaluru South District committees N. Pratap Simha and K.N. Umesh, respectively, have said that since the State government had not fulfilled its assurances given four months back, employees of the State road transport corporation have started the strike again, following this, members of the public have to face hardship for lack of bus facilities. They said that the State government had also been threatening that the transport employees would be vacated from staff quarters besides informing them that it would invoke provisions of the Karnataka Essential Services Maintenance Act against the striking workers. They have also urged the transport employees to oppose any move to privatise transport corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpim-calls-for-amicable-solution/article34276521.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 6,570 new cases, 36 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 6,570 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total in the State to 10,40,130. Of these, 4,422 cases are from Bengaluru Urban district alone. With 36 deaths, the toll rose to 12,757. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,393 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 9,73,949. Case Fatality Rate Of the remaining 53,395 active patients, 357 are being monitored in Intensive Care Units. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 6.04%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.54%. Tests and vaccination As many as 1,08,757 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 99,978 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests in the State went up to 2,23,23,599. The State has vaccinated 52,09,179 people so far. This includes 5,69,955 healthcare workers and 2,48,109 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 3,52,333 healthcare workers and 98,186 frontline workers have taken the second dose. As many as 24,94,192 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1 when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 13,84,131 persons above 45 years have been vaccinated so far. Second dose On Thursday, as many as 79,992 senior citizens and 1,17,058 above 45 years took the jab till 8.30 p.m. Besides, 6,696 and 2,822 persons in both these categories respectively took the second dose. Bengaluru leading Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers — 4,24,904 and 1,71,774 — respectively in both these categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-6570-new-cases-36-deaths/article34276512.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spike may impact Karaga||Two days after 39 employees of an office building in Nagarathpet, coming under Dharmaraya Swamy Temple ward, tested positive for COVID-19, 56 others from the same area have tested positive. With 95 people testing positive so far, BBMP sources said that this may have an impact on the way Bengaluru Karaga is celebrated this year. The Karaga celebrations were to begin on April 18 and culminate with a night-long procession on April 27. According to information provided by the BBMP, a total of 2,610 persons were tested from April 5 and 8. The results of another 1,100 people are awaited. At a recent meeting chaired by BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta and elected representatives on Karaga, it had been decided to first constitute a festival committee, which would suggest how the historical festival should be celebrated this year. Last year, due to the national lockdown, the Karaga was celebrated with just the ceremonial puja in the Dharmaraya Swamy Temple. Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that given the current situation, the night-long procession may not be ‘appropriate behaviour’. “All the symptoms and events are leading to the conclusion that Karaga should be restricted to a simple celebration with pujas as per the Agama shastra within the temple,” he said. He, however, maintained that a final decision has not yet been taken. “We are still in the process of consultation. The final decision will be taken after the festival committee submits its report in another 6-7 days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spike-may-impact-karaga/article34276514.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kidnapped student rescued||The Sadduguntepalya police rescued a 21-year-old student who, along with his friend, had allegedly been kidnapped by a gang of six armed men last week for ransom. The gang had abducted the two students on April 2, and tortured them, but one of the victims, Abhishek Singh, escaped on April 6. Based on his statement to the police, a special team tracked down the second student, Joshua. Abhishek, a BBA student from Hyderabad, told the police that he had come to Bengaluru to visit Joshua as colleges were closed. “On April 2, they went to a bar on Hosur Main Road. After a couple of drinks, they boarded an autorickshaw to visit their friend at Electronics City. The driver took a detour and headed in the wrong direction. Before the two students could do anything about it, the autorickshaw stopped at an isolated place where another auto arrived,” said a police officer. Five to six persons armed with lethal weapons started beating the duo who were blindfolded and taken in the second autorickshaw. The kidnappers demanded Rs. 2 lakh for their safe release. “The victims were kept in captivity in a forest for two days before they were shifted to a lodge. Abhishek used the opportunity to escape from them and approached the police,” said the police officer, adding that Joshua was rescued the same day. No arrests have been made so far. Police officials said they will share more details at a later stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kidnapped-student-rescued/article34276889.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stray puppies poisoned||The Subramanya Nagar police have taken up a case against an unknown accused for poisoning five stray puppies. Based on the complaint filed by a resident, the police have charged the unknown person under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. In her complaint, the resident, Vaishnavi K., said that she has been feeding stray puppies on her street in 1st block, Rajajinagar for many days. Between April 4 and April 6, the pups died one after the other. She alerted the animal welfare organisation CUPA, who took the puppies for an examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stray-puppies-poisoned/article34276894.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ragpicker run over by JCB||A 25-year-old ragpicker died after coming under a JCB at a BBMP dry waste unit near Freedom Park in Gandhinagar on Tuesday. The victim, Rudramma, hailed from Hiriyur near Chitradurga. According to the police, she and her husband, Paramesha, had moved to Bengaluru where they eked out a living as ragpickers. They lived on the pavement at Anand Rao Circle. Narasimha, who works at the DWCC, told Paramesha that Rudramma was run over while the driver was reversing the JCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ragpicker-run-over-by-jcb/article34276896.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Action against trainee employees||Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Thursday sent out a strong message to trainee employees for taking part in the strike. On Thursday, 96 employees were dismissed from service, and notices served on over 1,500 for taking part in the strike. Managing Director C. Shikha said, “Those who are dismissed from the service did not report to duty despite getting notice. As per the rules, trainee employees cannot take part in the strike. Many more dismissals from service will happen if trainee employees continue to remain absent and take part in the strike.” Meanwhile, the KSRTC suspended 32 trainee employees. R. Chandrashekar, president of the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, said, “We are exploring legal options against the corporation for dismissing the trainee employees. It is a tactic to pressurise the employees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-against-trainee-employees/article34276519.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conference today||CMR University School of Legal Studies is organising a virtual international conference on ‘Emerging trends in international trade law’ on Friday at 5.30 p.m. According to a CMR University press release, renowned economist Raj Bhala, Brenneisen Distinguished Professor at the University of Kansas, School of Law, U.S., will deliver the keynote address on ‘International trade law challenges in the Indo-Pacific region’, providing crucial insights into the latest international trade issues. Join the Zoom meeting on:https://zoom.us/j/98644180223?pwd=cXVR ZzJOUittakl5NEg4dFVIcUh 5Zz09.Meeting ID: 986 4418 0223 | Passcode: 067432||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conference-today/article34276520.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lawyers urged to use video conferencing||With the constant increase in COVID-19 cases, Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka of the Karnataka High Court on Thursday appealed to advocates to opt for videoc onferencing instead of physically coming to the court, to avoid gathering on court premises. Referring to the existing hybrid system of hearing petitions simultaneously through video conferencing mode and physical presence, the Chief Justice urged the advocates to make use of the benefit of the videoconferencing system introduced during pandemic. He made this appeal during the hearing of petitions while presiding over a Division Bench, comprising Justice Suraj Govindaraj. He pointed out that in many cases, adjournments were being sought on the ground that advocates had tested positive. He said that many other High Courts were making enquiries with the High Court of Karnataka on using hybrid system of hearing. On request made by a section of advocates to advance summer vacation to the courts, he said that it was not possible as only 12 working days remained before closure of the courts for summer vacation as dates for further hearing had already been assigned for the period. The courts cannot be closed when public offices are functioning despite rise in number of COVID-19 cases, he said.  He also made a written appeal to staff in all courts in Karnataka to get vaccinated as early as possible. He said it was necessary that all eligible staff, aged above 45, get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lawyers-urged-to-use-video-conferencing/article34276509.ece
09 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Chakenahalli explosion: another man succumbs||One more person, injured in the gelatin blast at Chakenahalli in Holenarsipur taluk on Sunday, died on Thursday. With this, all three injured in the incident have died. Nataraju, 28, of Bettadahalli in Channarayapatna taluk, who was seriously injured in the incident, died at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. His friend Sampath, 27, also from the same village, had died on the spot soon after the blast. Another injured, Ravi Kumar of B.J. Maranahalli in Hassan taluk, died at a hospital in Bengaluru on Monday. The blast took place while they were handling explosives at a magazine on a piece of private land in Chakenahalli. During the preliminary inquiry, the police had found that the blast was caused by the lack of safety measures and violation of guidelines meant to be followed in the handling of explosives. Case registered Subsequently, the Holenarsipur police registered a case against C.H. Nagesh, owner of the magazine, and Ravi Kumar, who was the caretaker of the magazine. Ravi Kumar is now deceased. The police arrested Nagesh, who had been absconding since the blast, on Thursday. “Another person who was injured in the incident also died today. We have arrested Nagesh, the owner of the magazine,” said R. Srinivasa Gowda, Superintendent of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chakenahalli-explosion-another-man-succumbs/article34276624.ece
09 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Testing times for students during exam season||The students of degree colleges, appearing for semester examinations being conducted by the University of Mysore, are the worst hit following the KSRTC employees’ strike. Hundreds of students who commute to colleges from rural areas are forced to depend on private two-wheelers to reach the examination centre in time. Many are spending a considerable amount on autorickshaws. “We have been receiving phone calls from students since the KSRTC employees’ strike began on Wednesday. A majority of our students come from rural areas. They are all depending on KSRTC buses to reach the colleges. The university has not postponed the exams”, said the principal of a first-grade college. Many girl students are depending on their parents or brothers to drop and pick them up from the colleges. “Those students who do not have bikes in the family are requesting the neighbours or relatives to help them reach the college. Otherwise, they have to depend on autorickshaws, which is a costly affair”, said another lecturer.  KSET The University of Mysore has scheduled its Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET) for assistant professorship to be held in select centres in the State on April 11. Candidates from distant places have to travel to these centres to write the exams. If the KSRTC employees did not call off their protest by Saturday, the candidates would face difficulty reaching the centres. “Mysuru is my examination centre. If I don’t have public transport on Sunday morning, I cannot attend the examination. I wish the university takes a decision considering the plight of students, who have to travel a long distance to appear for the exam”, said D. Paramesh of Sakleshpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-times-for-students-during-exam-season/article34276626.ece
09 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman found dead following quarrel||A woman, who got married a year ago, was found dead at Kolagunda Gollarahatti in Arsikere taluk on Tuesday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Asha, 22, a native of Hariharapura near Banavara. Asha was married to Mahesh of Kolagunda Gollarahatti a year ago. Her husband allegedly harassed her for dowry repeatedly. He had picked up a quarrel with her on the issue on Wednesday as well. She ended her life in the farmhouse, according to the complaint filed by her father Range Gowda. Javagal police are investigating the case.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-found-dead-following-quarrel/article34276623.ece
09 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ganja seized||Hosanagar police have arrested one person at Kalur Nandyalakoppa and seized ganja worth over Rs. 5 lakh, besides four guns and live bullets from him. The police gave the name of the arrested as Sunil, 45. The police raided his place on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganja-seized/article34276627.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘No Vote to BJP’ campaign part of agitation: Babagouda Patil||Farmers leader and former Union Minister Babagouda Patil has said that the “No Vote to BJP” campaign was part of the ongoing farmers agitation and through the campaign, they want to send a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing presspersons in Belagavi on Thursday, Mr. Babagouda Patil announced that they would not vote for the BJP which was firm on implementing the new farm laws despite the protest by farmers. He said that KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar had come to his residence seeking support for Congress candidate. “We have already decided to bring down Narendra Modi. I have asked Mr. Shivakumar to consult farmers and include several issues concerning farmers in the Congress manifesto,” he said. Mr. Patil said that while Mr. Shivakumar had promised to speak to the party high command on the issue, he too had promised to speak to other organisations. “We have decided not to vote for the BJP and work to defeat it,” he said. He said that they would work for defeating the BJP for the sake of the survival of farmers. Mr. Patil said that Congress leaders had not come from Pakistan or China. More than that the party saving farmers was crucial, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-vote-to-bjp-campaign-part-of-agitation-babagouda-patil/article34276494.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘We don’t do politics based on caste but only on policy’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president and former MMinister D.K. Shivakumar has said that the Congress will not do politics on the basis of caste but on policy unlike the BJP which was trying to divide people of various castes. Speaking to presspersons in Belagavi on Thursday, Mr. Shivakumar said that whether it was members of Lingayat community or Maratha, Scheduled Castes or anyone else, all are like brothers for the Congress. It was the BJP which was trying to divide society for politics, he said. “Whether it is Lingayat or Marathas, all are our brothers. Members of all communities are one to us. In a democracy, whoever has being given voting power, all of them are one. But the BJP is trying to differentiate among them,” he said. He said that he was in touch with the senior leaders of the party in connection with the bypolls and as per the direction of the high command, he had met farmers leader Babagouda Patil and sought his support for party candidate in Belagavi bypoll. “Similarly, I will be meeting communist leaders, drivers associations, autorickshaw drivers, weavers and others. I am seeking the blessings of various religious peethas. All of them have goodwill towards our party candidate,” he said. Emphasising that there was a need for sending a message to the government, Mr. Shivakumar said that although the farmers agitation in New Delhi had crossed over 100 days, the Union government was least bothered to talk to them. There are a large number of farmers in Maski, Basavakalyan and Belagavi and it had hurt the farmers pride and self respect. The party will appeal to the farmers to vote for the Congress to retain their self-respect, he said. Support for strike Mr. Shivakumar said that the Congress will extend support to the transport employees who are on strike. He said that the State government should sit with them and hear their grievances and take steps to resolve the pending issues. The government should not try to suppress the agitation and the way the government is treating the employees is not right, he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Shivakumar met farmers leader Babagouda Patil and sought his support for the Congress candidate in the Lok Sabha bypolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-dont-do-politics-based-on-caste-but-only-on-policy/article34276497.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vacate quarters, striking workers told||In yet another bid to dissuade transport employees from participating in the strike, North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation authorities have issued notices to the striking employees to vacate the staff quarters allotted to them immediately. On Thursday, nearly 40 striking employees residing in the staff quarters were issued notices asking them to return to duty or else vacate the quarters. Divisional Controller of Hubballi Mofussil Division H. Ramanagoudar said that the staff quarters were provided to the employees to enable them to attend duties, especially during times of emergency. However, the behaviour of some employees residing in the staff quarters was in contravention of the set rules, he argued. Mr. Ramanagoudar said the NWKRTC had considered the actions of the striking employees very seriously and would take disciplinary steps. If the employees failed to return to duty, then the corporation would not hesitate to dismiss them from service, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vacate-quarters-striking-workers-told/article34276636.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Four in the fray for dist parishat poll||Four candidates remain in the fray for the election to the Dharwad Zilla Kannada Sahitya Parishat as the nomination papers of all the four were declared valid on Thursday. The nomination papers of incumbent parishat president Lingaraj Angadi, who is seeking a third term, among others, were declared valid after scrutiny by the Returning Officer. The election to the district unit of the Sahitya Parishat is scheduled to take place on May 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-in-the-fray-for-dist-parishat-poll/article34276495.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vacate quarters, striking staff told||In yet another bid to dissuade transport employees from participating in the strike, NWKRTC authorities have issued notices to the striking employees asking them to immediately vacate the staff quarters allotted to them. On Thursday, nearly 40 striking employees residing in staff quarters were issued notices asking them to return to duty or else vacate staff quarters. Confirming the development, Divisional Controller of Hubballi Moffusil Division H. Ramanagoudar said that the staff quarters were provided to the employees to enable them to attend duties, especially during times of emergency. However, the behaviour of some employees residing in the staff quarters was in contravention of the set rules. Having got benefits from the corporation, these employees had failed to attend to their work, he said. Mr. Ramanagoudar said that NWKRTC had considered the actions of the striking employees very seriously and would take disciplinary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vacate-quarters-striking-staff-told/article34276498.ece
09 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pension Adalat today||Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) is conducting a Pension Adalat between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. on Friday at its Regional Office in Hubballi. Pension-related grievances shall be redressed in the adalat. Existing pensioners/prospective pensioners can make use of the platform to get their grievances redressed. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner Mihir Kumar has said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-adalat-today/article34276496.ece
09 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Old bus converted into mobile toilet for women in Kalaburagi||North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) has, in collaboration with Bengaluru-based SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd., converted an old bus that was scrapped into a mobile rest room exclusively for women. SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd. has spent around Rs. 3 lakh for installing solar panels under the Corporate Social responsibility scheme, while NEKRTC has spent around Rs. 6 lakh for designing the bus into a rest room. In addition to Indian and western toilet facilities, the bus houses a dedicated lactation room, a screen presenting the status of cleanliness and a staff to assist users. The bus has a solar panel on top which produces 2000 kWh of solar power every year. Chief Executive Officer of SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd. Mohan Bhaskar Hegde told The Hindu on Thursday that the initiative is a small step to address the urgent problem of poor sanitation system in both rural and urban areas. The whole toilet is powered by solar energy. The cost of converting the scrap NEKRTC bus into a modern toilet is Rs. 9 lakh. Identifying the need for mobile public toilets, SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd. has stepped in with a major initiative. While travelling long distances, men choose public spots to relieve themselves; however, women face difficulties to answer nature’s call. “We are giving serious thought to the idea of not only providing bus-toilet facilities in urban and rural areas but also ensure a bus-toilet facility at every 50 km on National Highways. This will help women, patients and the elderly with incontinence, Mr. Hegde added. The project would bring awareness about the importance of empowering women through assistance with facilities for sanitation and hygiene. The specially-designed mobile rest room will be soon pressed into service in Kalaburagi district. Mr. Hegde also thanked NEKRTC Managing Director Kurma Rao for inspiring them to show concern towards sanitation, health and hygiene and pursuing them to extend help for a better cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/old-bus-converted-into-mobile-toilet-for-women-in-kalaburagi/article34276493.ece
09 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Objection to raising funds for Ambedkar Jayanti||Former zilla panchayat member and senior Dalit leader Gurushant Pattedar on Thursday objected to fund-raising activities by leaders in the name of Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Pattedar said that senior Dalit leader Vittal Doddmani was forcibly seeking funds from government officials in various departments and owners of commercial establishments on the pretext of celebrating Ambedkar Jayanti on April 14 in the city. ‘Appeal to citizens’ He said that the district administration has allocated sufficient funds for celebrating the birth anniversary of the leader on a grand note. There was no need for additional funds. He said that Mr. Doddmani was collecting huge amounts from various sections for the event. Condemning such fund collection, Mr. Pattedar appealed to citizens not to encourage such activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/objection-to-raising-funds-for-ambedkar-jayanti/article34276513.ece
09 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Video showing distribution of money goes viral||A video clip purportedly showing BJP workers distributing money among voters at a village in the byelection-bound Maski constituency in Raichur district was widely shared on social media platforms on Thursday. The 7.20-minute clip was posted by Ravikrishna Reddy, a social activist and State president of the Karnataka Rashtra Samithi on Facebook. It shows a man, allegedly a BJP worker, campaigning for the party candidate, Pratapgouda Patil. People are then seen carrying currency notes purportedly given by BJP workers. Rajashekhar Dambal, Assistant Commissioner of Lingasugur and Returning Officer for Maski constituency, said he had dispatched a flying squad to the spot after learning about the incident through WhatsApp.   Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that he would file a written complaint on Friday demanding the cancellation of the byelection and stringent action against people involved in the distribution of money to people. “Such malpractices have been there for many years. Now, because of smartphones and social media platforms, we are able to witness them with substantial evidence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-showing-distribution-of-money-goes-viral/article34276531.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||University not to present any honorary doctorate this year||Mangalore University will not present any honorary doctorate degree in its 39th annual convocation on Saturday, according to Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, he said that it is not mandatory that the honorary doctorate degree be presented in every convocation. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that 14 foreign nationals, including a woman, are among 117 candidates who will be awarded with Doctor of Philosophy degrees. There will be 10 gold medals, while there are 188 rank holders of whom 69 students have obtained first rank. Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma said that in view of COVID-19, only Ph.D candidates, gold medallists and first rank holders will receive their degrees in person at the convocation ceremony. In all, 101 cash prizes will be sent through cheque by post to students. In all, 11,500 candidates have applied for convocation certificates, he said. Postal service The Vice-Chancellor said that as all candidates who have applied for receiving convocation certificates in person will not be allowed to attend the convocation ceremony due to COVID-19 restrictions, the university will send them their certificates by post within a week. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the convocation ceremony will be streamed live on social media. The You Tube link is:https://youtu.be/vlZV4pfRT-S8. And, the website link is:https://mangaloreuniversit-y.ac.in/39th-annual-convoc- ation. The convocation will start at 11 a.m. Chairperson of Infosys Foundation Sudha Murthy will deliver the convocation address in the virtual mode. Mr. Dharma said that of the 43,743 candidates who appeared for various examinations during 2019-20 academic year, 33,806 candidates (77.28 %) have passed. Of the 6,657 candidates who wrote the post-graduate examinations, 96.09 % have passed and of the 36,940 students who appeared for the undergraduate examinations, 73.80 % have passed. All 29 candidates who appeared for the post-graduate diploma examinations have passed.\ No fee hike Mr. Yadapadithaya said that the university will not hike fees for students during his tenure as Vice-Chancellor. To a question on the controversy involving Microbiology Professor M. Jayashankar, he said that he has now been made the Director of Foreign Nationals Cell at the university which is not a statutory body, whereas the College Development Council which he was heading earlier was a statutory body from which he was removed. The issue will be discussed in the meeting of the Syndicate on Friday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-not-to-present-any-honorary-doctorate-this-year/article34277039.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana ballet Macbeth at St. Aloysius College tomorrow||Yaksha team of St. Aloysius College will stage Yakshagana ballet, Macbeth, at the open air stage in the Mother Teresa Peace Park on the college premises on Saturday. Staging of the ballet will be part of the day-long workshop on “Yakshagana: Rethinking in the light of present”, which will be held at the LCRI Hall of the college. Dinesh Nayak, convenor of the programme, told reporters here on Thursday that the college’s Yakshagana enthusiasts will stage the ballet in which a few guest Yakshagana artistes will take part. Veteran Yakshagana artiste Soorikumeri K. Govinda Bhat has staged Macbeth in Yakshagana in Ujire, Tumakuru and a few other places. Mr. Bhat has adapted Yakshagana to a ballet form. Mr. Nayak said that the ballet gives more importance to dance and songs. Apart from compositions in Macbeth Yakshagana, Mr. Bhat has added new compositions to give a new feel to the ballet. Bhagawatike (singing) will be helmed by Puttige Raghurama Holla and Dinesh Ammannaya, while Murari Kadambalithaya, Krishnaprakasha Ulithaya and Madhusudhana Alevooraya will accompany them on instruments. It will be a three-hour show played under the lights of traditional and conventional lanterns. The show will start at 6 p.m., he said. College principal Praveen Martis said that a workshop will be conducted by the college in association with Karnataka Yakshagana Academy. Among the resource persons who will conduct sessions include Nithyananada B. Shetty, Lakshmeesha Tolpady, Yakshagana artistes Jabbar Samo and Krishna Ulithaya, A. Narayana, K. Sripada Bhat, Keremane Shivananada Hegde, Bannanje Sanjeeva Suvarna, M.L. Samaga and I.K. Boluvaru. The workshop will be inaugurated by the former Principal of Neenasam, Heggodu, Venkataramana Aithal. Folklore research scholar K. Chinnappa Gowda will also take part, Mr. Martis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-ballet-macbeth-at-st-aloysius-college-tomorrow/article34277045.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Madgaon-Mangaluru DEMU to run as special express train||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) will reintroduce the Madgaon-Mangaluru Central-Madgaon DEMU Passenger as a fully reserved express special train on April 12. Train No 07107 Madgaon-Mangaluru Central Reserved Express Special will leave Madgaon at 5.10 a.m. (except Sundays), from April 12 to June 9, to reach Mangaluru at 12.15 p.m. Train No 07108 Mangaluru Central-Madgaon Reserved Express Special will leave Mangaluru Central at 2.45 p.m. (except Sundays), from April 12 to June 9, to reach Madgaon at 10.10 p.m.  Monsoon schedule From June 10 to June 30, the Madgaon-Mangaluru service, though will leave Madgaon at 5.10 a.m., will reach Mangaluru at 12.30 p.m. In the return trip, the train will leave Mangaluru at 2.45 p.m. to reach Madgaon at 10.10 p.m. from June 10 to June 30. It will have commercial halts at Canacona, Asnoti, Karwar, Ankola, Gokarna Road, Kumta, Honnavar, Manki, Murdeshwar, Bhatkal, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Senapura, Kundapur, Barkur, Udupi, Mulki, Surathkal and Mangaluru Junction. It will have eight second sitting coaches. All norms of Union and State governments regarding COVID-19, including social distancing and sanitisation, should be followed while on trains and at railway stations.  Festival service South Western Railway will run a Ugadi festival special train between Yeshwantpur and Karwar to clear extra rush in view of a request made by the State government. Train No 06513 Yesvantpur-Karwar Special Express (fully reserved) will leave Yeshwantpur at 11.45 p.m. on Friday to reach Karwar at 3.40 p.m. the next day. In the return trip, Train No 06514 Karwar-Yesvantpur Special Express will leave Karwar at 4.10 p.m. on April 10 to reach Yehswantpur at 11.15 a.m. the next day. It will have halts at Kunigal, BG Nagar, Shravanabelagola, Channarayapatna, Hassan, Sakleshpur, Subrahmanya Road, Kabakaputtur, Bantwal, Mangaluru Jn., Surathkal, Mulki, Udupi, Barkur, Kundapur, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Bhatkal, Murdeshwar, Honnavar, Kumta, Gokarna Road and Ankola stations. The train will have one each 2 Tier and 3 Tier AC, seven sleeper, three second sitting and two generator car coaches, all LHB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madgaon-mangaluru-demu-to-run-as-special-express-train/article34277036.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NMPT starts shifting stray cattle to shelter||New Mangalore Port Trust on Wednesday started sending stray cows roaming around on the port premises to Go Swarga Goshala of Ramachandrapur Mutt near Hosanagar. The first batch of four head of cattle was sent to the Go Shala in the presence of Vishwa Hindu Parishat leader M.B. Puranik and others on the NMPT premises, said a release here. With the port witnessing business growth, it is also endowed with responsibilities and the safety and sustenance of stray cattle roaming around the premises was one of its concerns. Cattle have been present on the port premises since its inception and there were possibilities of cattle getting injured or killed due to movement of heavy vehicles inside the premises. They roam freely in the middle of the dock area where a large number of trucks enter to load and unload cargo. Besides affecting port operations, cattle expose themselves to danger too. They also roam around National Highway 66 passing along the port undeterred by heavy traffic. As such, the port recently launched a project to shift stray cattle from the port area to cattle care centres as per the Animal Protection Act and has made arrangements with the Ramachandrapur Mutt for the purpose. The shifting work is being taken care of by the port officials with the help of veterinarians from the Animal Husbandry Department, the release said. Meanwhile, the issue of stray cattle at Panambur was also discussed in the council of the Mangaluru City Corporation sometime ago with some members urging the Mayor to take up the matter with NMPT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nmpt-starts-shifting-stray-cattle-to-shelter/article34277034.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four booked for assault on ASI||The Mulki Police have booked four persons on the charge of attacking an Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police of Mulki Ashok and preventing the police from their lawful discharge of duty. The police gave the names of four as Asar (20) of Lingapayyana Kadu, his father Sadiq, Jubaida and Mamtaz. The police said that Ashok led a team of policemen to the house of Asar’s relative in K.S. Rao Nagar to serve a notice in a criminal case registered against Asar. Instead of receiving the notice, Asar and the other family members attacked Ashok and constable Satish. The police said that Asar then closed the door and attacked his own family member and sprayed blood on his hand to give an impression that the police had assaulted him. Asar then made an attempt to escape from the place. The police, however, arrested Asar. Ashok was treated for bruises at a hospital in Mulki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-booked-for-assault-on-asi/article34277041.ece
09 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||India Post to address issues in Aadhaar seeding||The Mangaluru and Puttur divisions of India Post have come forward to help customers address issues in seeding their Aadhaar numbers with their bank accounts to enable customers get pension, scholarships and other amounts due to them. Talking to reporters here on Thursday, Senior Superintendent of Posts, Mangaluru division, Sriharsha, said that because of issues in seeding Aadhaar number, many beneficiaries of schemes such as PM Kisan, Fasal Bima, Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana were not getting government fund into their bank accounts. Mr. Shriharsha said that such people can approach their post offices where they have their savings bank account. “We will help our customers know whether any of their bank accounts has been seeded with their Aadhaar number and if it hasn’t been done, guide them to complete the process. If they want pension and other amounts credited to their accounts at the post offices, then that account will be seeded with their Aadhaar number,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/india-post-to-address-issues-in-aadhaar-seeding/article34277043.ece
09 April 2021||Mangaluru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arun Singh tries to downplay KSE episode||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary and party’s Karnataka in charge Arun Singh on Thursday sought to downplay the episode of senior leader and Minister K.S. Eshwarappa writing to the Governor complaining against interference of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in his departmental administration. Mr. Singh, who arrived in the State on Thursday on a four-day visit, told reporters that it was not a matter of concern and reiterated that Mr. Eshwarappa should not have written such a letter to the Governor. “Mr. Eshwarappa is a senior leader and was president of the State BJP unit. He should not have written to the Governor. But, it is not a matter of concern. We are all together. There are no differences,” he told presspersons at the Mangaluru International Airport. Mr. Singh said he had spoken to Mr. Eshwarappa, who, in turn, made it clear that he has cordial relationship with Mr. Yediyurappa. He refused to comment on the continued tirade of Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal against Mr. Yediyurappa. Mr. Singh arrived in the State mainly to take part in the campaign for byelections. He took part in the two-day ‘Dharma nemotsava’, a religious ceremony, at the maternal house of BJP State president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel at Paltady in Dakshina Kannada. He will be travelling to Belagavi on Friday to participate in the election campaign. He would also campaign for party candidates in Maski and Basavakalyan before returning to New Delhi on Sunday. Meanwhile, sources in the party said there was a possibility of the Chief Minister meeting Mr. Singh during the election campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arun-singh-tries-to-downplay-kse-episode/article34276527.ece
09 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Another hard day for commuters||Even as the strike of KSRTC employees entered the second day on Thursday, a few buses hit the road after over a dozen drivers returned to work and ferried passengers on certain routes following the State government’s warning to cut salaries. However, the key public transport mode continued to remain paralysed despite the alternative transport arrangements made roping in private operators. Though private buses, maxi-cabs, mini buses and other passenger transport vehicles came to the rescue of the stranded passengers, their numbers were limited and could not operate to many destinations, causing hardships to the travelling public. The Mysuru rural division alone operates 5,800 trips daily from 575 buses. About 125-150 private buses were providing alternate transport services which were inadequate to meet the travel needs of the public banking on the main public transport like KSRTC. KSRTC’s Mysuru Divisional Controller K.H. Srinivas told The Hindu that 12 drivers have reported to work and were operating services to places including Bengaluru, Hunsur, and Madikeri. “We hope others join them soon as efforts to persuade them to report back to duty are on. We are confident that more staff will resume their duties at least by tomorrow in the interest of the public,” he said. On the private bus operators fleecing passengers charging double fare taking advantage of the situation, Mr. Srinivas said the KSRTC has already given its fare chart to the Transport Department and accordingly the private operators are supposed to charge the passengers. “We cannot enforce this as it comes under the purview of the Transport Department which is looking into the matter. We too had come across complaints of passengers being fleeced on Wednesday.” As the strike continued on Thursday, many passengers chose to travel by trains and the number of commuters at the mofussil bus-stand was less when compared to the numbers seen on Wednesday. Some had rescheduled their travel plan, altering it with the train timings, especially those travelling to Bengaluru. Meanwhile, the Mysuru rural KSRTC division alone is losing a sum of Rs. 85 lakh a day with nearly 575 buses going off the road. During the previous strike, when the buses went off the road for four days, the KSRTC in Mysuru suffered a revenue loss of Rs. 4 crore. If the strike continues, it will cause financial distress to the corporation and make things difficult to manage as the COVID-19 crisis had caused deep stress on the RTCs which faced loss to the tune of several crores of rupees, sources in the KSRTC said. Police have continued to deploy additional bandbust at the mofussil bus-stand to prevent any untoward incidents resulting from the strike. Additional trains The South Western Railway is running additional unreserved special express trains with normal fare from Mysuru connecting various districts across Karnataka in view of the strike by the RTC employees. It has, however, requested passengers to strictly follow all COVID norms of State and Central governments, including wearing of mask, sanitisation etc, in the trains and at railway stations. Other precautions associated with COVID-19 should also be ensured, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-hard-day-for-commuters/article34276629.ece
09 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Impractical rule: exhibitors||The Mysuru district administration’s decision making COVID-19 negative report (RT-PCR test done within 72 hours) mandatory to watch films in cinemas here has not gone down well with the exhibitors who have called it “impractical” and argue that such a decision would make things even more hard for the crisis-hit single-screen cinemas. While urging Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri to reconsider her decision, Mysuru Film Exhibitors’ Association Secretary M.R. Rajaram said the decision will lead to collapse of single screens which are facing losses since last one year over the pandemic. “The shows with 50 per cent seating capacity are already causing losses and this decision is like indirectly telling us to shut down business,” he felt. Mr. Rajaram said the cinemas had started enforcing 50 per cent seating rule since Wednesday as agreed, issuing only 50 per cent tickets. “Before we could come to terms with this, the decision on negative report has come. It will ruin the film industry as nobody will come to watch the films with a negative report,” he argued. Mysuru happens to be the second biggest collection centre in the State after Bengaluru. If Bengaluru makes 50 per cent of the total earnings in the State, Mysuru makes about 25 per cent business, he explained. The jurisdictional police here had started monitoring cinemas for the implementation of the seating capacity rule. “If the decision on the negative report is not reconsidered, more number of cinemas will start shutting down their business like what happened to a couple of them here in COVID-19 times last year,” Mr. Rajaram said. The association has also questioned the rationale of the Mysuru City Corporation seeking interest on the unpaid property tax and trade licence fees when the business of cinemas has nosedived and they are struggling to keep the trade on despite all the pandemic-hit hardships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/impractical-rule-exhibitors/article34276630.ece
09 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Retired drivers to the rescue?||Efforts are on in Mysuru too to rope in retired drivers of KSRTC to ease the situation. The number of retired drivers and conductors from the database of the KSRTC rural division in Mysuru is being verified and some of them had already been contacted. They have agreed to step in to prevent hardships caused to passengers from the indefinite strike. “We need to check their fitness levels before we take their services on a temporary basis in view of the strike. If they qualify and are declared fit to drive buses despite their superannuation, we are ready to take them in to run the services,” said Divisional Controller K.H. Srinivas. Meanwhile, Chamarajnagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi has imposed ban orders in a 50-metre radius of bus terminuses, depots and divisional offices of KSRTC across the district to prevent any untoward incidents in view of the ongoing strike. The orders will be in force until the end of the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/retired-drivers-to-the-rescue/article34276631.ece
09 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Proposed tourism facilities at Gopinatham draw flak||The government’s decision to promote tourism in Gopinatham region in M.M. Hills and open an elephant camp in Budipadaga, both in Chamarajanagar district, has come under flak from wildlife activists. While eco-tourism development in Gopinatham area will receive Rs. 5 crore, the development of the camp in Budipadaga in the BRT Tiger Reserve will take place at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. The Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary-MM Hills-BRT Tiger Reserve landscape is not without its problem of conflicts. But the impact of tourism is not on the scale being witnessed in Bandipur at present. Hence there are concerns that the State government’s stance on tourism promotion could negate the gains made in conservation. “Tourism activities at Gopinatham and Budipadaga will open the floodgates of tourists to the hitherto pristine forests in MM Hills -BRT Tiger Reserve and Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary landscape and erode their sanctity,” according to an activist from the region. On the one hand, the Forest Department shifted the safari point from the core area of Bandipur and Nagarahole to the outskirts to reduce disturbance. But in case of M.M. Hills and BRT Tiger reserve area they are introducing new disturbance by way of additional tourism facilities including an elephant camp which is in violation of the existing conservation norms, according to the activist. The decision to go ahead with new tourism facilities in the forest area is also in contradiction to the recommendations of the Karnataka Elephant Task Force (KETF) accepted by the department. The KETF in its report specifically identified the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and areas in Mandya and Kollegal forest region as problematic due to unbridled tourism. The task force noted with concern that in many areas, ill-planned and large tourism infrastructure has the potential to sever habitat connectivity and create serious disturbances to wildlife. It also said that tourism within wildlife areas can itself grow to an extent where it may cause direct disturbance to wildlife, as well as pose challenges to management. The report pointed to Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and adjoining areas of Mandya and Kollegal Forest Divisions and said unregulated influx of tourists along certain sections of the road skirting river Cauvery causes direct disturbance to elephants, impedes their access to the river, and creates a severe problem of solid waste disposal, especially in places such as Muthathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposed-tourism-facilities-at-gopinatham-draw-flak/article34276633.ece
09 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Low-grade tobacco pours cold water on farmers’ high hopes||A large percentage of tobacco cultivated in the State during the crop season 2020-21 turned out to be low grade, hitting many tobacco farmers hard. Out of the 88.42 million kg of tobacco which was sold during the recently-concluded auction season in Karnataka, as much as 39.11 million kg was graded as low while 35.81 million kg was graded as medium and the remaining 13.5 million kg as bright. According to Manjunath, regional manager of Tobacco Board, Mysuru, the average price commanded by bright grade tobacco was Rs. 182.77 per kg and medium grade fetched Rs. 138.76 kg. However, the low-grade tobacco was sold for an average price of only Rs. 80.88 per kg. While the highest bid for the year 2020-21 was Rs. 264 per kg, the lowest was just Rs. 20 per kg. The average price of tobacco for the year 2020-21 stood at Rs. 119.87 per kg. The average price of tobacco, however, appears to have been witnessing a decline since the last three years – Rs. 136 per kg during 2018-19, dipped to Rs. 124 during 2019-20 before coming down to Rs. 119.87 during 2020-21. Mr. Manjunath said the dip in average price of tobacco this year was due to the large volumes of low grade tobacco, which is attributed to climatic conditions. Due to excessive rainfall, a large quantity of tobacco yield turned out to be of poor quality this year, he said. Meanwhile, president of Federation of VFC Tobacco Growers Associations of Karnataka Javare Gowda sought to make it clear that the dip in average price of tobacco was purely on account of decrease in good quality tobacco. “The market has sent a message that there is a demand for good quality tobacco.” He said he had recently convened a meeting of farmers with tobacco merchants, where quality consciousness of the market was discussed. Hence, he said it was important for the farmers to adapt better agricultural practices, both pre-harvesting and post-harvesting. Even though climatic conditions play a role in the quality of tobacco output, the farmers need to adopt the best practices when it comes to picking the tobacco leaves, storing, bulking and grading them. He regretted that few farmers carry out soil testing. Apart from application of fertilizers, the farmers should ensure that the quality of soil is improved and they need to take up measures for the same. The Tobacco Board, which had initially fixed 99 million kg as the crop size for Karnataka, had later revised it to 88 million kg, anticipating a dip in the global demand for tobacco in view of COVID-19. Against the crop size of 88 million kg, a total of 88.42 million kg was sold across the 11 auction platforms in the State, mostly in Mysuru district, from September 30, 2020, when the auction season began till March 22, 2021 when the auctions concluded. The board had fixed a quota of 1,552 kg per barn and the farmers who had cultivated tobacco in excess were levied a penalty of Rs. 2 per kg and 10 per cent on the proceeds of the sale of tobacco.  While the highest bid for the year 2020-21 was Rs. 264 per kg, the lowest was just Rs. 20 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-grade-tobacco-pours-cold-water-on-farmers-high-hopes/article34276503.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cannot ban traffic in Cubbon Park: Govt.||After reviewing opinions of all departments, the State government has come to the conclusion that movement of vehicles within Cubbon Park cannot be avoided. This decision of the government, taken on November 21, 2020, was submitted to the High Court in a contempt of court petition filed by Cubbon Park Walkers’ Association. The Association had alleged that the government had not considered its representation to ban traffic within Cubbon Park despite a direction by the High Court in October last year. Walkers’ plea Earlier, the Association had filed a PIL petition before the court seeking direction to the government to consider its representation to ban movement of vehicles within Cubbon Park based on recommendations made by the Department of Urban Land Transport (DULT). It was on this petition that the court had asked the government to consider the representation. The Commissioner, DULT, in September last year, had recommended that Cubbon Park may be reserved only for walkers and cyclist in an effort to preserve lung space and protect the environment. The DULT made the recommendation after some citizens’ groups sought making of a ban, imposed during the COVID-19 lockdown, on the movement of vehicles inside Cubbon Park a permanent feature. In the affidavit filed before the court recently during the hearing of the contempt petition, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department, submitted a copy of the proceedings of the meeting, held on November 21, 2020, based on the court’s October direction regarding regulating the flow of traffic in Cubbon Park, and the decision taken on the meeting that traffic movement within the park cannot be avoided. Can challenge A division bench disposed the contempt petition stating that the government did comply with the court’s direction to consider the representation, and the Association is at liberty to challenge the decision taken by the government to allow traffic movement within Cubbon Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cannot-ban-traffic-in-cubbon-park-govt/article34276888.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yuvarathnaa goes OTT way after one-week theatre run||Film exhibitors expressed dismay and anger following the announcement that the Puneeth Rajkumar starrer Yuvarathnaa will start streaming on Over The Top (OTT) platform Amazon Prime from Friday, just eight days after its release. They are reeling under losses due to the lack of business last year and restrictions on theatre occupancy that came into effect on Wednesday. They were banking on Yuvarathnaa to tide them over this tough period. They are upset that such a big film will stream on OTT so early, essentially undercutting their business further. The film will continue to run in theatres as well, the film’s producer Hombale Films, announced on Twitter. “The producers may make a quick buck, but the larger industry will suffer,” said K.V. Chandrashekhar, president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association. The State government had imposed a restriction of 50% occupancy in theatres on April 2, a day after Yuvarathnaa was released. Puneeth Rajkumar lobbied hard with the government for relaxation of the rule. Minutes after he met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the rule was deferred till April 7, giving the film a breather to rake in the crucial first week collection. First week box office collections are a key factor to decide the price at which OTT platforms buy a film, and the one-week run helped the film garner a good price, industry sources said. “The platform is believed to have paid a certain amount but the makers will also get a share of the revenue based on a pay-per-view model. Given the long festival weekend, it will likely break even,” the source said. An exhibitor said, “When the government imposed restrictions on occupancy, the most affected was Yuvarathnaa . The entire industry rallied around the film unit and lobbied hard. But eventually, the influential producer-lead actor duo struck a good deal only for themselves.” D.R. Jairaj, president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said they came to know about the deal only after it was sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yuvarathnaa-goes-ott-way-after-one-week-theatre-run/article34276891.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Trainee staff assigned routes in Hassan division||The KSRTC employees’ strike continued for the second day in Hassan, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts. However, a few employees returned to work restoring the transport services in select routes. In Hassan, KSRTC buses were operated on five routes. “The trainee staff had reported to duty and we assigned them routes, connecting Hassan-Holenarsipur, Arkalgud-Hassan, Ramanathapura-Hassan, Channaraypatna-Shravanabelgola”, said Rajesh Shetty, Divisional Controller of Hassan. Each bus is escorted by police vehicles and the driver and conductor are accompanied by senior officers of the corporation. KSRTC Divisional Controller Rajesh Shetty accompanied the staff for a trip. However, unknown persons threw a stone at a KSRTC bus near Halekote on the Hassan-Holenarsipur route. “Two people riding a bike threw a stone at the bus. No passenger was injured”, the officer said.  Complaint filed The KSRTC officials have filed a police complaint against Pradeep, a driver-cum-conductor, attached to Arkalgud depot. He had begun a padayatra from Channarayapatna to submit a memorandum to Chief Minister personally on behalf of the employees in the corporation. “His act amounts to instigating violence. We have filed a complaint against him with Channaraypatna police”, the DC said. He said many employees were willing to return to work, but were in fear. “Our officers have visited the employees at their residences to convince them to return to duty. They are ready to do so if others also join them.” In Shivamogga, around 25 employees returned to duty on Thursday and 12 routes operated from Shivamogga bus stand. Naveen T.R., Divisional Controller of Shivamogga, told The Hindu 12 buses were operated on routes connecting Bhadravati, Sagar, Thirthahalli, Honnali and Shikaripura from Shivamogga. “Some have come back to voluntarily. We are hopeful that a few more will return to duty”, he said. In Chikkamagaluru division, 18 people returned to work and nine routes were operated. H.T. Veeresh, Divisional Controller, said nine routes connecting Kadur, Belur, Sakleshpur, Arsikere and Banavara were operated. “We are still convincing the employees to come back to duty”, he added. Private buses continue to operate in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trainee-staff-assigned-routes-in-hassan-division/article34276625.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Senior citizen and her son’s friend murdered||A 75-year- old woman and her son’s friend, who had been residing with her temporarily, were murdered in her house at J.P. Nagar 7th stage. The police suspect that the murder was committed for gain and that the perpetrators knew the victims. The elderly woman, Mamatha Basu, lived alone in a rented house. Her son and his family resided nearby and visited her often. The second victim, Debrath Behara, 41, had come to the city a few days ago, and was staying with Mamatha. According to the police, Mamatha’s son Devdeep had visited them on Wednesday and returned to his house after dinner. On Thursday morning, when the domestic help arrived, she noticed that the main door was ajar. On entering, she found Behara’s body in the main room in a pool of blood. Mamatha had been stabbed to death in the bedroom. The Puttenahalli police, who are investigating the murders, said the house was ransacked. “Gold, cash and even the CCTV cameras were stolen,” a senior police officer said. Senior police officers visited the spot and supervised the investigation. “Primarily investigations revealed that the assailants were known to the deceased since there was no sign of forced entry. Usually, Mamatha would open the door to visitors only after checking footage from the CCTV camera installed outside the house,” said Harish Pandey, DCP (South).“We have some clues on who the assailants are and are working towards tracking them down.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-citizen-and-her-sons-friend-murdered/article34276895.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Night curfew in seven district centres||Besides, Mr. Yediyurappa said there would be strict enforcement measures such as wearing of masks, social distancing, and preventing the formation of groups. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar described the night curfew as “an experiment to create awareness” about the pandemic, adding sarcastically that there would be “scientists” that would question the move. “This will curb unnecessary movement of people and the operation of commercial establishments,” he said. Earlier, the State appealed to the Centre for supply of oxygen generators under the PM-CARES funds as a precaution. The State also informed the Centre that though there has been a surge in number of cases, the fatality rate remains low in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-night-curfew-in-seven-district-centres/article34276510.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Green spaces are 2.23°C cooler: Study||But the same principles apply for both: they need to be distributed in different parts of the city, even if it means on smaller patches. “If vacant spaces can be converted now into green spaces, one can see the long-term effects in a few years,” he pointed out. “The study points to the need for conserving green spaces in rapidly growing cities. This is more critical when India's urban population is expected to double in the next three decades. Potential solutions to urban cooling could include introducing green cover at different locations to enhance local cooling effects. Our results indicate that small green spaces that are spatially dispersed across the city could help provide cooling effects,” the study concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-spaces-are-223c-cooler-study/article34276887.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Civic apathy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-apathy/article34276500.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||NABARD extends Rs. 20,549 cr.||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has announced that it’s total financial support to Telangana in 2020-21 through various interventions was Rs. 20,549 crore, which was an increase of 25.09% over 2019-20 when an assistance of Rs. 16,312.50 crore was extended. Giving details of interventions by the agency in the State, its Chief General Manager here Y.K. Rao said in a release that a sum of Rs. 13,915.22 crore was provided to banks for lending to crop loans and term loans. An amount of Rs. 6,633 crore was given to State for creating infrastructure in rural areas. More than Rs. 4,600 crore was sanctioned to Mallannasagar reservoir under Kaleswaram lift-irrigation project and Rs. 2,394.70 crore was disbursed during the year. A sum of Rs. 2,500 crore cash credit was sanctioned and disbursed to Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation for procurement of agricultural produce. A grant of Rs. 41.39 crore was provided by Telangana regional office of NABARD for various farm and off-farm interventions. More than Rs. 26 crore was disbursed for watershed development, climate change projects and supporting farmers’ produce organisations. NABARD promoted nearly 330 FPOs and was handholding them for the last four years. Credit linkage of 57 FPOs was facilitated through NABKISAN and various commercial banks. An amount of Rs. 2 crore was spent for various initiatives for handholding and skill training of self-help group members. Nearly Rs. 6 rore was allotted for institutional development of primary agricultural cooperatives, cooperatives and regional rural banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nabard-extends-rs-20549-cr/article34276604.ece
09 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki constituency in the limelight||The electoral prospects of two leaders who were part of rival fronts and switched sides later is the topic of discussion among voters in the Idukki constituency. Here, Roshy Augustine of the Kerala Congress (M) of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is taking on Francis George of the Kerala Congress, which is part of the United Democratic Front (UDF).  The Idukki constituency recorded the lowest voting percentage among the five constituencies in Idukki district. The constituency recorded a turnout of 68.94% this time against 76.38% recorded in 2016. While Mr. Augustine moved from the UDF to the LDF with the Kerala Congress (M) switching sides, Mr. George, who was part of the LDF, is in the Kerala Congress, a constituent of the UDF. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mr. Augustine was the UDF candidate and Mr. George the LDF candidate in the constituency. The former won with a margin of 9,333 votes. “Six months back there were boards put up by the main party in the LDF portraying Mr Augustine as anti-development. Now, the same front had campaigned for him as pro-development,” says a worker of a major political party who abstained from campaigning this time. Fall of 10,000 votes “The constituency has a large number of settler farmers and the absence of estate workers has also to be considered. There is a decline of nearly 10,000 votes this time. This is not a small figure as it has a say in the margin of victory,” says a leader of a farmers’ movement. The constituency was in the forefront of agitations against the Western Ghats reports. There is a feeling that the candidates shifted to the opposite camp for their benefits. This might have resulted in the indifferent attitude of voters, says George Thomas, a resident of Karimban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-constituency-in-the-limelight/article34276598.ece
09 April 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Woman found dead||The police have charged a case in connection with the death of a woman at Kochuthovala, near Kattappana, on Thursday. Kochupurackal Chinnamma, 60, was found on the ground floor of the house by her husband George at 4 p.m. He rushed her to the hospital, where she was declared brought dead. George told the police that he was sleeping upstairs. He also told them that her gold ornaments were missing. Forensic experts were inspecting the house. The back door of the house was not locked. She was lying on the floor and there were wounds on her face, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-found-dead/article34276599.ece
09 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Stringent measures in Wayanad to contain the pandemic||The Wayanad district administration is gearing up to adopt stringent steps to contain the second wave of COVID-19. “The next two weeks are going to be very critical as the test positivity rate in the district is increasing,” District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. The current test positivity rate is 5.6 % in the district as against 3% a few weeks ago, Ms. Abdulla said. The major outbreak of the pandemic has been reported in Sulthan Bathery and Kalpetta Municipality as well as in Panamaram grama panchayat of the 25 civic bodies in the district, she said. As many as 50 to 72 positive cases are reporting every day in those civic bodies whereas the number of positive cases in Mananthavady Municipality and Kaniyampetta, Vythiri, Meppadi and Nenmeni grama panchayats is 38 to 50 cases a day. The lowest number of cases are being reported in Thondarnadu, Thirunelly, Muppainad, and Noolpuzha grama panchayats. Seven to 13 positive cases are reporting in those panchayats a day, she said. As the recent spike in coronavirus cases is spreading faster in the country compared with last year, the public in the district should be vigilant and make efforts to fight the pandemic, she said. The sero-surveillance study to monitor the trend of SARS-CoV-2 infection transmission in the district revealed that only below 10% of the people could achieve immunity against the pandemic.  However, the pandemic has affected below one per cent of tribal population in the district so far. Hence, it was feared that the positivity rate might increase in the coming days, Ms. Abdulla said. Sample collection and tests would be intensified in the coming days. Stringent steps would be adopted to contain the pandemic in coming days, she said. The deployment of sectoral officers would be strengthened to ensure adherence to the COVID-19 protocol as a part of it, she said . As many as 117 camps have been set up in the district to administer the vaccine to people above 45 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-measures-in-wayanad-to-contain-the-pandemic/article34276560.ece
09 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Exams begin in the shadow of pandemic||While the second wave of COVID-19 casts a shadow over the public in the country, SSLC and Plus Two examinations began in the district on Thursday. As many as 11,766 students, including 11,122 students from government and aided schools, wrote the SSLC exams at 88 centres in the district, strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Apart from this, 1,100 students are appearing for Plus Two examinations at 60 centres in the district. All facilities were ensured to them in the examination centres, Education Department sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exams-begin-in-the-shadow-of-pandemic/article34276562.ece
09 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||A wrong message: Jayarajan||Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s district secretary of Kannur M.V. Jayarajan has said that the UDF decision to boycott the peace meeting and stage a protest would send a wrong message to the cadres of its constituent parties. The move could spur them to more violence, he told mediapersons after the peace meeting. He said the culprits would not be spared. Those who committed the murder should be arrested. Those who attacked CPI(M) offices and unleashed violence should also be arrested. Mr. Jayarajan said the murder was unfortunate. But, in the ensuing violence, several offices, shops, and houses were destroyed. Most of the attackers were from outside the district, he said. The silence maintained by IUML leaders was the major reason for the violence unleashed in several areas in Kannur on Wednesday. The police too came under attack when they tried to arrest the perpetrators of violence, he added. Decision at meeting At the meeting, it was decided to create a peaceful atmosphere in the district and to hold a meeting at the local level, involving leaders, to prevent violence in future, he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Jayarajan, along with CPI(M) leader P. Jayarajan; T.V. Rajesh, MLA; and Loktantrik Janata Dal leader K.P. Mohanan visited the places where the CPI(M) offices, and shops and houses were vandalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-wrong-message-jayarajan/article34276606.ece
09 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam constituency baffles political parties||The reluctance of voters in Ernakulam Assembly constituency to cast their votes continues to baffle politicians as well as administrators. While voters in most of the constituencies enthusiastically voted in the Assembly elections on April 6, the hesitancy of Ernakulam voters was reflected in polling figures. Going by the official poll data, 74.17% voters exercised their rights in the district. However, it was 65.9% in Ernakulam, which was in tune with the lower turnout trend during the 2019 bypoll and 2016 Assembly polls. While only 57.89% voters came out to vote during the bypoll, the constituency had the lowest voter turnout in the district during the 2016 polls. That time, 71.6% voters participated in the democratic process. The highest polling figures were recorded in Kunnathunadu that time with 85.63% voters reaching polling booths. Final figures The final polling figures of Ernakulam Assembly constituency, says S. Suhas, Ernakulam District Collector, may improve by two to three per cent when the service votes, postal votes and votes of people aged above 80 years and those with disabilities are counted on May 2. Ernakulam has the highest number of service votes. It is also the case with postal votes. The final figures, which would emerge on the counting day, will give the real picture of the voter response. The administration had taken all possible efforts to increase voter awareness and voter turnout through the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation programme, he said. The COVID scare might have forced some voters to stay indoors and avoid polling stations, where people reach in large numbers, reasoned another official who was involved in the awareness programme. ‘Feeble connection’ M. Anilkumar, Kochi Mayor, feels that the connect between the city voters and political parties is feeble when compared to other parts of the district, which might have reflected in the low turnout. There are a large number of gated communities in the city and the access of political parties to such residential units is relatively low, he said. The trend among families to move to some tourist destinations by making use of the holidays preceding the polling day also might have contributed to the low turnout, he said. The response of voters of Ernakulam, felt T. J. Vinod, Ernakulam MLA and the UDF candidate in the constituency, had been lukewarm for quite some time. During the civic polls, the voter turnout was between 45% and 50% in some city areas. In two booths of Khatari Bagh, where there are a large number of service votes, the polling was abysmally low and was to the tune of 5% on April 6, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-constituency-baffles-political-parties/article34277017.ece
09 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Education authorities heave a sigh of relief as exams begin||Notwithstanding the threat of another potential surge in COVID-19, the Education Department authorities in the district heaved a sigh of relief as both the SSLC and higher secondary exams eventually got under way on Thursday after getting delayed owing to the Assembly elections. The SSLC exams are being taken by 32,598 students in over 319 centres while the higher secondary exams are being written by 35,797 students, including 1,307 privately registered students and 2,148 open school students across 197 centres in the district. On the first day, only about 25% of the higher secondary students had exams since only five relatively rare subjects – sociology, anthropology, electronic service technology, and electronic systems – were involved. “The exams went with clockwork precision in strict compliance with COVID-19 protocol. Last May, while holding the five exams postponed in the wake of the pandemic-induced lockdown, there was considerable tension since exams were being held in such alien conditions for the first time. But since then we have held Save a Year and first-year improvement exams, familiarising teachers with the protocol. We also have the support of health workers and the police who avoid crowding outside schools,” said Sakunthala K, Regional Deputy Director, Higher Secondary Education, Ernakulam, who visited multiple schools in the district to supervise the conduct of the exams. Detailed protocol had been issued even if a COVID-19-positive student was to appear for the exam though no such case was reported anywhere from the district on Thursday. With exams of science and commerce subjects to get under way on Friday, schools are gearing up to further tighten the COVID-19 protocol. Honey V. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam, said that SSLC exams were also held without any hiccups. Except for three exams, including the language exam on opening day, the rest of the exams will be held in the morning. “Eleven COVID-19 positive patients appeared for the exam while three were absent,” she said. Special squads have been deployed for monitoring the conduct of exams. Arrangements have also been made for special children. Most number of students – 551 – will appear for exams at the SNDP High School, Udayamperoor, and Sivankunnu Government High School at Muvattupuzha with four students will host the lowest number of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/education-authorities-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-exams-begin/article34277007.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mulavukad residents demand service roads, street lights||After the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) announced an increase in toll rates at its toll plazas in keeping with the wholesale price index (WPI), the residents of Mulavukad and other areas in the Goshree Islands have demanded clarity on the monthly pass granted to their non-commercial vehicles, and the implementation of the long-pending proposal to ready service roads and install street lights on the 16-km-long Container Road. The NHAI must complete construction of service roads on the stretch, especially at Mulavukad, as was promised at many meetings, said Abhijit K. John, president of a group of residents’ associations in Mulavukad. It had also not yet installed street lights on the accident-prone stretch, he said. The NHAI must issue a clarification on the exemptions granted to people living in panchayats through which the road passed, he said. The Container Road Vehicle Travellers’ Group, a WhatsApp collective, too had expressed concern over accidents and anti-social activities on the ill-lit stretch of the national highway. Many light vehicles take a turn from both ends of Mulavukad to avoid paying toll. A few activists had even made a video to guide motorists through the route. “This is putting undue pressure on narrow panchayat roads that vary in width from 4 m to 7 m. Many motorists take the alternative route, not knowing that its width fluctuates and narrows down on the southern side,” said Mr. John. Haphazard and illegal parking by container lorries on the Container Road and its service roads is another issue. Half a dozen people have lost their life in Mulavukad alone due to this. The NHAI has not installed direction boards and readied safety measures even at the roundabout from where the Container Road begins. All those were in addition to the crimes taking place and garbage being dumped under the cover of darkness along the entire road, he said. NHAI sources said the toll hike was done every year across toll plazas in tune with the rise in WPI. The concerns of residents in the vicinity would be addressed. Measures were under way to step up safety on the corridor, including readying of street lights, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mulavukad-residents-demand-service-roads-street-lights/article34277009.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vembanad fish species down by 40%||The fish species richness of Vembanad Lake has fallen by 40 per cent since the construction of the Thanneermukkam barrage, concluded a group of researchers who assessed the post and pre-barrage period fish data of the waterbody. The fish diversity in the estuary is currently restricted to 90 species belonging to 17 orders and 48 families, which is 40 per cent lower that that of the 1980s. Most of the marine species recorded prior to construction of the barrage has now disappeared. They have been replaced by freshwater and estuarine species, according to a group of researchers from the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), Kochi. The research paper was jointly published by K. Roshni, C. R. Renjithkumar, Rajeev Raghavan, K. Ranjeet of the university. Built in 1975 The barrage, which was constructed in the middle of the lake in 1975, has a length of 1,402 metre. It prevents seawater from entering the low-lying paddy fields in the southern part of the estuary, enabling double cropping of rice and ensuring drinking water to nearby areas. Every year, the barrage is closed for three months from mid-December to mid-March. At times, the closure period will be extended up to May to prevent saline water intrusion. The unscientific management of the barrage over the past 45 years has hydrologically transformed the estuary into three distinct zones with distinct salinity regime and diverse physiography and hydrography, they noted. Fish sampling was carried out in each zone from June 2015 to May 2016, during monsoon, post-monsoon and pre-monsoon periods. Since the saline stretch of the estuary had been reduced considerably due to hydrological modifications, most migratory species are trapped near the barrage and caught in local fisheries, concluded the researchers. The researchers have suggested management interventions including allowing free movement of migratory fish by setting up fish passes during closure of the barrage. Though the restoration of the estuary to its original form will be impossible, management measures like periodic removal of silt, curbing the inflow of pollutants, restricting further developmental activities could help revive the biodiversity , they suggested.  KUFOS researchers say free movement of migratory fish must be allowed by setting up fish passes during barrage closure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-species-in-vembanad-have-declined-by-40-study/article34276548.ece
09 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Donate A Wall’ to spruce up KSRTC depot with murals||The exterior of an otherwise rundown Ernakulam KSRTC bus depot building is all set for a beautified makeover, thanks to the mural works of a couple of artists who are set to finish it in another ten days. The work is being undertaken as part of the project Donate A Wall, a collaborative initiative of St+art India Foundation, a New Delhi-based NGO, and Asian Paints aimed at giving a facelift to public spaces through mural arts. The project has been running for over six years now and each year, a State is selected. Last year, Uttar Pradesh benefited from the project and this year Kerala has been chosen. “We invite applications online from parties open to donating a wall and from the applications received we select a few. This year, we have already painted a few walls in Kasaragod, Kozhikode, and Thiruvananthapuram districts before starting our work here,” said Akmal S, project manager, St+art India Foundation. Two artists – Pragyesh Parmar from New Delhi and Abhijith Acharya from Nashik — are associating with the project. The KSRTC depot was selected on account of various factors like visibility and to their credit the KSRTC authorities welcomed it wholeheartedly. “The initiative is in keeping with the metropolitan stature of Kochi,” said Ernakulam District Transport Officer V.M. Thajudeen Sahib. In other districts The theme of paintings for each wall is driven among other things by the location. In Kasaragod, the wall of a fisherman’s unfinished house was painted under the project. He had to suspend the construction of the house midway owing to loss of livelihood following the pandemic-induced lockdown. In Kozhikode, a coconut bazaar, and in Thiruvananthapuram, the wall of the Kendriya Vidyalaya at Pattom were painted,” said Mr. Akmal. It takes anywhere between 12 and 15 days to complete the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/donate-a-wall-to-spruce-up-ksrtc-depot-with-murals/article34276589.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two lose money in illegal withdrawals||In the early morning hours of Monday, a young lawyer in the city lost Rs. 40,000 in four back-to-back allegedly unauthorised withdrawals of Rs. 10,000 each from his account with a scheduled commercial bank. Just over an hour later, another youngster with a food aggregator met with a similar fate when Rs. 2,600 of his hard-earned money was withdrawn without his knowledge from his account with another branch of the same bank in the city. Both youngsters reported the alleged fraud immediately with their respective branches and simultaneously lodged petitions with the Central police. “I was charged Rs. 23 as charges for using the ATM of another bank, which proved that the withdrawal was made through an ATM. Since I reported the fraud immediately, I should be reimbursed by the bank within 10 days without waiting for the insurance reimbursement,” said the aggrieved lawyer. He accused the bank of violating this by claiming insurance coverage without submitting the proof of reimbursement as was the norm. Reimbursement The manager of the branch concerned said that the matter was with the head office, which had prima facie found the incident fraudulent, though he said that the reimbursement would be made within 60 days on receiving the insurance claim. He said that it could be a case of card cloning but sought to absolve the bank of its responsibility, citing that the customer remained the custodian of the debit card. RBI circular K.S. Krishnan, joint secretary of the All India Bank Employees’ Association, clarified that as per a Reserve Bank of India circular of July 2017, the bank should credit the amount involved in the unauthorised electronic transaction to the customer’s account within 10 days where the customer has notified the bank about the fraud within 3 working days leaving her with zero liability. If she reports it after 7 working days then her liability varies according to the bank’s policy approved by the board. Arun Prasad, another alleged victim, was told by the bank authorities that the amount was withdrawn from an ATM at Thrissur leaving just Rs. 3 in his account. “The bank officials told me that I might have carelessly used my debit card credentials online, which was not the case. Besides, online transactions are cleared subjected to OTP and in this case, it was withdrawn using my ATM card while it was all along with me,” he said. The Central police are yet to register cases on the two petitions. “We can intervene only when the bank confirms it to be a fraud. The petitioners have received only alerts of the withdrawals but no external communication seeking OTP or such other details as is usually the case,” said A. Nizar, Inspector, Central police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youngsters-lose-money-in-fraudulent-withdrawals/article34277012.ece
09 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Students happy about exams getting under way eventually||It wasn’t the thought of having to face tough questions but the uncertainty over the conduct of the exam itself that had left Aishwarya Sinil, a Class 10 student at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ernakulam, tensed. So, when it eventually got under way on Thursday after being delayed by the State Assembly election, Aishwarya was just relieved despite being in mask and gloves and even before she had a look at her Sanskrit question paper. That the exam proved to be a cakewalk turned out to be the icing on the cake. “The question paper was very similar to the one set for the model exam. The delay in the exam did cause some tension though it didn’t affect my preparations. Now I just hope that it will be completed as per the schedule,” she said. Her batchmate Aishwarya Ajithkumar, however, wasn’t overly concerned about the delay in exams as it gave her added time for preparations. But the Malayalam exam on the first day left her far from overjoyed as it wasn’t all that easy. “The descriptive questions were a bit tricky and I also faced a shortage of time,” she said while preparing for the Hindi exam scheduled for Friday. The relief over the exams eventually getting under way was palpable among higher secondary students as well. “The delay didn’t affect my preparations as one will have to face exams anyway. But it is always better for exams to go according to the schedule as that helps give a sense of normalcy,” said Figo Anton, a humanities student from St. Albert’s Higher Secondary School, on emerging after the sociology exam. Fellow humanities student Aibel Stanley found the sociology exam neither too easy nor too tough. “I just hope that exams will not be disrupted by COVID and will end as planned on April 22,” he said. Biju A.N, principal of SRV Higher Secondary School, felt that the pandemic seems to have little effect on students appearing for the exam as they seemed focussed in general. “The exam was conducted strictly in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol complete with thermal scanner, sanitiser, gloves, and social distancing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-happy-about-exams-getting-under-way-eventually/article34277010.ece
09 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||654 fresh COVID cases in district||A total of 32 fresh SARS-CoV-2 infections were reported from Thrikkakara on Thursday when the district recorded 654 new COVID-19 cases and 137 recoveries. Two health workers were among the infected. Kadungalloor had 22 new cases, Kovappady 21, Rayamangalam 20, Elamkunnapuzha 16, Alangad and Vengola 15 each, Pallipuram, Vyttila and Fort Kochi 14 each, Nedumbassery 13, Kadavanthra, Kaloor and Kalamassery 12 each and Vadakkekara and Vengoor 11 each cases. With 1,829 people being newly brought under observation for COVID-19, there are now 15,732 people in the list. There were 72 fresh admissions to hospitals/FLTCs while 48 patients were discharged upon recovery. The total number of active patients in Ernakulam was 3,902 as on Thursday. A new batch of 11,630 samples were sent for testing. Covaxin regulation The Health Department has informed that those who have taken the first dose of Covaxin will be administered the second dose only on Saturdays and Sundays. The second dose of the vaccine is available at Angamaly, Permbavoor, Paravur, Piravom, Kothamangalam, Thripunithura and Muvattupuzha taluk hospitals, Govt. Maharaja’s Hospital, Karuivelippady, PVS Kaloor, District Hospital, Aluva, CHC Edappally and Kinder Hospital, Edappally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/654-fresh-covid-cases-in-district/article34277021.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Combined team wins Pulling Regatta||A combined team from the Anti-Submarine Warfare School (ASW), Diving School, INHS Sanjivani and survey ships won the overall trophy called ‘The Cock’ in the Kochi Area Pulling Regatta of the Southern Naval Command held in the Ernakulam channel on Wednesday. The Signal School secured the runners-up position. Races during the regatta were conducted in the traditional pulling ‘whalers’ and held in four different categories namely, Junior Sailors, Senior Sailors, Officers and Best Whaler. The boats had to cover a distance of 2 km in the Ernakulam channel, starting from the Venduruthy-Vikrant Bridge and finishing at the Amba Jetty. Six teams formed from all major units of the SNC based in Kochi participated in the regatta. Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, presented awards to the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/combined-team-wins-pulling-regatta/article34277015.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF seeks ouster of Congress leader||The United Democratic Front (UDF) Thripunithura Assembly constituency committee has sought the ouster of the Congress leader A.B. Sabu, accusing him of sabotaging the prospects of the party and its candidate in a critical situation during the recent Assembly election. In a statement issued here on Thursday, the committee accused Mr. Sabu of trying to defame the UDF candidate from the constituency initially. It was also observed that his statement on the eve of the election created confusion amongst the minority communities. The committee unanimously asked the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee to oust Mr. Sabu with immediate effect. A resolution to this effect was also passed unanimously by the committee, which observed that Mr. Sabu adopted a stance in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Left Democratic Front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-seeks-ouster-of-congress-leader/article34277013.ece
09 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Poster campaign against BJP office-bearer||Two days after a stiff three-cornered electoral battle to the State Assembly involving its candidate, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Thripunithura Assembly constituency was left to deal with a tricky poster campaign against one of its office-bearers. A few posters appeared against the party municipal committee member Muraleedharan S.J. in Thripunithura town, especially along the Kannankulangara area where his house is located. The posters claimed that Mr. Muraleedharan has been ousted from the party on charge of campaigning for the Congress candidate in booth number 60 in the Assembly election and for financial indiscipline. The posters also got widely circulated over local social media groups. However, the BJP shot down the allegations. “We haven’t taken any disciplinary action against Mr. Muraleedharan who has been very committed and worked for the BJP candidate in the recent election. The posters seem to be the handiwork of a few former party members who were ousted from the party soon after the local body elections on account of contesting as rebels,” said Sreekuttan Thundathil, president, BJP Thripunithura Assembly constituency. Incidentally, Mr. Muraleedharan had crossed over from the Congress to the BJP just ahead of the last local body polls. He was serving as the Congress Thripunithura Assembly constituency secretary. He could not be reached despite repeated attempts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poster-campaign-against-bjp-office-bearer/article34277018.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held for stealing mobile tower batteries||The Ernakulam rural police on Thursday arrested four persons accused of stealing 24 batteries worth Rs. 72,000 from a mobile tower at Ayyampuzha. The arrested were identified as Nizar, 40, of Sreemoolanagaram; Shaji, 42, of Marampilly; Nazeer, 49, of Parappuram; and Salim, 48, of Pazhanganad, who is accused of purchasing the stolen properties from the other accused. The gang had allegedly stole the batteries on November 27. A team led by Ayyampuzha Inspector Dileep T.G., sub inspector Polachan, assistant sub inspector Raju, senior civil police officer Sijo Prasad, and civil police officers Sajeev and Stebin made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-for-stealing-mobile-tower-batteries/article34277011.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||25,438 vaccinated on Thursday||A total of 25,438 people were vaccinated against COVID-19 in 175 centres in Ernakulam on April 8, on the first day of the COVID-19 vaccination fortnight drive. So far, a total of 5,10,201 people have been vaccinated in the district with 4,40,691 receiving their first dose and 69,510 getting the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25438-vaccinated-on-thursday/article34277016.ece
09 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Tourism on revival path in Kollam||With a steady increase in bookings and footfall, the tourism sector in the district is seeing signs of recovery after an extended hiatus. The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) has come up with a handful of options for tourists visiting the district that also include day-long backwater packages. “Boating collection during the last couple of months shows a higher revenue compared to pre-COVID-19 days. We are focussing on domestic tourism as of now and the response has been positive. Apart from the regular spots, the newly-opened destinations are also drawing a lot of visitors. In April-May we are expecting the numbers to go up,” says DTPC secretary M.R. Jayageetha. She says the majority of the visitors are from the district itself and a lot of people now come in search of local tourism spots. “We consider it a favourable change for the sector.” While boating trips to Munroe Thuruthu and Sambranikodi have the highest number of takers, the recently-opened Ashtamudi craft museum has also become a major attraction. At present, the Tourism Department is operating houseboat trips to both the islands that starts at 11 a.m. A total of 20 persons can take the package to Munroe Thuruthu that also offers welcome drink, lunch, tea, and snacks. “Canoe rides through Munroe island have more takers and now many people are opting for Sambranikodi too. With more people visiting the Ashtamudi craft museum these days, we are planning to introduce a package that also includes boating,” says Ms. Jayageetha. Though the sector is observing the spike in COVID-19 cases with much apprehension, Ms Jayageetha says the department has been taking proper precautions. “We are strictly following the protocol to ensure the safety of tourists. From boating to park entries, everything will be closely monitored, and all arrangements are in place to counter the threat of COVID-19,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-on-revival-path-in-kollam/article34276601.ece
09 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Camps for COVID-19 testing, vaccination||The Health Department will conduct panchayat-level mega camps for COVID-19 testing and vaccination at places with high positivity rate. Camps will be started at ESI dispensaries also to increase vaccination, said District Medical Officer R Sreelatha. The camps are being organised in association with the Indian Medical Association, Rotary Club, and voluntary organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/camps-for-covid-19-testing-vaccination/article34276602.ece
09 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Manarcad not Malankara church: court||In a major development, the Additional Munsiff Kottayam court on Thursday ruled that the St. Mary’s Jacobite Syrian Church, Manarcad, was not part of the Malankara church and it should be governed under a constitution codified in 1958. According to Anil D. Kartha, one of the counsels who represented the church committee, the court dismissed a suit filed by two individuals seeking injunction on the entry of Jacobite priests into the church and its cemetery for carrying out sacraments. The court further observed that the Manarcad church was not part of the Malankara church constitution of 1934 and, hence, the Supreme Court order on the K.S. Varghese case of 2017 was not binding for it. He said further details would be available only on getting a copy of the order. The latest order comes in direct contravention of another order by a subcourt in Kottayam in September last year that the church should be governed by the Malankara Church constitution of 1934. The Jacobite faction has moved a petition against this order in the High Court. With the Orthodox faction likely to approach a higher court against the latest order, the stage is now set for another round of legal battle between the rival factions of the Malankara church over the ownership of the Manarcad church. ‘Separate petition’ Responding to media reports, the Orthodox faction held the munsiff court was understood to have only suggested the execution of the Kottayam subcourt’s order instead of a fresh case. “The latest verdict pertains to a separate petition seeking the appointment of a receiver for the administration of the church. We are awaiting a copy of the judgment to decide on the course of action,” said Youhanon Mar Diascoros Metropolitan, Episcopal Synod Secretary, Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. The church, with over 3,500 families as its members, is one of the most important churches of Syrian Jacobite Christians. It is also an internationally renowned Marian pilgrimage centre.  Stage now set for another round of legal battle between Orthodox, Jacobite factions over the ownership of the Manarcad church||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manarcad-not-malankara-church-court/article34276594.ece
09 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Political parties keep fingers crossed over poll outcome||Both the main fronts, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M]-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) are keeping their fingers crossed over the poll outcome in 13 Assembly constituency segments in Kozhikode district. Leaders of political parties are trying out different methods from the booth-level on calculating which way the election will turn out on May 2. “The LDF will make a clean sweep. We are confident of retaining all our sitting seats. And we hope to capture the Kuttiyadi and the Kozhikode South seats as well,” P. Mohanan, district secretary of CPI(M), said. The Left parties had stolen a march over its rivals in the electioneering as they had been able to choose their candidates without big hurdles unlike the Congress. But the unrest in the local cadre over allotting the Kuttiyadi seat to the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) rocked the party initially. Then, the party chose former Kozhikode district panchayat president K.P. Kunhammed Kutty to fight the polls. “Last time we lost Kuttiyadi, but this time we will wrest the seat,” Mr. Mohanan said. Doubts have been raised within the party about the winnability in the Koduvally segment where LDF-backed independent Karat Razak is seeking re-election. Here, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) fielded M.K. Muneer, who had successfully won from Kozhikode South constituency. Mr. Mohanan, however, maintained that Mr. Razak, as a legislator, had done good work in Koduvally . “He should emerge victorious,” he said. In the case of Kozhikode South, he said that CPI(M) fully backed the Indian National League (INL), its electoral partner to capture the seat. Meanwhile, in the UDF camp, leaders are quite excited about the campaign of the front towards the final stages. The last time, it secured just two seats and these were won by the IUML. Despite permutations and combinations done at the State and district levels, the Congress chose its nominees at the last moment. Right from the beginning, the Congress leadership mismanaged the crisis when local leaders decided on KPCC executive member U.V. Dinesh Mani for the Elathur seat. Only after parleys did Congress leader M.K. Raghavan, MP, climb down from his defiant stance against the UDF’s official candidate, Sulfikkar Mayuri of Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK). The result in Elathur, for the leadership, is a foregone conclusion, a humiliating defeat. But the UDF has hopes to capture the Koduvally and Kunnamangalam segments. The IUML has fielded DCC secretary Dinesh Perumanna as an independent to take on LDF-backed sitting legislator P.T.A. Rahim. Also, they have high expectations of wresting the Vadakara seat where the coalition has backed K.K. Rema, wife of the slain RMP founder, T.P. Chandrasekharan. The Congress is also looking forward to springing a surprise in Nadapuram, Koyilandy, and Kozhikode North segments. If there is no undercurrent, the party will capture the Thiruvambady seat also, they said. In the case of the BJP, which has fielded only party nominees in all the seats in district, has pinned its hopes on State general secretary M.T. Ramesh to upset the apple-cart of both the fronts. The party also has wild expectations on winning the Kunnamangalam and Elathur segments. However, their leaders said the party would dramatically improve its performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/political-parties-keep-fingers-crossed-over-poll-outcome/article34276549.ece
09 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode corpn. to enforce COVID protocol as cases spiral||The Kozhikode Corporation is planning to focus on COVID-19 testing, vaccination for the eligible population, and enforcement of the pandemic protocol in the coming days even as more fresh cases are reported from the city limits. Beena Philip, Mayor, told the media on Thursday that a mega vaccination camp titled “Kavacham” would be held on April 11 in different wards within the corporation for those aged above 45. As many as 25 camps, each covering three adjacent wards, were being planned. Ms. Philip said that rapid response teams, which had been inactive of late, would be revived. Kudumbashree volunteers would be roped in to persuade more people to get vaccinated. All those in the primary contact list of the infected persons are being subjected to tests already. Camps are being held at regular intervals at markets and public places and among taxi and autorickshaw drivers as part of sentinel surveillance. Around 500 people each are supposed to get vaccinated at each of the 25 camps to be held on Sunday. Apart from this, the health wing of the corporation would inspect shops and commercial units in the city at regular intervals. Those who are found violating the pandemic protocol would be fined. Trade licences of repeated offenders would be cancelled. Public and private offices would be asked to test their staff once in a month and keep a record of their status. Tests and vaccination camps would be expanded in the coming days, she said. Corporation officials said that health inspectors and junior health inspectors had collected Rs. 59,700 as fine for not properly wearing face masks from 119 people on Thursday. Notices had been served on 45 institutions for not adhering to the protocol. Awareness sessions were held in these places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-to-enforce-covid-protocol-as-cases-spiral/article34276558.ece
09 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Curbs on travellers, public events||The Kozhikode district administration is intensifying steps to contain COVID-19 in the wake of the surge in fresh cases and the high test positivity rate (TPR), the number of people testing positive for the virus per 100 samples, here. Public events and gatherings will be regulated to reduce the spread of infection and more people would be vaccinated. A meeting of elected representatives in panchayats and Health Department officials held here on Thursday decided to increase the number of tests in the coming days. The district would be divided into three regions, depending on the intensity of infection and the number of cases being reported. More sectoral magistrates would be appointed to enforce the pandemic protocol. Over 300 such officials would be panned out across the district. If people are not willing to obey their directions, police would be roped in. The district had been reporting a high TPR in the past few days. On Saturday and Sunday, it went above 9%. The active caseload too is high here with over 5,111 people under treatment. Local bodies have been given a target on the number of people to be given the jab per month. Police personnel would be deployed to ensure that people are wearing face masks, observing social distancing and frequently using hand wash or hand sanitizers. Those who are driving vehicles alone too would be asked to wear face masks. The number of travellers would be restricted to the number of seats in each vehicle. Private organisations, autorickshaw/taxi drivers, people employed in shopping malls, hotel and restaurant staff, school and college teachers and those who attended poll campaigns should be asked to undergo tests. It is learnt that those who attended the meeting raised concerns about the people’s lethargy towards observing the protocols. They stressed the need for going back to the initial days of the pandemic when their enforcement was strictly monitored. Thousands of people had participated in election-related meetings recently. More people are found to be participating in weddings. The number of participants in public events would be controlled in the coming days and it was suggested to upload their details in the COVID portal. A monitoring cell had been formed for the purpose. The meeting also decided to resume the earlier practice of preparing a contact list of those who are infected with the virus. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao told the media that the enforcement machinery of panchayats would be fully involved in the containment activities. More police patrolling teams would be deployed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-travellers-public-events/article34276556.ece
09 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Over a dozen injured in clash at Balussery||Over a dozen workers belonging to both the Congress and the Communist party of India (Marxist) were injured when they clashed with each other at Karumala near Balussery on Thursday evening. The injured persons were admitted to various local hospitals. The police have been deployed in the region to prevent further escalation of the violence. A case has been registered in connection with the incident. The trouble started when workers of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League took out a march at 5.30 p.m. in protest against the murder of Youth League activist Paral Mansoor in Kannur on Wednesday. The slogan-shouting demonstrators were attacked with stones and wooden planks allegedly by CPI(M) workers. The police said that an uneasy calm had been prevailing in the region after Congress candidate and actor Dharmajan Bolgatty was prevented from entering a polling booth at Sivapuram in Balussery constituency on the election day. He had then alleged that a gang of DYFI activists had tried to manhandle him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-a-dozen-injured-in-clash-at-balussery/article34276555.ece
09 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||453 fresh cases, daily TPR 9%||As many as 453 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Thursday. The daily test positivity rate was 9% when 5,272 samples were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 440 locally acquired infections and the source of infection of 10 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 181 cases of local transmission of the infection, Arikkulam 21 and Eramala 13. A total of 391 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload from the district is 5,111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/453-fresh-cases-daily-tpr-9/article34276559.ece
09 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Forum protests against SC remark||The Kerala Dalit Federation (Democratic) has described the Supreme Court’s observation against caste-based reservation as anti-Dalit. A district meeting of the KDF protested here on Thursday against the apathy of the authorities towards preventing atrocities against Dalits. Kerala Dalit Employees and Pensioners Federation State president V. Narayanan inaugurated the meet. KDF district president Sundaran presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-protests-against-sc-remark/article34276563.ece
09 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||BJP warns of backlash against violence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has warned of severe backlash against the post-poll violence unleashed by the CPI(M) cadre across the State. Addressing reporters at Konni on Thursday, he accused the CPI(M) of taking the help of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers and colluding with the State police to unleash violence on BJP workers. In view of continuing inaction by the authorities concerned, the party leadership has decided to resist this violence on its own. “The police have remained mute spectators and are not ready to act against the criminals. If the CPI(M) goes ahead with violence, it will have to face some serious consequences,” he said. ‘Well-planned attacks’ Terming the attacks a well-planned action approved by the CPI(M) leadership, he accused the party of using violence as a tool to cover up its setback in the Assembly elections. Meanwhile, Mr. Surendran sought urgent intervention of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to prevent the “widespread manipulation of postal ballots by the CPI(M).” The system, according to him, lacked transparency and safety as the candidates were often kept in the dark about the facts and figures relating to the postal votes. The ECI should immediately come up with a segment wise break-up of the postal votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-warns-of-backlash-against-violence/article34276608.ece
09 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two boys drown in waterfalls in Ranni||Two 14-year-old boys drowned in the Madatharuvi waterfalls, near Ranni, on Thursday. The dead were identified as Abhijith and Sabari, both eighth standard students and natives of Chethackal. Officials said the boys, along with another friend, were bathing in the waterfalls in the afternoon. On an alert, local people rushed to spot and pulled out the boys. Though rushed to a hospital nearby, their lives could not be saved. The bodies would be handed over to relatives after post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-boys-drown-in-waterfalls/article34276595.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special ward-level vaccination drive||The vaccination of citizens above the age of 45 will be completed within a week in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. In order to achieve this target, the district administration will launch a special vaccination drive at the ward level in collaboration with the departments of Local Self-Government and Health, said Ms. Khosa, while chairing a meeting on Thursday as part of intensifying the efforts to check the spread of the pandemic. Data on eligible citizens will be collected at the ward level. Camps will be organised in locations that are easily accessible to the public, the Collector said. The mobile vaccination facility of the Health Department will be made available wherever necessary. The district administration has decided to strengthen the defence against the pandemic by intensifying COVID-19 testing, strengthening enforcement activities and vaccinating all the eligible citizens at the earliest. Employees of private establishments above the age of 45 should get themselves vaccinated. Model institutions The details should be displayed in front of the establishments as an encouragement to the public, Ms. Khosa said, adding that the monitoring by sectoral magistrates will be strengthened in all areas as part of the measures. Further, the district administration is planning to step up vaccination, COVID-19 tests and awareness programmes under the leadership of ward-level health and sanitation committees. Wards and institutions that achieve 100% vaccination will be declared model institutions. Citizens above the age of 45, irrespective of co-morbidities, had become eligible for COVID-19 vaccination from April 1. District Development Commissioner Vinay Goyal, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) G.K. Suresh Kumar, District Medical Officer Dr. K.S. Shinu and Deputy Director (Panchayats) Thressiamma Antony were among those present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-ward-level-vaccination-drive/article34277137.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hotels, resorts get new RT classification system||Kerala Tourism has ushered in new economic, social and environmental responsibilities under the Responsible Tourism (RT) concept to roll out rejigged RT classifications for hotels and resorts in the State. The State, considered a role model for RT practices, has put in place the new system as hotels and resorts presently follow that of the Union Ministry of Tourism, which is not based on the RT concept. The new criteria, notified by the government, primarily covers economic, social and environmental aspects. In the context of global warming and climate change, they are expected to give thrust to environmental protection activities. Code of conduct Accessible tourism policy, code of conduct for management, staff and visitors, policy against child abuse, efforts towards employment of transgenders and promotion of local arts, culture, cuisine and souvenirs have been given thrust under the socio-cultural responsibility criteria. In the economic responsibility standards, local employment, purchase of local goods and services and support to local entrepreneurs have been given weightage. Energy conservation, water conservation, waste management, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and eco-friendly practices come under the environmental responsibility practices that will fetch good gradings. Via RT Mission Kerala Tourism will implement the new classifications through the RT Mission. As in the case of other categorisations like ayurveda centres, house boats and home stays, Kerala Tourism will remain to be the authority, but the RT Mission will carry out the field-level implementation. Hotels and resorts receiving a score between 250 to 349 out of 1,000 will fetch RT silver grading, 350 to 500 RT gold and 501 and above RT Diamond. Properties that score more than 80% (228) in the environment category will get RT green certification, according to an RT Mission official. An inspection committee has been worked out for the RT classifications. Director of Tourism or his representative will be the Chairman and State RT Mission coordinator or his representative the convener. The environment engineer of the Environment and Climate Change Directorate or his representative, representative of the Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO) and representative of Kerala Travel Mart Society will form the members of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotels-resorts-get-new-rt-classification-system/article34276538.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exams: high focus on safety||The SSLC and Plus Two higher secondary examinations began on Thursday in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. The Plus Two students appeared for the Sociology, Anthropology, Electronic Service Technology (Old), and Electronic Systems papers. Though 4,46,471 students are to take the Plus Two examinations in 2,004 centres, the first day’s papers saw only around 70,000 students reach 933 exam centres across the State. The Science and Commerce papers will begin on Friday. SSLC students sat for the First Language Part 1 paper at 1.40 p.m. As many as 4,22,226 regular students and 990 private candidates are appearing for the exams in 2,947 centres. Students intimated Schools had made arrangements for implementing the COVID-19 protocols strictly. These were shared on students’ WhatsApp groups. Handwash, sanitisers, and masks were made available to students, teachers, and employees. Thermal scanners were used to screen students’ body temperatures. In case of any variation, the students were seated in a separate room. Anjana M., Principal, Carmel Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Vazhuthacaud, said students had been told not to share stationery. Students who were COVID-19 positive had been asked to wear PPE kits. At SMV Government Model Higher Secondary School, Thampanoor, no Plus Two student was to appear for the examinations until Friday. The school had been putting up security personnel in connection with the Assembly elections in all 23 of its HSS classrooms. While 19 had been sanitised by the city Corporation on Wednesday, the remaining four were sanitised on Thursday, Principal V. Vasanthakumari said. VHSE exams from today The VHSE Plus Two examinations will begin on Friday. A total of 28,565 students will sit for the examinations in 389 centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exams-high-focus-on-safety/article34276612.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s case graph rising steadily||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph is rising steadily, raising alarm that the second wave could be imminent in the State. Though in mid-February, the State had managed to bring down the number of active patients to less than 24,000, since March 24, the active case pool has been growing. Hospital admissions have been rising and compared to the past one-and-a-half-weeks, there has been an increase in daily admission by at least 100-200 patients. On Thursday, 759 people were hospitalised while 11,272 persons were newly added to home or institutional quarantine. On Thursday, the State added 4,353 new cases, when 63,901 samples were tested in 24 hours. The cumulative case burden is 11,48,947 cases. TPR 6.81% The test positivity rate (TPR) has also been climbing and registered 6.81% on the day. The active case pool of the State now has 33,621 patients. With 2,205 recoveries on the day, the cumulative recoveries has risen to 11,10,283. The addition of 18 new deaths to the official list of COVID fatalities on Thursday took the cumulative COVID toll to 4,728. Kottayam, Ernakulam and Kozhikode reported three deaths each, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kannur two each, while one death was reported from Kollam. Of the 4,353 new cases, 3,883 are believed to be locally acquired infections. This includes 25 health-care workers. In 173 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States. No history of travel or contact are reported or known in 297 cases. Ernakulam tops Among districts, Ernakulam reported the maximum number of new cases with 654 cases, Kozhikode 453, Thiruvananthapuram 444, Thrissur 393, Malappuram 359, Kannur 334, Kottayam 324, Kollam 279, Alappuzha 241, Kasaragod 234, Palakkad 190, Wayanad 176, Pathanamthitta 147 and Idukki 125 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-case-graph-rising-steadily/article34276616.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Political clashes keep cops alert||The district remained on high alert following a spate of political clashes in the aftermath of the Assembly elections that have kept the police on tenterhooks. Close on the heels of the clash between CPI(M) and BJP workers in Kattayikonam on the day of the polls, the district witnessed violent confrontations in Varkala and Malayinkeezhu late Wednesday. While a Congress worker was allegedly manhandled by CPI(M) workers in Sreenivasapuram near Varkala, at least five people, including a pregnant woman, came under attack in the clash that had broken out between CPI(M) and BJP-RSS workers near Vilavoorkal, disrupting peace in the region. Ongoing feud The incident, believed to be linked to the ongoing feud between the parties in the Kattakkada constituency, saw activists of either parties vandalising properties of their political opponents in Perukavu around 10 p.m. Following an argument that occurred in the area, DYFI workers allegedly barged into the house of an RSS worker, Ajith, and assaulted his five-month pregnant wife and mother. Besides vandalising the house, the perpetrators also damaged an ambulance that was called to transport the injured to hospital. Soon, a group of BJP workers retaliated by vandalising two houses, including one belonging to CPI(M) local committee member Sudheer. While the pregnant woman was undergoing treatment in the Government Hospital for Women and Children in Thycaud, the other injured have been admitted to the General Hospital and other health care centres. While two cases have been registered, 12 people – five BJP workers and seven CPI(M) workers – have been arrested by the Malayinkeezhu police. Kattayikonam incident Meanwhile, the police have dismissed allegations by the CPI(M) that BJP workers had unleashed violence on its workers on the poll day. Contrary to the claims of CPI(M) leaders, including Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, that BJP workers had arrived in two cars to attack a few CPI(M) activists in the area, the police maintained on the basis of CCTV visuals that the vandalised car had been parked on the spot for at least two hours. It was vandalised by a CPI (M) worker after he found NDA’s campaign materials in the car, police sources said, adding that the CPI(M) had not lodged any formal complaint yet. Six CPI(M) workers had been arrested by the Pothencode police. Surveillance has been stepped up in politically volatile areas, including Parassala, Venjaramoodu, Kattayikonam and Kattakkada, with night patrolling too under way. Strike forces have also been kept on alert for any exigencies. Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram range, said peace meetings have been initiated in the violence-hit areas. Criminal activities would be dealt with strongly and in a fair manner, the officer said.  Surveillance has been stepped up in politically volatile areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/political-clashes-keep-cops-alert/article34277133.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sabarimala: Congress moves CEO against Kerala CM||The Congress on Thursday attempted to put Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the dock to face the charge of invoking Lord Ayyappa to seek votes. Kannur District Congress Committee (DCC) president Satheeshan Pacheni moved Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena against Mr. Vijayan. In a petition, Mr. Pacheni alleged Mr. Vijayan had called into political use religious motifs, including Lord Ayyappa, to court voters by appealing to their faith on election day. Vijayan’s claim Mr. Pacheni said Mr. Vijayan had claimed that Kerala gods and deities, including Lord Ayyappa, favoured the LDF government. He had infringed on electoral rules, Mr. Pacheni said. Mr. Pacheni’s complaint was perceived as an attempt on the part of the Congress to deflect the LDF bid to ‘target’ the Nair Service Society (NSS). The LDF claimed NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair violated the organisation’s traditional line of political neutrality by stating the people desired a regime change at the start of the polling. Subsequently, Law Minister A.K. Balan moved the CEO against Mr. Nair on the charge of violating the provision of the Representation of People Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-cong-moves-ceo-against-cm/article34276610.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Follow protocols to check surge||As COVID-19 cases begin to surge in the State, the Health Department is intensifying its Back to Basics campaign across the State, emphasising the importance of the basic lessons of masking, physical distancing and hand hygiene, which had kept the State largely safe during the first wave of the pandemic. The impact of the election campaigning in the past one month, when political party leaders, workers and the public in thousands participated in huge gatherings and rallies, on the State’s COVID-19 case graph would only be seen in the coming days. The Health Department thus reckons that the next three weeks would be quite critical for the State as case numbers are likely to surge. Mask, distance The one variable that could change this impending scenario is public behaviour. Hence it is imperative that people go back to the basic lessons learnt during the pandemic and strengthen the masking and physical distancing protocols to reduce the risk of getting infected . People should ensure that they are always wearing masks in public places. They should maintain physical distancing and ensure that there is no crowding in shops or public places. Hand hygiene should be maintained using soap and water or alcohol-based sanitiser. The police have begun strengthening the implementation of COVID-19 protocols. The State has decided to increase COVID-19 testing, especially RT-PCR tests. The State has also launched an all-out effort to increase the pace of COVID-19 vaccination in the 45 years plus group. The department has directed that anyone who was engaged in election campaigning and experiencing fever or other COVID-19 symptoms, isolate themselves and get themselves tested immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-protocols-to-check-surge/article34277022.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panchayat bags national award||The Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat has been selected for the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar instituted by the Ministry of Panchayati Raj for the second time. The local body has bagged the national award for the best-performing district panchayat for the appraisal year 2019-20. With the addition of the laurel to its kitty, the panchayat has now won the national award twice as well as the State government’s Swaraj Trophy for the best district panchayat thrice during the term of the previous council from 2015 to 2020. Guinness record The district panchayat has become the first local self-government institution to win a Guinness World Record when it organised a karate display by 5,767 school students three years ago. In a statement, the panchayat said its welfare programmes in various sectors, including health care and agriculture, and the utilisation of plan funds paved way for the recognition. The local body highlighted the various steps undertaken through several schemes, including the Aswas healthcare scheme, Padheyam hunger-free project, Snehasparsham scholarship scheme for differently-abled students and the Guinness-winning Raksha project to impart karate training to girls.  The panchayat has now won the national award twice and the State government’s Swaraj Trophy thrice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-panchayat-bags-national-award/article34277120.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sujalam Sulabham: revised rates for tanker water come into effect||The confusion over tanker water charges that triggered a temporary disruption in supply in city areas on Wednesday has been resolved, officials of the City Corporation said. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) had increased the tariff of water supplied to tankers under the Sujalam Sulabham initiative, a joint venture with the Corporation, by 5%. However, tanker operators, who queued up at the vending point at Aruvikkara without being aware of the revision, were denied water for several hours on Wednesday. The new rate for the Sujalam Sulabham tanker supply — Rs. 63 per kilolitre — has come into effect, Corporation officials said on Thursday. ''The revised rates have become applicable for new bookings for tanker supply from Thursday. Earlier bookings are being catered to at the old rate,'' said Binu Francis, secretary of the Corporation. Inconvenience caused The disruption in supply had caused inconvenience to flats, restaurants and other commercial establishments that depend on tanker supplies, especially during the summer months. Corporation officials said that the civic body was not officially informed about the revision. Sujalam Sulabham is a collaborative effort between the City Corporation and the KWA. The initiative is meant to ensure the quality of drinking water supplied through tankers and end unhealthy trends in tanker supply. Under the project, the public can book tankers through the Smart Trivandrum portal, mobile app, Akshaya centres, Corporation health circle offices and main offices. Between 50 and 100 tankers queue up at the vending point in Aruvikkara every day for water, according to the Corporation and KWA officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sujalam-sulabham-revised-rates-for-tanker-water-come-into-effect/article34277123.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Facilities for free shots after spike in cases||COVID-19 vaccines can be taken at 12 primary health centres, two community health centres, two taluk hospitals, and 14 city primary health centres for free from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The move follows inadequate number of people within city limits getting vaccinated despite spike in COVID cases, a statement from the City Corporation said here on Thursday. People above the age of 45 should make use of the facilities to get the jabs in the next seven days to become part of the COVID-19 prevention activities, it said. Those with sore throat, cold or respiratory issues are requited get an RT-PCR test done from the nearest primary health centre. No crowding All residents are urged to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Crowding should be avoided at commercial establishments. Traders above the age of 45 and workers in their establishments should take vaccination. City Mayor Arya Rajendran has directed that COVID-19 protocols must be followed strictly in such establishments.  Those with sore throat, cold or respiratory issues are required get RT-PCR test done||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facilities-for-free-shots-after-spike-in-cases/article34277129.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||236 cases for violations||The police registered cases against 236 people for violating COVID-19 norms in the State on Thursday. As many as 57 people were arrested and four vehicles seized. Cases were also registered against 862 people for failing to wear masks outdoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/236-cases-for-violations/article34277134.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cases cross 400 again||The daily COVID-19 caseload in the district has crossed the 400-mark after a long gap. The district reported 444 new cases and 143 recoveries on Thursday. The district had last reported 400 or more cases on February 10. Presently, the death toll from COVID-19 cases in the district has now risen to 889. Of the new cases reported on Thursday, local transmission accounted for 329 of them, including a health worker. As of Thursday, 16,499 persons were in quarantine in the district. Meanwhile, containment zones have been declared in Veliyannur, Kannampally, Kanyarupura and Konganam in Vellanad panchayat. The containment zone in Parappil in Kallara panchayat has been lifted.  District reports 444 new cases and 143 recoveries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-cross-400-again/article34277138.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Staff test positive, CEO’s office closed for two days||The office of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena has been closed for two days with some members of the staff testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Over the past several weeks, the office, situated in the Legislative Assembly complex, had been busy with the organisation of the Assembly elections in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/staff-test-positive-ceos-office-closed-for-two-days/article34277139.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Democratise Indian literature, says poet||Noted poet and critic K. Satchidanandan has stressed the relevance of “democratising” Indian literature to amplify suppressed voices and broaden the space for dissent. He was speaking while launching the 90th issue of the peer-reviewed journal Littcrit and delivering the 15th P.K. Rajan Memorial Lecture on ‘Indian Literature: A Case for Plurality’ here. P.K. Rajan, the former Vice-Chancellor of Kannur University, was the founding editor of the journal. For total democracy Dr. Satchidanandan said that the country’s literary histories must represent its diversity, religions, races, cultures and languages, and also “make the inaudible audible”. “Minorities, Dalits, tribals, the working class, peasants and the economically-backward sections must all be represented in literature as well as in every spheres of governance to achieve complete democracy. We cannot claim to have one as long as we have only the representatives of the upper classes who claim to speak for the subaltern,” he said. Taking a leaf out of the book of Malayalam poet Vyloppilly Sreedhara Menon who famously referred to poets as the society’s ‘golden opposition’, he said littérateurs were obliged to speak about the failures, inadequacies, conflicts and contradictions within the existing system to achieve a more egalitarian and just society. According to Dr. Satchidanandan, plurality and diversity were being challenged by the governors of the country to construct a “monolithic India”. All forms of plurality, be it ethnic, religious, linguistic or cultural, faced the extreme danger of standardisation, he said. “Literature is a space for democratic politics. Diversity becomes central to any idea of literature, particularly in the case of Indian literature, which consists of several regional and linguistic literatures. Various regional cultures that have all contributed to the Indian culture are being either marginalised or challenged now. Voices of dissent were being continually suppressed. This is a sign of growing authoritarianism in the country,” the poet lamented. ‘Futile attempts’ Pointing out that there have been several futile attempts to deconstruct Indian literature, he said it was one in the making. Similar to India as a whole, Indian literature “is a process, rather than a product.” It could be created only by invoking the several regional cultures, literatures and ways of expression. From the arduous task, a new genealogy and cartography of literature might finally emerge, he added. ‘An endless forest’ Dr. Satchidanandan summed up the vastness of the multi-lingual Indian literature by analogising it to an endless dense forest. Single-language cultures were, contrastingly, akin to pruned gardens, according to him. Kerala University Pro-Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, the chief editor of Littcrit , presided over the programme.  Littérateurs are obliged to speak about the failures and conflicts within the existing system to achieve a just society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/democratise-indian-literature-satchidanandan/article34276550.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poet gets death threat||Poet and lyricist Murugan Kattakada has received a death threat for writing a song celebrating Marxism. The poet reportedly received the threat over the phone on Wednesday night. The source of provocation was the song 'Manushyanakanam', which he had penned for the film Choppu . Complaint lodged The poet has lodged a complaint with the district police chief (Rural) and the cyber crime police sation. In the song, the poet equates Marxism with the right path and universal love that transcends the mundane peaks and valleys of human existence. Big support Meanwhile, various organisations have come out in his support. The DYFI state secretariat said that Kerala was not a state that succumbed to threats from communal forces. Such elements should not dream of silencing cultural activists in the State as they have been doing elsewhere in the country, the DYFI said in a statement, adding that secular Kerala would resist such threats. It called for strong protests against the death threat received by the poet. The Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangham, Manaveeyam unit, took out a march on Thursday evening in support of the poet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poet-murugan-kattakada-gets-death-threats/article34276591.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IGNOU entrance tests on Sunday||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) will conduct entrance tests for management, BEd and post-basic BSc Nursing programmes on April 11 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The test is being organised at 120 examination centres to accommodate 40,170 candidates. The entrance tests are being conducted in Mar Ivanios College, Nalanchira, and S.N. College, Kollam, under the Thiruvananthapuram region of IGNOU. Hall tickets can be downloaded from www.ignou.ac.in. Candidates must report at the exam centre 45 minutes prior to the commencement of the test. Further details can be had by contacting the IGNOU Regional Centre, Rajadhani Complex, Killippalam (Phone: 0471-22344113 or 2344120, e-mail: rctrivandrum@ignou.ac.in).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ignou-entrance-tests-on-sunday/article34277121.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala University to hold examinations||Kerala University will conduct the second-semester examinations of MFA (Painting and Sculpture), on April 19. The examinations were earlier scheduled to be held on March 22. LLB exams The examinations of ‘Jurisprudence’ subject of the second semester (three-year), sixth semester (five-year) LLB (Mercy Chance) in Government Law College will be held on April 12 from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. It was earlier scheduled to be held on October 21 last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-university-to-hold-examinations/article34276597.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Workshop on gender neutrality||The Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, in collaboration with the charitable organisation Kanal Innovations, will organise a free workshop for parents on gender neutrality on April 16. The Alliance Francaise is part of Generation Equality Forum, a civil society-centred movement for gender equality convened by the UN Women. For registration, contact 0471-2320666, 7034988666.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/workshop-on-gender-neutrality/article34277124.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stop release of toilet waste to drain: SHRC||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has directed that release of toilet waste from a private apartment complex near PTP Nagar into a PWD drain be stopped urgently. Acting on a petition by local resident Sarathkumar, commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Corporation secretary and the State Pollution Control Board environmental engineer to take steps in this connection. Reports were also sought from them. The petitioner had alleged that the dirty water being released into the drain was flowing towards his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stop-release-of-toilet-waste-to-drain-shrc/article34277127.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. to launch clean-up drive||The City Corporation will launch its annual pre-monsoon cleaning drive across its 100 wards on April 12. While Mayor Arya Rajendran will formally launch the efforts with a clean-up of the Amayizhanjan canal, councillors will spearhead the activity in their wards. Ward-level suchitwa committees will coordinate the efforts undertaken by the Corporation’s health wing and the council. In a statement, the Mayor appealed to city residents to observe “dry day” on one day of each week by refraining from littering in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-launch-clean-up-drive/article34277132.ece
09 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elephant tramples tribal man to death||A tribesman was found to have been allegedly trampled to death by a wild elephant in Palode on Thursday. According to the Palode police, Sadanandan (60) of Venkolla was found dead in the Sasthanada forest around 8 a.m. He went missing after he had left his house on Wednesday afternoon apparently to collect betel leaves. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-tramples-tribal-man-to-death/article34277135.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. cyber group targets Anil K. Antony||KPCC media cell convenor Anil K. Antony appeared to have fallen afoul with an arguably influential pro-United Democratic Front (UDF) social media group called Congress Cyber Team (CCT). The CCT claims to be a pro-Congress online propaganda powerhouse. It portrays itself as the cyber storm troopers of the Congress and the party’s most vigorous online election campaigner in 2021. The group insists that it has garnered more than one crore ‘likes’ for its political messaging and has a following that runs into lakhs of netizens. The CCT focuses on the use of videos and memes to promote Congress among voters. Post elections, the CCT turned its ire against Mr. Anil, son of Congress veteran A.K. Antony. It accused Mr. Anil of belatedly setting up a digital war room and losing the battle for social media’s soul to political detractors. Vilification campaign Recently, Mr. Anil had stated that the CCT had commenced an internet campaign to vilify him. Scores of Facebook collectives supported the Congress. The CCT was one among the many. The CCT could not usurp the status of the KPCC’s official page. Mr. Anil said the KPCC in 2019 had evolved a code of cyber conduct and ethics. Sashi Tharoor, MP, had formulated the rules.  The CCT denied that it had moved Mr. Anil for official recognition. It said Mr. Anil was at a loss to formulate or guide the KPCC’s social media campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-cyber-group-targets-anil-k-antony/article34276605.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-version of PSC Bulletin released||The e-version of the Kerala Public Service Commission’s (PSC) official publication the PSC Bulletin was released by PSC chairperson M.K. Sakeer on Thursday. Bulletin editorial board chairperson M.K. Reghunathan became the first subscriber. PSC member R. Parvathi Devi received the subscription amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-version-of-psc-bulletin-released/article34276613.ece
09 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur shifts gear, enters Pooram mode||With the election fever dying down, for now, Thrissur has switched to the Pooram mode. Though the COVID-19 pandemic injected a dose of unpredictability into the proceedings, organizers have started preparations for a full-fledged celebration, comprising all rituals. Though the Health Department has flagged a possible spread of the pandemic, the organizers have gained permission from the higher-ups, including the Chief Secretary, for conducting Pooram. Pooram exhibition too will be arranged as usual with manual ticket counters. Preparations are in full swing at Thiruvambadi and Paramekkavu Devaswoms, the main organisers of Thrissur Pooram. The eight other participating temples too are making arrangements. Finishing works are going on for the elephant accoutrements, colourful parasols, fireworks and the mammoth Pandals. The schedule The Pooram falls on April 23 this year. Sample fireworks will be held on April 21. Exhibition of elephant accoutrements will be held on April 22. Main fireworks will be conducted early in the morning on April 24. The concluding session — the Upacharam Cholli Pirayal — will be held by April 24 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-shifts-gear-enters-pooram-mode/article34276596.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Zooming in on a faceless system||Early on in Nayattu , we see police officer Maniyan (Joju George) reluctantly manufacturing evidence against someone, following orders from a prominent politician. By the practised ease with which he goes about this act, we know that this is not the first time he is doing it, neither would it be the last. "Even goons have the freedom to not take up quotations they don't want to. The police do not have that," he tells rookie police officer Praveen Michael (Kunchacko Boban), revealing his helplessness. But, when it becomes inconvenient for the system, it won't take long for it to turn the hunt against those who were once their hunters. Maniyan, Praveen and female cop Sunitha (Nimisha Sajayan) are forced to go on the run after they realise that the police, due to political pressure, is trying to frame them in a case in which the circumstantial evidence is against them. Inner workings In his fourth film, Martin Prakkat attempts to lay bare the inner workings of the law and order machinery, and looks at how political ramifications of high-profile cases and media narratives can shape the final outcomes, as per the script written from the top. Shahi Kabir, a civil police officer, who wrote the screenplay for Joseph brings his knowledge and experience of working in the department to the table. A considerable part of the initial half is spent in telling us the personal backgrounds of the three police officers. Two of them are from Dalit backgrounds and all three are not economically well-off. Maniyan has invested all his hope on his young daughter, but is constantly concerned that he is never present for her when she needs him. All these details would come to play a key role in the narrative later. At the centre of the conflict is Sunitha’s complaint against one of her relatives, a local ruffian associated with a Dalit political group. In the police station, things get out of hand but political pressure again saves the day for the goon. But even when the script seems to have good intentions, some of the scenes at this point have a possible implication that the laws empowering Dalits are somehow being misused, which is not true considering the number of cases of Dalit oppression still being reported. Dark mood Other than this misstep, the film stays firmly on the side of those who are fighting a losing battle against the system. Taking a shift from the flashy presentation and upbeat mood of his previous films, Prakkat chooses a darker mood, which sits well with the hopelessness that pervades the film. The viewer is also immersed in this world with the trio, feeling every ounce of the fear and anger they experience. But the rather ambiguous epilogue may leave more questions than answers in the mind of some viewers.  Nayattu is a convincing portrayal of the mercilessness of a faceless system, where the hunters could become the hunted before they even realise it. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/convincing-portrayal-of-the-mercilessness-of-a-faceless-system/article34276552.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The heat is on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-heat-is-on/article34276554.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Picture of neglect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/picture-of-neglect/article34277020.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Precautions taken||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/precautions-taken/article34276593.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Eleventh-hour effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eleventh-hour-effort/article34277126.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Long wait is over||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/long-wait-is-over/article34277146.ece
09 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephant’s death triggers anger||Tusker Ambalappuzha Vijayakrishnan, 51, owned by the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) died on Thursday. Its death provoked a huge outpouring of grief and anger. After the elephant died on the Ambalappuzha Sree Krishna Swamy temple premises in the morning, animal rights activists and devotees accused the TDB of ill-treating it, denying it rest and proper medication. People who thronged the temple alleged that the animal had suffered at the hands of mahout. They did not allow the carcass to be taken to Konni for post-mortem examination, demanding action, including against TDB officials. ‘Fitness’ certificate The elephant, popular among devotees, had been unwell for some time. Last month, in spite of suffering a “severe injury” to its leg, the elephant was taken to a temple in Kollam to be paraded in a festival, after being granted a fitness certificate by a TDB veterinarian. However, the elephant was brought back following interventions by animal rights activists. It was alleged then that the injury on its leg was inflicted by the “poking with a metal instrument.” It is learnt that the elephant’s condition worsened two days ago. Sally Varma, Animal Welfare Board of India’s nominee member for the captive elephant management committee in Alappuzha, said the lax attitude of the Devaswom authorities had led to the elephant’s death. “The Devaswom allowed the elephant’s parading at Thevalakkara last month in spite of the injury, allegedly inflicted by the mahout. The Devaswom veterinarian surprisingly gave a certificate that said the elephant is fit to be paraded. After the matter was raised with the forest officials, the elephant was shifted back, but it was probably too late,” Ms. Varma said. ‘Introspection needed’ She said introspection was needed on the captivity of elephants. “The death of Ambalappuzha Vijayakrishnan is an opportunity for us to look at the way we (mis)treat our elephants. Forcing elephants to perform actions unnatural to them will hurt both the animal and humans in the long run. It is high time we ended the practice of keeping elephants in captivity,” Ms. Varma added. Officials with the Kerala Forests and Wildlife Department said that the cause of the elephant’s death could only be ascertained after receiving the post-mortem report. Mahouts suspended TDB president N. Vasu said that an investigation would be conducted into the elephant’s death. “We have suspended two mahouts of the elephant after finding a strong prima facie case against them. Besides, G. Baiju, Deputy Commissioner (Haripad), TDB, has been temporarily relieved of his responsibilities. Further action, if needed, will be taken based on the probe report,” Mr. Vasu said, adding that some people had created unwanted problems in connection with the elephant’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elephants-death-triggers-anger/article34276323.ece
09 April 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||A repoll for 11 voters!||A gaffe in the ballot papers forced the district authorities to conduct a re-poll for the first 11 voters at the Saakuru Gunnepalli polling station in Amalapuram mandal in East Godavari district on Thursday. After the first 11 voters exercised their franchise in the MPTC and ZPTC elections, the authorities detected that the details of the candidates printed on the ballot papers mismatched. ‘Mix-up’ “Following a mix-up, the first 11 voters have been given ballot papers of some other polling station. Polling has been stopped for a few minutes,” East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu . “The bundle of 25 ballot papers contained the details of candidates of some other polling station,” said Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik. “The bundle in question has been seized. The first 11 persons who already cast their vote have been allowed to exercise their franchise again on the correct ballot papers,” Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said, and added that polling resumed within a few minutes of detecting the faux pas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-repoll-for-11-voters/article34277082.ece
09 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second century terracotta Ganesh idol found||A terracotta sculpture of Ganesh dating back to the Satavahana period in 2nd Century AD was found during an exploration by a team of the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati at Neelakantapuram village in Anantapur district. The team has been exploring the site to collect data for compiling the history of the village for the past one month. Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravathi CEO and archaeologist Emani Sivanagireddy, in a statement, said Srinivas, a resident of Neelakantapuram near the Pothugundu Dinne in Madakasira mandal, chanced upon the sculpture on Thursday. The sculpture measuring 6 cm x 4 cm x 1.5 cm, was probably made by a potter well-versed with the iconography, said Mr. Sivanagireddy. Describing about the features of the sculpture, he said Ganesh is seated in ‘Lalitha Asana’ (flexible posture). An an art historian of the College of Fine Arts, Karnataka Chitrakalaparishad, in Bengaluru, has confirmed that it is an image of Ganesh, and it was probably created during the time when the Brahmanical images were taking forms. He also cites a reference from the Gathasaptasati compiled by Hala, a Satavahana emperor. Mr. Sivanagireddy said the head of the sculpture is elephantine without any headgear. It has two hands, a distinctive feature of the Satavahana period. The proboscis is turned towards the right side, another unique feature of the same era. Iconography The ears, hands, and legs of the sculpture are broken, probably due to the constant tilling of the land. Based on the iconography, style of art, and delineation, Mr. Sivanagireddy said, the sculpture dates back to the 2nd Century AD. A similar terracotta Ganesh from the same period was found at Veerapuram in Kurnool district. The find in the Kurnool district was reported by the Birla Archaeological and Cultural Research Institute in the early 1980s. At Neelakantapuram, Mr. Sivanagireddy also found some polished red ware dating back to the Satavahana period, which he said, like the Ganesha sculpture, were hand-made using levigated clay, and were baked or burnt well in a kiln.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-century-terracotta-ganesh-sculpture-found-at-neelakantapuram/article34277068.ece
09 April 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||58.07% votes polled amid minor violence in Anantapur||Sporadic incidents of minor violence were witnessed during the ZPTC and MPTC elections in Anantapur district on Thursday as the voter turnout remained low at 58.07%. Polling was held for 62 ZPTC and 782 MPTC seats in the district and of the total 22,83,065 voters, only 13,25,748 people exercised their franchise. The polling in the Kurnool district, however, remained peaceful, with a poll percentage of 60.28%. Elections were held for 36 ZPTC and 484 MPTC seats. At Regatipalli village in Dharmavaram Assembly Constituency, some YSR Congress Party workers allegedly attacked Jana Sena Party’s State political committee member Chilakam Madhusudhan Reddy’s house in the afternoon and damaged the windshield of his car. Jana Sena Party Rayalaseema affairs in-charge Nadendla Manohar, in a statement, condemned the attack and alleged that the YSRCP workers threatened Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy’s wife Chayadevi. TDP workers ‘threatened’ The Telugu Desam Party alleged that their party candidate’s agents were forcibly sent out of the polling booths, and Bharatiya Janata Party’s agent Narayanaswamy was allegedly manhandled at Venkatathimampuram village in Dharmavaram mandal. At some places in Kanaganapalle mandal, the TDP polling agents were allegedly threatened and sent out of the polling booths, the party leaders alleged. The polling began at a slower pace in the morning and not much enthusiasm was seen among the voters in the villages. After 1 p.m., a few people were seen at the polling booths. However, voters were seen standing in queues at pooling booths in the afternoon. Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu visited several booths and supervised the pooling process. Polls peaceful in Kurnool In Kurnool district, 9,38,379 persons exercised their franchise with Allagadda mandal recording the highest percentage of 74.42, while Velugodu recorded the lowest of 40.94%, Collector G. Veerapandian said. Elections were held for 36 ZPTC and 484 MPTC seats in the district. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli praised the police personnel for ensuring that there was no violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5807-votes-polled-amid-minor-violence-in-anantapur/article34277066.ece
09 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu seeks votes to ‘protect sanctity of Tirupati’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday said that the voters’ verdict in the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection was crucial not only to “protect the sanctity of Tirupati” but also to decide the “future of Andhra Pradesh.” Embarking on a week-long marathon election campaign in the Assembly segments of Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, the TDP supremo addressed a roadshow at the temple town of Srikalahasti, after formally initiating the door-to-door campaign through the temple streets. Blaming the YSRCP government for the series of attacks on Hindu temples in the State, Mr. Naidu appealed to the people to give victory to the TDP, “which alone can protect religious harmony in the State.” Terming the government as “mafia rule,” he said the Chief Minister and his coterie was resorting to smuggling of sand, cheap liquor scandal and extortion of money from prospective entrepreneurs. In just two years of rule, Mr. Jagan had thrown the state into debt trap, he said. He also alleged that the government was ruthless towards the Opposition parties, particularly targeting the TDP leaders and intimidating them with false cases. Mr. Naidu said the government had betrayed the people on issues such as SCS, Amaravati, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Kadapa Steel Plant, Visakha Railway Zone, Polavaram project, HNSS and GNSS schemes, and special package to Rayalaseema. TDP’s Tirupati candidate Panabaka Lakshmi and party Srikalahasti in-charge B. Sudheer Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-seeks-votes-to-protect-sanctity-of-tirupati-and-future-of-state/article34277081.ece
09 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People got disillusioned with Modi, Jagan: Chinta||Former Minister and the Congress nominee for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection P. Chinta Mohan on Thursday said that the people of the State have got disillusioned with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In Tirupati, while taking part in a whirlwind campaign, Mr. Chinta Mohan said people have got disillusioned with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for its ‘anti-poor’ policies and enthusiasm in privatisation of the public sector units. “Mr. Jagan is continuing as CM because of the judiciary’s mercy. The YSRCP is distributing money to win the byelection,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-got-disillusioned-with-modi-jagan-chinta/article34277069.ece
09 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor district sees 61.3% polling||The elections to the 419 MPTCs and 33 ZPTCs in Chittoor district recorded a voter turnout of 61.34 % on Thursday. The notification for the polls was issued in March last year and the YSRCP candidates were elected unanimously in 30 ZPTCs and 433 MPTCs. The polling took off on a dull note in the morning as only 24% turnout was recorded by 11 a.m. The footfalls at the booths increased gradually. By 1 p.m., the poll percentage went up to 41%. The voting picked after 2 p.m. In Yadamarri mandal, a minor clash between the YSRCP and the TDP activists was reported. Voters reportedly boycotted the polls in Gudipala mandal under Kuppam Assembly constituency. The impact of the TDP’s call to boycott the election was visible in the district, with no presence of the party cadres at the polling stations. SP S. Senthil Kumar said that 5,900 police personnel were deployed on bandobust duties, apart from maintaining a strict vigil on the inter-State border checkposts to prevent flow of money and liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-records-613-voter-turnout/article34277070.ece
09 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raids unearth stale food in several hotels in Guntur||Several popular restaurants in the commercial areas in Guntur city and the surrounding municipalities have been found to be serving stale food and kitchens operating in unhygienic conditions. These glaring irregularities have been unearthed following a series of raids by joint teams of food safety, legal metrology and the Guntur Municipal Corporation. The teams also raided several premises of oil mills, ghee factories, fuel stations and booked cases against those violating the norms. District Collector Vivek Yadav said that stringent action would be taken against hotels serving stale food and operating in unhygienic conditions. The Collector, who reviewed the cases on Thursday night, said that the cases under the Food Safety Act, Pollution Control Board Act, Industrial Safety Act, Trade Licenses Act and Town Planning Act would be registered against the violators. “Those having any grievance can directly call up 1902 and register their complaints. We will take stringent action against the violators and will not spare anyone,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. In Guntur, the teams raided Barkas Hotel in Brodiepet, Hotel Sindhoori, Siddharth Hotel, Tomatoes and Anjaneya Restaurant and levied fines for storing stale food. The teams raided Ganesha Oil and Cake at Lalapet and seized 450 kg of oil worth Rs. 60,000. The teams which raided Barkaas Mandi found that there was no trade licence and nearly five kg of stale food was stored in the kitchen. The team also found five kg of stale food in Hotel Sindhoori and destroyed it with the help of an assistant food controller. Units sealed The teams raided Venkata Sri Lakshmi Traders and found that the firm was not having D & O licence and not following COVID-19 norms and not maintaining sanitary conditions. The premises was sealed. The premises of Shambhavi Enterprises was also closed as the firm did not have a trade licence. The teams also raided the premises of Sudheer Ghee Industry in Mangalagiri and seized 945 kg of oil worth Rs. 1.28 lakh and vanaspathi worth Rs. 1.48 lakh and recommended action under the Food Safety Act. In Narsaraopet, the teams raided Kanaka Durga Industries and seized 480 litres of oil. Several samples were collected from oil mills operating in Narsaraopet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raids-unearth-stale-food-in-several-hotels-in-guntur/article34277176.ece
09 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good news for movie buffs on the eve of Vakeel Saab’s release||Cinema halls wishing to make a fast buck on eve of the release of Pawan Kalyan’s film ‘ Vakeel Saab ’ on Friday were put on check following the orders from the district administration disallowing any enhancement in the rate of tickets. Several cinema halls and multiplexes in the district had applied to collect enhanced rates of up to Rs. 400 per ticket. A few hours before the film was to hit the screens, Joint Collector P. Prasanthi issued the orders asking the cinema halls not to collect any enhanced rates, and follow all COVID-19 protocols while screening the films. In the district alone, 49 halls had represented to the administration to allow them to enhance rates under two slabs – one for the first three days beginning April 9 and another for a period of 11 days beginning April 12. While dismissing their contention that the enhanced rates would offset the losses suffered during the lockdown in 2020 and enhanced power rates, the Joint Collector said, as the large number of movie-goers belonged to the poor and middle class sections, the proposal to collect three times the usual ticket price was not judicious, and the enhanced rates would be out of reach of the common people. A representation filed by Challa Haripratap of Guntur said that cinema halls were collecting three times the existing rates and not providing necessary comforts for the viewers. The interests of poor and middle classes would be affected if the halls collect enhanced rates, he said. The Joint Collector also said that the hall proprietors had not produced any evidence to support their claim that they were among the petitioners in the WP No. 19046/2014 batch. Further, even as the applicants claimed that they had filed the appeal on March 8, it was received at the Collector’s office only on March 26. They had also allegedly submitted false claim before the High Court that they obtained orders on March 20, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-news-for-movie-buffs-on-the-eve-of-vakeel-saabs-release/article34277172.ece
09 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moderate turnout in Guntur dist.||A moderate turnout of voters in rural areas marked the end of polling for ZPTC and MPTC elections held on Thursday. Guntur district recorded a polling percentage of 57.25. Of the total number of 20.11 lakh voters, only 11.51 lakh turned up to exercise their franchise. The polling however was free from major incidents. District Collector Vivek Yadav inspected polling at several mandals in Prathipadu constituency. The Collector inspected polling at Kakumanu, Pedanandipadu villages. Superintendents of Police, Vishal Gunni and R.N. Ammireddy also inspected the polling at various stations. Durgi mandal recorded the highest poll percentage of 70, followed by Edlapadu (66 per cent). The ballot boxes have been stored at CR College in Chilakaluripet. Mr. Vivek Yadav monitored the shifting of ballot boxes till late in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moderate-turnout-in-guntur-dist/article34277174.ece
09 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP corporator dies of COVID||Senior YSR Congress Party leader and corporator of sixth division, Padarthi Ramesh Gandhi, died at a hospital in Hyderabad on Thursday. Mr. Gandhi was infected with COVID-19 and was shifted to Hyderabad recently. A senior leader who began his innings with the Congress, Mr. Gandhi served as city Congress president for a long time. He later moved into the YSRCP and was a keen contender for Mayoral post in the recent elections. The party had decided to reward him by elevating him as Mayor for the two and a half year period after Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu’s term. Mr. Gandhi, had been actively campaigning for the party in the elections. However, on the day of swearing in ceremony, he developed sickness and was rushed to a private hospital in Hyderabad. He was soon put on a ventilator and succumbed on Thursday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy condoled the death of Mr. Gandhi and assured that the party would support the family. Home Minister M. Suchaita, Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu, party general secretary Lella Appireddy condoled the death of Mr. Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-corporator-dies-of-covid/article34276358.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Realtor strikes gold and silver in Pembarthy||There was a frisson of excitement in Pembarthy village of Jangaon after a real estate developer struck a pot filled with gold and silver ornaments in his 11-acre plot of land abutting the Warangal-Hyderabad NH-163. Images of the mud covered ornaments became viral with wild claims about the weight and provenance of the gold and silver ornaments. “The pot was discovered in the night and the news came out in the morning. We took custody as per the Act at 1 p.m.,” said Jangaon Additional Collector A. Bhaskar Rao who took custody of the treasure under the Indian Treasure Trove Act-1878. “The gold ornaments weighed 187.45 grams while the silver ornaments weighed 1.2 kilograms and they are being shifted to Treasury Office in Warangal,” the official said. After the earthmover struck the pot tearing it up, word spread in the artisanal village which is known for brass and silver handicrafts. According to sources, Narasimha, the plot owner, said the gold belonged to God. Immediately after the discovery of the treasure, the villagers cracked open a coconut and lit joss sticks on the ground at a depth of about four feet. “We learnt about the ornaments and jewellery and they appear to belong to Ammavaru (Goddess) as there are kalu kadiyalu (anklets), pustelu (necklace worn by married women) jhumkalu (ear-rings) and kireetam (crown),” said Ayla Rajesh of the Pembarthy who moulds similar jewellery. “They appear heavy unlike the modern ornaments which are like thin plates,” said Mr. Rajesh. In the panchanama, officials’ inventory included 22 earrings weighing 77.220 grams, 51 gundlu weighing 57.800 grams, 11 pustelu weighing 17.800 grams, padigelu weighing 13 grams, and small gold sticks weighing 24 grams. They also found 1.227 kg of kadiyalu , five silver chains weighing 216 grams, 21 silver rings weighing 242 grams, and 37 silver pieces weighing 42 grams. Apart from gold and silver, seven rubies ( pagadalu ) and a copper pot weighing 1.2 kg were also found. An inscription of a Kakatiya date was also found under the pond embankment, lending credence to the theory about the jewellery belonging to Kakatiya era (12-14th century A.D.) The Treasure Trove Act provides a 100-year caveat to prove ownership of the treasure. Department of Heritage Telangana officials were closeted with district officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/realtor-strikes-gold-and-silver-in-pembarthy/article34277001.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana HC sets aside punishment to 3 officials||Allowing the contempt appeal petitions filed by three officials, the Telangana High Court on Thursday set aside the punishment awarded to them for disobeying a single judge order on a writ petition pertaining to land acquisition for the Mallannasagar reservoir of the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project. The High Court, however, directed the officials — Collectors of Siddipet and Rajanna Sircilla districts P. Venkatrami Reddy and D. Krishna Bhaskar respectively, and Siddipet Revenue Divisional Officer Jayachandra Reddy — to deposit in the court the fine amounts and costs imposed on them. The orders were passed by a Bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy after hearing contentions of Advocate-General B.S. Prasad appearing for them. In a judgment on February 21 on a ‘contempt of court’ petition, the single judge awarded simple imprisonment of three months and four months to the Siddipet Collector and the RDO respectively. The two officials were also imposed fine of Rs. 2,000 each. The Collector and the RDO were instructed to pay Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 50,000 towards costs to petitioners. The Rajanna Sircilla Collector was imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000. When the arguments began, the Chief Justice asked the AG why the authorities had not given copies of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) in Telugu to villagers of Vemulaghat, whose lands were being acquired for Mallannasagar, as directed by the single judge. The AG, citing the affidavit filed by one of the villagers Tirupati, said Telugu DPR copies were supplied. “Did you take a receipt from the villager?” the CJ asked. When the AG said no receipt was taken, the Bench wondered how the authorities did not think of keeping a receipt for record sake since they were complying with the order of a HC judge. The CJ further wanted to know from the AG if the affidavit of Tirupati, who conceded that he was given a Telugu DPR, was taken to the notice of the single judge in the contempt of court plea. Mr. B.S. Prasad said it was not done since he did not appear before the single judge in the contempt of court matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-hc-sets-aside-punishment-to-3-officials/article34276311.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Begum Bazaar traders to shut shop by 5 p.m. from today||In the wake of the rising number of COVID cases in the State including Hyderabad, Begum Bazaar, the hub of wholesale and retail trade in the city, will be closed by 5 p.m. starting Friday. This was announced by the Hyderabad Kirana Merchants’ Association at Begum Bazaar on Thursday. Onus on traders Mahesh Kumar Gupta of the association said that the shops will be open from 9 a.m. and shutters will be pulled down by 5 p.m. and the same was instructed to the traders. This self restriction to contain the spread of the deadly virus came days after the State government announced that lockdown would not be imposed in Telangana again. “The decision is for the safety of traders, their employees and customers,” he said. Earlier, the business hours of Telangana State’s biggest wholesale market was between 10.30 a.m. and 9.30 p.m. Mr. Mahesh Kumar asked fellow traders to ensure physical distancing at their establishments and always wear a mask. “If a customer or employee is not wearing a mask, ask them to wear it, and if they don’t have it, provide one,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/begum-bazaar-traders-to-shut-shop-by-5-pm-from-today/article34276516.ece
09 April 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lady SI with infant draws attention at polling station||A woman sub-inspector of police was in the news for successfully discharging her professional obligation even while rendering justice to her role as a nursing mother. Vara Lakshmi, sub-inspector of Disha Police Station, was the cynosure of all eyes when she came with her six-month-old infant to for duty at a polling station in Chilamakur village in Yerraguntla mandal of Kadapa district on Thursday, where the MPTC, ZPTC elections were held. Holding the baby in her hand, Ms. Vara Lakshmi stood guard at the allotted queue line. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan appreciated the lady sub-inspectore for playing an exemplary role of a mother as well as a police officer on poll duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lady-si-with-infant-draws-attention-at-polling-station/article34277074.ece
09 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||62% polling recorded in East Godavari dist.||East Godavari district has witnessed 62.13% polling in the MPTC/ZPTC elections conducted for the 61 ZPTCs and 1,000 MPTCs on Thursday. According to an official release, 18.61 lakh voters have exercised their franchise out of the total votes of 29.87 lakh. The polling has been completed peacefully, except a few minor incidents reported from Konaseema region. In the East Godavari Agency, the polling was conducted peacefully without any untoward incident in the Maoist-affected region. Security personnel were deployed at the strong rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/62-polling-in-e-godavari/article34277071.ece
09 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One injured in stone pelting||One person was injured in a clash between the supporters of the YSRCP and the Jana Sena Party (JSP) at Pedapatnam Lanka under Nagaram police station limits in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. The incident took place while polling was in progress for the MPTC and ZPTC elections. “Trouble broke out when the YSRCP supporters tried to prevent distribution of cash among the voters allegedly by the JSP workers. One person received minor injuries in stone pelting,” the police said. Polling continued peacefully amid deployment of additional forces, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-injured-in-stone-throwing/article34276315.ece
09 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth’s selfie with ballot paper goes viral||East Godavari Collector and District Election Officer D. Muralidhar Reddy on Thursday declared a vote invalid after a voter took a selfie with his ballot paper inside the polling booth and shared it online during the MPTC, ZPTC elections at Pallamkurru polling station in East Godavari district. The young voter, identified as Kasi Venkata Ramana of Pallamkurru village took the selfie before dropping the ballot paper in the ballot box. The photograph, in which his choice of vote is displayed, went viral after he uploaded it on online platforms. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said the vote cast by Mr. Venkata Ramana had been declared invalid for violating the Model Code of Conduct under the Panchayat Raj Act 1994. A case has been registered against the youth for violating the election guidelines. According to officials, the youth denied taking the photograph of his ballot paper when questioned by the the Presiding Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youths-selfie-with-ballot-paper-goes-viral/article34277083.ece
09 April 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime Branch takes over probe into Kannur murder||The Crime Branch has taken over the investigation into the murder of Mansoor, 22, a Muslim Youth League (MYL) activist, at Peringathur in Koothuparamba in the district. Mansoor, a resident of Chokli Pullukkara, was killed in a clash around 8 p.m. on Tuesday, the day of polling. District Police Chief (Kannur City) R. Ilango on Thursday said a 15-member Crime Branch team would investigate the case. He was speaking to reporters after peace talks called by District Collector T.V. Subhash at the District Collectorate. Crime Branch Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP) Ismail would be in charge of the investigation, Mr. Ilango said. 11 booked, one held He said the police had booked 11 people, suspected Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers, in connection with the case. They were absconding. On Wednesday, the police registered the arrest of Shinos, a suspected CPI(M) worker and neighbour of Mansoor. He was handed over to the police after being caught by the people from the spot of the crime. The police would be able to ascertain the provocation for the murder only after more arrests in the case, Mr. Ilango said. The United Democratic Front (UDF) boycotted the peace talks demanding impartial probe by the police. It also demanded immediate arrest of those involved in the crime. Mansoor was attacked by a group of more than a dozen people, who also hurled bombs, the police said. Though Mansoor was rushed to a hospital at Thalassery and later to a hospital in Kozhikode, he succumbed to his injuries around midnight. The police said the post-mortem report attributed the youth’s death to injuries sustained in the bomb blast. His brother Muhsin was also injured in the attack and is undergoing treatment in a Kozhikode hospital. Muhsin was the UDF agent at a booth here. During polling, there was a clash between Indian Union Muslim League and CPI(M) workers at Mukilpeedika. Muhsin said the assailants had targeted him, but Mansoor was injured when he tried to save him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-branch-takes-over-probe-into-kannur-murder/article34276317.ece
09 April 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila to address public meet today||Political circles in the erstwhile composite Khammam district are abuzz with excitement over “Sankalpa Sabha”, the public meeting scheduled to be addressed by Sharmila seeking to bring “Rajanna Rajyam” (pro-poor and welfare regime) to Telangana, in this fort town on Friday. The public meeting, according to the admirers of former Chief Minister of the erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh late Dr Y S Rajasekhar Reddy (YSR), would prove to be a turning point in Telangana’s politics as late YSR’s daughter Ms Sharmila is expected to announce the launch date of her new political party at Sankalpa Sabha. Ms Sharmila had extensively toured the old undivided Khammam district during her “Maro Praja Prasthanam”, a State-wide walkathon, in 2013. The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) headed by Mr Jagan Mohan Reddy, now the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, had won one MP and three MLA seats in the old undivided Khammam district in the maiden Assembly elections in Telangana in 2014. However, the YSRCP suffered a setback following the switch over of the four elected representatives of the party to the ruling TRS, subsequently. Ms Sharmila’s scheduled visit to Khammam, considered as the political nerve centre of south Telangana, on Friday is being viewed as a well-crafted strategy to mobilise the admirers of YSR to carry forward “YSR’s legacy.”Meanwhile, outlining the arrangements for Friday’s Sankalpa Sabha, former YSRCP Telangana State president K Raghava Reddy told newsmen here on Thursday that the stipulated COVID-19 safety precautions will be strictly followed during the public meeting slated for 5 p.m. on Friday. He said Ms Sharmila will take "Sankalpam" under the aegis of her mother Ms Y S Vijayamma to take forward YSR’s legacy and usher in “Rajanna Rajyam” in Telangana. He slammed the TRS government for allegedly failing to deliver on its promises to unemployed youth and other sections of society. He charged the BJP-led Central government with meting out a raw deal to Telangana in all spheres of development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-to-address-public-meet-today/article34276324.ece
09 April 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sandeep has revealed shocking facts: Kerala||Kerala government submitted before the High Court on Thursday that the statement of Sandeep Nair, one of the accused in the diplomatic baggage smuggling cases, revealed shocking facts about the criminal acts of the suspects in a case registered against the officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The submission was made by the counsel for the State government when the petitions filed by P. Radhakrishnan, Deputy Director, ED, Kochi, against the registration of two separate first information reports (FIRs) based on a complaint from Sandeep Nair and two women police officers came up for hearing. ‘False evidence’ Counsel for the government submitted that the investigation into the complaint of Nair had revealed heinous offences of attempt to fabricate false evidence against senior members of the State’s political executive at the instance of the ED officials. A perusal of Nair’s statement would reveal that the date, time, place, nature and substance of his complaint were materially different from the facts and allegations of the first FIR. No further details could be disclosed as the investigations were at a nascent stage. However, the statement could be placed in a sealed cover before the court, the counsel submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sandeep-has-revealed-shocking-facts-kerala/article34276312.ece
09 April 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polls peaceful in South Coastal A.P.||Amid the poll boycott call by the main opposition Telugu Desam Party, elections to the Mandal and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies were held in a peaceful manner in south coastal Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. About 51% of the voters exercised their franchise in the polls held in Nellore and Prakasam districts, in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols in the wake of spurt in cases in the region. In Nellore district, 51.87% of 13.38 lakh voters exercised their franchise. The polling percentage in Prakasam district was put at 50.88%, the officials said. Braving the scorching heat, people, wearing face masks and maintaining social distance, waited in queues at polling stations as the health workers scanned their body temperature with thermal scanners. The voters were also provided with hand sanitiser to clean their hands before they were allowed to the booths. “We took all precautions, including sanitising of polling booths and supply of face masks and sanitisers in view of the spurt in COVID cases. The polling remained peaceful,” said Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, after overseeing the elections to 34 ZPTC and 366 MPTC seats through webcasting. A repoll has been ordered at Penugodu in A.S. Peta mandal as the ballot box was submerged in a water body after a clash between the YSRCP and the BJP activists. Meanwhile, Nellore district CPI secretary Ch. Prabakar demanded a re-poll at Nelaballi-Retapalli village, alleging that the party symbol was wrongly printed on the ballot paper. Strict surveillance Police made elaborate bandobust as the personnel ensured a strict surveillance through drones cameras, body-worn cameras and CCTVs. No untoward incident was reported from 2,194 polling stations, including 223 hyper-sensitive and 351 sensitive booths, set up for elections to 41 ZPTC and 367 MPTC seats in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polls-peaceful-in-south-coastal-ap/article34277072.ece
09 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CM tests positive for COVID-19||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Though he appeared to be asymptomatic, as a matter of caution, the Health Department advised that he be moved to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital (MCH), where a medical board would be put in charge of his treatment. Two of Mr. Vijayan’s family members, his daughter and son-in-law, too tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier in the week. Mr. Vijayan was engaged in hectic election campaigning all of last month. He got the first dose of the vaccine in the first week of March. While vaccination might not prevent all infections, even one dose affords a certain level of protection against serious disease, health officials said. Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Kerala posted 4,353 fresh cases on Thursday, the biggest spike in recent days. Andhra Pradesh crossed the 2,500-mark for infections, the highest in five months. It reported 2,558 new infections and six more deaths on Thursday. The test positivity rate for 31,268 samples was 8.18%, the highest since mid-October. In the light of the rising cases of COVID-19, seven urban centres across Karnataka, including Bengaluru, will be under 10-day ‘night corona curfew’ between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. from April 10 to 20. The curfew will be in place in Bengaluru city, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Bidar, and Udupi-Manipal. Bengaluru reported 4,422 cases, and the Health Department said it would test one lakh people a day. The Karnataka incidence on Thursday stood at 6,570 cases, and death toll at 36. Health Minister K. Sudhakar chaired a review meeting on this.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cm-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34276328.ece
09 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Humans can’t be equated with god: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said that a human will always remain a human and can never become a god. It is wrong to presume that he is above or equal to the Almighty or himself is a god. His statement assumes significance in the backdrop of the former Tirumala chief priest A.V. Ramana Deekshitulu purportedly characterising Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy as another incarnation of Lord Maha Vishnu, a couple of days back at Tadepalli near Vijayawada. In another apparent dig at Mr. Deekshitulu, he said it was unfortunate to reinstate a person who had levelled baseless allegations with regard to the loss of pink diamond. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, he said that such acts deeply hurt the religious sentiments of the devotees associated with the Tirumala deity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/humans-cant-be-equated-with-god-naidu/article34277087.ece
09 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP flays Deekshitulu for ‘Vishnu’ comment||Tirumala chief priest A.V. Ramana Deekshitulu was at the butt of severe criticism by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for his alleged recent comment equating Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy with Lord Vishnu. In his tweet that has gone viral, BJP’s State co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar accused Deekshitulu of having ‘insulted the God Himself’. The tweet said: “Ramana Dikshithulu, by calling an On-Bail CM (who breeds pastors that call God Balaji a Saitan) an incarnation of Vishnu, you’ve insulted the God himself & crores of his devotees. With your boot licking of an anti-Hindu family, you removed sanctity of Pradhan Archak post in TTD”. Mr. Deodhar also added an undated photo of the Chief Minister getting blessings at a church, along with that of the chief priest. Though the tweet got over 1000 likes and 500 retweets within an hour, it nevertheless incurred the wrath of the twitterati for bordering on personal vilification. Similarly, BJP State spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas, in a video released to the media, decried that the chief priest had let down the faith of crores of Hindus by equating a person with the Almighty. “He might have chosen to thank the CM for the favours received, but not in this manner. It seems he has adorned the YSRCP flag and become the party spokesman,” he remarked. Paripoornananda reacts Chittoor Staff Reporter adds: meanwhile, Sri Peetam pontiff Swami Paripoornananda condemned the alleged observations of Mr. Deekshitulu. Speaking to the media along with BJP leaders at Tirupati, he termed the act of comparing a human being with the divine incarnation as “a big sin.” He said, in the past also some political leaders took pride comparing their might with the divine, but this tendency would only lead to one’s destruction. He said Mr. Jagan should answer three questions: “Why the government is afraid of bringing the TTD under the ambit of the Right to Information Act? Why the government is afraid to publish a White Paper on the assets and jewels of Lord Venkateswara? When Endowments Minister V. Srinivas himself had announced that 375 temples were under dilapidated conditions, is it not the responsibility of Mr. Jagan to protect the Hindu temples?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-flays-deekshitulu-for-vishnu-comment/article34277088.ece
09 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents of two hamlets stay away from parishad elections||Villagers of L.N.D. Peta and Paidipakala boycotted the ZPTC and MPTC elections on Thursday, urging the officials fulfil their demand first. Elsewhere in the Agency area in West Godavari district, polling was conducted peacefully. Demands At L.N.D. Peta, the villagers stayed away from the process demanding that their habitation be declared as a non-Agency area. The villagers had boycotted the recent gram panchayat elections as well. “The villagers of L.N.D. Peta have not been participating in the gram panchayat elections for the last few years,” said R.V. Suryanarayana, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer. “About 300 families are residing in L.N.D. Peta, and most of them are non-tribal. A hamlet can be considered non-Agency area only through a Constitution amendment. They have been boycotting the elections despite being explained the procedure involved,” he said. Only three tribal families affected by the Polavaram project are staying at Paidipakala. They have been seeking new R&R package in spite of receiving the old one. About 70% voting was registered in the Polavaram, Buttaigudem, Kukunur, Velerupadu and Jeelugumilli mandals. The overall polling percentage in the Agency areas of the district was about 65, said Mr. Suryanarayana. “The elections have been conducted peacefully. We have shifted the ballot boxes to the strongrooms arranged at Jangareddygudem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/residents-of-two-hamlets-stay-away-from-parishad-elections/article34277093.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 2,500 new cases, six deaths recorded in State||A day after crossing the 2,000-mark, the State's COVID infection tally crossed the 2,500-mark, the highest in past five months. The State reported 2,558 new infections and six more deaths in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. It was the highest single-day tally since November 6 last year. The daily positivity rate of the 31,268 samples tested was at 8.18%, the highest since mid-October. In other words, eight in every 100 persons tested positive in the past day. The overall positivity rate of 1.533 crore samples tested was 5.97%. The cumulative tally increased to 9,15,832  and the toll reached 7,268. The death rate slightly cae down to 0.79%. The recovery rate also came down to 97.58% with a total of 8,93,651 recoveries so far. The active cases tally was close to 15,000-mark as in the past day, 915 patients recovered leaving 14,913 under treatment. One death each was reported in Guntur, Krishna, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. Chittoor has again reported close to 500 cases. Nine districts reported more than 100 new infections in the past day. They include Chittoor (465), Guntur (399), Kurnool (344), Visakhapatnam (290), Nellore (204), Srikakulam (185), Prakasam (153), Krishna (152) and Anantapur (131). The others include Kadapa (94), East Godavari (58), Vizianagaram (46) and West Godavari (37). Also, Chittoor's active case tally crossed 2,500-mark and reached 2,535. Apart from it, two other districts including Guntur (2,231) and Visakhapatnam (2,024) have more than 2,000 active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,25,587), West Godavari (94,663), Chittoor (92,205), Guntur (80,525), Anantapur (69,031), Nellore (64,398), Visakhapatnam (63,577), Prakasam (63,185), Kurnool (62,497), Kadapa (56,379), Krishna (51,892), Srikakulam (47,367) and Vizianagaram (41,631).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-2500-new-cases-six-deaths-recorded-in-state/article34277079.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor tells NDC officers about key aspects of A.P.||A group of senior officers from the National Defence College (NDC) on Thursday met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. The officers were from the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force, Indian Coast Guard, Indian Audit and Accounts Service and Defence officers from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, undergoing the 61st Course on ‘National Security and Strategic Studies’ at the NDC, New Delhi. The group of 20 members, led by Major General Manoj Kumar and faculty of the NDC, is a part of the 107-member group undergoing the 11-month course. Their visit to the State is part of the course programme. Addressing them, the Governor said that Andhra Pradesh had been consistently ranked No. 1 in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in industrial promotion. The State had the longest eastern coastline and was gifted with abundant natural resources. “AP is a land of renowned temples and monuments with rich cultural and traditional history dating back to the Buddhist period,” Mr. Harichandan informed them expressing the hope that the visit would be an enriching experience for the members. Air Commodore Vikas Sharma briefed Mr. Harichandan about the course programme. Secretary to the Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-tells-ndc-officers-about-key-aspects-of-ap/article34276359.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan asks beneficiaries to elect YSRCP in Tirupati byelection||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has written letters to the families that benefited from various welfare schemes and are residing in the areas forming part of the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, appealing to them to vote for M. Gurumurthy, the YSRCP candidate in the byelection, in appreciation of the government’s performance in the last 22 months. The letters contained a list of all the welfare schemes / initiatives the families have benefited from since the YSRCP came to power. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy dwelt on his party’s development plank by highlighting various schemes and the focus laid by his government on the welfare of women, farmers, progress in the medical and education sectors, social justice measures. He also mentioned the development of towns and villages, an official release said. The letters had nothing against any opposition party and were limited to showcasing the government’s development and welfare initiatives. YSR Sunna Vaddi, YSR Asara, Jagananna Vasati Deevena, Jagananna Vidya Deevena, YSR Cheyutha, YSR Pension Kanuka, Jagananna Amma Vodi and Pedalandariki Illu were among the schemes the Chief Minister emphasised on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-asks-beneficiaries-to-elect-ysrcp-in-tirupati-byelection/article34277090.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fish feed rake sent from Gudivada to Assam||Growel Feeds Private Limited, based at Chevuru village in Krishna district, successfully loaded fish feed in a mini BCN rake of 21 wagons and despatched it from Gudivada to Changsari in Assam on April 7. It is the first-ever rake of floating fish feed transported from Vijayawada division to another State. A total of 1,338 tonnes of fish packed in standard dimension bags were loaded in 21 covered wagons. The consignment fetched Rs. 29.86 lakh for the railway division. According to an official release, fish feed is traditionally transported to the northeastern States by road at an approximate cost of Rs. 7,500 per tonne over a distance of 2,138 km. At Rs. 2,125 per tonne, the cost in rail transit is 74% less than that incurred by road transport. Earlier, mini rakes (21 wagons) were permitted only up to a distance of 1,500 km between different zones. The Railway Board relaxed the rules recently and is now permitting inter-zonal transport of mini rakes beyond 2,000 km till June 31, 2021 to expand its freight basket. Divisional Railway Manager P. Srinivas complimented senior divisional commercial manager P. Bhaskar Reddy, senior commercial inspector (Gudivada) V. Bhagavan Naik and their team for initiating this new stream of traffic for the railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fish-feed-rake-sent-from-gudivada-to-assam/article34277180.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM interacts with PM on COVID situation||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday participated in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with Chief Ministers on the prevailing COVID-19 situation. In a review meeting that followed, Mr. Jagan ordered that at least six lakh people should be vaccinated every day in the State during Vaccination Utsav to held from April 11 to 14. He directed the officials to focus on vaccination drive now that the elections were over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-interacts-with-pm-on-covid-situation/article34277182.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handbooks on countering human trafficking released||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan released a set of five handbooks on ‘Countering Human Trafficking’ brought out by an NGO, Prajwala, at the Raj Bhavan here on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Harichandan said that the menace of human trafficking should be tackled with a victim-centred approach. ‘A useful tool’ He said that the handbooks will be helpful to duty-bearers and stakeholders, including judicial officers, prosecution officers, child welfare committees, labour department officers and civil society organisations in the State as a useful tool in the prevention and tackling of human trafficking. The motive Mr. Harichandan appreciated the efforts of Ms. Sunitha Krishnan and her team at Prajwala for their pioneering work on anti-trafficking and related crime with the motive of ‘prevention, protection, rescue, rehabilitation & re-integration’. Secretary to the Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handbooks-on-countering-human-trafficking-released/article34277080.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC to call candidates for interviews||In accordance with the High Court orders, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has decided to call 14 candidates for the oral test (interviews) scheduled to be held on April 15, for the post of lecturers in Government Degree Colleges in AP Collegiate Education Service. The relevant documents including the call letter (memo), check-list, attestation form, non-creamy layer certificate and deformity certificate (if required) for provisionally qualified candidates are available on the Commission's website https://www.psc.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-to-call-candidates-for-interviews/article34277075.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Sathya Sai Seva Mandir anniversary||Special service activities marked the 38th anniversary of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Mandir at Sitarampuram here on Thursday. Sri Sathya Sai Baba had inaugurated this branch of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation (SSSSO) in April 1983 amidst Vedic rituals. As part of the celebrations, ‘Narayana Seva’ (offering cooked food/meals) was rendered to 400 people such as sanitation workers, destitute and small businessmen. The SSSSO volunteers also distributed 126 umbrellas and footwear to the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-sathya-sai-seva-mandir-anniversary/article34277178.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smart health cards for transport staff||Deputy Transport Commissioner, Krishna district, M. Purendra, on Thursday urged the department employees to make use of the smart health cards issued by the government to enable them to utilise the health services offered by the corporate hospitals. Addressing the employees after distributing the smart health cards to them, he said unlike in the past when the employees had to first pay for a medical treatment and later claim reimbursement, they can now directly use the smart health cards without any cash component. Transport Department Employees’ Association Zone-2 president M. Raju Babu said the gazetted and non-gazetted employees of the department were paying a monthly premium of Rs. 300 and Rs. 225 respectively. Using the smart health cards, they could benefit from the modern medical equipment available in the corporate hospitals. He said the list of the diseases and ailments for which treatment was offered by the corporate hospitals was available on the department website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-health-cards-for-transport-staff/article34277177.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No ticket price hike for ‘Vakeel Saab’||Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha has said that no permissions for special shows and a hike in ticket prices for the movie Vakeel Saab have been given by the government and violators will be booked. The movie will release on Friday. Ms. Latha said that all the theatres should collect only existing ticket prices and any sort of hike or sale of tickets in black have been prohibited. Those found violating the norms will be booked, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-ticket-price-hike-for-vakeel-saab/article34276356.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets death penalty for killing pregnant wife||Mahila Sessions Court Judge G. Prathibha Devi awarded the death penalty to Bathula Nambiar alias Sujith, who killed his wife, Sailaja (29) by setting her ablaze. The incident occurred in Krishnalanka in June, 2019. Sailaja, a school teacher, was six months pregnant. According to the police, Sujith, native of Jonnapadu in Gudivada mandal in Krishna district, married Sailaja of Koduru mandal in December 2018. The couple was staying at Fakirugudem. Sujith was working as lecturer in a college in Gudivada. The accused started harassing his wife for additional dowry. On June 15, 2019, Sujith doused her with petrol and set her ablaze when she was asleep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-death-penalty-for-killing-pregnant-wife/article34276361.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPTC, ZPTC elections in district see 65% voter turnout||Elections to the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies (MPTC) and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies (ZPTC), held in the district on Thursday, witnessed a voter turnout of 65.25% as of 5 p.m. The elections were held in 39 mandals of 10 Assembly constituencies in the district. While polling was held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. in 28 mandals in the rural areas, it was held only from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. in 11 mandals of Paderu revenue division in view of the Maoist threat. The Pendurthi Assembly constituency, which has three mandals of Pendurthi, Parawada and Sabbavaram, saw the highest average turnout of 79.70%, followed by Bheemunipatnam Assembly constituency, which has Anandapuram, Bheemili and Padmanabham mandals, at 75.01%. The average polling percentage of Anakapalle and Chodavaram Assembly constituencies was 62.81% and 68.16% respectively. The Narsipatnam Assembly constituency reported 73.30% turnout while Payakaraopeta Assembly constituency recorded 64.35% polling. Pendurthi mandal recorded 84.07% voting as of 5 p.m. — the highest among the 39 mandals. Voting dull in Agency The Paderu Assembly constituency, comprising five mandals of Chintapalli, G.K. Veedhi, G. Madugula, Koyyuru and Paderu, reported the least polling percentage of 48.48% in the district. The Araku Assembly constituency reported 57.90% turnout. The Maoist hotbed of G.K Veedhi reported a turnout of 40.04%, which is the least not only in the Agency but also in the entire district. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the MPTC/ZPTC elections were held peacefully without any irregularities in the district. He inspected a polling booth at Sabbavaram area on Thursday morning and interacted with voters and enquired about the polling arrangements at the centre. “To facilitate easy voting, the administration ensured that polling centres are located close to voters’ homes. Despite hot weather, a large number of elderly and physically-challenged persons came forward to cast their vote. All COVID-19 precautions were taken,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mptc-zptc-elections-in-district-see-65-voter-turnout/article34277189.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases cross 2,000-mark||The district recorded 290 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 64,139 as of Thursday morning. With the death of one more person due to COVID-19, the death toll rose to 554 in the district. This was the eighth death reported this month. For the first time since the first week of November 2020, active cases in the district breached the 2,000-mark and stand at 2,082. On March 1, 2020, the number of active cases in the district stood at only 24. Within 40 days, they rose to 2,082. With the discharge of 109 more persons who were affected by COVID-19, the total number of recoveries has increased to 61,503. From April 1 till date, the district has reported 1,800 new COVID-19 cases. On an average, 225 new cases per day and one death has been reported every day. Health Department officials are on their toes due to the steep rise in cases. Nearly 7,500 tests are being conducted in the city every day, they said. The city and district police are conducting awareness drives urging the public to wear face masks at major junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-cross-2000-mark/article34277193.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppose land sale, Ayyanna urges people||TDP veteran and former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Thursday appealed to the people and leaders of north Andhra to oppose the sale of government lands on Beach Road in the city. In a video message on Thursday, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu expressed concern at the ‘nonchalant reaction’ of the people and ruling party leaders of the region to the issuance of tenders by the YSR Congress government for auction of invaluable government lands. “This would come in the way of undertaking development activities in future and deprive future generations of development,” he said. The former Minister alleged that while the city of Vizag was being put up for sale, there seemed to be hardly any public outcry over the situation. He alleged that a ruling party leader has grabbed a large chunk of private land, Simhachalam (Mansas) land and Prema Samajam land. He also alleged that the government is supporting the proposed sale of land belonging to Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The lands proposed to be sold along the Beach Road at 18 different places, spread over 17 acres, would rake in about Rs. 1,500 crore to the State exchequer. The lands were being sold to fill the empty coffers of the State as the Chief Minister could not think of any other means to fund his welfare programmes, he said. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said that neither the people nor the Ministers and MLAs from the region were keen on taking the issues to the notice of the Chief Minister. Similarly, the privatisation of VSP would harm the interests of lakhs of people. He lamented that the people voted for the YSRCP in the local body polls despite knowing fully well the role of the ruling party behind the VSP privatisation move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppose-land-sale-ayyanna-urges-people/article34277185.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre unconcerned about farmers’ pleas’||AITUC State president Ravula Ravindranath has ridiculed the Centre for reducing labour laws into four Labour Codes allegedly to benefit employers. Mr. Ravindranath inaugurated the seventh day of the relay hunger strike being organised to oppose the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, at Gandhi statue near the GVMC building here on Thursday. Addressing the protesting workers, Mr. Ravindranath alleged that the Centre was trying to hand over the nation’s public assets to corporate firms as part of which it was planning to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Railways, BSNL, oil sector and defence. “The Centre has brought out three Farm Laws to benefit the corporate groups while depriving farmers of their rights,” Mr. Ravindranath added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-unconcerned-about-farmers-pleas/article34277187.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU extends last date for applications||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for submission of fresh admission applications to April 15 for the January 2021 session, without any late fee. Regional Director (I/C) G. Dharma Rao in a release on Thursday said that the university has issued a notification to this effect. Admissions are open for all the Diploma, PG Diploma, Graduation and Post-Graduation courses in ODL mode. Admissions can be taken through a web link available on the IGNOU websitehttps://ignouadmission. samarth.edu.in/. He also said that the list of programmes and other guidelines are given on the website. For more details, students can visit www.ignou.ac.in or contact the Visakhapatnam Regional Centre via email on rcvisakhapatnam@ignou.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ignou-extends-last-date-for-applications/article34277191.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-LTT express to be cancelled till May 30||East Coast Railway has announced the cancellation of 08519 Visakhapatnam-Lokamanya Tilak (LTT) special express from April 9 to May 30 in view of safety-related modernisation works in Solapur Division of Central Railway system. In the return direction, 08520 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Visakhapatnam special express, leaving LTT (Mumbai) from April 11 to June 1, will be cancelled. Special trains from Vizag to Delhi will be diverted to facilitate non-interlocking works, related to laying of third line along with Electrification between Kolanur-Potkapalli stations on Kazipet–Balharshah section of South Central Railway. Visakhapatnam-New Delhi-Visakhapatnam (02805/02806) is proposed to run on a diverted route via Vizianagaram, Rayagada, Titlagarh, Raipur, Gondia and Nagpur to its destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-ltt-express-to-be-cancelled-till-may-30/article34277190.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transasia opens facility at AMTZ||Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd. on Thursday announced the formal inauguration of its state-of-the-art medical devices manufacturing plant at the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) here. The largest of its kind facility in Asia spread over 35,000 sft will manufacture ErbaLisa COVID-19 IgG ELISA test kits, RT-PCR kits and rapid test kits for India and other emerging markets. The new facility was virtually inaugurated by Minister for Industries, Commerce and IT Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) chairperson P.D. Vaghela, Scientific Secretary to Principal Scientific Adviser, Government of India, Arabinda Mitra, Special Chief Secretary to Government (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valven, in the presence of MD and CEO of AMTZ Jitendra Sharma, founder and chairman of Transasia-Erba International Group of Companies Suresh Vazirani and vice-president, R&D Reagents, Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd. Manoj Chugh.  The new facility has been set up with an initial investment of over Rs. 30 crore. The integrated facility with an annual capacity of 2 million molecular and serology test kits has face recognition systems, cold rooms, storage areas, clean rooms of BSL-II/BSL-III grade, large lyophilizers, protein purification equipment, advanced QC equipment and automated machines. The facility will significantly reduce India’s current import dependence for such testing kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transasia-opens-facility-at-amtz/article34277186.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good response to 3K run at zoo||The 3K run organised at the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) on the occasion of ‘National Zoo Lovers Day’ received a good response here on Thursday. Nearly 180 people including youth and elderly persons took part in the run. IGZP curator Nandani Salaria said that the event was organised to give animal and zoo lovers a chance to get close to nature and wildlife at IGZP on the occasion of National Zoo Lovers’ Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-response-to-3k-run-at-zoo/article34277194.ece
09 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension in border areas as Odisha leaders oppose polls||Tension prevailed in Kothia villages located on the A.P.-Odisha border with strong objection from Odisha public representatives over conducting ZPTC and MPTC elections in “disputed” villages. Biju Janata Dal’s Koraput district president Eswara Chandra Panigrahi, Jeypore Congress MLA Taraprasad Bahinipati, Koraput MLA Raghuram Padal and others objected the Andhra Pradesh government’s move to conduct elections in Pattu Chineru, Paguni Chineru, Neradivalasa, Eguva Shemi, Tonam and other villages. They, along with their supporters, staged a protest in the villages and asked the polling officials to stop the process immediately. There was a tussle between A.P. and Odisha officials, and police personnel in those villages of Saluru mandal of Andhra Pradesh. Saluru MLA P. Rajanna Dora threatened that the government would file a case against the Odisha leaders . Saluru CI Appala Naidu, tahasildar Srinivasa Rao and others monitored the process and asked the Odisha laders to settle the issue legally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-in-border-areas-as-odisha-leaders-oppose-polls/article34277085.ece
09 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voters show little interest in polls||The MPTC and ZPTC elections witnessed lacklustre polling in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Thursday. The voters had shown little interest in the elections, and the huge drop in polling percentage when compared with the recent panchayat and municipal elections vouched for it. In Vizianagaram district, while the polling percentage in ZPTC and MPTC elections was 66.81, it was 85 in panchayat elections and 72.89 in the municipal elections. In Srikakulam district, while the polling percentage in the parishad elections was 58.37, it was 81 in the panchayat elections and 71.44 in the municipal elections. One of the main reasons for such a scenario was the decision of the TDP, the principal opposition party, to boycott the process. Confusion over the conduct of the elections and scorching heat also led to low voter turnout. Till about a decade ago, the political parties had fought the elections vehemently to retain their presence in the villages. In the elections conducted in 2014, the YSRCP too proved its strength. Though the TDP leadership decided to stay away from the process, those who had already filed their nominations favoured to continue in the fray. The presence of the BJP, the JSP and the CPI(M) was confined to only a few seats. With not much of Opposition presence, the YSRCP leaders were confident of winning majority seats. Election were held for 31 ZPTC and 494 MPTC seats in Vizianagaram district. The voter turnout was minimal in all the 1,879 polling stations in the district. The situation was similar in Srikakulam district with voters showing little interest in all the 38 mandals. Almost all the 2,288 polling stations, where polling was conducted for 37 ZPTC and 590 MPTC seats, wore a deserted look after noon. There were no untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voters-show-little-interest-in-polls/article34277084.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM: State can’t afford another lockdown||Officials of the Health, Medical & Family Welfare Department told the Chief Minister that there were 66 COVID hospitals and 22 COVID care centres in the State. He directed them to make beds available in hospitals immediately when COVID-infected persons ask for them through toll-free number 104. He also wanted enough stocks of Remdesivir injection to be maintained for treating those who fell seriously ill due to COVID. Besides, there should be no dearth of COVID medicine kits required by those in home isolation. Reviewing the progress of infrastructure works taken up in hospitals under the Nadu-Nedu programme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said funds should be released without inordinate delays and that the YSR Health Clinics be painted with vibrant colours and all facilities stipulated by the government are provided. Medical colleges Officials told the Chief Minister that acquisition of land for the establishment of eight medical colleges was completed and it was in progress for another eight colleges. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted the construction of all the 16 medical colleges to begin by July 1. He further directed the officials to evolve a foolproof procedure for releasing the hospital development funds whenever required and not to impose the task on the medical superintendents. He said ‘hospital managers’ could be appointed for taking care of non-clinical issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-state-cant-afford-another-lockdown/article34277183.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going green||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/going-green/article34277106.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sneak peek?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sneak-peek/article34277092.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Following precautions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-first/article34276332.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus tally in State touches 2,000 mark||There seems to be no respite from the virus as the daily count of COVID cases crossed the 2,000 mark in Telangana on Wednesday (April 7) after a gap of about seven-and-a-half months. A total of 2,055 persons tested positive during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on April 7. The number of active cases too, crossed 13,000 and stood at 13,362 on Wednesday as the total cases reached 3,18,704. According to the bulletin issued by the Public Health Department on Thursday on the status of COVID cases, 303 persons were declared recovered taking the total recoveries to 3,03,601. Fatalities up With seven more deaths reported due to COVID on Wednesday, the total number of fatalities has gone up to 1,741 as the case fatality rate in the State stood at 0.54% against 1.3% at the national level. The recovery rate, which was over 98.8% in February-end, is also coming down slowly with the increasing number of cases as it stood at 95.26% in the State against 91.7% (97.1% on February 28) at the national level. The hospitalised cases also crossed the 5,000 mark after a long gap and stood at 5,099 as on April 7 out of the 13,362 active cases with another 8,263 persons who tested positive for coronavirus staying in home or institutional isolation. Among the COVID in-patients, 3,662 were admitted in private hospitals and 1,437 in government hospitals. The High Court has been asking the State government to increase the number of RT-PCR tests to at least 70% of the total tests being done every day, as their proportion is understood to be only about 20% now. A total of 87,332 samples were tested on April 7 for COVID and reports were awaited for 4,457 samples. GHMC records 398 cases Of the positive cases reported on Wednesday, nearly 40% were from the GHMC and its surrounding areas – 398 in GHMC, 214 in Medchal-Malkajgiri and 174 in Rangareddy. While Nizamabad district reported 169 cases, Nirmal recorded 100 and Jagityal recorded 99 cases. Cases were in single digits only in Mulugu, Narayanpet, Mahabubabad and Gadwal districts and in the remaining 23 districts, these were between 10 and 77.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/virus-tally-touches-2000-mark/article34276970.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 2,000 and 25 kg. rice to private teachers||Private teachers and other staff working in recognised educational institutions will get a monthly government assistance of Rs. 2,000 and 25 kgs of free rice from fair price shops in view of distress caused to their livelihood by closure of institutions on account of COVID 19. The Rs. 2,000 will be provided with effect from April till the reopening of institutions. This was announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with the rider that the teachers and staff will have to make application to district Collectors for the purpose along with their bank account information and other particulars. The Chief Minister nstructed Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy, Backward Classes Welfare Minister Gangula Kamalakar, Chief Advisor to government Rajeev Sharma to hold a video conference with District Collectors, District Education Officers and District Supply Officers on Friday to discuss the guidelines for implementation of the action plan. A release said the decision was taken by government on humanitarian grounds. About 1.5 lakh teachers and other staff working in recognised private educational institutions will benefit from this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-2000-and-25-kg-rice-to-private-teachers/article34276992.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Way almost cleared for Amberpet flyover’||The much-delayed flyover works at Amberpet are likely to start again with most of the land acquisition completed, save for seven structures including a couple of religious structures and private properties. Once the underground utilities like water pipelines are relaid and high-power electric cables are shifted, the piers construction could begin, according to Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy. Talking to the media after inspecting the area along with officials on Thursday, the Union Minister said the Centre had already agreed to do the entire project estimated at Rs. 500 crore upwards from start to finish and had also agreed to share cost of land acquisition as well as shift of utilities like power lines, water pipelines and others. While the work has been proposed originally when he was local MLA, he took it up more seriously after he had joined the Union Cabinet and had communicated with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao and officials concerned with most of the 250-odd properties taken over. Mr. Reddy explained that the road widening work project was taken up from Chaderghat to the Singapore Township yet, the stretch near Sriramnagar could not be taken up due to graveyards on either side of the road. After several consultations with the previous governments, a decision to construct a flyover at Amberpet was taken. The project received a fillip when Union Minister Nitin Gadkari was invited to lay the foundation stone for the same but the work got delayed due to funds crunch and need for properties acquisition though the Centre had offered to bear part of the cost, he said. The Union Minister shared that the Centre would also bear the cost of Rs. 2.64 crore for shift of power lines and Rs. 8 crore for pipelines shift and called for speedy clearances from the departments concerned. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) had already given the permissions, it was yet to be obtained from the TS Central Power Distribution Limited (TSCDPCL). He also appealed for cooperation from people living in the area as the traffic would have to be diverted to take up the works. Coordination meetings are necessary among officials drawn from various departments to ensure that the works went on a war footing. He would hold another high-level meeting of all concerned including GHMC, R&B department, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Traffic Police and others. Another road widening work till the Uppal metro rail station from Ali Cafe had been pending and would also be expedited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/way-almost-cleared-for-flyover/article34276981.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One more solar plant of SCCL synced with grid||Another 15 megawatt capacity solar power plant of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) was synchronised with the grid on Thursday at Mandamarri in Mancherial district, taking the total solar capacity of the coal company linked to the grid to 124 MW. The Mandamarri plant is part of the 300 MW solar capacity planned by the company and is part of the 90 MW plants in the area. Director (E&M) D. Satyanarayana Rao switched on the plant for synchronisation with the grid. Area General Manager of SCCL Ch. Srinivas and others were present. According to the company officials, the solar plants synchronised with the grid so far include 30 MW each at Manuguru and Ramagundam, 39 MW at Yellandu, 10 MW on the thermal power plant (STPP) premises and 15 MW at Mandamarri. Another 85 MW plant would be synchronised by May-end and the remaining 91 MW by October-end. A 28 MW plant also at Mandamarri would be synchronised with the grid next week and the 37 MW plant at Kothagudem and 10 MW at Bhupalapalli would also be completed and synchronised with the grid by May-end as part of the 90 MW plants in the area. Of the remaining capacity, 15 MW floating solar plant was comping up in the water reservoir of STPP, 22 MW plant on the overburden dumps at Ramagundam OC-3, 10 MW on overburden dumps at Dorli OC-1, 11 MW at Chennur and 23 MW at Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-solar-plant-of-sccl-synced-with-grid/article34276995.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Landsharks eyeing govt. colleges’ real estate||Government junior colleges in Telangana are losing their precious resource – land, and also their very existence with landsharks and politicians eyeing them in the name of litigation and development respectively. The latest that has come under attack is the Government Junior College (GJC) Nagarkurnool where the compound wall was demolished by the municipal officials, apparently under direction from the local politicians to accommodate street-vendors in the altered boundaries. This was done without intimating the college administration or the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE), claim the teachers and students opposing the move. This is the not the first incident. Similar attempts were made recently in a government junior college in Yadagirigutta of Yadadri district. Some dwellings have come up within the college boundaries with an apparent motive to gradually occupy the land. However, when the student organisations protested, officials demolished the constructions on the directions of Yadadri Collector Anita Ramachandran. Similar encroachments have also been reported in Achampet, Amrabad, Dindi, amangal, Shadnagar, Wanaparthy, Korutla, Bhongir and several other places in Telangana. Unlike private colleges, government junior colleges have the precious real estate as the respective governments allotted huge chunks of land outside the towns when the land was cheap and available in abundance. Buildings were constructed leaving enough space for playgrounds and auditoriums. With towns expanding, most of these colleges have now become part of the main city. “When Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to make Intermediate education free along with books for all admitted students to strengthen the GJCs, it is unfortunate that some officials and politicians are trying to negate that, eyeing the costly lands,” argues Madhusudhan Reddy, Chairman of Intermediate Education JAC. Pittance as rents Mr. Reddy further says that several government junior colleges have commercial establishments on the periphery of the college land but they were constructed with an aim to improve the finances. Such commercial establishments are now being misused as they continue to pay the rents fixed decades ago despite the commercial value increasing. For example, in Government Junior College Peddapalli and Government Junior College Sultanabad shutters were constructed with the participation of then MLAs to rent out to local businessmen and also to create a revenue source for the colleges. In Government Junior College Peddapali 26 business rooms were constructed and 74 were constructed in Government Junior College Sultanabad in 1993. They were initially rented for Rs. 500 each. But even after 30 years they don’t pay more than Rs. 1,500. “The same in a private building costs not less than Rs. 10,000 each as the towns have grown exponentially and so has the commercial value,” says Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy, who demands that the rental agreements should be reviewed so that money can be used to improve infrastructure in the colleges. The Government Junior Lecturers Association wants the government to protect these lands that can be used for educational purpose as the demand for education in the government sector will only grow with the new initiatives of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government. Efforts to reach out to the Board of Intermediate Education officials proved futile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/landsharks-eyeing-govt-colleges-real-estate/article34276984.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Impose Rs. 1,000 fine for not wearing mask, says KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the police officers to implement the fine of Rs. 1,000 on people not wearing mask in a bid to check the spread of coronavirus. He wanted Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy to instruct the departmental officials to enforce the mask rule strictly. Mr. Rao reviewed the steps taken to tackle coronavirus at a meeting after the Prime Minister’s video conference with Chief Ministers of all States on the pandemic. He asked people in the State to follow all COVID guidelines, including wearing masks, take necessary precautions and be alert to contain the spread of the pandemic. People should be all the more alert in districts with high density of population like Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal to be more alert. The review meeting was attended by Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod, Chief Advisor to government Rajeev Sharma and senior officials of the State government. Mr. Rao instructed the officials to increase tests to screen people for coronavirus as there was a surge in the cases. All frontline workers should be vaccinated cent per cent. The entire process should be completed within a week. In a telephonic talk with Mr. Mahender Reddy, Principal Panchayat Eaj Secretary Sandeep Sultania, Principal Municipal Administration Secretary Arvind Kumar, Principal Transport Secretary Sunil Sharma and GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar, Mr. Rao wanted that the staff in their respective departments be vaccinated cent per cent. The progress of vaccination should be reported to the CMO by departmental heads on a daily basis. Collectors and other district level officers should hold video conference and launch a special drive for vaccinating people. As part of stepping up testing, RTPCR test centres should be set up in Gadwal, Wanaparthy, Khammam, Nirmal, Mancherial, Kamareddy, Sangareddy, Medak, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Ramagundam, Bhongir, Jangaon and Vikarabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/impose-rs-1000-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-says-kcr/article34276982.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘RT-PCR for flyers from other States can curb second wave’||Why cannot the State government explore the idea of making RT-PCR test mandatory for air passengers coming from other States witnessing high rate of COVID-19, the Telangana High Court asked on Thursday. Hearing a batch of PIL petitions on coronavirus related subjects, a Bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said that such measures would help effectively check the second wave of COVID lashing the State. “You need to seriously think of it,” the Bench said. The HC Bench noted that States such as Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir had already initiated similar steps. The Bench noted that with 20% of RT-PCR tests to its credit, Telangana was lagging far behind other States. The government should swing into action to reach 70% of RT-PCR tests as suggested by the Central government. Pointing out lack of some details in the status report presented by Public Health director Srinivasa Rao, the Bench sought a fresh status report by April 15. Expressing concern over availability of adequate stocks of vaccine vials, the Bench said that there should not be any wastage of vials taking into consideration the huge gap in demand and supply. “Each vaccine vial is worth its weight in gold,” the CJ remarked, directing Advocate General B.S. Prasad to furnish details of wastage of vaccine vials in the next status report. Referring to the Central government guideline that vaccine outreach should be extended to rural areas, the Bench wanted the government to present details of the number of people vaccinated so far. Expressing concern over the second wave of coronavirus, the High Court Bench asked the government as to why it was not imposing restrictions on the number of people assembling for marriages and death anniversaries. “In the coming month of May, marriages would be in full blast in view of auspicious days,” the CJ said, adding that lack of restrictions on gatherings was likely to result in spurt of COVID cases. There would be pre-marriage functions also. While there were restrictions on religious places, why not similar rules to control footfall at cinema halls, malls, clubs, pubs and bars, the Bench sought to know. The petitions were then posted to April 19 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rt-pcr-for-flyers-from-other-states-can-curb-second-wave/article34276971.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||B2B meet part of ‘Invest in Afghanistan’ business series||A host of events seeking to strengthen trade relations through interactions as well as people-to-people ties by providing a peek into the country, culture and cuisines were organised by the Consulate General of Afghanistan in Hyderabad. Spread over five days and coinciding with an Afghanistan Food Festival in the city, the programmes included a meeting with well-known Afghan filmmaker Roya Sadat and a master class on Afghan cuisine by chef Fariba and her team from Afghanistan. A buyer-seller meet earlier this week saw signing of 12 MoUs between traders from Afghanistan and their prospective customers in India on items ranging from dry fruits, sun-dried olives, carpets to silver jewellery. A release from the Consulate on the programme said the Blue Pottery and Gem Stone were particularly appreciated by the Indian participants. Consul General Muhammad Suleman Kakar addressed the meeting, while Commercial Head from the Embassy of Afghanistan Mohammad Mansoor Sahak made a presentation and explained growth prospects of investing on the commodities front in Afghanistan, a release from Consulate said. An import/export workshop was organised on Wednesday in which senior officials from the DGFT and FIEO sought to underscore the potential of growing the India-Afghanistan bilateral trade, which now is around $1.5 billion, with much of it coming by way of exports from India. The export basket from Afghanistan is dominated by dried figs, asafoetida, raisin, saffron caraway fennel and onion. The top five items that India exports to Afghanistan are textile, sugar, transmission towers, tobacco and medicines. On Thursday, a B2B meet was organised as part of ‘Invest in Afghanistan’ business series with focus on healthcare, pharmacy, agri-business, infrastructure and information technology. The release said the trade meetings were aimed at building on the strong historical and cultural links between both the countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-promoting-trade-ties-between-india-and-afghanistan/article34276976.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Expedite report on school education: Cabinet panel||The Cabinet sub-committee on improving education and infrastructure in schools on par with corporate sector met on Thursday and urged the officials to expedite the preparation of document for speedy implementation. The sub-committee consisting of Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, Finance Miniser T. Harish Rao, Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod interacted with officials on different initiatives of various State governments to improve education quality in government schools. The committee was constituted as part of the government’s efforts to enhance quality education by spending Rs. 2,000 crore every year. KTR said the government considered strengthening school education as a solid source for offering quality higher education and the new scheme was aimed at that. He said spending was a part of social obligation on the part of the government. The new scheme aims at constructing additional classrooms, new buildings and creating digital classrooms apart from facilities like drinking water and toilets. The committee asked officials to submit the final document at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-report-on-school-education/article34276987.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FCI agrees to procure 80% boiled rice, 20% raw rice this season||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has agreed to procure 80% boiled rice and 20% raw rice from Telangana this rabi (yasangi) season following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s request with it, Chairman of Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation M. Srinivas Reddy has stated here on Thursday. He, however, suggested the farming community not to grow common grade ( doddu rakam ) paddy from which boiled rice is processed, from the next season as the FCI was not willing to procure it. It was unwilling to accept boiled rice from Telangana this season but had agreed after much persuasion. FCI’s reluctance Explaining the FCI’s reluctance to take boiled rice from Telangana, Mr. Srinivas Reddy said the agency used to procure boiled rice from the State for supply in Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Karnataka, Kerala and West Bengal. However, those States were producing required quantities of common grade paddy and as a result the FCI was seeking only raw rice, processed from fine varieties of paddy, from Telangana. Keeping in mind such changing scenario, the farmers were required to grow only those crops which have demand in the market, the TSCSC Chairman said. He further stated that in spite of the financial constraints of the State government, the Chief Minister had agreed to take up paddy procurement this season and the government had given guarantee for borrowing Rs. 20,000 crore by the corporation for the purpose. Procurement centres Mr. Srinivas Reddy stated that the TSCSC would open 6,575 procurement centres to purchase paddy from farmers this season at support price, provided they bring the produce with fair average quality specifications such as maximum moisture content of 17% and chaff up to 3% among others. As on Thursday, a total of 179 purchase centres were opened in Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Khammam and Suryapet districts.  Paddy production Stating that it was only Telangana that was procuring entire paddy produced (brought to market) since 2014-15, the TSCSC Chairman said the government (corporation) had procured 3.93 crore tonnes of paddy till 2020-21 kharif season with a cost of Rs. 68,000 crore. The paddy production this year was estimated to be 2.37 crore tonnes including 1.05 crore tonnes in kharif and 1.32 crore tonnes in rabi. Except the paddy required for local consumption, seed and other needs, the entire produce would be procured by the corporation. Procurement of paddy in kharif (2020-21) was 48.85 lakh tonnes while it could be about around 80 lakh tonnes to 90 lakh tonnes this rabi season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fci-agrees-to-procure-80-boiled-rice/article34276993.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Appointed member||Mr. Giridhar Sriperumbuduru, aka Gary Budoor, has been appointed member of the Missouri Service Commission by Governor of Missouri Michael L Parson till December 15, 2022, in recognition of his community service. He was also elected councilman from Chesterfield city, St Louis, in April 6 election. He won against three contestants with a slender majority of six votes. He did his MCA from OU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appointed-member/article34277112.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Expand fiber project to all households: KTR||Information-Technology and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao has directed officials to consider examining broadband connectivity as a utility and work out a mechanism for extending connectivity to each household in all the towns across the State. Reviewing the Telangana Fiber Grid Corporation (T-Fiber) Board meeting at T-Hub on Thursday, the Information-Technology Minister asked the officials to expand the project to all municipalities across the State and also connect the recently constructed Rythu Vedikas so that farmers can derive benefit from the Internet connection. As part of the project expansion, the Minister directed officials to conduct a survey in GHMC limits and submit a report at the earliest. Officials informed the Minister that by August this year every village would be extended fiber connectivity and works were being executed accordingly. The Minister instructed the officials to commence the exercise of extending fiber connectivity to 30,000 government offices on a priority basis from June this year and as per Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's instructions, all the Rythu Vedikas should be extended fiber connectivity. Five Rythu Vedikas have already been provided connectivity under a pilot project. Information-Technology and Industries Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Mission Bhagiratha Engineer-in-Chief Krupakar Reddy, and T-fiber MD Sujai Karampuri were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expand-fiber-project-to-all-households/article34276985.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor for exhaustive survey on tribal habitations||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has emphasised on the need to conduct an exhaustive survey to identify the community, family and individual based needs of primitive tribal habitations in the State. The survey would help in taking up individual needs based nutritional interventions, she said, directing officials to come up with other infrastructure and development initiatives necessary in these habitations. The Telangana Governor, who is presently stationed in Puducherry, interacted with the people of Pusukunta, a primitive tribal habitation in Dammapet mandal of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, through a video conference organised on Thursday. The conference was attended by the Sarpanch, officials, health workers and other representatives. The participants thanked the Governor for initiating the nutritional intervention programme to improve their nutritional status. Dr. Soundararajan inquired about the welfare schemes and other programmes being availed of by the tribal people in their habitations. She sought to know whether there were any difficulties in accessing these schemes. Responding to the fervent appeal made by the residents, the Governor assured that she would visit the habitation at the earliest. She appreciated the efforts of the Raj Bhavan team led by Joint Secretary J. Bhavani Shankar and the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) Bhadradri-Kothagudem district branch in conducting health camps for children, distributing health and hygiene kits and providing medical services to the Kondareddy primitive tribals of Pusukunta. The team comprised experts from the National Institute of Nutrition, ESIC Medical College and the IRCS. The team later called on the officials concerned and interacted with them about the modalities for the exhaustive survey in another selected habitation of Kondareddy primitive tribes, Gogulapudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-for-exhaustive-survey-on-tribal-habitations/article34276977.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS Grameena Bank net profit up by 76% in FY21||The Telangana Grameena Bank (TGB) for 2020-21 has posted a net profit of Rs. 301 crore, an increase of 75.92% from the Rs. 171.10 crore registered in the previous fiscal. This came on the back of total business increasing 15.63% to Rs. 20,212.97 crore (Rs. 17,480.28 crore). While deposits grew more than 12% to Rs. 10,109.15 crore, advances at Rs. 10,103.82 crore were a little over 19% higher. The Net Interest Margin was 4.08% (-1.34%). Gross NPA increased to 2.25% (2.08%), while net NPA declined to 0.29% (0.41%). A release on the pre-audited results for 2020-21 said the regional rural bank operates through a network of 424 branches in Adilabad, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Rangareddy and Hyderabad. Chairman V. Arvind said that the customer base of the bank is 38.06 lakh. The focus of TGB is on priority sector lending, particularly towards improving agricultural production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-grameena-bank-net-profit-up-by-76-in-fy21/article34276974.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Make cleanliness a lifestyle’||Minister E. Dayakar Rao has underlined the need making cleanliness, sanitation and promotion of greenery a lifestyle of people. He wanted cleanliness and sanitation launched in the villages to be made a continuous process while steps should be taken to ensure protection of saplings that are planted as part of the green drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-cleanliness-a-lifestyle/article34276996.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Spot admissions in welfare colleges||Spot Admissions will be held on April 16 to fill vacancies in M.Com, MSc (Biotechnology), M.Sc (Chemistry), M.Sc (Statistics) and MA (English) courses in Telangana Social Welfare Residential Degree and PG Colleges for Women. Candidates who have qualified in CPGET-2020 conducted by Osmania University are eligible for spot admission. Candidates who secured not less than 50% marks in degree qualifying exam are also eligible for spot admission. For M.Com, spot admissions will be held at Telangana Social Welfare Residential PG College for Women, Sangareddy, at Budhera. For MSc (Biotech), M.Sc (Chemistry), M.Sc (Statistics )and MA (English), spot admissions will be held at Telangana Social Welfare Residential Degree and PG Colleges at Budvel and at Ankushapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spot-admissions-in-welfare-colleges/article34276986.ece
09 April 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Appointed member||Mr. Giridhar Sriperumbuduru, aka Gary Budoor, has been appointed member of the Missouri Service Commission by Governor of Missouri Michael L Parson till December 15, 2022, in recognition of his community service. He was also elected councilman from Chesterfield city, St Louis, in April 6 election. He won against three contestants with a slender majority of six votes. He did his MCA from OU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appointed-member/article34276990.ece
09 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR encouraging defections: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has termed the merger of Telangana TDP into the TRS Legislature Party (TRSLP) a reflection of the fear of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the growing resentment against his governanace. The Chief Minister is trying to camouflage his weaknesses and put up a show of strength by encouraging defections of MLAs from other parties, Mr. Vikramaka charged in a statement here. “Mr. Rao doesn’t have time to look into the suicides of frustrated youngsters, private teachers, tenant farmers but has enough time to induce the MLAs of other parties,” he said. Mr. Vikramarka alleged that Mr. Rao has destroyed the very fabric of democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-encouraging-defections-bhatti/article34276999.ece
09 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||DLSA rescues aged woman in Khammam||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) came to the rescue of an 80-year-old woman living in a pathetic condition alone at her dilapidated house in Krishnapuram of Kusumanchi mandal. Responding to a news report published in a vernacular daily on the plight of K Mangamma of Krishnapuram, DLSA secretary and Civil Judge Mohammed Abdul Javeed Pasha along with para-legal volunteer Annam Srinivas Rao visited her house on Thursday. Moved by the plight of the old woman living alone at the old house in abysmal conditions due to the alleged apathy of her sons, Mr Srinivasa Rao along with other volunteers of Annam Seva Foundation shifted her to the “Sakhi Centre” in Khammam under the supervision of the DLSA secretary. The DLSA secretary asked the mandal officials to find out her sons and counsel them to make sure that she was taken care of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dlsa-rescues-aged-woman-in-khammam/article34277116.ece
09 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||District administrations on alert||As the number of coronavirus cases has been increasing, the collectors of Sangareddy, Medak and Siddipet districts held meetings with medical and health staff to review the measures being taken. They are also holding periodical meetings with the officials in this regard. Sangareddy Collector M. Hanumantha Rao held a tele-conference with the medical and health officers, MDOs, RDOs, municipal commissioners and other officials and instructed them to take steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “The second wave of COVID-19 is spreading fast. We have to increase the number of coronavirus tests and vaccination. Covaxin and Covishield are working perfectly and they offer cent percent protection from coronavirus. We have to create an awareness among the public about following the safety norms and get vaccinated. Those who come to hospitals with symptoms must be tested and if positive, they have to be treated immediately,” said Mr. Hanumantha Rao. As on Wednesday, 65 cases were reported from Sangareddy district followed by 35 cases in Siddipet and 19 cases in Medak districts. Officials have identified that the number of cases have been increasing in industrial and border areas. Hence, it was decided to focus more on these places. The emphasis will also be on those who do not wear masks and fines will be imposed on them. Siddipet Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy held a review meeting with the officials and directed them to conduct 300 RT PCR and 3,000 Rapid Antigen tests every day without fail. He warned that those who failed to conduct the required number of tests every day need to give an explanation by evening. On Wednesday, as many as 590 cases were reported in Siddipet district. Meanwhile, Medak administration has made COVID tests mandatory for those who want to meet the Collector. Tests were held on 115 persons who came to the Collectroate on Thursday as well as the staff working in various departments. As two persons tested positive, they were immediately sent to home isolation.  We have to create an awareness among the public about following the safety norms and get vaccinated. M. Hanumantha Rao Sangareddy Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/district-administrations-on-alert/article34276978.ece
09 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Mentally unsound COVID patient taken into custody||In a shocking incident, a COVID patient created havoc at Kangti mandal headquarters on Thursday. According to sources, Narasimhulu, a migrant worker in Hyderabad and mentally retarded, was sent back to his native place two days ago after reportedly testing positive at Erragadda mental hospital. On Wednesday, he moved freely in the market area and met several people. He did the same thing on Thursday too. Knowing this, police rushed to the spot along with health workers geared with PPE kits to catch him. He was taken into custody and later shifted to Hyderabad for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mentally-unsound-covid-patient-taken-into-custody/article34276979.ece
09 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||CC cameras at Ranganaiksagar||In a move to monitor movements of visitors at Ranganaiksagar, the police are installing CC cameras at Ranganaiksagar, on the outskirts of district headquarters. Rural Circle Inspector Surender Reddy commenced the works by holding ground breaking ceremony. As many as 32 cameras will be established at the reservoir, which has become a tourist spot. The works will be completed by April 20, according to Commissioner of Police D. Joyal Davis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cc-cameras-at-ranganaiksagar/article34277115.ece
09 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,TELANGANA||Surveillance stepped up in AOB region||After the April 3 attack on the security forces by the Maoists near Bijapur in Chhattisgarh, which left eight from the District Reserve Guard (DRG), seven from the CRPF’s CoBRA, six from the Special Task Force, and one from the ‘Bastariya’ battalion of the CRPF dead and over 31 injured, the security forces in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region have stepped up surveillance and combing operation on both sides of the border. Possible routes With the security forces in Chhattisgarh in hot pursuit of the attackers, the Left Wing extremists can either move deeper into the Abuj Madh area of Narayanpur-Dantewada-Bastar region or to Sukma. The possibility of the Maoists moving towards Telangana or Maharashtra are less as the borders are well secured in both the States. The chances of the attackers sneaking into the Malkangiri area of Odisha via Sukma and then moving further to the AOB region too are are minimal, says a senior officer in the Intelligence wing of the anti-Maoist operation. Normally, after launching such a big attack, members of the group re-assemble at a place and then take different routes to reach their strongholds, he says. In Chhattisgarh, the Maoist strongholds, or what they call “liberated zones,” are Bijapur, Narayanpur, Kanker, Dantewada, Sukma, Bastar, Kondagaon and Rajnandgaon. ‘Taking no chances’ “The chances of their movement towards the AOB region are less. But we never know. So, adequate measures are being taken,” says a senior police officer. The presence of the Maoists in the AOB regions has dwindled over the years. Apart from the Pedabayalu Area Committee, their existence is negligible, he says. They are mainly dependent on militia members, as their cadre strength has dwindled in the last one decade. It is learnt that most of their senior leaders such as Akkiraju Haragopal alias RK, Chalapathi, and Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, who is the secretary of the Andhra-Odish Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC), are no longer in the AOB region and have moved to the Sukma or Dantewada regions. The operations in the region are left to Aruna and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan. But since the Maoists have declared a year-long Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC), the security forces have also stepped up the counter measures. After receiving a series of setbacks and with low new recruitments, the Maoists have planned the TCOC to show their presence and regain faith among the tribal people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surveillance-stepped-up-in-aob-region/article34277117.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Woman found dead in canal||Two days after a young and unemployed private teacher ended life in Nagarjunasagar, his wife who had gone missing a day earlier was found dead and retrieved from the Nagarjunasagar Project right canal near Manchikallu sluice gate, here on Thursday. Police identified the victim in decomposed state as Akkamma, wife of deceased Vanam Ravi, resident of Hill Colony in Nagarjunasagar. They are survived by their two children aged under six, and are in the custody of grandparents who run a bicycle repair shop for livelihood. The town police said Mr. Ravi had approached them on Monday after his wife left home and her tracing remained clueless all through Sunday. A missing person complaint was also filed. However, on Tuesday morning the 30-year-old was found hanging. Mr. Ravi, who has a Bachelor of Education (B. Ed) degree, had been teaching at a private school in Peddavoora for the past few years. Following COVID-19 lockdown and related regulations, his employment turned unsustainable, and the flow of income was limited from the private tuitions. According to locals, the young couple was recently in conflict, reportedly over money matters, and it was suspected as the reason for the woman to leave home. Nagarjunasagar police, earlier speaking to The Hindu , said the alleged “suicide of Ravi was due to family disputes.” They rejected unemployment as the reason for the suicide. The police said the remains of Akkamma were retrieved around 10 p.m. on Wednesday. They suspected the woman to have jumped into the canal the day she left home and said there were no suspicions in the two deaths.   (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000}||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead-in-canal/article34277118.ece
09 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Fire doused after 8-hour operation||More than two dozen fire tenders took around eight hours to douse the fire that had broken out in a multi-storey building in Sadar Bazar here on Wednesday. The fire fighting operation continued till 3 a.m. on Thursday, but no casualties were reported. The fire broke out on the top floor of a five-storey hardware store around 7 p.m. on Wednesday and spread to the entire building in a matter of few minutes, said Gurugram Assistant Divisional Fire Officer I.S. Kashyap. “It then spread to the adjoining double-storey shop housing plywood. But the fire-tenders reached the spot within minutes of the call was made and did not allow it to spread further,” said Mr. Kashyap. Traffic management The police also had a tough time managing the traffic on the busy road and the crowd of onlookers gathering at the spot to take pictures and make videos. Besides all 15 vehicles from the Gurugram fire department, fire tenders from Maruti Plant, DLF and Air Force station were also pressed into service. Later, three fire tenders from Faridabad also reached to help in the fire fighting operation. Locals commended the efforts of the fire department in containing the fire to the two buildings in a congested market area despite many challenges and preventing any loss of human life. Mr. Kashyap said a large stock of plywood was kept stored in the basement of the double-storey building, but the firemen ensured that it did not spread to it. He expressed apprehension that the fire could have gone out of control had it spread to the basement of the building.  The fire broke out on the top floor of a five-storey hardware store around 7 p.m. on Wednesday and spread to the entire building in a matter of few minutes I.S. Kashyap Assistant Divisional Fire Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-market-fire-doused-after-8-hour-long-operation/article34276646.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Capital’s COVID-19 graph climbs with 7,437 new cases, 24 deaths||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in Delhi with 7,437 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours – the highest in more than four months. The total number of cases stood at 6,98,005, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The last time more cases were reported was on November 19, when 7,546 cases were reported in a day. 23,181 active cases Twenty-four deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 11,157. A total of 91,770 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 6,63,667 people have recovered and there are 23,181 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases jumped to 8.1% on Thursday and the overall positivity till now is 4.57%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 8,813 hospital beds, 4,212 were vacant as on Thursday. The highest number of daily new cases reported in Delhi since the beginning of the pandemic is 8,593 on November 11. After the peak in November, the number of cases had gradually decreased. Number of new cases was decreasing in early 2021 and on January 16, the number of daily new cases had dropped to 94. However, it slowly increased to 200 on February 24 and it has been on the rise since then.   Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the pandemic should not be politicised. “I think that we should fight against the novel coronavirus instead of politicising the issue. If anyone has any suggestion, it should be welcomed in positive spirits by the Centre. Our responsibility is to give suggestions, but the Centre did acknowledge some of them. This topic should not be politicised,” he said. “Yesterday[Wednesday], India reported 1.25 lakh cases, as opposed to the earlier peaks in which the highest count was lodged at 99,000. This means that this peak is more infectious, and the number of cases is higher than the previous ones,” Mr. Jain added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capitals-covid-19-graph-climbs-with-7437-new-cases-24-deaths/article34276658.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Natasha, Devangana were part of a larger conspiracy’||The police have told the Delhi High Court that former JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, arrested in connection with the communal riots in north-east Delhi last year, were part of a larger conspiracy to threaten the unity, integrity and harmony of the country. The Delhi police made the submissions while opposing the appeals filed by Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita challenging a trial court’s order dismissing their bail pleas in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case related to the riots. The police stated that the two were well aware of the acts being carried out during the riots and that it would lead to consequences which could be disastrous. The police said the accused agreed to be part of WhatsApp groups and were presumably aware of the acts of every conspirator and hence equally liable.  Arrested last year Both Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita were booked under the UAPA in a north-east Delhi riots case. Ms. Narwal was arrested on May 23 along with Ms. Kalita in relation with an FIR registered on February 24 over the sit-in protest at Jafrabad Metro Station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Crime Branch has lodged a separate FIR against both Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in connection with the Delhi riots, with charges ranging from Section 147 (rioting), 353 (using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder), among others. The FIR also named relevant sections of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. On January 28, the trial court had dismissed their bail pleas saying the allegations against them were prima facie true and provisions of the anti-terror law have been rightly invoked in the present case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/natasha-devangana-were-part-of-a-larger-conspiracy/article34276669.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Look into plea on non-removal of garbage in Karol Bagh: NGT||Following a plea alleging pollution due to non-removal of garbage from a residential area in Karol Bagh, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the joint committee comprising officials from the Delhi government, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to look into the plea and take necessary action. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “The ‘dhalao’ system currently in use in Delhi needs to be compliant with [relevant] rules. To ensure this, we direct a joint committee of Secretary, Urban Development, Delhi; CPCB; DPCC and local bodies in Delhi to hold a joint meeting within one.” The Tribunal specified that the CPCB and the DPCC would be the nodal agencies for coordination and compliance of the orders. “Further action may be taken in accordance with the decision taken in the said meeting. If necessary, the CPCB may issue an appropriate Standard Operating Procedure [SOP] on the subject in all the States and union territories,” the Bench added. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Anubhav who alleged that a garbage pit located in a residential area was causing respiratory distress to residents of the area. “The heap of garbage smells out toxic gases which are very harmful in nature, making the whole area inhabitable. The air pollution is causing pulmonary diseases like asthma, lung cancer and so on. The COVID-19 patients are the worst sufferers...” the petition had contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/look-into-plea-on-non-removal-of-garbage-in-karol-bagh-ngt/article34276660.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out at stationery godown||A fire broke out at a four-storey building in Shahdara’s Dilshad Garden Industrial Area on Thursday morning, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said. No injuries were reported. A DFS official said that a call was received around 8.30 a.m. and 15 fire tenders were pressed into service. “A fire broke out at a stationery godown situated on the third floor of a four-storey building in Dilshad Garden Industrial Area. No casualty has been reported so far,” said Atul Garg, DFS Director. The police said that the fire broke out at the place where chemical for production of tape is stored and there was no one inside the building. However, people were vacated from neighbouring buildings. Eventually, 15 more fire tenders were rushed and the fire was doused by 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-breaks-out-at-stationery-godown/article34276648.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Burglars who asked victims to pay for stolen goods nabbed||Two persons, who used to commit burglaries in houses and later used to ask the victims to transfer money to their e-wallets to get the articles back, have been arrested, police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Nirmal Pandey (24) and Kundan Pandey (24), both residents of Najafgarh, who are new to the world of crime. Police said that incidents of night burglary were reported in Tehkhand Village in Okhla Phase-I where the burglars asked the victims to e-pay them to get their stolen articles back. Police said that three such cases have been solved with their arrest. During investigation, call records of the number associated with the account of accused were analysed after which the accused’s location was traced to Najafgarh. They were identified with the help of CCTVs installed in the area. Subsequently, Nirmal and Kundan were held from Nangli Dairy in Najafgarh, Mr. Meena said, adding that three mobile phones, one laptop and two debit cards have been recovered from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/burglars-who-asked-victims-to-pay-for-stolen-goods-nabbed/article34276649.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||CM takes stock of housing scheme for slum dwellers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting to review the progress of flats being constructed under the ‘Jahan Jhuggi, Wahin Makan’ scheme for families living in slums here on Thursday. During the meeting, Mr. Kejriwal directed the officials to expedite the allocation of flats and added that any problems in the implementation of the scheme be brought to his notice so that they can be effectively removed. Cabinet Minister Satyendar Jain and senior officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) were present at the meeting. Under the scheme, 52,344 flats are being built in the first phase by both bodies. According to the government, DUSIB officials informed the CM that the construction of 18,084 flats was under way and were almost ready while 34,260 flats are being built by the DSIIDC of which 17,660 flats are ready and 16,600 under construction. Besides, the officials informed him that 4,833 flats have been allotted to homeless families living in slums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-takes-stock-of-housing-scheme-for-slum-dwellers/article34276652.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Traffic police to open counters to collect fines||The Delhi Traffic Police will collect dues for pending challans via cash as many individuals are not able to pay them through the online payment system, officials said on Thursday. According to a circular released by the police on Thursday, the cash counter may be established in each circle on every Saturday and Sunday between 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. from April 10. “It has been observed that many individuals with pending challans are not able to pay their fines through the online payment system for various reasons. Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) has desired that the cash counter may be established in each circle on every Saturday and Sunday to collect the fine amount for pending challans,” it stated. The sufficient number of enforcement officers may be deployed on the cash counters to compound the pending challans. The details of compounding notices may also be sent to notice branch traffic headquarters, Todapur, it said. “All Additional Commissioners of Police, Deputy Commissioners of Police and ranges are hereby requested to implement this scheme with effect from April 10 onwards and direct all Assistant Commissioners of Police and traffic inspectors working under their control to advertise in this regard on the social media, platform such as Twitter, Facebook etc,” the circular said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/traffic-police-to-open-counters-to-collect-fines/article34276956.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Don’t obstruct garbage cleaning in garb of protest’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said that sanitation employees and unions have a right to protest against non-payment of salaries, but they cannot create nuisance or do “ gundagardi [hooliganism]” by throwing garbage on roads and restrain staffers from working. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said that stern action will be taken against the erring union leaders and the members. During the hearing, the Swachhata Karamchari Union leaders, who called for the strike, appeared before the Bench and assured that they will not resort to any such conduct in future. The High Court had on March 4 issued bailable warrants for production of the president and the secretary of the union before the court as they failed to appear before the court on the last hearing. However, taking note of the submission of the president and secretary of the union on Thursday, the High Court said it does not wish to purse the bailable warrants issued against them earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-obstruct-garbage-cleaning-in-garb-of-protest/article34276644.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||BJP councillor’s builder nexus demanding money, alleges AAP||The AAP on Thursday alleged that people gheraoed BJP councillor Sanjay Thakur, who has a “nexus” with builders, who “forcibly” ask for money when someone wants to construct a building. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed that Delhi Police has not taken any action yet against Mr. Thakur, despite multiple complaints of “fraud and forgery” lodged against the BJP councillor. “Sanjay Thakur is close to BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and his name was also mentioned in a complaint. BJP’s Delhi president Adesh Gupta should explain what action has been taken against this Councillor. BJP had given tickets to such people. This time, the BJP will again change its Councillors and give tickets to new people,” Mr. Bharadwaj said in a statement. The BJP, when contacted, did not respond to the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-councillors-builder-nexus-demanding-money-alleges-aap/article34276656.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||DPCC issues fine for dust control norm violations||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has issued environmental damage compensation (EDC) worth Rs. 22.1 lakh in March for violations, according to authorities. Most of the EDC was charged for violations of dust control measures at construction sites, causing air pollution, officials said. Also, the DPCC has issued show-cause notices to 67 industries in Libaspur for operating without consent after receiving complaints of pollution in the area. The industries have 15 days to respond, following which further action, including closure, can be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dpcc-issues-fine-for-dust-control-norm-violations/article34276655.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||City courts to hold virtual hearings till April 23||Taking a serious view of the “alarming rise in COVID-19 cases” in the Capital, the Delhi High Court on Thursday announced that it will take up court proceedings through virtual mode from April 9 to April 23. The office circular issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain also said that no adverse order would be passed by the courts of Joint Registrars (judicial) in case of non-appearance of parties and/or their counsel and the matter which are fixed for recording of evidence before the said courts shall be adjourned. Mr. Jain also issued a similar circular ordering that all district courts in the Capital will hear court proceedings only through videoconferencing mode till April 23. The HC had commenced complete physical functioning from March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-courts-to-hold-virtual-hearings-till-april-23/article34276955.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||FCI refutes charges on wheat purchase||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) on Thursday said that wheat procurement counters are operational in Delhi from April 1 and allegations by Delhi Agriculture Minister Gopal Rai in this regard is “wrong” and “baseless”. “All the allegations made by the Agriculture Minister are completely false and baseless. The FCI, Delhi region, has made all necessary arrangements for procurement of wheat for RMS 21-22. The FCI has opened up three purchase centres at APMC Najafgarh Mandi, Food Storage Depot Narela [adjacent to Narela Mandi] & Food Storage Depot Mayapuri which are fully functional,” the FCI said. On Wednesday, Mr. Rai had said that the FCI under the Centre has not opened a single counter for wheat purchase in Delhi, but is making false claims of purchasing crops on Minimum Support Price from April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fci-refutes-charges-on-wheat-purchase/article34276645.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief 2||The BJP on Thursday staged a demonstration near CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence against alleged non-payment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) by the Delhi government for wheat procured from farmers. Organised by the State BJP Kisan Morcha, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jatin-brief-2/article34276653.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Former Union Minister and senior Delhi BJP leader Vijay Goel on Thursday announced he would sit on dharna against the alleged harassment of people by Civil Defence volunteers under the garb of enforcing COVID-appropriate behaviour. Their primary job Mr. Goel called the volunteers ‘Kejriwal Sena’is not extortion in the name of challans for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jatin-brief/article34276654.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC dismisses plea seeking quick measures to contain virus||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain a plea seeking direction to the Kejriwal government to take immediate measures for minimising the impact of another wave of the pandemic. An HC Bench said the government has been doing everything to control the impact of the virus and it was not inclined to entertain the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-quick-measures-to-contain-virus/article34276642.ece
09 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Night curfew imposed in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut||Taking into account the surge in COVID-19 cases, a night curfew has been imposed in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh from Thursday night. The night prohibition/regulation order will remain in effect from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. till April 17 in Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad and April 18 in Meerut. Spike in cases While G.B. Nagar reported 134 fresh cases on Thursday, Ghaziabad saw 108 new cases. Meerut reported a spike of 222 cases over 24 hours. According to an official bulletin, G.B. Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut have 652, 442 and 917 active cases respectively. Ghaziabad reported one death while two persons passed away in Meerut over 24 hours because of complications related to COVID-19 . Emergency services have been kept out of the restrictions. Media persons and those travelling outside the city would be allowed to move with valid documents. The decision was taken after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting with District Magistrates on Wednesday and directed them to take a call on restrictions according to the ground situation. G.B. Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. and Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey also announced that all educational institutions would remain closed till April 17. Meerut DM K Balaji issued a similar order till April 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/night-curfew-imposed-in-gautam-buddha-nagar-ghaziabad-meerut/article34276959.ece
09 April 2021||Mumbai,||Jewellers urge CM to allow operations on festival days||Jewellers and restaurant and mall owners have urged the State government to relax the restrictions imposed in view of the rising COVID-19 cases to protect jobs and ensure livelihood for millions. The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to allow jewellers to operate on Gudi Padwa and other summer festival days as well as during the wedding season of April-June. “The new lockdown restrictions ‘Break the Chain’ imposed till April 30 have the potential to break the backbone of every jeweller in Maharashtra,” the GJC said. It has assured the government that jewellers will follow all the mandated COVID-19 protocols in their respective regions while using all possible pro-customer physical-digital-virtual interactive methods in marketing and sales. On Thursday, several hospitality associations, including the FHRAI, HRAWI, NRAI and AHAR, staged silent protests across the State against the curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jewellers-urge-cm-to-allow-operations-on-festival-days/article34276362.ece
09 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||With no stock, all vaccination centres to remain shut today||Twenty-five out of the 84 COVID-19 vaccination centres in Raigad district and 37 out of the 41 such centres within the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) limits were shut on Thursday, owing to the lack of stock of vaccine doses. Only 3,780 doses were available for Thursday’s vaccination. “For Friday, the remaining stock would be meagre with hardly 10-50 doses available at each centre, which is capable of administering the jab to 100 people. The turnout of beneficiaries is good but unfortunately the supply has gone low. There is a chance of more centres being shut on Friday,” Raigad Collector Nidhi Choudhary said. Till date, 1.58 lakh beneficiaries have registered for vaccination in Raigad district and of them, 1.36 lakh have received the dose. “I spoke to the Union Health Secretary and I was told that the Centre would be sending vials. Once they are available, the centres will open again,” Ms. Choudhary said. In Navi Mumbai, only the civic-run hospitals at Nerul, Vashi, Airoli and Turbhe were functional on Thursday. “With no stock, all the centres will have to remain shut on Friday,” NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. Halt from today: Mayor The ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai would come to a halt from Friday as the stock of vaccine doses in the city was about to end, Mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Thursday. ( With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/with-no-stock-all-vaccination-centres-to-remain-shut-today/article34276363.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fake call centre offering ‘work from home’ jobs busted in city||The Delhi police busted an illegal call centre in Outer Delhi’s Nangoli with the arrest of eight people, including six women, who were engaged in duping people on the pretext of “work from home” job offers against security deposits, officials said on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off on Tuesday, the police conducted a raid at the call centre, which was being operated by two brothers — Ajim Ali (21) and Afzal Mirza (25) — with the help of six women telecallers, they said. So far, the accused have duped around four to five people on an average on daily basis, the police said. After seeing advertisements in newspapers about two years ago, the accused brothers started a call centre in January 2020 with an intention to dupe people on the pretext of providing job offers with “work from home” option during the pandemic, a senior police officer said. Called random numbers Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parminder Singh said, “The employees at the call centre would call on random numbers and put up ‘work from home’ and online job offers with remuneration of up to Rs. 2,000 per day. If the called person agreed, they would ask for money for verification and final placement. Once the money was transferred to their account, there would be no further contact.” To avoid suspicion, the amount set for verification was from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 3,000 per person so that the victims do not approach the police with any complaint, he said. A case was registered under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and all the accused were arrested in the case, the police said. Eight mobile phones, laptop, computer, 20 SIM cards and registers were seized\.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fake-call-centre-offering-work-from-home-jobs-busted-in-city/article34276585.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU begins online admission process for foreign students||The online application process for foreign students to various courses in Delhi University began on Thursday. The last date for applications to undergraduate programmes is May 31 while that of postgraduate programmes is June 29. A notification issued by the university read: “Foreign Students’ Registry [FSR] of University of Delhi is inviting applications from foreign nationals for its various programmes of study for the academic session 2021-22. FSR is the single window for all foreign nationals who wish to take admission in the University of Delhi.” Aspirants will be able to apply for MBA and PhD courses in the Faculty of Management (FMS) till July 30. For the one-year Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma or PG Diploma courses, applicants will be able to apply till August 22. Those intending to apply to the School of Open Learning for bachelors and masters courses will be able to send in their applications till August 29, the university said. The online application form for foreign nationals is available on the university’s website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/du-begins-online-admission-process-for-foreign-students/article34276586.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Was exercising my right to protest, Sidhu tells court||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day, told a Delhi court on Thursday that he did not instigate anyone to cause violence and was only exercising his “fundamental right” to protest. His counsel told Special Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen that Mr. Sidhu was rather helping police pacify the crowd and asking people to come down from the Red Fort during the ruckus on the premises. “I (Sidhu) am a popular face, that’s why this case. I was in the wrong place at the wrong time. I was there for peaceful protest. Right to protest is a fundamental right, that’s why I was there,” Mr. Sidhu’s counsel said. “I am not a member of any farmers’ union. No call was given by me for any tractor rally or to go to Red Fort. There is no evidence that I mobilised people,” the counsel claimed. He said Mr. Sidhu was at a ‘dhaba’ in Murthal till 12 p.m. and reached the Red Fort at 2.05 p.m. “I have not indulged in a single act of violence. I left before the violence broke out,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/was-exercising-my-right-to-protest-sidhu-tells-court/article34276662.ece
09 April 2021||Pune,||Cong., BJP engage in war of words over vaccine stock in Maharashtra||A day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan accused the Maharashtra government of attempting to cover up its ‘failures’ by making misleading statements regarding vaccine availability, the Congress on Thursday hit out at Mr. Vardhan with Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) chief Nana Patole demanding that he apologise to the State. “Ever since the second wave hit Maharashtra, the State government has constantly been requesting the Centre for more vaccines and financial assistance. We condemn the manner in which the Union Health Minister accused Maharashtra yesterday. He has insulted the State,” Mr. Patole said, adding that COVID-19 management was also the responsibility of the Central government. The State Congress chief accused the BJP of playing politics at every level at a time of grave crisis. The Congress’ national panel spokesperson, Anant Gadgil, said that the fact that the Centre had not yet supplied the urgently required vaccine stock to Maharashtra was proof of a deliberate design on the Narendra Modi government’s part to malign the State’s image. Accusing the BJP of attempting to destabilise the MVA alliance in Maharashtra, Mr. Gadgil wondered why there were no COVID-19 cases being reported from poll-bound States. Refuting the Congress’ allegations, BJP Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said that only three States — Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan — had received more than one crore vaccines. “Gujarat and Rajasthan have the same population while there is a Congress government in Rajasthan. The supply of vaccines is not on the basis of population, but on the basis of vaccination performance of each State. Maharashtra has received 1.06 crore vaccines of which 91 lakh were used while 15 lakh are still left. So, what is the reason for the MVA government to deliberately close down vaccine centres on Thursday and spreading false news about non-availability of vaccine stock?” Mr. Fadnavis alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-bjp-engage-in-war-of-words-over-vaccine-stock-in-maharashtra/article34276365.ece
09 April 2021||Washington,||Biden govt. restores aid to Palestinians||In a significant reversal to the Trump administration’s policy towards the Palestine, the U.S. State Department on Wednesday announced the restoration of at least $235 million in financial assistance to the Palestinians. The administration had already announced $15 million in coronavirus relief to the Palestinians in March. Economic assistance Wednesday’s announcement includes $75 million in economic assistance to the West Bank and Gaza, $10 million towards ‘peacebuilding’ programmes of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and $150 million in humanitarian assistance to the UN Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). The UNRWA funds, the State Department said, would include educational assistance for at least 5,00,000 Palestinian children living in West Asia. The Trump administration had almost ended all funding to the organisation in 2018. Mr. Trump’s policies towards West Asia — which included the relocation of the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem — were criticised for being heavily tilted towards Israel. “The United States is committed to advancing prosperity, security, and freedom for both Israelis and Palestinians in tangible ways in the immediate term, which is important in its own right, but also as a means to advance towards a negotiated two-state solution,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement released on Wednesday. ‘New political path’ The UN welcomed the move, hoping it would attract more funds to the body. “We hope that others will now follow suit. There were a number of countries that had greatly reduced or halted contributions to UNRWA,” Stéphane Dujarric, spokesperson for the Secretary General said on Wednesday. Welcoming the move, the Prime Minister of the Palestine Authority, Mohammed Shtayyeh, called for “a new political path that meets the rights and aspirations of the Palestinian people based on international law and UN resolutions” in a tweet. Israel, which has accused UNRWA of anti-Semitism, objected to the funding plans. “Israel’s position is that the organisation in its current form perpetuates the conflict and does not contribute to its resolution,” the Israeli Foreign Ministry said as per the Associated Press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-govt-restores-aid-to-palestinians/article34276268.ece
09 April 2021||Washington,||U.S. commits to withdrawal of combat troops from Iraq||The U.S. on Wednesday committed to move remaining forces from Iraq, although the two sides did not set a timeline in what would be the second withdrawal since the 2003 invasion. The first “strategic dialogue” with Iraq under U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration comes as Iranian-linked Shiite paramilitary groups fire rockets nearly daily at bases with foreign troops in hopes of forcing a U.S. exit. The two nations agreed in a videoconference led by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein that Iraqi forces were ready to take on more responsibility. “The parties confirmed that the mission of U.S. and coalition forces has now transitioned to one focused on training and advisory tasks, thereby allowing for the redeployment of any remaining combat forces from Iraq, with the timing to be established in upcoming technical talks,” a joint statement said.   Iraq’s national security advisor, Qassem al-Araji, promised efforts to protect foreign forces and confirmed that the United States would move ahead with a pull-out. “The American side promised to withdraw an important number of its troops from Iraq,” he said. The Pentagon said the timeline would be worked out in the technical talks. “We’ve all been working to an eventual redeployment ... when there’s no need for American support on the ground,” said Pentagon spokesman John Kirby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-commits-to-withdrawal-of-combat-troops-from-iraq/article34276266.ece
09 April 2021||Washington,||No U.S. decision yet on Afghan pull-out||Without coming right out and saying it, President Joe Biden seems ready to let lapse a May 1 deadline for completing a withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. Orderly withdrawals take time, and Mr. Biden is running out of it. Mr. Biden has inched so close to the deadline that his indecision amounts almost to a decision to put off, at least for some months, a pullout of the remaining 2,500 troops and continue supporting the Afghan military at the risk of a Taliban backlash. Removing all the troops and their equipment in the next three weeks — along with coalition partners that cannot get out on their own — would be difficult logistically, as Mr. Biden himself suggested in late March. “It’s going to be hard to meet the May 1 deadline,” he said. “Just in terms of tactical reasons, it’s hard to get those troops out ... And if we leave, we’re going to do so in a safe and orderly way.” James Stavidis, a retired Navy admiral who served as NATO’s top commander from 2009 to 2013, says it would be unwise at this point to get out quickly. “Sometimes not making a decision becomes a decision, which seems the case with the May 1 deadline,” Mr. Stavidis said on Wednesday. “The most prudent course of action feels like a six-month extension and an attempt to get the Taliban truly meeting their promises — essentially permitting a legitimate ‘conditions-based’ withdrawal in the fall.” There are crosscurrents of pressure on Mr. Biden. On one hand, he has argued for years, including during his time as Vice-President when President Barack Obama ordered a huge buildup of U.S. forces, that Afghanistan is better handled as a smaller-scale counterterrorism mission. Countering Russia and China has since emerged as a higher priority. On the other hand, current and former military officers have argued that leaving now, with the Taliban in a position of relative strength and the Afghan government in a fragile state, would risk losing what has been gained in 20 years of fighting.  Mr. Biden had said during the 2020 campaign that if elected, he might keep a counterterrorism force in Afghanistan but also would “end the war responsibly” to ensure U.S. forces never have to return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-us-decision-yet-on-afghan-pull-out/article34276255.ece
09 April 2021||Manila,||‘All options open on South China Sea’||The Philippines defence department said on Thursday it was keeping its options open as a diplomatic row with Beijing grows over hundreds of Chinese vessels in the contested South China Sea. Tensions over the resource-rich waters have spiked in recent weeks after over 200 Chinese boats were detected at Whitsun Reef in the Spratly Islands, where China and the Philippines have rival claims. China, which claims almost the entirety of the sea, has refused repeated appeals by the Philippines to withdraw the vessels, which Manila says unlawfully entered its exclusive economic zone. While President Rodrigo Duterte has appeared reluctant to confront China on the issue, one of his top aides warned on Monday that the boats could ignite “unwanted hostilities”. “As the situation evolves, we keep all our options open in managing the situation, including leveraging our partnerships with other nations such as the United States,” Philippine defence department spokesman Arsenio Andolong said on Thursday. Mr. Andolong’s comments came after the United States reminded China of Washington’s treaty obligations to the Philippines in the event of an attack in the waters. “An armed attack against the Philippines’ armed forces, public vessels or aircraft in the Pacific, including in the South China Sea, will trigger our obligations under the U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty,” State Department spokesman Ned Price told mediapersons on Wednesday. “We share the concerns of our Philippine allies regarding the continued reported massing of PRC [People’s Republic of China] maritime militia near the Whitsun Reef,” Mr. Price said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/all-options-open-on-south-china-sea/article34276262.ece
09 April 2021||Hong Kong,||U.K. to set up £43 million fund for migrants from Hong Kong||The British government said on Thursday it is setting up a £43 million ($59 million) fund to help migrants from Hong Kong settle in the country as they escape increasing political repression in the former colony. The offer extends to holders of British National (Overseas) passports who have been offered special visas, opening a path to work, residency and eventual citizenship to up to 5 million of Hong Kong’s 7.4 million people. The integration programme will provide funding to help arrivals in accessing housing, education and jobs. Around 10% of the funds will go towards establishing 12 “virtual welcome hubs” across Great Britain and Northern Ireland to “coordinate support and give practical advice and assistance”, the British Consulate-General said. China has sharply criticised what it labels British abuse of the passports, saying it will no longer recognise them as travel documents or as a form of identification. But most residents also carry Hong Kong or other passports, so it’s not clear what effect that would have. “The move delivers on the U.K.’s historic and moral commitment to the people of Hong Kong who chose to retain their ties to the U.K. by taking up BN(O) status in 1997,” the Consulate-General said in a statement, referring to the year Hong Kong was handed over to China. “It provides them with a pathway to live in the U.K. should they choose to do so,” the consulate said. Law granted asylum Meanwhile, one prominent opposition figure, Nathan Law, was granted refugee status in the U.K. “The fact that I am wanted under the National Security Law shows that I am exposed to severe political persecution and am unlikely to return to Hong Kong without risk,” Mr. Law said on Twitter. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian lashed out at the British decision, calling Mr. Law a criminal suspect wanted by the Hong Kong police.  The move delivers on the U.K.’s commitment to the people of Hong Kong who chose to retain their ties to the U.K. by taking up BN(O) status in 1997 British Consulate-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-to-set-up-43-million-fund-for-migrants-from-hong-kong/article34276264.ece
09 April 2021||Belfast,||Northern Ireland leaders condemn ‘completely unacceptable’ unrest||Northern Ireland’s all-party executive came together on Thursday to condemn days of violent unrest stemming from the restive British territory’s pro-U.K. community. “Destruction, violence and the threat of violence are completely unacceptable and unjustifiable, no matter what concerns may exist in communities,” the executive, made up of unionist, nationalist and centrist parties, said in a statement. Nightly attacks have left dozens of police officers injured, along with a driver whose bus was fire-bombed late on Wednesday. Northern Ireland’s legislative assembly interrupted its Easter break to hold an emergency debate after the unrest.   “While our political positions are very different on many issues, we are all united in our support for law and order and we collectively state our support for policing and for the police officers who have been putting themselves in harm’s way to protect others,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/northern-ireland-leaders-condemn-completely-unacceptable-unrest/article34276258.ece
09 April 2021||Washington,||Biden to unveil gun control measures||President Joe Biden, in his first major gun control measures since taking office, is announcing executive actions on Thursday aimed at addressing what the White House calls a “gun violence public health epidemic”. Mr. Biden is also nominating David Chipman, a former federal agent and adviser at the gun control group Giffords, to be director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.  Mr. Biden is tightening rules for buyers of “ghost guns” — homemade firearms that are usually assembled from parts and milled with a metal-cutting machine and often lack serial numbers. Another proposed step will tighten rules on pistol-stabilising braces, like the one used by the Boulder shooter in a recent attack that left 10 dead. A legislation is also intended for States to adopt their own “red flag” laws, which allow for individuals to petition a court to allow the police to confiscate weapons from a person deemed to be a danger to themselves or others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-unveil-gun-control-measures/article34276253.ece
09 April 2021||London,||Can’t recognise Myanmar envoy: U.K.||Britain confirmed on Thursday that it could no longer recognise Myanmar’s ambassador in London after the ruling junta issued formal notification that he had been withdrawn for supporting the deposed government. U.K. sources said the government, in line with diplomatic policy, had to accede to the junta’s decision regarding Kyaw Zwar Minn, after he was locked out of the embassy on Wednesday. Diplomats loyal to the Myanmar military authorities appeared to have seized control of the embassy, leaving the ambassador out in the street and forcing him to sleep in his car overnight.  British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab had earlier condemned “bullying” by Myanmar’s junta and reiterated calls for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cant-recognise-myanmar-envoy-uk/article34276256.ece
09 April 2021||Seoul,||Moon’s party loses two key mayoral polls||South Korea’s conservative opposition won in elections for the mayors of the country’s two biggest cities, in a bad sign for Moon Jae-in’s Democratic Party a year before the next presidential poll.  In Seoul, Oh Se-hoon of the conservative People Power Party defeated his Democratic opponent by 57.5% to 39.2%, winning all the 25 districts of the city. Mr. Oh pledged to “embrace the many citizens of Seoul who are in pain”. The conservatives’ margin of victory in Busan was even higher, at 62.7% to 34.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moons-party-loses-mayoral-elections/article34276257.ece
09 April 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka arrests 'Mrs World' over assault||The Colombo police on Thursday arrested the current “Mrs. World” on charges of assault over an on-stage scuffle in which she pulled the crown off the head of the new “Mrs. Sri Lanka”. Caroline Jurie yanked the crown off Pushpika de Silva minutes after she was declared “Mrs. Sri Lanka 2020” at Colombo's Nelum Pokuna theatre. Ms. Jurie was the previous year’s “Mrs. Sri Lanka”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-arrests-mrs-world-over-assault/article34276263.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Plough to plate, hand held by the Indian state||For at least four decades now, economic policy making globally has dogmatically adhered to the notion that a progressively reduced role of the state would automatically deliver greater economic growth and welfare to the people. Since reform, by definition, is taken to mean only one thing, sector after sector is compulsively sought to be moved in this direction, even if overwhelming evidence, over many years from all over the world, indicates that it is the state that has played the leading role in provisioning the most critical aspects of life: water, sanitation, education, health, food and nutrition. There are very specific characteristics of agriculture, as also crucial elements of the socio-historical context, which imply that the Indian state must continue to intervene in multiple markets, and make critical investments, to ensure the welfare of both farmers and consumers. Specificities of agriculture Due to a variety of limiting factors, from uncertainties of the weather to soil fertility and water availability, increasing returns to scale are very difficult to achieve in farming. This underscores the need for the right kind of public investment in agriculture. Again, economies of scale allow producers in industry to make profits by cutting unit costs, even as prices fall, while those who fail to make the cut, get eliminated from competition. But in agriculture, members of the family can be drafted to work on the family’s farm, as also in other farm and non-farm work. This phenomenon is quite widespread in India today: of the nine crore rural families who draw their main income from unskilled manual labour, four crore are small and marginal farmers. Through overwork and self-exploitation, peasant farmers are able to cling on to their land. Again, production processes in agriculture cannot be organised in an assembly line; they need to begin at the appropriate phase of the climatic annual cycle. This means that all farmers harvest their crop at the very same time; 86% of India’s farmers are ‘small and marginal’, too poor to afford warehousing facilities and are, therefore, compelled to bring their harvest to the market at around the same time. Since demand for food crops is typically price inelastic, during a bumper crop, while prices fall, the resulting rise in demand is not enough to salvage farmer incomes. Correspondingly, for poor consumers, unregulated markets for foodgrains mean that during a drought they either starve or get pauperised, being forced to buy very expensive commodities, conveniently hoarded up by traders. Balance of power These traders double up as moneylenders and the operation of a deeply exploitative grid of interlocked markets afflicts most farmers. In the credit market, usurious interest rates (often as high as 60%-120% per annum) create a debt trap from which it is virtually impossible to escape. The repayments due are ‘adjusted’ through exploitative practices in the input, output, labour and land-lease markets. The moneylender combines the roles of input supplier, crop buyer, labour employer and land lessor. This interlocked grid works in tandem with the oppressive caste system, with the poorer, ‘lower’ caste farmers, facing a cumulative and cascading spiral of expropriation. All the above reasons provide a strong case for state intervention in multiple agricultural markets.  Diversify public procurement The Food Corporation of India and the Agricultural Prices Commission (Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, or CACP since 1985) were set up in 1965. The idea was that as farm output rises with the Green Revolution, farmers are assured that their surplus would be bought by the government at a price high enough to leave them a margin. The crops procured were then made available to consumers at subsidised rates through the Public Distribution System (PDS). Thus, government intervention protected farmers during bumper crops and dipped into the buffer stock to protect consumers during droughts. This is how India got its much vaunted food security over the past several decades. However, the Green Revolution also sowed the seeds of its own destruction. More than 300,000 farmers have committed suicide in the last 30 years, a phenomenon completely unprecedented in Indian history. There is growing evidence of a steady decline in water tables and water quality. The yield response to application of increasingly expensive chemical inputs is falling, which has meant higher costs of cultivation, without a corresponding rise in output. Around 90% of India’s water is consumed in farming, and of this, 80% is used up by rice, wheat and sugarcane. Farmers continue to grow these water-intensive crops even in water-short regions primarily because of an assured market — for rice and wheat in the form of public procurement, which still covers only a very low proportion of India’s crops, regions and farmers. Thus, we need to greatly expand the basket of public procurement to include more crops, more regions and more farmers. If done right, this single reform would secure multiple win-wins: higher and more sustainable farmer incomes, greater water security and better consumer health. Procurement must be local and follow the logic of regional agro-ecology. Huge volumes of water could be saved if cropping patterns are diversified to include a variety of millets (rightly called ‘nutri-cereals’ now), pulses and oilseeds. Ensuring a steady market To incentivise farmers to make this change, governments must include them in procurement operations. A useful benchmark could be 25% of the actual production of the commodity for that particular season (to be expanded up to 40%, if the commodity is part of the PDS), as proposed under the 2018 Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay SanraksHan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA) scheme. The locally procured crops should then be incorporated into anganwadi supplementary nutrition and school mid-day meal programmes. This would mean a large and steady market for farmers, while also making a huge contribution to tackling India’s twin syndemic of malnutrition and diabetes, since these crops have a much lower glycemic index, while providing higher content of dietary fibre, vitamins, minerals, protein and antioxidants. Public investment in specific infrastructure required for millets and pulses, especially those grown through natural farming, would also help expand their cultivation. India has a network of 2,477 mandis and 4,843 sub- mandis to safeguard farmers from exploitation by large retailers. This network needs to be greatly expanded as today, only 17% of farm produce passes through mandis . To provide farmers access within a radius of five kilometres, India needs 42,000 mandis , which are also in need of urgent reform. Rather than moving in the direction of weakening or dismantling mandis , we need to make their functioning more transparent and farmer-friendly. Rural India will be focal point Ever since the Second Five Year Plan initiated in 1956, the central plank of Indian economic policy has been to get people off the land and move them into industry and urban areas. However, even after all these efforts, the United Nations estimates that in the year 2050, around 800 million people will continue to live in rural India. Given this unique Indian demographic transition, agriculture will need to be greatly strengthened, especially bearing in mind the complete nightmare our urban metropolises are, for current and future migrants. In a context characterised by grave and growing inequalities, as also a historically skewed balance of power, no reform can succeed that does not strengthen the weak and the excluded. Agriculture can only be reformed by radically enhanced state capacities and qualitatively better regulatory oversight, rather than by opening up spaces for more predatory action by those already entrenched in positions of overwhelming power in the economy. Mihir Shah is Distinguished Professor, Shiv Nadar University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/plough-to-plate-hand-held-by-the-indian-state/article34276241.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Explaining Pakistan’s flip-flop on trade with India||Pakistan’s double U-turn on resuming trade with India highlights the internal differences within Ministries, between business and political communities, and the emphasis on politics over economy and trade. It also signifies Pakistan cabinet’s grandstanding, linking normalisation of ties with India to Jammu and Kashmir. On March 31, Pakistan’s new Finance Minister Hammad Azhar, announced Pakistan’s Economic Coordination Committee (ECC)’s decision to import cotton, yarn, and 500,000 metric tons of sugar from India. The media dubbed it as a political breakthrough but the ECC’s decision was not on bilateral trade; it was about importing only three items — cotton, yarn and sugar. A day later, Pakistan’s cabinet overruled the decision; the meeting was chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan and which included Shah Mohammad Qureshi (Foreign Affairs Minister), Fawad Chaudhry (Science and Technology Minister) and Shireen M. Mazari (Human Rights Minister). The Dawn quoted Mr. Qureshi as saying, “A perception was emerging that relations with India have moved towards normalization and trade has been opened… there was a unanimous opinion …as long as India does not review the unilateral steps it took on August 5, 2019, normalising relations with India will not be possible.” Mr. Hammad Azhar, whose Ministry proposed the idea, accepted the cabinet’s decision as the working of “economic and political interface in a democracy”, and it was left with the Prime Minister and the cabinet to “endorse, reject or modify” the ECC’s proposals. However, Pakistan’s textile industry has not taken the cabinet’s decision kindly; for them, importing cotton yarn from India is an immediate need; else, it would impact their export potential. Three takeaways can be identified from the above. The first relates to the ECC’s decision to import only three items from India, namely cotton, yarn and sugar. It was based on Pakistan’s immediate economic needs and not designed as a political confidence-building measure to normalise relations with India. Practical and economic For the textile and sugar industries in Pakistan, importing from India is imperative, practical and is the most economic. According to the latest Pakistan Economic Survey, 2019-20 (https://bit.ly/31TXd1I), though the agriculture sector witnessed a growth of 2.67% (with an increase in rice and maize production), cotton and sugarcane production declined by 6.9% and 0.4%, respectively. Sugar exports came down substantially last year, by over 50% in 2019-20, when compared to 2018-19. Yarn, cotton cloth, knitwear, bedwear and readymade garments form the core of Pakistan’s textile basket in the export sector. By February 2020, there was a steep decline in the textile sector due to disruptions in supply and domestic production. When compared to the last fiscal year (2019-20), there has been a 30% decline (2020-21) in cotton production. According to State Bank of Pakistan’s latest quarterly report (https://bit.ly/3uMedDJ), the decline in cotton production is also due to fewer areas (the lowest since 1982) of cotton cultivation. By the end of 2020, there was a sharp decline (around 40%) in cotton production. Besides the decline in the area of cotton cultivation, there was also a decline in yield per acre. The ginning industry estimates that in 2021, it would receive less than half of what was projected. In 2019-20, Pakistan produced around nine billion bales; this year, the ginning industry estimates only around seven million bales. This would mean, Pakistan’s cotton export would reduce, creating a domino effect on what goes into Pakistan’s garment industry. Pakistan is the fifth-largest exporter of cotton globally, and the cotton-related products (raw and value-added) earn close to half of the country’s foreign exchange. Another industry in crisis The sugar industry in Pakistan is also in crisis. When compared to cotton, the sugar industry’s problem stem from different issues — the availability for local consumption and the steep price increase. The sugar industry has prioritised exports over local distribution. Increased government subsidy and a few related administrative decisions resulted in the sugar industry attempting to make a considerable profit by exporting it. By early 2019, the sugar prices started increasing, and in 2020, there was a crisis due to shortage and cost. In February 2020, Mr. Imran Khan announced an investigation and constituted a commission of inquiry into Pakistan’s sugar crisis, 2019-20. According to the report, sugarcane was purchased off-the-books by the sugar mills, and sugar sold off-the-books. The report also noticed market manipulation and hoarding resulting in increased sugar price within Pakistan. In short, the subsidies, cheap bank loans, a few administrative decisions, manipulation and greed, especially by the sugar mill owners, mean high cost paid by the consumers. As a result, importing sugar from India would be cheaper for the consumer market in Pakistan. Clearly, the crises in cotton and sugar industries played a role in the ECC’s decision to import cotton, yarn and sugar from India. It would not only be cheaper but also help Pakistan’s exports. This is also imperative for Pakistan to earn foreign exchange. Politics first The second takeaway from the two U-turns — is the supremacy of politics over trade and economy, even if the latter is beneficial to the importing country. For the cabinet, the interests of its own business community and its export potential have become secondary. However, Pakistan need not be singled out; this is a curse in South Asia, where politics play supreme over trade and economy. The meagre percentage of intra-South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) trade and the success (or the failure) of SAARC engaging in bilateral or regional trade would underline the above. Trade is unlikely to triumph over politics in South Asia; especially in India-Pakistan relations. The Kashmir link The third takeaway is the emphasis on Jammu and Kashmir by Pakistan to make any meaningful start in bilateral relations. This goes against what it has been telling the rest of the world that India should begin dialogue with Pakistan. Recently, both Pakistan’s Prime Minister and the Chief of Army Staff, Qamar Javed Bajwa, were on record stating the need to build peace in the region. Gen. Bajwa even talked about “burying the past” and moving forward. There were also reports that Pakistan agreeing to re-establish the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) was a part of this new strategy. The latest statement by Pakistan’s cabinet that unless India rescinds the decision of August 5, 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir, there would be no forward movement, goes against what Mr. Imran Khan and Gen. Bajwa have been stating in public. This position also hints at Pakistan’s precondition (revoking the August 2019 decision on Jammu and Kashmir) to engage with India. Pakistan has been saying that the onus is on India to normalise the process. Perhaps, it is New Delhi’s turn to tell Islamabad that it is willing, but without any preconditions, and start with trade. It may even allow New Delhi to inform Pakistan’s stakeholders about who is willing to trade and who is reluctant. D. Suba Chandran is a professor and dean at the School of Conflict and Security Studies, National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS), Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/explaining-pakistans-flip-flop-on-trade-with-india/article34276243.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond zero sum||The visit of the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry, ahead of a leaders’ summit convened by President Joe Biden later this month on the climate challenge, has prompted a review of India’s long-term policy course. To the developed world, India presents a study in contrasts, with carbon dioxide emissions that rank in the top five globally, while millions of its citizens remain mired in energy poverty and underdevelopment. Ironically, to many smaller countries, including island nations hit by intense storms, lost farm productivity, droughts and heat waves linked to a changing climate, India contributes to the problem with its total annual emissions. It is unsurprising, therefore, that the clamour is growing for India to join many other big economies and commit itself to net zero emissions: to balance carbon emissions with their removal from the atmosphere, by a specific date. Evidently, Mr. Kerry sought to explore the possibility of raising national ambition, with the assurance that the U.S., pursuing major green technology initiatives in the post-Donald Trump era, would support such a road map. His meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been positive. It would, of course, reassure not just India but other emerging nations as well, if the climate diplomacy of the North under the Paris Agreement is underpinned by funding and technology transfer guarantees to reduce emissions. If climate change is the biggest crisis today, the solutions require the U.S, the U.K., Europe and others who occupied the bulk of the world’s carbon budget to give up further emissions in favour of the developing world and fund the transition. Even if India does not commit itself to a net zero deadline, and prefers to wait for the post-pandemic development pathways to become clear, it cannot afford to ignore the impact that its project decisions — such as deforestation — will have on the climate. At the peak of COVID-19 last year, the Centre saw it fit to press ahead with environmental clearances that would have a serious negative impact. It extended the deadline for coal plants to adopt strict pollution control, and proposed gross dilution of norms to assess environmental impact of projects. Fuel prices, at historic highs due to taxation, pay no specific environmental dividend, and the poorest are worst hit by its inflationary effects. What India should be doing in the run-up to the UN Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow, scheduled later this year, is to come up with a domestic climate plan that explains to the citizen how it will bring green development in this decade, specifying a target by sector for each year. This would align internal policies with the justifiable demand that rich countries uphold the principle enshrined in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, of common but differentiated responsibilities to build equity. Taxing luxury emissions, whether it is cars, air-conditioners, big properties or aviation, for specified green development outcomes, will send out a convincing message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beyond-zero-sum/article34276235.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Play time||Since its launch in 2008, the Indian Premier League has largely remained a summer-fix, with its share of pulsating thrills and big money. But these are extraordinary times when a virus has extended its stifling grip across the globe for more than a year and while COVID-19 rages, through a second wave in India, the IPL is back with its 14th edition that will commence at Chennai’s M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Friday with defending champion Mumbai Indians taking on Royal Challengers Bangalore. The previous tournament, a much-delayed one due to the pandemic, had concluded at Dubai on November 10, last year. After a five-month gap, the latest version rolls in with its share of 60 matches in a schedule that stretches all the way to May 30. Meanwhile, the virus continues to influence logistics and with bio-bubbles being the norm, the matches will be initially played at empty venues. The other new development is the idea of neutral venues, a move necessitated by the need to reduce travel so that every squad stays in a specific city for at least a fortnight. With cities such as Hyderabad, Mohali and Jaipur missing out as hosts, it was felt that their respective home units — Sunrisers Hyderabad, Punjab Kings and Rajasthan Royals — needed a level playing field and that was achieved by propping up neutral venues for all rivals. It is a thread that goes all the way to the play-offs and final, which would be held in Ahmedabad, a city that does not have an IPL outfit. If the immediate context is about playing sport in the times of the coronavirus, the larger goal for the players would be to also use this IPL as a stage to finesse their skills well in time for the Twenty20 World Cup in India during October-November this year. The current build-up that included hotel quarantines, gradual training and news about a few players and support staff testing positive for COVID-19, may not have been ideal but all the squads are keen to get on the turf and play even if excited fans and their acoustic-support would be missed. Besides its obvious stardust, the IPL is equally about an unsung player grabbing attention and winging his way into the national squad. T. Natarajan and Suryakumar Yadav, to name just two, have done that in recent times. And for the nostalgically inclined, it is also a space to watch the likes of M.S. Dhoni and AB de Villiers plying their wares. Neutral grounds that negate home-advantage and a virus in the air do make a strange mix but this is the new-normal for an event that has previously adjusted to three general elections and a couple of overseas deviations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/play-time/article34276236.ece
09 April 2021||MUMBAI,||MF assets rose 30% in FY21, equities saw inflows in March||The Average Assets Under Management (AAUMs) of the Mutual Fund (MF) industry in FY21 touched a historic high of Rs. 32.17 lakh crore as on March 31, rising 30% over the previous year’s Rs. 24.70 lakh crore, as per annual data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). After eight months of consecutive outflows, equity mutual funds witnessed a net inflow of Rs. 9,115 crore in March amid a correction in the stock market. Barring multi-cap and value fund categories, all the equity schemes saw inflow last month. However, investors pulled out Rs. 52,528 crore from debt mutual funds last month, after investing Rs. 1,735 crore in February, owing to advance tax payments and other year-end commitments. “Mutual Funds continue to be the preferred investment vehicle to build long-term, goal-based wealth creation, as is reflected from the number of unique investors across Mutual Fund schemes increasing in the last one year, by 10% to 2.28 crore as on March 31, 2021,” said N.S. Venkatesh, Chief Executive, AMFI. Another highlight during the pandemic-hit 2020-21 has been the rising acceptance for mutual funds from tier 2 and tier 3 locations, with Mutual Fund AUM from beyond the Top 30 cities rising 54% to Rs. 5,35,373 crore as on March 31, he said. Meanwhile, SBI Mutual Fund, a joint venture between State Bank of India and France’s Amundi, said it had become the first fund house in India to cross Rs. 5 lakh crore in AAUM.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mf-assets-rose-30-in-fy21-equities-saw-inflows-in-march/article34276216.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cars, SUVs buck retail auto sales drop||Retail sales of passenger vehicles maintained growth in March with more than 2.79 lakh units sold, data released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) showed. The figure was not strictly comparable with the year-earlier period, when sales were halted by the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Notwithstanding the lower base, overall vehicle sales slumped 28.6% to about 16.49 lakh units. Two-wheelers sales shrank by more than a third to about 11.95 lakh units, while three-wheeler deliveries halved to 38,034 units. Retail sales of commercial vehicles contracted 42% from a year earlier to 67,372 units in March. Tractor sales, however, continued to grow, rising 29.2% to 69,082 units. ‘Extreme caution’ FADA said it was maintaining ‘extreme caution’ for April amid the second wave of the pandemic, potential lockdowns, and shortages of semiconductors and ABS (anti-lock braking system). “Tractors and passenger vehicles (PV) were the only two categories which saw healthy double-digit growth,” said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati. “This growth can be associated with multiple factors like low base of last year, transition from BS-4 to BS-6 and India going under total lockdown,” he added. He added that the global shortage of wafers, an input for semiconductors, had kept the PV waiting period as high as seven months. Quoting Pew Research, he said the financial woes brought about by COVID-19 had pushed about 32 million Indians out of the middle class. This had badly hit the two-wheeler segment, which saw the steepest degrowth in the last few months. “This coupled with high fuel prices and price increase acted as a double whammy,” Mr. Gulati said. “This not only created havoc in the minds of entry-level customers, but also kept them away from visiting showrooms,” he added. FADA noted that April was usually a high sales period due to festivals like Ugadi, Gudi Padwa, Baisakhi and Poila Boishakh, besides being a wedding season. Any lockdown at this point would severely hamper the momentum gained by the auto industry, it warned. “Increase of COVID-19 and fear among consumers has started keeping them away from making high ticket purchases,” the industry group said. “This coupled with semiconductor shortage will continue to hamper not only PV, but also two-wheelers as ABS shortage is currently ringing alarm bells,” it added. The industry body said that since Maharashtra contributed 10-11% of the auto retail, the current lockdown would have a ‘catastrophic effect’ on sales this month. “FADA maintains extreme caution for the month of April as COVID-19 rises to newer highs,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cars-suvs-buck-retail-auto-sales-drop/article34276221.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI tightens AIF investment norms||Insurance regulator IRDAI has introduced additional guidelines on insurers’ investment in Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), including one mandating them to report compliance on a quarterly basis. A circular said the norms would replace a provision, in a 2017 Master Circular on Investment, that stipulates “no investment is permitted in AIFs, which are of fund of funds and leverage funds.” Thursday’s circular said “no investment is permitted into AIFs which undertake leverage or borrowing other than to meet day-to-day operational requirements and as permitted under SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012.” Insurers are allowed to invest in Fund of Funds (FoFs), which in turn, invest within the country. Further, such FoFs should not invest in AIFs that invest in overseas companies/funds. The regulator also barred insurers from investing in an AIF that has exposure to an FoF in which the insurer has invested. The insurer, on a quarterly basis, needs to obtain a certificate issued by the concurrent auditor on the compliance of the conditions and file it with quarterly periodical returns, said S.N. Jayasimhan, HoD-Investments, IRDAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-tightens-aif-investment-norms/article34276214.ece
09 April 2021||Bengaluru,||MRO growth to help create jobs: skill council||India’s maintenance, repair & overhaul (MRO) landscape is expected to boom with several new players currently waiting in the wings to join the bandwagon, as per Aerospace and Aviation Sector Skill Council (AASSC). “Reducing GST on MROs from 18% to 5% and waiving customs duty on tools, kits and spare parts imported by MROs came as a big push, The country already has half a dozen MROs while several more are waiting to enter the space.” said Rachit Bhatnagar, CEO, AASSC. Other than Karnataka and Maharasthra that have been fertile grounds for the sector, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh are planning dedicated corridors to host services for the industry. “Until a few years ago, almost all our airplanes flew to Malaysia, Singapore, UAE or Sri Lanka for maintenance. Today, we are able to handle 25% of such work within the country. In 5-10 years, we should be able to raise it to 50% and 70%, respectively.” “AASSC has trained more than 16,000 people and placed 75% of them. We expect a boom in the MRO space; we are geared to train more people for emerging career roles,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mro-growth-to-help-create-jobs-skill-council/article34276215.ece
09 April 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI’s first purchase under G-SAP 1.0 set for April 15||A day after announcing the introduction of the G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday announced the Open Market Purchase of Government of India Securities under the programme. “The Reserve Bank will conduct open market purchase of government securities of Rs. 1 lakh crore under the G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0) in Q1 2021-22 with a view to enabling a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve. The first purchase of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs. 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15, 2021,” the RBI said in a circular. The central bank will purchase five types of government securities via a multi-security auction using multiple price methods. The dates of maturity vary from November 2, 2023 to March 16, 2035.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbis-first-purchase-under-g-sap-10-set-for-april-15/article34276218.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCLAT stays committee for OYO unit insolvency||Hospitality firm OYO on Thursday said the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) had ordered a stay on the formation of a committee of creditors in proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code against its subsidiary OYO Hotels and Homes Pvt. Ltd. (OHHPL). Earlier, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had admitted a petition for initiating insolvency proceedings against OHHPL for recovery of Rs. 16 lakh, an order that the hospitality firm challenged before the appellate tribunal on Wednesday. “Closing @riteshagar’s thread from yesterday – Today NCLAT has admitted our plea and ordered a stay for the formation of COC in IBC proceedings against OHHPL, an OYO subsidiary. The claimant has already drawn the Rs. 16 lakh which we paid under protest,” OYO said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-stays-committee-for-oyo-unit-insolvency/article34276227.ece
09 April 2021||new delhi,||Ambani to appeal against SEBI penalty||Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani will appeal against the fine imposed by market regulator SEBI over alleged irregularities in a two-decade-old share issue in the company, the firm said. RIL had issued debentures with convertible warrants in 1994 and allotted equity shares against the warrants in 2000.   “The promoter and promoter group have informed RIL that there has been no violation of Regulation 11(1) of the SEBI Takeover Regulations and an appeal will be preferred to the Securities Appellate Tribunal,” RIL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ambani-to-appeal-against-sebi-penalty/article34276865.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,||Renault, Cero offer to scrap old vehicles||Renault India and Cero Recycling have unveiled ‘RELIVE,’ an end-to-end, old-vehicle scrapping solution. “We have launched the programme in New Delhi and NCR, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru by partnering with Cero Recycling,” said Venkatram Mamillapalle, country CEO and MD, Renault India Operations. “With its eco-friendly practices, Cero will help reduce carbon footprint, making a zero-waste, zero-pollution ecosystem, while Renault will offer attractive and guaranteed benefits on new vehicle purchase.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/renault-cero-offer-to-scrap-old-vehicles/article34276222.ece
09 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Rupee slides to a near 5-month low||The rupee weakened further by 11 paise against the U.S. currency to close at its weakest level in almost five months on Thursday amid fears that a rapid resurgence of COVID-19 cases in the country could disrupt economic recovery. Logging its fourth straight session of loss, the currency settled at 74.58 to the U.S. dollar. On Wednesday, the rupee nosedived 105 paise to mark its biggest single-session drop in more than 20 months. Over the past four sessions, the Indian currency has lost 146 paise in its valuation against the U.S. dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar index fell 0.06% to 92.39.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rupee-slides-to-a-near-5-month-low/article34276225.ece
09 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Payments bank balance limit doubled||The RBI has doubled the limit of maximum balance that an individual customer can hold with payments banks (PBs) to Rs. 2 lakh from Rs. 1 lakh earlier, with immediate effect to expand the ability of lenders to cater to the needs of MSMEs and other businesses.  “Considering the progress made by PBs in furthering financial inclusion and with the objective of giving more flexibility to the PBs, it has been decided to enhance the limit of maximum balance from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh per individual customer with immediate effect,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/payments-bank-balance-limit-doubled/article34276228.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Mohalla Tech, Gupshup enter ‘unicorn club’||At least five start-ups joined the unicorn club during the first week of April by reaching a valuation of more than $1 billion. On Thursday, Mohalla Tech became the latest to earn the title. Other start-ups in the club include Groww, API Holdings, Meesho and CRED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mohalla-tech-gupshup-enter-unicorn-club/article34276219.ece
09 April 2021||New Delhi,||Amazon moves SC for stay on Delhi HC order till verdict on Future-Reliance deal dispute||Amazon has moved the Supreme Court challenging the Delhi High Court's division bench order that had vacated a stay on Future Group’s Rs. 24,713-crore asset sale to RIL. Amazon sought a stay on the March 22 order till the final outcome of its earlier plea on the deal.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-moves-sc-for-stay-on-delhi-hc-order-till-verdict-on-future-reliance-deal-dispute/article34276224.ece
09 April 2021||MUSSANAH (OMAN),||Vishnu qualifies for Olympics||The pair of Varun Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy, along with Vishnu Saravanan, qualified for Tokyo Olympics in the 49er and laser standard classes respectively from the Asian Olympic sailing qualifiers that concluded here on Thursday. Vishnu did exceedingly well by finishing first in the final medal race and second overall behind Singapore’s Ryan Lo Jun Han. The Varun-Ganapathy duo, which had to finish in the top six in the medal race to make the grade, did so by finishing fourth and first overall. Meanwhile, Nethra Kumanan officially qualified for Tokyo by finishing sixth in the final race to end up second overall and first among Asians in the laser radial class. Emma Charlotte Savelon of the Netherlands took the overall honours. Ramya misses out Ramya Saravanan, too, had a chance to make it to Tokyo had she finished behind Nethra in overall standings. Placed overnight third overall and second among Asians, Ramya ended up in eighth place in the medal race and finished sixth overall, thereby missing the bus. “We got the result we wanted. All our hard work has paid off. “We are grateful for all the people who supported us. It was a shaky [final] race, but we did it. Now the work starts,” said Varun and Ganapathy. Vishnu, who had to finish first in the medal race to make the grade, said “I was nervous and emotional before and after the race. “ During the race, I was telling myself ‘Vishnu, be in the present’. It feels great to be part of history.” The event, called the Mussanah Open, offered two Asian qualification spots each in the laser radial and laser standard classes and one in the other classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-qualifies-for-olympics/article34276382.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Star-studded, bio-bubble sheathed IPL caravan returns to India||The last time high-profile cricket was ushered into Chennai’s M.A. Chidambaram Stadium while the Bay of Bengal whispered to the nearby shores, there was applause from the stands and an Indian triumph over England was witnessed. That second Test, which concluded on February 16, now looks far due to the latest coronavirus-influenced circumstances. Much has changed over the last few months and when the Indian Premier League gears up for its 14th season with the first match pitting reigning champion Mumbai Indians against Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) here on Friday, fans have been kept away as a strict bio-bubble is in place. The Yellow-Den, as the venue is fondly referred to by the Chennai Super Kings’ (CSK) followers, has turned neutral as all IPL games this year will lack the home-flavour. M.S. Dhoni will be missed in these parts while he and his fellow-CSK players ply their wares in cities ranging from Mumbai to Kolkata. While Mumbai Indians has scaled new heights and has five titles in its kitty, CSK suddenly hit a trough and finished seventh in the last edition in the United Arab Emirates. A steep fall for an outfit that won the trophy thrice! Reconfigured unit What Dhoni and his reconfigured unit do will be watched and, in a converse way, RCB too will draw attention, especially as its skipper Virat Kohli has had success leading India while inexplicably faltering when it comes to the IPL after promising much. Skippers are as good or bad as their teams but they are also supposed to propel their men forward. Rohit Sharma, the Mumbai Indians’ leader, is sitting pretty right now, having guided his troops regularly to the high-table. After winning the last two editions, a hat-trick beckons and that will inflate the pressure. Meanwhile, Sunrisers Hyderabad headlined by David Warner and also featuring Kane Williamson, the uber-cool cricketer, has enough fire and ice. Pant, the toast Among the others, Delhi Capitals, a franchise known to constantly alter personnel besides tweaking its nomenclature once, will deflect some limelight to its captain answering to the name of Rishabh Pant. The wicket-keeper batsman has become the toast of international cricket after his exploits in Australia and in the home series against England. Punjab Kings, which bundles together K.L. Rahul and Twenty20’s eternal gun-for-hire Chris Gayle, is capable of punching above its weight, while the Eoin Morgan-led Kolkata Knight Riders, also featuring Andre Russell, has a history of two titles. At the other end of the spectrum, Rajasthan Royals, IPL’s inaugural champion in 2008, took a punt on Sanju Samson and appointed him as its leader and has the incandescent Ben Stokes within its stable.  No home advantage The latest IPL staged at neutral grounds while bowlers rue the lack of a slender home-advantage should throw up surprises.  The organisers, though, will fervently hope that the virus doesn’t scupper their best-laid plans as the league aims for a gripping summit clash at Ahmedabad on May 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/star-studded-bio-bubble-sheathed-ipl-caravan-returns-to-india/article34276336.ece
09 April 2021||Buenos Aires,||India held by Argentina||Olympic champion Argentina quelled India’s chances of a second consecutive victory as it made a strong comeback for a 4-4 draw in a practice match on Wednesday. Varun Kumar (7th and 44th), Rajkumar Pal (13th), Rupinder Pal Singh (14th) scored for India while Leandro Tolini (10th), Lucas Toscani (23rd), Ignacio Ortiz (42nd) and Lucas (57th) found the target for the home team. India had won the first practice match 4-3. Fine start India made a fine start with a well-structured attack that fetched it three goals in the first quarter. Forward Mandeep Singh earned India a penalty corner in the seventh minute which was effortlessly converted by dragflicker Varun Kumar. Argentina bounced back in the 10th minute when it earned a PC. Leandro Tolini, who scored twice in the previous match, came up with a well-executed dragflick to equalise. India, however, regained the lead with Rajkumar Pal’s goal in the 13th minute. He was assisted by attacking midfielder Nilakanta Sharma, who has been in good nick. Rupinder Pal Singh score a splendid goal off a PC, taking India’s lead to 3-1 in the 14th minute. The second quarter began with both teams winning PCs but converting none. However, in the 23rd minute, Lucas Toscani struck to narrow India’s lead to 3-2. Well-struck After the halftime break Argentina pulled level through a PC, which was well-struck by Argentina’s attacking midfielder Ignacio Ortiz. This didn’t dampen India’s spirit as it scored the fourth via forward Dilpreet Singh, whose successful entry into the striking circle earned India a PC. Varun then made no mistake. With the visitors ahead only by a goal, the last quarter was a battle of nerves. India custodian Krishan Pathak saved a PC but he could do little to stop Lucas’s field goal in the 57th minute.  The result: Argentina 4 (Leandro Tolini 10, Lucas Toscani 23, Ignacio Ortiz 42, Lucas 57) drew with India 4 (Varun Kumar 7, 44, Rajkumar Pal 13, Rupinder Pal Singh 14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-held-by-argentina/article34276394.ece
09 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Rachin Ravindra makes Shahabuddin proud||Former Andhra all-rounder K.S. Shahabuddin has every reason to feel proud as one of his wards Rachin Ravindra was named in the New Zealand team for the tour of England, including the World Test championship final against India in June. Rachin, a 21-year-old southpaw and left-arm spinner, received personal training and was ensured enough exposure by Shahabuddin when the youngster was a member of the Hutt Hawks Cricket Club, which visited the Anantapur Sports Academy (ASA) quite a few times. “My joy knew no bounds when Rachin called and informed me about his selection in the New Zealand team. He truly deserved this,” Shahabuddin, the ASA head coach, told The Hindu on Thursday.  “Ever since I saw him for the first time with the Hawks, I felt Rachin — born to Indian parents Ravi Krishnamurthy of Bengaluru and Deepa Krishnamurthy in Wellington — was a future bet. “Thanks to the ACA, ASA and its programme director Moncho Ferrer, we ensured Rachin got the exposure by playing against top teams from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karnataka,” Shahabuddin said. “I had a lot of faith in his talent and have been coaching him personally since 2016, when he first visited ASA. Rachin also felt his performances improved after the stint with us and has been a regular to ASA. Making it big “I am sure Rachin will make it big given his passion, willingness to learn and his abundant talent,” added Shahabuddin. “I am grateful to Shahabuddin Sir and the ASA for helping me reach the level where I am now,” said Rachin. “Anantapur is like a second home for me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rachin-makes-shahabuddin-proud/article34276961.ece
09 April 2021||Chennai,||Gun-slinger versus smooth operator in blockbuster opener||It’s Virat Kohli vs Rohit Sharma. Two different kinds of captains and leaders. One whose body language bristles with aggression. The other who is more laid-back but street smart. In other words, gun-slinger versus smooth operator. The IPL lung opener between defending champion Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore could prove intriguing. Dew factor The surface for the day-night game at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Thursday should provide good carry in the first half but could assist the spinners later on. Dew could be a big factor. For RCB much hinges on the opening pair of Kohli and Devdutt Padikkal — he has recovered well from COVID — but they will be up against the deadly combination of Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult. Bumrah swings the new ball away and then delivers potent yorkers. Boult will be a threat with his swing and left-armer’s angle. RCB, though, packs batting firepower. Effortless & destructive  Apart from the gifted A.B. de Villiers who can innovate and create effortlessly, the side has the destructive Glenn Maxwell. RCB would do well if it utilises the wonderfully fluent batting potential of Washington Sundar. He is also more than an accurate off-spinner. Mumbai Indians is a complete side. The brutal Rohit can win matches off his own bat. Then you have the strokeful Quinton de Kock, whose availability for the match could be a touch-and-go affair. And the side has stupendous domestic talent with the willow; the explosive Ishan Kishan, the smooth-stroking Suryakumar Yadav, the big-hitting Hardik Pandya and the dynamic Krunal Pandya. Then there is the ‘palm tree hitter’ Kieron Pollard. In the RCB attack, exciting Kiwi paceman Kyle Jamieson will be watched with keen interest. Washington and Yuzvendra Chahal could also enter the picture. The opening duel could be a titanic affair.        There’s nothing quite like playing in Chinnaswamy in front of your home crowd. Obviously the fans are going to miss watching us play. Virat Kohli   A lot of people are going through hard times, a lot of people are not able to work, not able to do what they like. We are lucky we are getting to do what we like Rohit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gun-slinger-versus-smooth-operator-in-blockbuster-opener/article34276339.ece
09 April 2021||Milan,||Lukaku powers Inter closer to title||Romelu Lukaku scored one goal and set up another as Inter Milan moved a step closer to its first Serie A title in more than a decade with a 2-1 win over Sassuolo on Wednesday. Lukaku headed in the opener in the 10th minute and provided the assist for Lautaro Martínez in the 67th as Inter moved 11 points clear of second-place AC Milan with its 10th successive victory. “Lukaku and Lautaro have been working for so long together, they know what positions they have to keep now,” Inter coach Antonio Conte said. “They do so very well, they always move in synchrony.” It was Lukaku’s 21st league goal of the season but he remains four behind Cristiano Ronaldo in the scoring charts as the Juventus forward also netted in his side’s 2-1 win over Napoli in another rearranged match. Juventus moved into third. The nine-time defending champion is 12 points behind Inter, which hasn’t won the league title since 2010. The match between Inter and Sassuolo was meant to be played just before the international break but was postponed following a coronavirus outbreak in the Nerazzurri camp.  The results: Serie A: Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 13, Dybala 73) bt Napoli 1 (Insigne 89-pen); Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 10, Martinez 67) bt Sassuolo 1 (Traore 85).   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 1 (Lopez 89) drew with Athletic Bilbao 1 (Villalibre 85).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lukaku-powers-inter-closer-to-title/article34276234.ece
09 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Weightlifters raring to get into action||After spending more than a year without a competition, the Indian weightlifters are ready to test themselves in the Asian championships to be held in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, from April 16 to 25. The Pattaya World championships in September 2019 was the last international outing for the Indians. The National championships in Kolkata in February 2020 was the last competition for them before the pandemic disrupted the calendar. Primary target With the Olympics around the corner, the primary target for the Indians is to secure quota places in the Tokyo Games. Former world champion S. Mirabai Chanu (women’s 49kg) and Jeremy Lalrinnunga (men’s 67kg) are the leading Indians who are capable of winning Olympic quota places. According to chief National coach Vijay Sharma, Mirabai, who is ranked fourth in the world, will qualify by competing in the Asian championships (a gold-level Olympic qualifying event) and fulfilling the requirement of taking part in six designated events in the prescribed time frame. Jeremy, who has a personal best of 306kg in an international event and is ranked 22nd, has a good chance of qualifying, said Sharma. All eyes will be on Mirabai, who will be eager to prove her mettle after getting treated for her lower back pain in the USA. Mirabai, who set a new National mark with an aggregate of 203kg in the National championships in Kolkata, will look forward to at least matching her best performance. “Mira has been lifting with confidence after her treatment in the USA and that makes us optimistic about her chances,” said Sharma. Better chances The pullout of North Korea, which will eventually result in the non-participation of medal contender Ri Song Gum (who has a best total of 209) in the Olympics will brighten Mirabai’s chances. The Indian has a best total of 201kg in an international event. The assistance of psychologists should benefit Mirabai and Jeremy while going into a top competition after a long COVID-induced break. Other lifters, including two-time Commonwealth Games gold medallist S. Sathish Kumar (81kg), will be keen to get back into competition mode in the continental meet.  Mira has been lifting with confidence after her treatment in the USA and that makes us optimistic Vijay Sharma Coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/weightlifters-raring-to-get-into-action/article34276385.ece
09 April 2021||Munich,||PSG stars run the show in Munich||Kylian Mbappe scored twice to lead Paris Saint-Germain to a 3-2 win at defending champion Bayern Munich in the first leg of their Champions League quarterfinal on Wednesday. Mbappe was a constant threat while Neymar had two assists as the French champion responded to its 1-0 loss to Bayern in last year’s final by seizing the advantage going into the second leg in Paris next week. Captain injured Marquinhos scored the other goal as the visitors went 2-0 up inside the first half hour, but the PSG captain went off injured shortly afterward and Bayern responded through headers from Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting and Thomas Muller. Mbappe sealed the win with his eight goal of the competition in the 68th. Choupo-Moting started up front for Bayern, which was without top scorer Robert Lewandowski due to a knee injury and Serge Gnabry because of a positive COVID-19 test.  Solid defensively and precise in attack, Chelsea took a big step toward returning to the last four by defeating Porto 2-0 in their first leg of the quarterfinals. Great chance Mason Mount and Ben Chilwell scored their first Champions League goals to give Chelsea a great chance of making it to the semifinals for the first time in seven years. Mount scored after a nice turn past a defender at the edge of the area in the 32nd minute and Chilwell added the second following a blunder by Porto’s Jesus Corona in the 85th.   The results: Porto 0 lost to Chelsea 2 (Mount 32, Chilwell 85); Bayern Munich 2 (Choupo-Moting 37, Muller 60) lost to Paris Saint-Germain 3 (Mbappe 3, 68, Marquinhos 28).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-stars-run-the-show-in-munich/article34276232.ece
09 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Delgado omitted from BFC squad||Spaniard and key midfielder Dimas Delgado was missing from Bengaluru FC’s 29-man squad for the 2021 AFC Cup qualifiers, which begins with the Preliminary Stage Two clash against Nepalese side Tribhuvan Army FC, on April 14 in Goa. In the roster announced on Thursday, Gabonese defender Yrondu Musavu-King, the club’s latest signing, is among four foreign players, alongside Juanan Gonzalez, Cleiton Silva and Erik Paartalu. AFC rules mandate that a side can have a maximum of four foreigners on the pitch, including one from a member nation. As many as five BFC B-team players made the cut, including N. Sivasakthi, who finished as top-scorer in the recently concluded BDFA Super Division League campaign.  The squad: Goalkeepers: Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, Lalthuammawia Ralte, Lara Sharma, Sharon Padattil; defenders: Rahul Bheke, Pratik Chaudhari, Juan Gonzalez, Wungngayam Muirang, Ajith Kumar, Ashique Kuruniyan, Joe Zoherliana, Parag Shrivas, Yrondu Musavu-King, Biswa Darjee; midfielders: Erik Paartalu, Suresh Wangjam, Harmanjot Khabra, Namgyal Bhutia, Emanuel Lalchhanchuaha, Damaitphang Lyngdoh, Muhammad Inayath; forwards: Sunil Chhetri, Edmund Lalrindika, Udanta Singh, Cleiton Silva, Leon Augustine, Naorem Roshan Singh, Sivasakthi Narayanan, Akashdeep Singh.   Head coach: Marco Pezzaiuoli; assistant Coach: Naushad Moosa .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delgado-omitted-from-bfc-squad/article34276872.ece
09 April 2021||MADURAI,||TN govt. chips in for sportspersons||Funds allotted by the Tamil Nadu government will help a few sportspersons compete in international competitions. In a release, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) said that thanks to the fund allocation, C.A. Bhavani Devi (fencing), A. Sarath Kamal and G. Sathiyan (table tennis) and K.C. Ganapathy (sailing) will take part in the Tokyo Olympics this year. The four are beneficiaries of the Special Scholarship Scheme for Elite Sportspersons. Varun Thakkar and Nethra Kumanan (sailing) are beneficiaries of the Mission International Medal Scheme. Rs. 10 lakh for Mission International Medal Scheme The government has allocated Rs. 25 lakh for the Special Scholarship Scheme for Elite Sportspersons and Rs. 10 lakh for the Mission International Medal Scheme, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-govt-chips-in-for-sportspersons/article34276902.ece
09 April 2021||Mumbai,||Sachin Tendulkar leaves hospital||Sachin Tendulkar, who went into hospitalisation as a precautionary measure after testing positive for COVID-19, was on Thursday discharged and is recuperating in home isolation here. Tendulkar, who will turn 48 this month, posted a statement on Twitter: “I have just come home from the hospital and will remain isolated while continuing to rest and recuperate. I would like to thank everyone for all the good wishes and prayers. Really appreciate it.” Tendulkar also thanked the medical staff: “I remain ever grateful to all the medical staff who took such good care of me & have been working tirelessly for over a year in such difficult circumstances.” Tendulkar was hospitalised on April 2 as a precautionary measure after testing positive for the dreaded virus on March 27. However all his family members tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-tendulkar-leaves-hospital/article34276367.ece
09 April 2021||Los Angeles,||Phoenix Suns pips Utah Jazz||Devin Booker scored 35 points as Phoenix Suns edged Utah Jazz 117-113 in overtime on Wednesday in a Western Conference showdown between the two best teams in the NBA. The Suns not only won their seventh straight game, but the nail-biting victory gives them an important psychological edge over the Jazz as the 72-game NBA season nears the final stretch. Donovan Mitchell scored a game-high 41 points for Jazz. Mitchell forced the overtime with a three-pointer. Elsewhere, Kevin Durant scored 17 points in his timely return from injury absence as Brooklyn Nets clobbered New Orleans Pelicans 139-111 in New York. It was a perfect shooting night for Durant whose return came after star point guard James Harden went out with a hamstring injury. Boston Celtics beat New York Knicks 101-99 to break a seventh-place tie in the Eastern Conference standings.  The results: Hawks 113 lost to Grizzlies 131; Celtics 101 bt Knicks 99; Nets 139 bt Pelicans 111; Suns 117 bt Utah 113 (OT)   Nuggets 106 bt Spurs 96; Rockets 102 bt Mavericks 93; Thunder 102 lost to Hornets 113; Pacers 141 bt Timberwolves 137; Magic 116 lost to Wizards 131.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suns-pip-jazz/article34276383.ece
09 April 2021||Paris,||French Open gets postponed by a week||The French Open tennis tournament will be delayed by one week because of the coronavirus pandemic, organisers said on Thursday. The clay-court Grand Slam tournament was set to start on May 23, but first-round matches will now get underway on May 30. The French tennis federation said the decision was taken in order to maximise chances the event will be played “in front of as many spectators as possible” in a safe environment.  “This postponement will give us a little more time to improve the health situation and should allow us to optimise our chances of welcoming spectators at Roland Garros,” said Gilles Moretton, the president of the French tennis federation. “Whether for the fans, the players or the atmosphere, crowd presence is essential to the tournament, the first international sporting event of the spring.” Ugo Valensi, executive Director of Grand Slam board coordinating the four major tournaments, said the organisation supports French federation’s decision. Cornet’s criticism French tennis player Alize Cornet, however, slammed Sports Minister Roxana Maracineanu for the decision. “Our sport minister is a disaster,” Cornet said, speaking to Tennis Channel. “It’s a pretty selfish decision, to be honest. Because the calendar is going to suffer from this postponement. I understand it’s not an easy time for the tournament but we have to think about the players and the calendar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/french-open-gets-postponed-by-a-week/article34276395.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Rich harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rich-harvest/article34276899.ece
09 April 2021||Wellington,||Three new faces in Kiwi Test squad||New Zealand named a squad of 20 players on Thursday for its tour of England including three uncapped players, but with a question mark over Kane Williamson and Trent Boult. The newcomers to the New Zealand squad are 21-year-old all-rounder Rachin Ravindra, swing bowler Jacob Duffy and in-form batsman Devon Conway. Colin de Grandhomme veteran Ross Taylor and Doug Bracewell all have to prove their fitness.  The squad: Kane Williamson (Capt.), Tom Blundell, Trent Boult, Doug Bracewell, Devon Conway, Colin de Grandhomme, Jacob Duffy, Matt Henry, Kyle Jamieson, Tom Latham, Daryl Mitchell, Henry Nicholls, Ajaz Patel, Rachin Ravindra, Mitchell Santner, Tim Southee, Ross Taylor, Neil Wagner, B-J. Watling and Will Young.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-new-faces-in-kiwi-test-squad/article34276368.ece
09 April 2021||Tashkent,||India women lose to Belarus||The Indian women's football team lost 2-1 to Belarus in its second international friendly here on Thursday. While both the sides played out an even first half, Belarus took the lead through a Nastassia Shuppo penalty in the 66th, before Hanna Pilipenka doubled the lead with a 78th-minute strike. Sangita Basfore pulled one back deep into added time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-lose-to-belarus/article34276369.ece
09 April 2021||Dubai,||Bhuvneshwar in line for ICC award||India seamer Bhuvneshwar Kumar is among cricketers nominated for the ICC Player-of-the-Month award for March following his standout performances in the limited-overs matches against England. The ICC on Thursday announced the nominees to recognise the best performances from both male and female cricketers across all forms of international cricket. Besides Bhuvneshwar, the others in the men's category are ace leg-spinner Rashid Khan of Afghanistan and Zimbabwe's Sean Williams. The nominees among the women are India’s Rajeshwari Gayakwad and Punam Raut, and South Africa's Lizelle Lee. Last month, Bhuvneshwar played three ODIs against England taking six wickets and maintaining an economy rate of 4.65. He also played five T20Is where he took four wickets and had an economy rate of 6.38. He was the standout bowler on either side in the white-ball series between India and England. Rashid took 11 wickets as his team won the second Test against Zimbabwe and followed up with six in a 3-0 T20I victory for his side. For Zimbabwe, Williams played two Tests against Afghanistan where he scored 264 runs and took two wickets. He also played three T20Is wherein he scored 45 runs at a strike rate of 128.57. In women's cricket, Rajeshwari played five ODIs against South Africa and was India’s leading wicket-taker in the white-ball series. She took eight wickets and had an economy rate of 3.56 in the ODIs and in the three T20Is she took four wickets with an economy rate of 4.75. Punam played five ODIs against South Africa where she scored 263 runs at 87.66 with a strike rate of 71.66. She was India's top run-scorer in the ODI series with a century and two half-centuries. From the South African camp, Lizelle played four ODIs returning a century and two half-centuries to move to the top of the ICC batting rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhuvneshwar-in-line-for-icc-monthly-award/article34276378.ece
09 April 2021||Colorado Springs (USA),||Harendra to coach US men’s team||Former India hockey coach Harendra Singh, who trained both the national men’s and women’s teams at different stages of his accomplished career, has been appointed as the new head coach of the US men’s team. Harendra, who was bestowed the Dronacharya in 2012, served as the chief coach of the senior India men’s hockey team from 2017-18. Before that, he was also in charge of the Indian women’s team for some time. “Thank you for this exciting opportunity to coach the U.S. men’s national team,” said Harendra in a statement issued by Team USA.  In total, Harendra has claimed eight gold medals, five silver and nine bronze at various tournaments at the international level and has coached more than 350 international matches between the junior and senior national teams. “We are thrilled to have Harry join USA Field Hockey and lead our men’s program,” said Simon Hoskins, USA Field Hockey’s executive director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harendra-to-coach-us-mens-team/article34276392.ece
09 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Withdrew due to COVID: Hazlewood||Australia fast bowler Josh Hazlewood, who opted out of the 2021 season, cited the raging pandemic as the reason for his withdrawal. “COVID concern was the main reason I pulled out,” Hazlewood revealed to Sportstar . The Chennai Super Kings speedster became the third Australian after Josh Philippe (Royal Challengers Bangalore) and Mitchell Marsh (Sunrisers Hyderabad) to withdraw this season. Hazlewood has been in bio-secure bubbles from August 2020 to January this year, but said he has “no real issue with them.” “It all depends on how tight the bubbles are. Some are easier than others, and obviously, quarantine is a different story entirely. Everyone is different. I have no real issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/withdrew-due-to-covid-hazlewood/article34276333.ece
09 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Surgery over, Shreyas vows quick return||India batsman Shreyas Iyer, on Thursday, said he has undergone a successful surgery for a shoulder injury and vowed to return to action at the earliest. Shreyas had hurt his shoulder during the ODI series against England last month, which ruled him of the IPL. “Surgery was a success and with a lion-hearted determination, I’ll be back in no time. Thank you for your wishes,” tweeted Shreyas, along with a picture. The 26-year-old had suffered the injury during the first ODI at Pune on March 23 when he dived to stop a shot by Jonny Bairstow off pacer Shardul Thakur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/surgery-over-shreyas-vows-quick-return/article34276334.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s Challengers vs ICF||Challengers Hockey will meet Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in the final of the N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Hockey Cup to be held here on Friday. Comprising a majority of players from AG's Office, Income Tax and FCI, Challengers defeated Indian Bank 3-2 in the semifinal while ICF upset Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) 4-3 via tiebreaker after being tied 1-1 in the regulation time in the other semifinal.  The results (semifinals): Challengers Hockey 3 (Ganesh, Abhron, Raheel) bt Indian Bank 2 (Somanna); ICF 4 (Dhanush, Suraj Minz, Alok Barla, Sanjay Xalco, Shyam Kumar) bt IOB 3 (Hariharan, Harmanpreet Singh, Hariharan, S. Manikandan) .    B. Surya's all-round performance helped SKMT CC beat RKS CC by 76 runs in the CDCA first division league match held recently.  The scores: SKMT CC 216/6 in 30 overs (B. Surya 64, P. Murugesh 40) bt RKS CC 140 in 23.3 overs (B. Surya 3/14, R. Montt Fort 3/32).   Masters CC 122 in 25.4 overs (K. Jeevarathanam 3/34, S. Dhachana Moorthy 3/24) lost to Alagesan CC 123/5 in 23.4 overs (J. Karan 55, A. Silambarasan 31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-challengers-vs-icf/article34276901.ece
09 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Guntakal wins title||Guntakal scored a seven-wicket win over Guntur in the final of the SCR inter-divisional RPF cricket tournament at the Railway Stadium. D. Srinivasa Rao, ADRM (Infrastructure), SCR, and Sachin Balode, Sr. Divisional Security Commissioner (RPF), gave away the prizes.  The scores:   Guntur Division 65 in 17 overs (Vijay 5/23, Devendra 4/27) lost to Guntakal Division 66/3 in 10 overs.   Man-of-the-final: Vijay.   Special prizes: Vijay (Guntakal, best bowler); Prakash (Vijayawada, best batsman); Y.S.S. Reddy (Guntur, best all-rounder) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/guntakal-wins-title/article34277064.ece
09 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA:,||Sajana leads Sapphire to win||S. Sajana led from the front to help Sapphire win the inaugural KCA Pink Challengers Women's T20 tournament here on Thursday. In a one-sided, low-scoring final, Sapphire won by six wickets with 6.4 overs to spare. Sajana took three for five as Ruby was bundled out for 55. There were two wickets apiece for Sandra Suren and K.K. Aparna. Sapphire's top order had wobbled in the chase, but an unbeaten 25 off 27 balls from K.S. Sayoojya and 21 from Sajana took the team home.  The scores:   Ruby 55 in 19.3 overs (S. Sajana 3/5, Sandra Suren 2/14, K.K. Aparna 2/14) lost to Sapphire 56/4 in 13.2 oves (K.S. Sayoojya 25 n.o.).      Lamir CA crushed New Kids CA by 202 runs in the Satish K. Pillai Trophy Under-14 cricket tournament at the Loongs Sports City here on Thursday. In another match, BK 55 CA defeated Loongs CA by 10 runs.  The scores: Lamir Cricket Academy 267/3 in 25 overs (Madhavan 87, Ibrahim Badusha 72, P. Adith Ashok 32) bt New Kids CA 65 in 18.1 overs (K. Aryan 3/9, K.A. Advaith 3/14).   BK55 CA 163/9 in 25 overs (Arman 50, Adithya Rajesh 3/5, Adarsh Ranjith 3/31) bt Loongs CA 153/4 in 25 overs (Giridhar R.Raghavan 65 no, V.S. Abhiram 42).      The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) will conduct the inaugural KCA Club championship at SD College Ground, Alappuzha from April 26 to May 21. The T20 tournament, held in association with TCM Sports Management Pvt. Ltd, will involve 10 clubs and will be played on a league-cum-knock out format.  Masters CC, Kids CC (both from Thiruvananthapuram), Prathibha CC (Kollam), Tripunithura CC, Swantons CC, Ernakulam CC, Masters Royal CC (all from Ernakulam), Jolly Rovers (Perinthalmanna) and BK55 CC (Kannur) are the clubs taking part.    The Kerala Blasters FC has signed Manipur's talented 20-year-old defender Hormipam Ruivah on a three-year deal. Ruivah was part of Indian Arrows, on loan from Punjab FC, in the 2019-20 I-League season and started 14 matches. ”Hormipam has the potential to turn into a mainstay at the heart of our defence in the future," said Karolis Skinkys, the Blasters' sporting director.   Jovel scored a hattrick as Leaders Football Academy defeated Cochin Youth Soccer 5-2 and entered the quarterfinals of the 37th C.H. Mohammed Koya memorial football tournament at Fort Kochi's Veli ground on Thursday.  The result: Leaders FA, Ernakulam 5 (Jesto 5, Jovel 20, 50 & 72; Nithin 54-pen) bt Cochin Youth Soccer, Fort Kochi 2 (Waseem 58, Ananathakrishnan 65) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajana-leads-sapphire-to-win/article34276533.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: CDCA league, II div., Dev CC vs Sumangali CC (Sumangali, Santosapuram); Chengai Kings vs Air Warriors (Sumangali, Medavakkam), 8 a.m.; G.R. Cricket Academy under-13 tournament, KCM Sports Foundation B (Ponmar), 1 p.m.; Elite KCM under-18 Madurananthar Trophy, KCM Sports Foundation A (Ponmar), 8 a.m.  Hockey: N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Cup, final (3 p.m.); Narinder Batra, President, International Hockey Federation, and President, Indian Olympic Association, gives away prizes, N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Centre (Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research campus), Porur.  Tennis: Sanmar TNTA League Championship, A Zone final, MCC A vs Gandhinagar Club A (MCC Courts), 3.30 p.m., followed by prize distribution, chief guest: N. Kumar, vice-chairman, Sanmar Group, will give away the K.S. Narayanan Rolling Trophy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34276900.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 07:18 IST,||Sudoku — April 9, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-9-2021/article34277302.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cocktail of emotions||Actor Kathir kept a relatively low profile all through lockdown last year and into 2021, only occasionally popping up on social media to update his followers on what he is upto. The actor’s last release was in December 2019, the sports-horror film Jada . Now, his long-pending film Sarbath , co-starring Soori and Rahasya Gorak, is set to have a satellite premiere on April 11. In a telephonic conversation, the Pariyerum Perumal star discussed the changed landscape in Tamil cinema post the pandemic and why he is kicked about the upcoming film, among others. Edited excerpts: One of your earlier films Sigai released directly on an OTT platform, and now Sarbath comes to TV. Is this the new normal? We have to adapt to a situation as it develops. After the COVID-19 pandemic, I’m just happy that the content can be brought to an audience somehow. Of course, financial viability matters as well, but I’m sure both the producer and the TV network would have worked out the parameters. I am more excited to see how the film would be received by our audience.  As we are seeing COVID-19 cases going up again, it will be a while before we get to see the old buzz about theatres back...  True. The industry itself is on shaky ground. Only a small percentage of people are going to theatres. In such circumstances, as actors, we have to be particular about choosing subjects that work for both theatre as well as OTT/TV platforms. We cannot leave producers in the lurch in the event of more [COVID-19] waves happening. In fact, my next film (untitled project with Anandhi and Narain) has one such script.  Tell us about Sarbath . I was surprised that an associate of Balaji Sakthivel (Prabhakaran) came up with such a script because this may not fit Balaji sir’s taste in films (laughs). Sarbath is uncompromisingly funny. It has emotions too that most families can relate with. The reason why we titled it Sarbath is because the film, which follows the story of brothers, is a cocktail of emotions, like the drink. What are your upcoming projects?  I have finished filming a web series. There is one film that I’m shooting currently (with Anandhi and Narain) and there is one more for Passion Studios. I expect to complete both films in the next couple of months.  Are you more particular about the genre of films you choose nowadays?  I don’t fix on the genre before signing, but I am actively looking out for projects that are a little fun to be a part of. Maybe, black humour subjects. Of course, that doesn’t mean I won’t sign projects that are high on emotional quotient, but it will only happen if the script is moving enough. That is why I remain excited to see how people receive me in Sarbath . I learn a little with every film I do and it helps with my choices going forward. Sarbath premieres on Colors Tamil channel on April 11 at 4 p.m., and will be repeat telecast at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cocktail-of-emotions/article34276565.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||True detective||It is no secret that Ron Perlman looks scary, whether in his bright red Hellboy suit or his leather chops for Sons Of Anarchy or in a sheriff’s uniform for the upcoming The Last Victim . But director Naveen Chathapuram assures that Perlman was the one on set cracking jokes with his trademark wry humour. “He would say, ‘I’m not going to stand on that marker’ and then he would crack a smile and all of us would start laughing. This was a great tension-easer,” laughs Chathapuram over a video call with MetroPlus .  The Last Victim is a neo-Western thriller set in the American southwest, following Sheriff Hickey (Perlman) trying to solve the worst case he has witnessed in his small town, likely caused by a violent local gang led by a fearsome criminal. Kerala-born Chathapuram has always been fascinated by neo-Western thrillers, as he watched these films growing up. He learned that the success of this genre is the filmmaker’s smart treatment of a good script and mindful casting, while retaining the core. The filmmaker had his own grit around this project; it was actually conceptualised more than 15 years ago. But the location for which they had planned burned down from a forest fire. So the team had to shelve the project. Chathapuram did not give up. “It was to be my second film as a producer too, so we all naturally put everything into it. But looking back, I know I had to trust the process and I knew it would all eventually pay off. I tell myself daily, ‘Today I may worry about what might happen tomorrow, but I have no control over tomorrow’. ” For Chathapuram, one of the biggest characters of The Last Victim is the setting (in southwest USA). “I grew up in Chicago and when I was about 22, I went to Arizona for the first time. There were such stunning landscapes but it was a culture shock for me,” he recalls. “We explored some border-towns that had populations of 30 people and some communities where the nearest neighbour was 15 miles away, and there would be just a couple and maybe their dog on this 100-acre property. I got to see how dialogues extended in such settings of isolation, and I always wanted to explore this. So for The Last Victim , I loved exploring this as a thriller.”  Committed cast Bringing on Ali Larter, Ralph Ineson, Penikett and Perlman as well as a spread of young talent such as Dakota Daulby and Tom Stevens was exciting for Chathapuram because they truly believed in the vision of The Last Victim . “Ron, from the get-go, plays a sheriff who is against his ‘type’, but at the same time, he can embody the sheriff in his sleep. There were so many relatively new cast and crew on this project but he made everyone so comfortable. Camille Legg who plays a deputy said she was nervous to act with Ron but Ron assured her by being just another actor,” Chathapuram explains.  The film’s release is yet to be finalised but Chathapuram is open to OTTs, theatrical release or day-and-date (OTT and theatre combined), as long as people connect with the story.  Kerala-born Chathapuram has always been fascinated by neo-Western thrillers, as he watched these films growing up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/true-detective/article34276568.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||We let ‘Joji’s’ plot grow organically: Dileesh Pothan||Dileesh Pothan is one of contemporary Malayalam cinema’s finest storytellers. If one were to list the best Malayalam films of the past decade, his Maheshinte Prathikaram (2016) and Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum (2017) would surely figure among the top 10. Pothan dons the director’s hat yet again with Joji , which released recently on Amazon Prime. A Dileesh Pothan film inevitably rides expectations, and Joji is no different. Scripted by Syam Pushkaran, starring Fahadh Faasil in a lead role, it has released to rave reviews. Intended as a ‘creative output’ during the pandemic, it kept the spirit of his team high, says Pothan. He talks about how Joji came to be, Shakespeare’s Macbeth and making films for a different audience. Excerpts from an interview: Would Joji have happened if not for COVID-19? If not for the COVID-19 pandemic, it wouldn’t have been made now and not how it is. I had been thinking about the potential of Shakespeare’s Macbeth for a while, the idea of it and how it could be adapted. But Joji wouldn’t have been made in a short time like this.  Can you elaborate on the Macbeth connection?    Jojiis a crime drama, not an adaptation; it is inspired by the idea that Macbeth conveyed to me. I have mined what I feel when I read or see Macbeth . I have tried to recreate that in the film. How different is the process of creating for an OTT platform from conventional cinema?    It is different. The film was planned for this format and conceived as such. It was shot in the 185 format, not Cinemascope. We were aware that the viewing experience would be different, more individual and personal rather than watching along with other people in a movie hall. People, for that reason, will ‘feel’ the film differently. They will experience and respond to the characters and story differently. So did you attempt to keep the subject different, considering it is reaching a diverse audience? From the beginning, we were working within the limitations of the pandemic. The idea was to work around the situation, and that led us to Joji . We started thinking about plays, which conventionally work within a ‘limited space’. As a person with a background in theatre, I was thinking of how that [drama] could be used; these were discussions that Syam [Pushkaran] and I had constantly. For instance, a play doesn’t use as many scenes... it was something we wanted to explore in a film. Those conversations led to plays, and eventually to Macbeth . It is huge in scope, and rather than recreate the story, we wanted to present the universality of its appeal. The audience, the reach of the OTT platform was factored in when I chose the topic. I don’t think I would have chosen Macbeth if it were for a theatre film. So, you’re saying that rather than restricting you as a filmmaker, the OTT format gave you freedom? Definitely; it gave me freedom as a creator. I am not saying theatre release movies are restrictive. But I do not get a certain ‘freedom’ that Joji gave me. I did not get those with both my earlier films. Things right from choosing the subject, the evolution of the script and so on. There are other concerns, besides entertainment, with a theatre release — the commercial aspect — as it is a business. A film released in a theatre needs to provide entertainment to more people. It is different with an OTT platform; it gives you space to break conventions. I have consciously avoided certain commercial aspects that I have used in my other films. I want to see if people would accept it. Be it Maheshinte Prathikaaram or Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum , the canvas has been vast. With Joji , it seems minimal and confined... We decided on a couple of things when we zeroed in on the plot and scripting was done — that we would leave aside Macbeth ’s structure, view it independently and let it grow organically, thematically as a film. Secondly, because it was conceived during COVID-19, we would not let that be a restriction creatively. I don’t think it is that closed or confined. I have tried using spaces indoors in Thondimuthal … In my view, Joji is more limited in terms of the number of characters — in that sense, the canvas could be considered limited. Also, the story is about what happens in a family. The location of the action is also a place that is not ‘vast’. This is your third film as director, third with Fahadh Faasil in the lead. How do you recast him, in the sense of giving him a new ‘form’, in each film?     (Laughs) After both my films with Fahadh in the lead, I had told myself, very consciously, that I would work with a different actor in the next. But — given the circumstances of how Joji was made and the character — it just happened that way. As director, I have worked with Fahadh in three films, but it never felt like I was working with the same person!  As director, I have worked with Fahadh Faasil in three films, but it never felt like I was working with the same person Dileesh Pothan, director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/we-let-jojis-plot-grow-organically-dileesh-pothan/article34276570.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Breakfast at 32 Window Palace||After my first adventure with the fairy Diana in the silver-edged blue cloud, the next night I once again drew them both. Instead of the brown palace, I drew a white one with 32 windows and called it the tooth palace. Then I wrote ‘Breakfast at the 32 Window Palace.’ All the drawings disappeared the moment I drew them. Even before I could reach the window, the blue cloud with Diana as its passenger hovered outside my window. Climbing on to the cloud, I grinned. “More adventures,” Diana smiled as our cloud floated up. Our cloud stopped outside a white palace made of pure enamel, the palace had doors shaped like molars and incisor-shaped windows. As I entered the palace, all I saw around me was white: white lace curtains adorned the windows, the thick carpet was white, as was the shiny paint on the walls. The carved furniture too was painted white. Working and singing Small tooth-fairies ran here and there; few were scrubbing the floor, some were washing the walls, many were dusting the windows and the furniture, all the while singing…  “Brush up and brush down,   Brush well, front and back,   Make sure no food is left behind,   Else an army of stains you will find,   Gargle well, so that the germs are flushed out,   Don’t forget to switch off the tap,   Make your teeth sparkle and smile radiant,   And minimise your dentists’ bills.”  “I like the song,” I smiled. “I’ll sing it every morning and night while I brush my teeth.” “Good idea, sing it many times. That way you will not do a hurried job,” Diana winked. Leaving the tooth-fairies to their jobs, Diana led me up the spiral staircase to a room on the second floor. The moment I entered, the bed took on the shape of a football, the dressing table resembled a cricket bat and the pillows were shaped like a shuttle cock. “Super,” I grinned, jumping onto the bed. A tooth fairy entered the room carrying a platter of food with a small board telling me the name of each dish. I gobbled four Hip Hop cakes (small creamy chocolate cakes shaped like doll’s houses coated with powdered sugar). The dozen-odd cakes were dancing crazily in the plate. I ate four rainbow sandwiches, small triangles of bread with seven coloured layers, that were swaying in the plate. Then I devoured two Skip Trip cookies or coconut cookies filled with jam and shaped like tops. These were rotating furiously in their plate. The Dip Sip cold coffee swirled and whirled, round and round, in the tall glass. Later, I clutched my stomach in alarm as all the food danced in my stomach. “Gluttony!” Diana made a face. “No, the effect of the magical food,” I smiled as the food finally settled down peacefully in my stomach. As the food made me drowsy, I snuggled between the covers and nodded off to sleep in that football-shaped bed. Tomorrow I would draw more adventures.  As I entered the palace, all I saw around me was white...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/breakfast-at-32-window-palace/article34277241.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Stories galore||Do you think history is boring and just means memorising dates? Here’s a book that gets rid of that notion. These historical fiction stories look at people you don’t often read about — sweepers and sculptors, robbers and merchants, sailors and saints — and also helps you see why history is both relevant and meaningful. Learn about concepts such as reservation, caste, language, symbolism through Mallika Ravikumar’s text and Sai Mandlik’s illustrations. Want to read but not one long tale? Here are two volumes of short stories written for younger and older children collected from the works of authors from the West and the East. 100 Greatest Stories for Young Children has fun adventures, fairy tales, fables, folklore and more by authors like Beatrix Potter, Charles Dickens, Edith Nesbit, Enid Blyton, Frances Hodgson Burnett, Johanna Spyri, L. Frank Baum, Lewis Carroll, R.K. Narayan, Rudyard Kipling, Robert Browning, Somadeva, Sukumar Ray, and Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury. 5 0 Greatest Stories for Older Children takes you a densely forested cantonment in eastern India, a battlefield in ancient Greece, the depths of the ocean, and other flabulous landscapes to meet adventurous heroes, animals and fairies, dragons and snarks, and more. Authors in this collection include Ambrose Bierce, Anton P. Chekov, Arthur Conan Doyle, Dhan Gopal Mukerji, D.H. Lawrence, Edgar Allan Poe, H.G. Wells, Jack London, Jules Verne, Katherine Mansfield, Kenneth Grahame, Kottarathil Sankunni, Munshi Premchand, Nathaniel Hawthorne, O. Henry, Oscar Wilde, Rabindranath Tagore, Stephen Leacock, Washington Irving, Zane Grey, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/stories-galore/article34277250.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Zootopia||Genesis: Madras Zoo in 1855.  Prime Mover: Dr. Edward Green Balfour, the then director of the Government Central Museum at Egmore, Madras.  Locale: I came into being on the museum premises. A year later, I was home to over 300 animals, including mammals, birds and reptiles.  Remodelled: In 1861, I was transferred to the Madras Corporation and shifted to People’s Park near Madras Central Railway Station at Park Town. I now had had 116 acres at my disposal.  POA: In 1976, the Tamil Nadu Forest Department set aside 1,265 acres in the Vandalur Reserve Forest on the outskirts of the city for me. I am the largest zoological garden in the Indian Subcontinent and one of the largest in the world.  Rejuvenation: I was opened officially to the public on July 24, 1985. The zoo authorities and people from surrounding villages collected seeds of trees and afforested my home.  Retitle: I am named after C.N. Annadurai, former Chief Minister of the state. I am now called Arignar  Anna Zoological Park.  Excellence : I pride myself on my Captive Breeding Programme for endangered species and my Zoo School.  Free-range: Deer and jackal roam free in the open areas.  On show: My park has 81 enclosures for many kinds of deer, wolf, tiger, jaguar, hog deer, jackal, hyena, lion, giraffe, camel, otter, llama, elephant, and several monkey species. I also house 46 endangered animals such as the Nilgiri macaques, monitor lizard, chimpanzees, European brown bear, Muscovy duck, giraffe, and tigers among others. Exotic species such as emu and cassowary also live here.  Jaunts: I have a safari park for lion, gaur and deer on a hilly terrain covering 170 acres. An elephant safari was introduced in the summer of 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/zootopia/article34277219.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A Hawaiian adventure||Mad Scientist Dr. Jumba Jookiba has created an alien called Experiment 626. The Galactic Federation arrests Jookiba and exiles 626 to a desert asteroid. But the alien escapes to Earth and is knocked down by a truck in Hawaii, and taken to an animal shelter. On the same island is Nani, who works as a waitress and cares for her young sister Lilo. Since the latter is being shunned by her classmates, Nani allows her to adopt an animal. At the shelter, Lilo picks 626, who is pretending to be a dog, and names him Stitch. Meanwhile, the Federation sends two operatives named Jumba and Pleakey to capture 626. They come to the restaurant where Lilo and Stitch are waiting for Nani to finish her work. The resulting confusion leads to Nani being fired. A social worker called Cobra Bubbles warns Nani that Lilo will be taken away unless she finds another job. But Stitch’s efforts to lose his pursuers ensures that Nani’s efforts all come to naught. Do Jumba and Pleakey manage to get hold of 626? Does Nani find a job and manage to keep Lilo? Does Lilo find acceptance and happiness? Fun facts Cobra Bubbles closely resembles the gangster played by Ving Rhames in Pulp Fiction .  This was the first animated feature film to be set in Hawaii.  Early in the film, during his trial, 626 licks to inside of his glass cage, and his saliva trickles down to form the D in the Walt Disney logo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-hawaiian-adventure/article34277260.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Brick by brick Strange happenings||The story so far: Mohit and Neel worked hard to stack the bricks in the fireplace. Who removed them?  Susan glared at Neel and Mohit, as they stood in front of the empty fireplace. “Are you crazy? Why would I take out all the bricks?” “Because you want to make it appear like only you’re working and we aren’t,” said Mohit. “This isn’t a competition,” snapped Susan. Mohit knelt down and started filling the fireplace again and Neel began to help him. “Why can’t they just wall it up without filling it in with bricks?” muttered Mohit. “That would be so much nicer,” said Neel. “And imagine if we hid something inside and someone found it years later…” Mystery deepens “No, let’s not try and be over-smart. If Dad finds out, he’ll pull the whole thing down and make us do it over again,” said Mohit. When the job was done, he ran off in search of his father and dragged him back to see the filled in fireplace. “See, this is how it was last evening. Now you are the witness…Give me your mobile, I’ll take a photograph of it as proof.” JJ ignored that but said, “Okay, tomorrow I’ll find something else for you to do.” The next day, the boys ran in search of JJ. “Maybe we can get our task for the day completed quickly and go down to the river to watch the boats and paddle,” said Mohit. Neel looked into the big house, as he passed and stopped dead. The fireplace was empty once again, and the bricks were strewn all around. “Who’s doing this to us?” he cried. Grumbling, and convinced that Susan was up to some mischief, they set to work again, and filled the fireplace in record time. “Tell you what,” said Mohit. “Let’s camp here tonight, and we’ll catch Susan red-handed.” Neel nodded. “Great idea.” That night, the two of them crept away and met at the big house. There was plenty of light from the moon and they spread their sleeping bags right in front of the fireplace. Mohit said, “Should we take turns to keep watch?” “Okay, I’ll go first,” said Neel. “I’ll wake you up in three hours.” Mohit was soon fast asleep while Neel kept watch beside the fireplace. Within minutes, however, he had to keep shaking himself to stay awake. After a while, he stood up and walked up and down quietly so that anyone who came to pull out the bricks wouldn’t see him. But, soon, he sat down again and pulled his sleeping bag around him. He could not stop himself from nodding off. A few hours later, a thud woke both boys. They sat up, looked at each other, and then at the fireplace. Both of them screamed. (To be continued)  See, this is how it was last evening. Now you are the witness…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/brick-by-brick-strange-happenings/article34277212.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The power of perseverance||Story so far:Hanuman is now at Satya Loka — the Exosphere, which is beyond 700 km above Earth. To help him survive in this airless space, his father Vaayu pulls out every single air molecule from Earth and diverts them into Hanuman. He is now bigger than the sun!  As he opens his mouth to swallow the sun, he hears a booming voice: “Stop!” Brahma, creator of the universe, appears along with Vaayu, Agni (god of fire), Varuna (god of water), Vishwakarma, the architect of the gods, Yama, the son of the Sun God, and Indra. All of them are as horrified as the people on Earth.  Brahma: Stop, Hanuman! It’s obvious you are one of the strongest kids ever born in this universe. But, before I say anything more, let me feed you with the world’s tastiest fruits to satisfy your hunger. Hanuman’s tummy is now full.  Brahma (addressing the gods): The air molecules were only following the order given to them, and Vaayu acted as a father to protect his son. The mistake was Indra’s. As the king of heaven, you could have handled the situation better, instead of attacking a child.  Indra: I am sorry, Hanuman. I should not have used my Vajra (lightning bolt) on you. To make up for this, I will give you a boon: You will be stronger than Vajra, my strongest weapon.  Brahma: I will give you a boon too: No weapon can hurt you; and you can travel at the speed of light (2.99x10^8 m/sec).  Varuna: I grant you protection from water. You can travel anywhere in the ocean, even to the Mariana Trench, which is more than 11km deep.  Agni: I bless him with immunity to fire. You can withstand high temperatures like an alloy (a combination of two or more metals).  Surya: I bless you with the ability to change your body size at will.  Yama: I bless you with immortality.  Vishwakarma: I offer you protection from all objects of my creation.  Vaayu: Hanuman, with all these boons, you have become one of the most powerful beings on Earth. It all happened because you tried to reach the sky and beyond. You did not stop even when you faced obstacles. This is the reward for your perseverance. May you attain greatness. *** The news of Hanuman’s adventure reaches Lanka where Ravana is in conversation with Mayasura.  Ravana: Did you hear? A boy named Hanuman escaped Indra’s Vajra and even hit him back!  Mayasura: Ha ha! Serves Indra right! Clearly, age doesn’t matter; it’s all about one’s courage and knowledge.  Meghnath: You are right, grandpa! So please teach me how to fly the Pushpaka vimaan and how to use Astras (reusuable weapons) and Sastras (Non-reusuable weapons). Then I can also beat Indra!  Ravana: Ha ha ha! That’s my boy! Earlier you learnt about the different parts of a plane. Today, I will teach you about the ways in which an aircraft moves and how to control it. Ravana explains the six different movements of an aircraft (see pic) :  Pitch motion: is the up or down movement of the aircraft’s nose. To pitch up or pitch down , we use a control surface elevator .  Yaw motion: is the side to side movement of the aircraft’s nose. To move left yaw or right yaw , we use the rudder .  Roll: A rolling motion is an up and down movement of the aircraft’s wing tips. This is controlled using the ailerons .  The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech start-up that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-power-of-perseverance/article34277245.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Pet Stories||ACROSS  1. Calvin's tiger (6) 5. Dog with a dot (4) 7. _____ hound, a breed of dog (6) 8. Harry Potter's pet (6) 10. A dog chews on this (4) 12. A pet doctor (3) 14. Garfield's friend (4) 15. Snowy belongs to this comic book character (6) 16. Male cat (3) 18. Fur (4) 19. What Humpty Dumpty was (3)  DOWN  1. Chetak was Maharana Pratap's _____ (5) 2. Fictional dog named after a composer (9) 3. Ron Weasley's pet Scabbers is a ___ (3) 4. Aladin's pet monkey (3) 6. Foot of a cat or dog (3) 9. Native dog breed (5) 10. The bulldog in Tom & Jerry (5) 11. Vehicle of Lord Shiva (5) 13. Dorothy's pet in The Wizard of Oz (4) 17. Marley and __: movie about a dog (2)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/pet-stories/article34277222.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How do chicks get oxygen when inside the egg?  Directly under the eggshell are two membranes that are warmer than air when the egg is laid. As they begin to cool, the material inside the egg shrinks and pulls the two membranes apart. This creates a small sac filled with oxygen. The growing chicken uses this oxygen. The carbon dioxide it exhales leaves the eggshell through tiny pores, which also allow fresh air to enter. An eggshell has more than 7,000 pores to allow this exchange so that the chick can breathe comfortably before it hatches.   How dowe do prevent oil spill in water bodies?  Oil spills on waterbodies are either due to accidents or carelessnesses. Accidents may happen but careless spills can be taken care of. First, people who own mecahnised boats should not fill their fuel tanks to full capacity to reduce chances of spills. They should use absorbent pads on the outer surface of the boat near the engine. Used oil and filters should be recycled. Fittings should be inspected and cleaned regularly. At marinas, where boats are parked, storage tanks should be inspected regularly. During refuelling, automatic shut-offs will help reduce overfilling. A recycling programme will help dispose off used oil and absorbent materials properly. All these steps will help prevent oil spills on water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article34277207.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Free and peaceful||Ghana, in Western Africa, is surrounded by Cote d’ Ivoire in the west, Togo in the east and Burkina Faso in the north. To its south lies the Gulf of Guinea. Its proximity to the Equator makes its climate hot. Ghana has abundant natural resources — it is famous for being Africa’s second largest producer of gold and the world’s second largest producer of cocoa beans. The country’s capital and largest city is Accra and its currency is the Cedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/free-and-peaceful/article34277267.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34277203.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34277228.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||What women wrote||From the first century CE, the Sangam period, to the present day, numerous women composers have emerged from south India. While some were revered as saints, most were women who straddled domestic responsibilities with their passion for writing. Some remained closet-composers out of necessity. Under the auspices of Kala Prashala (a division of SciArt Services), hosted on Facebook by Vanitha Suresh and Revathi Subramanian, Dr. S. Sowmya and musicologist Dr. Radha Bhaskar shared their ongoing exploration of women composers, aided by vocalists K. Gayatri and Vidya Kalyanaraman. The women sang brief excerpts and shared illustrative recordings of other vocalists too. Expertise in music One of only three women Nayanmars, Karaikal Ammaiyar, 6th century, demonstrated her knowledge of the intricacies of music, referring to the saptaswaras, various percussion instruments, and even the veena at a time when it was the yazh that was in vogue. Andal (7th/8th century), the only woman Azhwar, composed the Thiruppavai when barely 15. She saw no obscenity or vulgarity in expressing her innermost desires in the most descriptive manner and did not worry about society’s expectations. In Nachiyar Thirumozhi, she tells Manmatha (the god of love) that she is nurturing herself only to be given to god and, therefore, cannot be given to just any human being. She would not live if that were to happen. When in the 12th century in Karnataka, Akka Mahadevi’s husband told her that everything she owned, including the garments she wore, were his, she shed everything, even her clothes, and wandered about in the nude which, Sowmya said, is reminiscent of Sadhasiva Brahmendral. Akka Mahadevi told her horrified mother that she cared for no earthly attachments and wished only to merge with her chosen god, Chenna Malikarjuna. Helavanakette Giriamma (18th century) was the only woman Dasa of all the Haridasas. She set her verses to tune, mostly in keertanai format in simple Kannada. Radha spoke of how women composers visualised the divine in different ways — as partner, companion and friend. Some of them also composed from the male perspective and conveyed emotions like sarcasm. Talapaka Tirumallamma (15th century), wife of Annamacharya, was the first Telugu poetess — she wrote Subhadra Kalyanam about Arjuna’s marriage to Subhadra. Molla, also 15th century, was a young village girl, who was the first to write the Ramayana in Telugu, weaving into it, like Tyagaraja, imaginative anecdotes. Avudai Akkal, a child widow of the 17th century and a follower of Sridhara Ayyaval, composed many verses, specifying ragas for the same. Andavan Pichai, mothered ten children and lived until 1990 to age 91. She wrote several compositions, many on the god Muruga. Muddu Pazhani (18th century) of Andhra Pradesh, a Devadasi, wrote an erotic narrative poem about the marital relationship of Radha, Krishna and his new wife Ila. Facing severe opposition, it was soon banned by the male bastion, with the original version seeing the light of day only after Independence. Bangalore Nagarathnamma (1878-1952) composed the popular Kannada javali ‘Maataada Bhaaradhaeno’ in raga Khamas. She was a pioneer in many spheres, including bringing the work of other women to light. Nagarathnamma was also able to persuade men to not just join, but actively champion her causes including fighting for women to perform at the Tyagaraja Aradhana. Both Radha and Sowmya also referred to the many women poets who had to compose in secret because of restrictive social mores. Radha spoke of the crucial role played by family members and other musicians in bringing many such works to light. Abused and traumatised after losing her first six children, K.M. Soundaryavalli propitiated Ghatikachalam and went on to conceive seven children. She said she looked forward to her menstrual cycles, when she got time for herself, to compose unhindered. Soundaryavalli wrote many compositions, including some 30 on Tyagaraja, for which notations are available. Her daughter and son-in-law actively publicised her work. Adding music to kritis AmbujamKrishna wrote several compositions but did not tune them, preferring to entrust the task to stalwart musicians who went on to present them at concerts. Several other women composers, however, set their pieces to music themselves. Other names that came up during the session were D. Pattammal, Mangalam Ganapathy, Kalyani Varadarajan, Neela Ramamurthy (elder daughter of Papanasam Sivan), and Padma Veeraraghavan (explained by Vidya Kalyanaraman) too. V.M. Kodhainayaki, who was married at age five, was a writer, publisher, novelist and performing musician. She gave her first vocal concert for AIR Chennai’s inauguration where Rajaji was the chief guest. Her husband was most supportive of her activities. She wrote many patriotic songs and was jailed for her activism. Besides mainstream ragas, she also composed in ragas that she coined. K. Gayatri spoke of her late guru, Suguna Purushothaman’s, compositions that reflect tremendous understanding of melody, layam and lyrics, the use of ragas that reflect the subject matter, the changes of nadai (gait), and the different compositional forms like thillana, kritis, varnams and ragamalikas she worked with. Rukmini Ramani, daughter of Papanasam Sivan, composed hundreds of pieces, including on the 108 divya desams and the shakti peetams. In their exploration of this rich legacy, Sowmya and Radha traced the evolution of women composers from poetesses with a strong underlying bhakti theme to performer musicians who melded lyrical expertise with musical acumen and sophistication. In subsequent sessions, the panel hopes to focus on composers from Kerala as well as current Carnatic composers from all over India, many of whom are active performers as well.  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   Andal saw no obscenity or vulgarity in expressing her innermost desires in the most descriptive manner and did not worry about society’s expectations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/what-women-wrote/article34276857.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Many strings to his bow||Violin maestro Lalgudi G Jayaraman’s exceptional contribution to Carnatic music through his performances and compositions is legendary. One of his prime disciples, Sankari Krishnan, recently presented an informative and engaging lecture demonstration on the various fascinating facets of Lalgudi’s music. Sankari began by pointing out that the master violinist has more than 50 thillanas, 40 varnams and 10 kritis to his credit. Highlighting his amazing composing skills and confidence to experiment, Sankari said that his music for the dance ballet ‘Jaya Jaya Devi’ included almost the entire Bharatanatyam margam. Lalgudi had also set the verses of the Valmiki Ramayana to tune in Sapta ragas and Soolati Sapta talas. Besides creating a few instrumental ensembles (vadhya vrinda), he turned music director for the film Sringaram, which won him the National Award. Ragas for dance Since Lalgudi Jayaraman is particularly known for his varnams and thillanas, Sankari delved deep into both. Lalgudi had composed both ‘Tana’ as well as ‘Pada’ varnams; the latter has sahitya for the mukthayi and charanam swaras. Most of them were created on the requests of popular dancers like Padma Subrahmanyam and Chitra Visweswaran. He used an extensive range of ragas such as Charukesi, Nilambari, Shanmukhapriya, Valaji, Asaveri, Andolika, Bahudari, Devagandhari and Ranjani in his thillanas and varnams. Varnams, of course, carry a lot of rhythm and musical beauty, using both swaras and sahitya. Lalgudi, who composed varnams in Tamil, Telugu and Sanskrit, was able to beautifully weave subtle layas with intelligent calculations in logical progression to suddha swaras and anuswaras in all his varnams. For her demonstration, Sankari chose the varnam on Vinayaka in raga Mohanakalyani. The lyrics are another of Lalgudi’s specialities: simple, aesthetic but poignant. Sankari explained in detail about how each of the swaras following the charanam were composed to highlight the beauty of the raga chosen. Though gamakam is an important feature of Carnatic music, the genius composer used even plain swaras without compromising on the raga bhava. Sankari presented several examples with varnams in Devagandhari, Valaji, Kannada, Sama, Bowli, Nalinakanti and Andolika. She also focused on how Lalgudi used nyasa swaras, subtle sangatis, and Tamil language. To highlight the beauty of his kritis, Sankari sang a lovely piece in raga Hamsaroopini (Arohanam; Mohanam and Avarohanam; Madhyamavati) in praise of Madurai Meenakshi. Lalgudi Jayaraman’s very popular thillanas introduced Hindustani raags like Priyadarshini, Pahadi, Tilang, Rageshree, Sindhu Bhairavi, Desh and Misra Sivaranjani decades ago. He also composed thillanas in Vasantha, Chenjurutti, Revathi, Kanada, etc. Rare genius The master composer’s deployment of swarksharas and sangatis in his thillanas, a rare feature, was discussed. Sankari referred to ‘ma’ being used in 10 places as swarakshara in the Khamas thillana and how there are seven sangatis in the Maund thillana. In Rageshree, he came up with a swara play with ‘r s n s g m’ appearing thrice. The last line in almost all the thillanas are complex and challenging. According to Sankari, Lalgudi Jayaraman even did grahabedam in his thillanas. His rendition of Arunachala Kavi’s ‘Kanden kanden’, Sadasiva Brahmendral’s ‘Tungatarange’ and ‘Sarvam brahma mayam’ made them popular, and he lent expert touches to Tyagaraja’s Lalgudi Pancharatnam, ‘Nadaloludai’, ‘Na jeevathara’, ‘Aadamodi’, ‘Eti janma’ and ‘Aparata mula’. His inclusion of catchy chittaswarams to ‘Paluku kanda’ by Tyagaraja and ‘Durgadevi’ by Muthiah Bhagavatar in Navarasakannada are proof of his creative mind. He also added two different types of chittaswarams following anupallavi and charanam in his father Gopala Iyer’s composition, ‘Thamadham thagadayya’, in Mohanakalyani. One discovered that the maestro had tuned many Bharatiyar songs in ragas like Janasammodini, Durga, Soorya, and Suddha Saveri. Concluding her lec-dem with a Thiruppugazh in Dwijavanti, Sankari played two songs from the film, Sringaram ; a specially designed mallari for nagaswaram; and the Bharatiyar song, ‘Engirunthu varuguvatho’, tuned with grahabedam and rendered by S.P. Ramh, Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi and Lalithaa. Sankari’s focus on the distinctive aspects of Lalgudi’s compositions made the exercise interesting and informative. It was supported by Sankari’s student Anusuya on the vocals, Vijay Ganesan on the violin, and Raghavendra on the mridangam. The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.  Though gamakam is an important feature of Carnatic music, the genius composer used even plain swaras without compromising on the raga bhava||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/many-strings-to-his-bow/article34276838.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The teller of tales||They say the preparation for the journey into the spotlight happens in the green room. It couldn’t have been truer in the case of Shivananda Hegde. On February 3, 2009, when he walked into the green room, he was unaware of the huge responsibility that he would be bestowed with. His father, the renownded Yakshagana artiste Shambu Hegde, had suffered a heart attack during a show and summoned his son to the green room to crown him successor. On the stage, just minutes before, Shivananda had played Shatrugna while his father played Rama in Lava-Kusha Kalaga that was being performed at Idagunji Mahaganapathy temple. According to Yakshagana tradition, the lead actor’s crown must be personally handed over, failing which the crown cannot be worn by the successor. It is like a coronation ceremony. The Idagunji Yakshagana troupe has been performing consistently at the temple for several years, and Hegde thinks it was truly a miracle that his father’s last performance also happened at the temple. Traditional theatre Yakshagana literally means, “song of the yaksha (demi-gods/spirits) and the mela or troupe consists of two main parts: the mummela (foreground actors) and the himmela (singers and instrumentalists in the background). It is a theatrical art form of Karnataka, originally an all-night performance where the mela travelled from one village to another with shows being held in the open air. The bhagavatha, part of the himmela, is the lead singer and narrates the story through songs, while the dancers/actors (mummela) enact the stories drawn from the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and the puranas. On the day of the performance, the artistes construct a makeshift stage with a chauki (green room), and the raja kirita (lead character’s crown) is placed at the entrance to the green room. The singers occupy a raised platform at the back of the stage while the audience sits all around the stage, looking up at the actors. Every important character is introduced by lifting the theray (screen), which prepares the audience for the actual moment when these larger-than-life characters will emerge on stage in all their grandeur. The ornate costume conists of kirita (headgear), kavacha (armour), bujakeerti (armlets and shoulder bands), and dabu (belts) — all made of lightweight wood and covered with golden foil. The smaller roles get simpler costumes and make-up.  Shivananda comes from a family of traditional Yakshagana artistes. When he was 12, he was initiated into the art by his uncle, Gajanana Hegde. He balanced school and Yakshagana training, and the first role he played was of Abhimanyu. He began with small roles and moved on to meatier ones as he got better in dialogue delivery, absorbing the nuances and interpreting characters. Though he belonged to the North Kanara style, he also learnt the other variations which helped him to get a deeper understanding of the art form. After graduation, he trained in choreography under Guru Maya Rao. Equipped with these skills and trained in varied aspects of the art form, Shivananda Hegde went on to run the gurukula that was established by his father. It was his grandfather, Shivarama Hegde, who had established the repertory that his father adopted when he established the gurukula. Shivananda now carries the tradition forward. Yakshagana requires the artiste to first train his voice to align to the sruti of the bhagavatha, and training begins with the learning of the seven talas and seven adavus, understanding rhythm with exercises in percussion, and a study of the scriptures. The students then specialise in an area of their interest — either singing, percussion or dialogue delivery. Thus, whether mummela or himmela, the artistes get an immersive training. After this, players ascend the stage with purva ranga, doing small roles such as patra pravesha or the hunter dance before graduating to bigger roles where they are trained to use mudras, eye movements and expressions, and stances for various characters. Interestingly, to understand lasya, Yakshagana artistes have to don the stree vesha. New ideas Shivananda says Yakshagana is holistic learning. One has to be self-reliant — donning make-up and costume oneself. “Dialogue delivery is the trickiest part,” says Shivananda. “Lines cannot just be memorised and delivered. The artistes have to read the scriptures and epics to understand the characters. It is here that an artiste’s individuality is put to test, where with each performance he seeks newer meanings and interpretations. They must move with the times, understanding the need to respect change in the light of tradition.” Though performances were originally staged as all-night shows, this changed with time, especially when they began performing abroad. The dialogues have been shortened too. The dialect varies depending on the place of performance. “But all this has happened without compromising on the four core elements — angika, vaachika, aharya and satvika. When we perform outside Karnataka, we connect with the audience more through emotion and aharya,” says Shivananda.  The performer has introduced vigorous movements and synchrony in group dances. He avoids deeply philosophical stories, preferring the more popular and familiar ones. One of the main changes he has brought about is to give small roles to the artistes who hold the screen to introduce the main characters. He has also revived some forgotten traditional costumes. To take the art beyond the barriers of caste and religion, Shivananda came up with dialogues with universal appeal. “We remove objectionable dialogues that may be considered social evils today,” he says.  Speaking of the long journey of Yakshagana and the hard times his father and grandfather faced, Shivananda says that Shambu Hegde was initially not in favour of his son pursuing the art form. But seeing Shivananda’s passion, he prepared him to carry the mantle. The artiste was in Chennai recently to receive a lifetime achievement honour from Dakshinachitra. At a time when artistes are struggling and it has been a challenge to keep the gurukula running, Shivananda says the award has enthused him to tell his stories with renewed vigour. The author is a Chennai-based freelance writer.  Shivananda belonged to the North Kanara style, but he also learnt the other variations, which helped him get a deeper understanding of the art form||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-teller-of-tales/article34276844.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||New perspectives||‘Padavarnam’ was a seminal work for Urmila Sathyanarayanan for two reasons — it established her commitment in training students, and secondly, established her individuality as a dancer-teacher. The presentations, though time-tested, had new elements, new movements and new emphasis to demonstrate her creativity, and represented a departure from the days of gurus K.N. Dandayuthapani Pillai and K.J. Sarasa. The movement vocabulary included sharper, more angular movements on the diagonal, extensions of the nattadavu family, and some Ravi Varma-inspired poses and steps. There was a a change in the treatment of varnams as well, with less extended abhinaya passages and more nritta. The Sunday morning recital presented three of her accomplished senior students — Sowjanya Suresh, Akila Bala and G. Shruthilekha. They were confident and beat-perfect. Every dancer has his or her strengths, and as an attentive teacher, Urmila has done well to recognise and encourage these. ‘Padavarnam’ turned out to be a margam with two padavarnams, ‘Sakhiye inda velaiyil’ (Anandabhairavi, Adi, Shivanandam-Thanjavur Quartet) and ‘Nathanai azhaithu va’ (Kamboji, Adi, Tiruveezhimizhai Kalyanasundaram Pillai). There was no overlap in treatment and interestingly, the sakhi mattered in neither varnam. The senior most dancer, Sowjanya, shone in the Anandabhairavi varnam, skilfully tackling the elongated jatis, (Karaikudi Shivakumar) but it was the bhava that was mesmerising. Able to hold on to expressions for a length of time, Sowjanya presented some well-nuanced sancharis. In the opening phrase of the pallavi, the emphasis was on the recollection of past interludes rather than the padartha abhinaya of cajoling the sakhi, and in the second part, ‘Endan samiyai azhaithodi va’, she presented Rukmini’s letter to Krishna and how he saved her, depicted the nayika’s surrender. The sthala puranam of Mannargudi Sri Rajagopala’s mismatched earrings was depicted well. There were, however, some instances that required more clarity. One imagines that the crinkles will be ironed out over time. Akila has well-rounded skill sets. She handled the opening tisra Alarippu (K.N. Dandayuthapani Pillai), with additions of attami in mandi adavus on all four sides and the shodasa upachara and homage to the ashta dik palakas within the tisra framework, and kept precise time. In between the padavarnams there was a light-hearted javali, ‘Sarasamulade’ (Kapi, Adi, Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar), in which the nayika tries to convince Krishna that the time is not right for a dalliance, with the family around on a clear moonlit night. It is not straightforward because the nayika has to show that she is flattered by the advances, but not ready to reciprocate for fear of being discovered. Akila rose to the demands of the role with reasonable clarity. The broad smile she gives Krishna while possibly shutting the door on his face was the winning moment of the piece. She presented the closing Tilang thillana (Adi, Lalgudi Jayaraman) with some smart endings while landing on one leg. Agile and accurate There was a surprise package in Shruthilekha, a smart young dancer, in the Kamboji padavarnam. Beyond the opening formalities, one sees lightning footwork, superfast execution, agility and ease in handling any speed in nritta. She carried the ‘Urmila araimandi’ at all times. Each jati was almost an event with different reference points — one was a long one, the other full of twirls and jumps, another in tisram, and the last superfast one was amazingly accurate. There was also a seamless move from jati to arudi without a break. Precision is her forte, which she carries to all aspects of dance. Presenting Subramanya’s procession, with him on the chariot, and the Kama-nayika encounter were different ideas that were portrayed correctly. The musicians were praiseworthy: Hariprasad (vocal), Saikripa Prasanna (nattuvangam), Nagai Sriram (mridangam), Sashidhar (flute), and Kalaiarasan (violin). The nattuvangam and music were some of the strong points of the programme. The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/new-perspectives/article34276861.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Circle in a square||All art begins with a dot and when the dots are connected the line appears. It is the artist who makes the line his own and embarks on a personal creative journey. Bindu, also known as dapsa or avayava in Sanskrit, is the point around which the mandala is created representing the universe. In its most simplistic form, mandalas are circles contained within a square and are arranged into sections organised around a single central point called the bindu. The term ‘bindu’ instantly brings to the mind celebrated artist S.H. Raza, since it was the centre of his life and work. In the Hindu and Buddhist traditions, mandalas are objects of meditation to aid spiritual development. The belief is that by entering the mandala and moving towards the centre, one is guided through the cosmic process of transforming the universe from one of suffering into one of bliss. Around 1938, Carl Jung, the famous Swiss psychoanalyst, introduced to the Western world the concept of creating mandalas for self-expression, discovery and healing. He had realised that the colours, shapes and patterns of what he made changed depending on his state of mind. He, therefore, used it as a tool to encourage his patients to create their own mandalas and he found that it helped to soothe their chaotic mental states. Mandala art found its way into the life of Shan Jain, a self-taught artist, nearly 10 years ago. Fascinated with art since childhood, her explorations continued during her career as an advertising professional. An introduction to mandala art left a deep impact on her. “They say this art emerges during moments of intense personal growth and that is how it happened to me as well; transforming my life. I started using images, forms and colours to express my innermost feelings. I try to portray love, harmony and peace using gold, black and white pens. Of late, I have begun using colours and paints too. The whole process of creating a mandala is linked to a purpose or intention, therefore each work is about organic individual growth. Each work thus looks different and I have created nearly 200 over the years. I call them ‘Urban Mandalas,’” she says. Realising that this art form has the power to heal since it entails a meditative process, Shan Jain began conducting workshops. The most recent one was for cancer survivors. She also does commissioned works for marriage, childbirth, etc., believing that besides a therapeutic effect, mandalas also bring positive energy into homes. Art therapy has gained significance during the pandemic with many people experiencing anxiety and stress. “The process of creating a mandala can have a calming effect,” says Shan.  The author is a Chennai-based freelance writer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/circle-in-a-square/article34276831.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||An idea well-conceived||Women often wish longingly that men would get pregnant at least once in their lifetime to understand just what women go through in those nine months. In Vibha Rani’s play, Pregnant Father , the wish comes true, and we get to once again discuss gender roles in a patriarchal society. Winner of this year’s Nemichandra Jain Playwriting Award, the stinging satire tells the story of a mama’s boy named Shikhandi who gets pregnant. It spirals not only into domestic and emotional upheaval but a social crisis as well, with the role of doctors and the media exposed. “It is very normal for people not to understand what pregnancy entails for a woman. The physical aspect is handled by the doctor but what about the emotional and psychological issues. The upbringing of boys is such that even today only about 1% of them are perhaps sensitive to the emotional needs of their spouses,” says Vibha, who has more than a dozen plays to her credit. According to Vibha, every man before birth is a female because he spends nine months inside a female body. “If he carries that nine-month sensitivity with him, he could handle the emotional needs of his partner.” The premise is futuristic, and Vibha points to the patriarchal mindset that runs scientific research. “Scientists are working on achieving immortality, but there is no attempt on sharing women’s workload in giving birth to humanity.” The play refers to the little-known mythical tale from the Mahabharata, where king Yuvnashva gets accidentally pregnant. It also forms the basis of Devdutt Patanaik’s book The Pregnant King. “Our mythology deals with many complex issues, and male pregnancy is no exception. I spoke to Mr. Patanaik before including his voice in the play,” says Vibha. In 2015, Patanaik’s book was adapted into an English play, Flesh , by Kaushik Bose, examining issues surrounding gender and sexuality. Shikhandi’s widowed mother is an interesting character. On the one hand, she is happy with the news of her son’s pregnancy, as she always wanted her husband to understand her pain. On the other hand, she perpetuates patriarchy by wishing for a male child and expecting her daughter-in-law Priya to manage both home and work. “Patriarchy’s social conditioning is such that it refuses to go. Apart from other abuses, financial abuse is the biggest,” says Vibha. When Priya will become a mother-in-law, says the playwright, she will be different. “Because of her financial independence, she is in a position to say, if my partner doesnt give me equal space, I have the option to leave him, and she will pass on this thought to her daughters.” The name Shikhandi, according to Vibha, is just a metaphor for the “indecisive nature” that defines many men when they have to negotiate between mother and wife. “He is not exactly a mama’s boy but like many men he hasn’t tried to work upon himself to become a spouse sensitive to his partner’s feelings. Your parents can’t teach you everything. Some things are self-taught.” She says men claim to be strong, but in reality they are insecure, and this reflects in social ills. The earning the bread argument doesn’t mean that men get reduced to a baby when it comes to household chores. “The bread you win is secured and managed for the future by a woman,” says Vibha Will the financial enabling of women render men the weaker sex? Vibha replies, “ Women are wrongly referred to as the weaker sex today, and I don’t want that men should be called the same tomorrow. The two should be allowed to co-exist with their nuances and virtues so that they support each other.” Female voices in theatre are few and far between, and Vibha says there is a gender bias in this field as well. Men can participate in amateur theatre, but but women can’t afford to return home at 10 in the night. They are expected to think of the household. This has limited the role of women in theatre.” In her popular play, Doosra Admi, Doosri Aurat, first staged by Rajendra Gupta and Seema Biswas in Bharat Ran Mahotsav, Vibha talks of a new relationship being forged, a bond of friendship beyond the gender divide. “On the surface, it seems like a play on extra-marital affair and for years I was asked to change the ending. But today’s generation appreciates it . After all, we come from a culture where Krishna and Draupadi were friends.” As she says, a female voice tries to unite people, nurture relationships; it doesn’t make them fall apart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-idea-well-conceived/article34276835.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mary’s lament in Mohiniyattam||For the Catholic Christians in Kerala, Arnos Pathiri’s Puthen Pana is a familiar composition, which they sing as part of prayers during Holy Week. But this year, they enjoyed something more of the priest’s work. Chetana Ganasramam, helmed by Fr. Paul Poovathingal, produced a music-dance video of the poem, Ummayude Dukham (Mother’s grief), and it was telecast by a few channels on Maundy Thursday and Good Friday. The German Jesuit priest and missionary, Johann Ernat Hanxleden, known as Arnos Pathiri in Kerala, arrived here in 1700 at the age of 19. He was known for his contributions as a Malayalam and Sanskrit poet, grammarian and lexicographer. Inspired by the famous work, Jnanapanam, by the devotional poet Poonthanam, he composed Puthen Pana, which narrated in full the life of Christ. Ummayude dukham, in turn, was a touching portrayal of Mary’s grief over the sufferings and death of her son. Composed in 22 couplets, it opens with a request to listen to the pain and agony of Christ with an open mind. The lamentations of Mary while looking at her son’s body after the crucifixion form the rest of the poem. In the last two couplets, the poet concludes with a supplication to Mary “to wash the stains of my mind with the blood of your son and fill me with goodness”. Poem in concert style In the audio-visual production, the poem is rendered by Fr. Paul in concert style and its interpretation through dance appears alternately on the screen. To begin with, an air of melancholy is created by the playing of the violin and veena and through the choice of the raga Sahana. A group of four Mohiniyattam dancers interpret the lines rendered by Fr. Paul before launching into pure nritta to the accompaniment of a chorus and music. Both mother and son appear as the successive verses are sung. As the pallavi is repeated, the background music along with a fleet of swaras can be heard as the dancers perform in a group. The incidents leading to the arrest of Christ, his subsequent torture, finally leading to the crucifixion unfold through well-choreographed dance sequences. A certain inventiveness in choreography was discernible in the portrayal of the cross and the crucifixion by the dancers. Towards the finale, the dancers recreated Michelangelo’s famous Pieta. Music for the 17-minute production is by Fr. Paul Poovathingal, set in a ragamalika. He is assisted by noted violinist Abdul Aziz. The seven ragas beginning with Sahana and ending with Ahir Bhairav appropriately convey the essence of the verses. The background score, which lends a beautiful dimension to the show, is by Thrissur Pauly. The dance sequences have been put together by Kalamandalam Husnabhanu and Kalamandalam Sherin. While Sherin donned the role of Mother Mary, Kiran Krishnakumar who portrayed Christ appeared a bit too young for the role. The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/marys-lament-in-mohiniyattam/article34276847.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Thematic concert series||The SVK birth anniversary concert series, to be hosted online by Naada Inbam, will be a thematic event this year. In order to showcase the rich variety of compositions in Carnatic music, each day’s concert will be based on a theme. The series, to be held from April 10 to 19, 6.15 p.m., will begin with Jayashree Aravind’s veena recital tomorrow. The theme for Bharathi Ramasubban’s concert on April 11 is ‘Marundumagi.’ The following is the list of concerts to be hosted: April 12: ‘Sanskrit compositions’ by Nanditha Kannan; April 13: ‘Tamil kritis’ by Dhanush Anantharaman; April 14: ‘Ramanatakam’ by Ashwath Narayanan; and April 15: ‘Vidya Paraa Devata’ by Abirama Bode. The concerts can be watched live on the Parivadini Music YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thematic-concert-series/article34276848.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Talk on Tamil poet and composer||Get to know more about the life and work of poet and Carnatic music composer Gopalakrishna Bharathi at a virtual event to be hosted by Sruti, The India Music and Dance Society, Philadelphia. Historian V. Sriram will deliver a talk on ‘The life and times of Gopalakrishna Bharati,’ on April 10, 7.30 p.m. with musical interludes by vocalist Bharat Sundar. The talk will be followed by an interactive session that invites questions from the audience.  The non-ticketed event is to be streamed live on Sruti’s Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/talk-on-tamil-poet-and-composer/article34276850.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramanavami festival||Concerts, discourses and honouring of religious scholars will mark the Sri Ramanavami celebrations organised by Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha. To be held from April 14 to 21 at Vani Mahal, the festival will begin with Sandeep Narayan's vocal concert on April 14, 6.30 p.m. Damal Ramakrishnan will present a six-day discourse on 'Ramayanam' (April 16-21, 6.45 p.m.) On the occasion, the title of 'Pravachana Sudha Vani' will be conferred on Ramakrishnan and Perundevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ramanavami-festival/article34276852.ece
09 April 2021||April 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Pilgrims of dance||A new dance production titled ‘The Legends of Jyotirlingam’ will explore the mythological stories behind the 12 most significant Jyotirlingas in the country. These are Somnath and Nageshwar in Gujarat; Mallikarjun in Andhra Pradesh; Mahakaleshwar and Omkareshwar in M.P.; Baidyanath in Jharkhand; Bhimshankar, Trayambakeshwar and Ghrishneshwar in Maharashtra; Kedarnath in Uttarakhand; Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu; and Kashi Vishwanath in U.P. The Jyotirlinga represents Shiva, and it is considered that Shiva transformed into an infinite pillar of light in these 12 spots. Concept, research, choreography and direction are by Guru Kanaka Sudhakar. Seven male artistes will depict Shiva through seven dance styles and nine Bharatanatyam dancers will weave the narrative. The artistes will also depict the geographical and spiritual significance of each Jyotirlinga. The production is presented by Sunaina (Society for the Upliftment of National Arts of India) in association with the Ministry of Culture and Sahitya Kala Parishad. It will be staged on April 10, 7 p.m., at Delhi Tamil Sangam. The recording can be viewed online. For details, log on to sunainaoffice@gmail.com or call 8588802608.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/pilgrims-of-dance/article34276864.ece
09 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers being harassed in mandis, alleges Hooda||Interacting with the farmers and labourers at the Karnal food grain market, former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday accused the Haryana government of failing to make proper arrangements for procurement even though it had announced to start the process on April 1. “In many places, farmers reaching the market with their crops are being harassed in the name of moisture, not registering on the web portal or on account of server being down. The government should co-operate with the farmers, and not do new experiments on them every day. The government should immediately stop making excuses and procure grains from farmers who are reaching the market with their crops,” he said. Talking to mediapersons at the grains market, Mr. Hooda opposed the government’s decision to reduce the standard limit of moisture in wheat from 14% to 12%.  ‘Ploy to deny MSP’ The government has decided to reduce the moisture content so that it does not have to pay Minimum Support Price to farmers, he alleged. Not only this, earlier 0.75 % mixed quantity (rye, mustard, chaff, etc.) was allowed in a quintal but this has been now been reduced to 0.50 percent, or 500 grams in a quintal. The Leader of the Opposition said that farmers would incur heavy financial loss due to this and the government should immediately withdraw this decision. Earlier, Mr. Hooda visited grains markets in Ladwa, Babain and Thanesar of Kurukshetra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-being-harassed-in-mandis-alleges-hooda/article34276581.ece
09 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Five killed, four hurt in Bijnor cracker unit fire||Five persons died and four others were injuredwhen a cracker factory in a Bijnor village caught fire on Thursday, police said. The owner of the factory has been arrested. Dharamveer Singh, Superintendent of Police, Bijnor, said a small unit of crackers being run in a corner of Bakshiwala village of the district caught fire. “Nine persons were working in the house. Five of them got trapped while the four others jumped out of the building. Mohd Yusuf, the owner of the unit, has been arrested.” The deceased, the SP said, belonged to the neighbouring Bukhara village. Locals said the house was also used as a godown to store crackers. An inquiry has been ordered by the District Magistrate Ramakant Pandey into the causes of the fire and possible lapses.  ‘Unit had valid licence’ Mr Pandey told reporters that the factory had a valid licence. Expressing grief to the families of the deceased, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath took notice of the incident and has sought a joint report from the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police of Bijnor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-killed-four-hurt-in-bijnor-cracker-unit-fire/article34276583.ece
09 April 2021||Guwahati,||Suspected African swine fever outbreak in Mizoram||An outbreak of suspected African swine fever (ASF) has killed 276 domestic pigs in Lunglei district of Mizoram, officials said. Mizoram’s Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary, H. Laltlanmawia, said the outbreak has been restricted to Lungsen village and preliminary tests have pointed to ASF as the cause of death of the pigs. The highly contagious disease was detected from tissue samples at the College of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry at Seleish in the State. “We are awaiting confirmation from the National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease in Bhopal, to which we have sent some samples,” Mr. Laltlanmawia said. Officials in Lunglei district said precautions have been taken to ensure the disease does not spread beyond the village. ‘Restrictions imposed’ As a part of the preventive measures, the local authorities have restricted the procurement and supply of pigs from and to the affected area and the district beyond. “We are investigating how the disease struck,” Mr. Laltlanmawia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/suspected-african-swine-fever-outbreak-in-mizoram/article34276579.ece
09 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha seeks 10-day stock of vaccine||The Odisha government on Thursday urged Centre to supply 10-day stock of the vaccine and release of assistance of at least Rs. 300 crore for COVID-19 management for 2021-22. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik took up different issues while discussion about COVID-19 pandemic with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Odisha has been doing well in vaccination programme with among the lowest wastage in the country and efficient system of administering the vaccine to eligible persons. We have not been able to ramp up the vaccination due to supply issues,” Mr. Patnaik informed. He said, “we are currently able to vaccinate 2.5 lakh persons per day and have capability to increase further. We request that at least 10 days stock of the vaccines is ensured for Odisha.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-seeks-10-day-stock-of-vaccine/article34276578.ece
09 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P. BJP leader quits party, joins RLD||Priyamvada Tomar, a senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader in western Uttar Pradesh, has quit the party, alleging BJP’s response to farmers’ protests was insensitive. A member of the Uttar Pradesh State Women’s Commission, Dr. Tomar also quit the panel, saying that “rampant corruption” was preventing her from helping women in the State get justice. In a letter addressed to BJP State chief Swantradev Singh, Dr. Tomar said she came from a farmer’s family and was hurt by the party’s “extreme insensitivity” towards farmers. On Thursday, she joined the Rashtriya Lok Dal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-bjp-leader-quits-party-joins-rld/article34276582.ece
09 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman held for running over couple||Delhi Police on Thursday said that one more woman was arrested for allegedly running over an elderly couple in Dwarka on Sunday. The police said that the woman’s sister was earlier arrested for committing the crime. DCP (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that Nupur Chaudhary (28) has been arrested. Her sister Deepakshi Chaudhary (30) was arrested earlier. On Sunday evening, Shanti Swaroop Arora and his wife Anjula Arora were on out for an evening walk when a car ran them over. During probe, CCTV footage was analysed and it was revealed that the one driving the vehicle was Nupur. Sources claimed that the sisters look similar. A senior officer said that the family was scared that Nupur would lose her job if she had a criminal record. Deepakshi has been charged under relevant sections for misleading police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-held-for-running-over-couple/article34276650.ece
09 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Unused govt. properties for women SHGs||In a significant step towards empowering women-folk in villages, the Odisha government announced to handover all unused government properties in panchayats to women self-help groups (SHGs) federated under Mission Shakti programme.  Odisha CM’s directive Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed district collectors to complete the process of handing over of properties within next two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unused-govt-properties-for-women-shgs/article34276584.ece
