12 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata provoked people, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said “provocation” by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, calling for a gherao of the Central forces, resulted in the death of four youth in firing by security forces at a polling station in Cooch Behar on Saturday. “An unfortunate incident happened during the fourth phase of voting. Some youth fell for the provocation of didi and attacked a polling booth and tried to snatch weapons from the CISF. The CISF had to fire and four youth died. It is matter of grief for us. But I want to ask why the youth dared to indulge in such an act,” Mr. Shah said during an election rally in Basirhat Dakshin. He alleged that Ms. Banerjee had publicly announced at the same Assembly seat that youth and women should come forward to gherao the Central Armed Police Forces and attack them. “Didi, you left after making the announcement on a wheelchair. But because of you four youth lost their lives,” Mr. Shah said. Mr. Shah repeated the BJP’s accusation of appeasement politics by the Trinamool Congress. He said while Ms. Banerjee was condoling the death of the four people killed in the CISF firing, she did not condole the death of a BJP worker, Anand Barman, as he was from the Rajbongshi community. Mr. Shah took part in a number of roadshows in Nadia district and addressed a public meeting in North 24 Parganas, which is going to the polls on April 17. Responding to the Chief Minister remarks, blaming him for the violence and demanding his resignation, Mr. Shah said, “I will resign whenever the people want me to but you will have to tender resignation to the Governor on May 2.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday accused Mamata Banerjee of inciting the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-provoked-people-says-shah/article34298445.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Chittoor continues to be a hotspot for virus||The State registered nine COVID-19 deaths and 3,495 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The infection tally was the highest in a single day since October 23 last. At 11.02%, the positivity rate of the 31,719 samples tested during the period was also the highest since September 17 last. So far, 1.542 crore samples had been tested with a positivity rate of 6%. The death toll reached 7,300 and the mortality rate stood at 0.79%. Four of the nine deaths were reported from Chittoor district, while Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam and Srikakulam districts reported one death each. The cumulative tally of infections reached 9,25,401. The last 25,000 cases were reported in 13 days. Active cases The number of active cases crossed the 20,000-mark. As of Sunday morning, the State had 20,954 patients, and a majority of them were under home isolation. The last time the State had over 20,000 active cases was in mid-December, 2020. The total number of recoveries was 8,97,147 and the recovery rate stood at 96.95%. Chittoor reported the highest single-day tally of 719 infections in 24 hours. It was followed by Guntur (501), Visakhapatnam (405), Krishna (306), Srikakulam (293), Prakasam (215), Anantapur (209), Vizianagaram (193), Kadapa (192), Kurnool (191), Nellore (190), East Godavari (41) and West Godavari (40). Chittoor district alone had 3,917 active cases. Guntur with 2,821 cases and Visakhapatnam with 2,585 active cases account for nearly half of the active infections. The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,25,817), West Godavari (94,735), Chittoor (94,160), Guntur (82,043), Anantapur (69,540), Nellore (65,013), Visakhapatnam (64,708), Prakasam (63,735), Kurnool (63,063), Kadapa (56,866), Krishna (52,817), Srikakulam (48,039) and Vizianagaram (41,970).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chittoor-continues-to-be-covid-hotspot/article34298437.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,||India records 1.7 lakh fresh COVID-19 cases, 904 deaths||India’s daily COVID-19 case count surpassed the 1.5-lakh mark for the second consecutive day on Sunday, with 1,56,629 infections reported as of 9.30 p.m. This is the highest single-day spike recorded since the outbreak last year. As many as 760 deaths were also recorded on the day. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Assam, Ladakh, Sikkim and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The data are sourced from covid19india.org , an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. 41% from Maharashtra Maharashtra reported 63,294 infections, accounting for nearly 41% of the new cases, followed by Uttar Pradesh (15,276) and Delhi (10,774). Maharashtra also recorded 349 casualties, followed by Uttar Pradesh (67), Punjab (59) and Gujarat (54). The country has so far reported a total of 1,35,12,094 cases and 1,70,065 deaths. As many as 68,592 recoveries were recorded on Sunday, taking the total to 1,21,46,925. The number of daily samples tested on Saturday rose to 14,12,047, taking the cumulative samples tested to 25,66,26,850. Maharashtra (14% of new tests), Uttar Pradesh (13%) and Gujarat (9%) led the list in terms of the absolute number of new tests conducted on Saturday. However, in terms of tests conducted relative to the population size, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand were the front-runners. The number of vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 10 crore, with 10,15,95,147 shots recorded as of 7 a.m. on Sunday. The pace of vaccination picked up in April, with an average of over 36.4 lakh doses administered daily this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-second-day-cases-cross-15-lakh/article34298443.ece
12 April 2021||Pune,||CM holds another review, no decision on lockdown yet||With Maharashtra on the verge of a lockdown, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held a crucial meeting with the COVID-19 task force of doctors and other municipal authorities as the State continued to reel under unprecedented case spikes. On Sunday, the State reported its highest-ever single-day surge with 63,294 cases as the active case tally breached the 5.50 lakh mark to touch 5,65,587. With 349 deaths, the total number of fatalities in the State rose to 57,987. No conclusive decision on lockdown was taken in Sunday’s meeting, but Health Minister Rajesh Tope said a decision was likely in the next two-three days. The two-hour meeting with doctors and senior municipal authorities focussed on the availability of oxygen and beds in hospitals, the use of Remdesivir, treatment protocols, ways to enhance the capacity of facilities, imposition of restrictions, and fines for violating COVID-19 norms. Pune district — the worst-hit in the country — piled over 12,500 new cases to take its case tally to 6,51,586. Sixteen deaths took the total death to 8,532. As per district authorities, the active case tally has crossed the one lakh mark. Mumbai reported 9,986 new cases, taking its case tally to 5,20,498 of which 91,100 are active. With 79 fatalities, the death toll in Maximum City rose to 12,023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-holds-another-review-no-decision-on-lockdown-yet/article34299025.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Investment projects bounce back in Q4||Fresh investments rebounded strongly in the last quarter of 2020-21, with both private sector and government-backed capital spending taking off sharply for the first time in the pandemic-hit year, even as the project execution ratio, which denotes actual ground-level action, hit a five-year high. The Q4 surge drove up the overall fresh investments in 2020-21 to Rs. 10.72 lakh crore, just 1.2% below the 2019-20 levels, although investments had plummeted sharply that year from Rs. 16.87 lakh crore in 2018-19. New project investments in the January to March 2021 quarter hit almost Rs. 4 lakh crore, nearly Rs. 1 lakh crore or 33.4% higher than the previous quarter, according to the latest Projects Investment Survey by Projects Today. The government’s push for capital expansion finally translated into new projects getting off the ground rising 21.8% during the quarter, after an 11.3% dip in the Centre and States’ investment announcements in the third quarter. Over 1,700 new government projects were announced in Q4, with the Centre accounting for projects worth Rs. 76,185 crore and State agencies pushing projects worth Rs. 91,067 crore. Path to normalcy “The Centre’s investment stimulus since March 2020 and the RBI’s liberal monetary policy have helped hasten the recovery in projects investment activities. While we are still far from the high growth in projects investment in 2018-19, the last two quarters’ trends indicate the journey towards normalcy has begun,” said Shashikant Hegde, director and CEO of investment monitoring firm Projects Today. The fresh surge in COVID-19 cases and the spate of lockdowns would certainly be an impediment in the return to complete normalcy, so the government should step up its investment plans, intensify the vaccination drive and extend support to the private sector to sustain the growth in project investments through 2021-22, Mr. Hegde said. Private sector investments grew by a sharp 43.5% over Q3 to Rs. 2.26 lakh crore in Q4, with manufacturing investments rising by a healthy 40.6% on top of the 88.4% quarter-on-quarter growth in Q3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/investment-projects-bounce-back-in-q4-report/article34298448.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Gauhati HC clears man of foreigner tag under NRC||The Gauhati High Court has set aside a two-year-old order of a Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) declaring a man a foreigner for failing to establish linkage with all relatives in the pre-1971 voters’ lists. Establishing the lineage from people who resided or have been residing in India before March 24, 1971, the cut-off date for detecting and deporting foreigners, according to the Assam Accord of 1985, is crucial for entry into the National Register of Citizens (NRC) that was updated in August 2019. About 19.06 lakh of some 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the list for lack of documents establishing their citizenship. The FT-III of western Assam’s Barpeta had on January 30, 2019, declared Haider Ali a foreigner for failing to establish his linkage with five persons other than his grandfather Nadu Miya and grandmother Aymona whose names appeared in the voters’ list of 1970. Hearing Haider Ali’s case on March 15, Justice N. Kotiswar Singh observed that the petitioner’s claim would have strengthened had he disclosed the family tree in more detail. “…but failure to disclose the names of all the members of the family cannot weaken his case and render his evidence unreliable, nor reduce the credibility of his evidence, when there are other corroborating evidences,” the court’s order on March 30 said. The High Court observed that 35-year-old Haider Ali, a resident of Kawaimari Block 12 village, had documents stating that he was the son of Harmuz Ali and grandson of Nadu Miya, both admittedly Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gauhati-hc-clears-man-of-foreigner-tag-under-nrc/article34298743.ece
12 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Home Guards to be deployed as COVID-19 marshals||Nearly a month after it was announced, Home Guards will start work on Monday as COVID-19 marshals to enforce wearing of face masks and keeping social distancing in public places in urban areas of Dakshina Kannada. They will work along with bill collectors and health inspectors of Mangaluru City Corporation. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that Home Guards were on election duty in Kerala and hence, there was delay in deploying them as COVID-19 marshals. While 50 Home Guards have been assigned to the corporation, 30 commenced work on Saturday itself creating awareness among the general public. “A detailed guideline for their working will be released shortly,” Mr. Sridhar told The Hindu . On March 18, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra announced that Home Guards will be deployed as COVID-19 marshals. A few days later, Dr. Rajendra told reporters that the district administration was considering using personnel from the State Disaster Response Force as COVID-19 marshals. Dr. Rajendra told The Hindu that as the proposal for using SDRF personnel did not come through, the district administration has gone ahead to make use of 124 Home Guards for enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour across the district. They were deployed after testing negative for COVID-19 through RT-PCR tests. They will work along with personnel from urban local bodies. Besides the 50 Home Guards for the city, 10 each have been deployed in City Municipal Council limits of Ullal and Puttur. Five Home Guards each have been deployed in Town Municipal Councils of Bantwal, Moodbidri and Someshwara and Town Panchayats of Mulki, Kotekar, Vitla, Belthangady and Sullia. Six Home Guards each have been posted at Talapady, Jalsoor and two more border check-posts for checking occupants of vehicles entering Dakshina Kannada, he said. District Home Guards Commandant Muralee Mohan Choontharu said that the 50 Home Guards in the city have been provided jackets with “COVID-19 Marshals” label. Remuneration for these 144 Home Guards will be paid through the District Disaster Management Fund. Meanwhile, the city police seized 64 two-wheelers and four four-wheelers on Saturday night on the charge of violating “corona curfew” norms. At a few places, police officers, including Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, had to face the ire of people for clamping down on the movement of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-guards-to-be-deployed-as-covid-19-marshals/article34299010.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Congress candidate Madhava Rao dies of viral pneumonia||After a hectic election season in which campaigning meant that not all COVID-19 safety norms could be followed, several candidates and leaders have tested positive for the infection. Congress candidate for Srivilliputhur P.S.W. Madhava Rao died on Sunday after he was admitted to hospital for COVID-19 symptoms. Sources said he was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai on March 30 after he developed fever, cough and body pain. While he was moved to the intensive care unit after he complained of breathlessness, Mr. Rao’s RT-PCR test came in negative, according to a source in the Health Department. “Though he tested negative, we took all precautions and put him in an isolation ward,” said K. Praveen, Assistant Director (Medical Service), Apollo Hospital. Mr. Rao died owing to viral pneumonia, he added. Congress national secretary Sanjay Dutt had earlier said Mr. Rao could not campaign owing to COVID-19 infection, and his daughter, Dhivya Rao, filled in for him. His body was taken to his home at Khadi Board Colony at Srivilliputtur. The final rites will take place on Monday, said Congress Virudhunagar West district unit president A. Rengasamy. DMK general secretary and Katpadi candidate Durai Murugan, who tested positive for COVID-19 last week and was under home quarantine initially, was admitted to Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre in Chennai. Sources said he was doing well, and there were no serious complications. BJP State vice-president and Aravakurichi candidate K. Annamalai has tested positive. After sensing symptoms for the past few days, the former IPS officer got himself tested at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Sunday. In a tweet, he asked those he had worked with him during the campaign to get themselves tested. Former Minister and AIADMK Palladam candidate M.S.M. Anandan was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore on Sunday after he tested positive. On Saturday, CPI candidate for Tiruppur North M. Subramanian tested positive. He appealed to those who were in contact with him in the last several days to get themselves tested. As he was asymptomatic, he quarantined himself at home. Among the other prominent candidates and campaigners who tested positive during the campaign include DMK MP Kanimozhi, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M. H. Jawahirullah,and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-candidate-madhava-rao-dies-of-viral-pneumonia/article34298503.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||De-escalation trend positive, says China||China’s military said late on Saturday that it hoped India “could cherish the current positive trend of de-escalation” following the 11th round of talks between Corps Commanders, but did not acknowledge the remaining unresolved issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The talks on Friday held at Chushul concluded at 11.30 p.m. In its statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said both sides had “a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to disengagement along the LAC”. It added that they had “agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols”. Both sides also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents. A spokesperson for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Western Theatre Command said in a statement later in the day that both sides “exchanged views on issues of mutual concern and agreed to maintain communications through military and diplomatic channels”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/de-escalation-trend-positive-says-china/article34298449.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Wearing mask made compulsory; Rs. 1,000 penalty for violators||Intensifying its efforts to check the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the second wave of which has become a cause of concern, the State government on Monday issued an order making it mandatory to wear face masks in public places, work spaces and means of transport. The government will forthwith impose penalty of Rs. 1,000 against those violating the order. Any deviation from the order would attract prosecution under Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 188 of the IPC or other applicable laws. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who is also chairperson of the State Executive Committee on disaster management, directed all the district Collectors and Commissioners/Superintendents of Police to strictly implement the instructions. The order follows the intensified inspections across the State by the police since reports on the second wave surfaced. The police had been conducting awareness rallies in different areas about the importance of wearing masks as protection from the pandemic. The department is closely monitoring people through its CCTV network to check for violations and challans are being sent through SMS to mobiles of those found violating the orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/go-issued-no-mask-pay-rs-1000-fine/article34298929.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Cases breach 10,000 mark in State||After several months, the number of COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka crossed the 10,000 mark. On Sunday, as many as 10,250 new COVID 19 cases were reported in the State. Of these, as many as 7,584 cases were in Bengaluru Urban alone. The last time the number of cases crossed the 10,000 mark was on October 10, 2020. The cases reported on Sunday is a huge jump compared to Saturday, when the number of cases reported stood at 6,955. However, the number of tests conducted on Saturday, which is reflected in Sunday’s data, stood at 1.32 lakh. On Friday it was below 1 lakh. Technical Advisory Committee member and Director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases Dr. C.N. Manjunath said that this was the biggest jump in a single day ever since the pandemic began in Karnataka. He also said that various projections had shown the transmission of the current variant of COVID-19 would be faster. “Along with this, people have let their guard down and are attending mass gatherings such as weddings, rallies, and processions. This is also responsible for the huge jump,” he said. The positivity rate for Sunday stood at 7.72 % and the case fatality rate stood at 0.39 %. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases stood at 10.65 lakh. The number of COVID-19 related deaths reported on Sunday was 40, taking the total number to 12,889 in the State. Meanwhile, as many as 2,638 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of discharges to 9.83 lakh. Of the total 69,225 active cases in the state, as many as 440 patients are admitted in intensive care units across designated hospitals. On Sunday, as many as 70,000 people were vaccinated, taking the total number of people who have been vaccinated in the State to 58.51 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-breach-10000-mark-in-state/article34298702.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19 cases, deaths on the rise||With the second wave of COVID-19 making its impact in the State, new cases and deaths are beginning to rise again. Even as the government is preparing to increase the surge capacity in hospitals, ICUs are beginning to fill up, doctors say. With reports about doctors scrambling to find beds and ICUs, sick patients occupying ventilators for longer duration and the cascading effect it creates trickling in from neighbouring States, doctors have renewed their appeal to people to get themselves tested and treated early. “A patient claiming to have had fever only for a day might worsen suddenly but in all probability he would have ignored fatigue or other mild symptoms that he might have experienced since the past four days,” points out R. Aravind, the Head of Infectious Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. Though COVID-19 has been around since the past one year and doctors have successfully treated lakhs, the entire success of treatment and prevention of mortality hinges on a single factor: time. Success factor “There is no definitive treatment and protocols are pretty standardised but the one factor that might make the crucial difference between one patient succumbing to the disease and another managing to surpass the crisis, is time,” Dr. Aravind says. Even now, it is delays in seeking hospital care which is the significant factor pushing up the fatality rate. It was to manage the surge capacity that the State took the policy decision to keep patients with mild symptoms under home care, as is done world over. However, the message about seeking hospital care at the right time does not seem to have percolated down. “How efficient and effective is the home care in the State? The State has documented detailed guidelines on how patients on home care should be followed up diligently by the health system and how their oxygen saturation levels should be checked daily by someone from the nearest PHC. But what is happening in the field is quite different. If it is the case of doctors that patients are turning up late in hospitals and taking a turn for the worse, it naturally means that the health system has been less than perfect in monitoring home-care patients,” a senior Health official points out. He says if strict home isolation and daily monitoring of positive persons cannot be implemented properly, deaths can go up. “There is nothing different about the second wave. Even the role of immune escape mutant virus variants in the second wave or its clinical relevance remains largely speculative now because there is no field data to establish this. The real fear is whether we can battle the second wave as efficiently as we did the first because it is a fatigued health system,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-deaths-on-the-rise/article34298620.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||New peak, Delhi reports over 10K fresh infections||Delhi recorded 10,774 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, the highest single-day surge in the national capital since the pandemic began. According to health department data, 48 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours — pushing the toll to 11,283. A total of 1,14,288 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 9.43% during the same period. The case tally stands at 7,25,197. There are 34,341 active cases in the city, out of which 17,093 are under home isolation. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “COVID-19 is rising rapidly in the country. In Delhi too, cases have increased significantly in the past 10-15 days. It is the fourth wave in Delhi... it is very dangerous and it is spreading very fast.” Till mid-March, the number of daily cases was less than 200. But there has been a spike in infections over the past month, with the city reporting around 7,500-8,500 cases daily over the past few days. “No doubt the situation is worrisome. However, your government is keeping an eye on the situation. I am personally monitoring it. We are doing whatever needs to be done,” said Mr. Kejriwal. Out of the total 11,675 hospital beds reserved for COVID-19 patients, 5,459 are vacant, according to the Delhi government’s COVID-19 patient management system. The rest of the patients are either at dedicated COVID Care Centres, which have a total of 5,525 beds, or dedicated COVID Health Centres that have a total of 82 beds. A total of 1,04,862 people got the jab in the last 24 hours, out of which 91,099 received the first dose. Over 20 lakh Delhiites have received the vaccine so far. The previous highest single-day spike in Delhi was 8,593 cases, reported on November 11 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-peak-delhi-reports-over-10k-fresh-infections/article34298921.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Shortage of vaccine derails Tika Utsav||On the first day of the four-day Tika Utsav announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the State administered only 58,000 vaccines to the elligible beneficiaries as of 9.30 p.m. It was only a fraction of the 6 lakh doses planned by the State government. As expected, most of the districts ran out of vaccine doses and could only inoculate a few thousand beneficiaries. According to the national CoWin dashboard, 55,851 vaccines were administered as of 8 p.m. on Sunday, which was otherwise a holiday for vaccine centres in the State. Health Department officials said they were expecting more doses, which would be used as soon as they arrive. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had recently written a letter to the Prime Minister asking for 25 lakh doses as the State was running short of vaccines. He said the State government has planned to administer vaccines to around 6 lakh people per day during the utsav with the help of volunteer network. So far, 38,86,836 got vaccinated in the State. Of them, 5,29,411 got the second dose too. On Saturday, 2.23 lakh doses were administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-shortage-derails-tika-utsav/article34298438.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Naidu, Lokesh booked for ‘malicious’ posts against YSRCP nominee||Former Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son and former Minister Nara Lokesh have been booked for allegedly posting comments and photographs against the YSRCP candidate for the Tirupati byelection M. Gurumurthy. Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh, Vemuru MLA Meruga Nagarjuna and Pamarru MLA Kaile Anil Kumar met Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang a couple of days ago, and lodged a complaint against Mr. Naidu and Mr. Lokesh. They alleged that a social media group being handled by the TDP had posted photographs and comments insulting Mr. Gurumurthy, and urged the DGP to register a case against the two leaders and take necessary action. Mr. Suresh also appealed to the DGP to take measures to remove the postings and comments in social media groups, which were damaging to the party candidate. The DGP forwarded the complaint to the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate for investigation. Consequently, the Cyber Crime police registered cases against Mr. Naidu and Mr. Lokesh under the provisions of the IT Act, 2000 and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and took up investigation. Cases against handlers Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu on Sunday that a case has been registered against the social media group handler and the account holder and the creator. “The Cyber Crime police are probing the allegations. Investigation officers will contact the social media group organisers and collect more information related to the case,” Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-lokesh-booked-for-malicious-posts-against-ysrcp-nominee/article34298441.ece
12 April 2021||YADGIR,||CM says no question of talks with transport staff||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has ruled out holding any talks with RTC employees who are on strike and asked them to join duty instantly. “I am asking them to come and join duty; they only will be held responsible, if there is any action against them,” he added. The Chief Minister was talking to presspersons in Mudgal town in Maski Assembly constituency on Sunday. While sending out a strong message to the striking employees, the Chief Minister said, “We know how to face the situation.” “There is no compromise. Salaries will not be released for employees who are on strike. The government will take suitable action, if they do not come for duty, and for this, only the employees will be held responsible,” he added. When asked about the statement made by Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on corruption, Mr. Yediyurappa said that he [Mr. Siddaramaiah] should stop talking lightly. “Now, I will not react to that (statement on corruption) and Mr. Siddaramaiah will surely get an answer after the byelection results. Then, he will know who is corrupt and who is not,” the Chief Minister said. He said: “What I had said about Lok Sabha election results came true. We won 25 seats and the Congress won just one seat. Now, we will win in Maski, Basavakalyan and Belagavi as people are supporting us.” The Chief Minister made it very clear that there will be no hesitation in imposing night curfew in any of the districts in State if the [COVID-19] situation warrants. “Therefore, I would request people with folded hands to behave responsibly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-says-no-question-of-talks-with-transport-staff/article34298593.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Two staff suspended for manipulating COVID-19 tests||Two Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) contract employees at a PHC in Kodigehalli were suspended on Saturday after they were caught manipulating COVID-19 testing kits. Random swabs The two were allegedly sending random swabs to laboratories without actually taking any nasal or oral samples from people, said police officials. They were allegedly doing this in an attempt to meet the testing targets. A video clip of them manipulating the data was uploaded on Twitter sparking outrage with many questioning the validity of the BBMP’s testing data. Civic officials suspended the duo — identified as Mohan and Nagaraj— and lodged a complaint with the Kodigehalli police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-staff-suspended-for-manipulating-covid-19-tests/article34298904.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Negative report must in H.P.||The Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday announced that after April 16, people from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will be required to show a negative RT-PCR test report, which is not older than 72 hours, to enter the State.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/negative-report-must-in-hp/article34298435.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Rush hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rush-hour/article34298502.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Remdesivir export banned||The Centre on Sunday prohibited the export of Remdesivir injection and Remdesivir Active Pharma- ceutical Ingredients, stating that there was a spike in the demand for the drug. Seven Indian companies produce the injection under a volun- tary licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences of the U.S.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/remdesivir-export-banned/article34298434.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP seeks derecognition of TDP||The YSRCP has lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer of A.P. alleging that the TDP candidate for Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll Panabaka Lakshmi was distributing pamphlets containing an allegation that the ruling party had mortgaged the State’s right to Special Category Status, to get some of its leaders acquitted from pending cases. YSRCP leader L. Appi Reddy said the CEO should recommend to the Election Commission of India to derecognise the TDP. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-seeks-derecognition-of-tdp/article34299111.ece
12 April 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal CM speaks to kin of victims||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday spoke to the families of people killed in Cooch Behar over telephone. She described the incident of firing by the security forces as a “genocide”, and said no attempt was made to disperse people using non-lethal means. Ms. Banerjee said the CISF personnel were not trained to disperse mob.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-cm-speaks-to-kin-of-victims/article34298446.ece
12 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Fake Facebook account in the name of DC||The trend of fraudsters creating fake Facebook accounts of government officials and seeking money from the gullible public continued in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts with Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha being the latest victim of it. In a statement, Mr. Jagadeesha said that some persons had created a fake Facebook account in his name and demanded Rs. 7,000 from a person using FB messenger. He has brought this to the notice of Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan and asked him to take necessary action, Mr. Jagadeesha said and asked people not to get carried away with such demands. Mr. Vishnuvardhan said that the police were working on some clues to trace the perpetrator who is said to be part of an organised gang involved in cheating people. A week ago, Superintendent of Government Lady Goschen Hospital, Mangaluru, M.R. Durgaprasad filed a complaint with the Cyber Crime Police in Mangaluru after he heard from his friends about a fake Facebook account created in his name and the creator demanding money from his friends. Dr. Durgaprasad then blocked his original Facebook account. In November 2020, Deputy Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation G. Santosh Kumar had filed a similar complaint. Circle Inspector of Police, Udupi, Manjunath, also came to know about a fake Facebook account from his friends in January and he filed a complaint with the Udupi Cyber Crime Police. A similar complaint was filed six months ago by Superintendent of Police, Coastal Security Police, Chethan R. “We are yet to get a breakthrough in these two cases,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fake-facebook-account-in-the-name-of-dc/article34299008.ece
12 April 2021||COIMBATORE,||HM functionary assaulted||Tension prevailed at Sundarapuram here after two unidentified persons assaulted a Hindu Munnai functionary, late on Saturday. The police said that Hindu Munnani’s Ukkadam area vice-president S. Ramakrishnan (36), a resident of Thayammal Layout at Podanur, was assaulted by two men who came on a two-wheeler at Sundarapuram around 10.30 p.m. Mr. Ramakrishnan, a caterer by occupation, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) where his condition is said to be stable. The assault took place at Sangam Street-Sarada Mill road junction when Mr. Ramakrishnan was returning home after work. As per the statement Mr. Ramakrishnan gave to the police, two men came in a motorcycle and assaulted him on the head with an iron rod. The assailants fled the spot and a few shopkeepers rushed Mr. Ramakrishnan to CMCH. Hearing about the assault, Hindu Munnani workers thronged CMCH and Sundarapuram. Coimbatore City Police deployed forces at CMCH and in a few sensitive parts in the city to avert law and order issues and untoward incidents. The Podanur police said that they have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Special teams were formed to trace the assailants, they said. On Sunday, Hindu Munnani workers staged a protest in front of collectorate to condemn the assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindu-munnani-worker-assaulted-in-coimbatore/article34298889.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Now, BPF sends its candidates abroad||Two days after the AIUDF and the Congress packed off at least 20 of their candidates off to a luxury hotel in Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the Bodoland People’s Front sent 10 candidates overseas, apparently amid fears of horse-trading by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prior to the declaration of the Assembly election results on May 2. The Congress, AIUDF and BPF are the main constituents of the 10-party grand alliance in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-bpf-sends-its-candidates-abroad/article34298654.ece
12 April 2021||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi reports 291 new cases, two deaths||Kalaburagi district, which has been witnessing a constant rise in new cases of COVID-19 for the last few weeks, reported 291 new cases on Sunday, and two deaths. There were also 236 patients who were discharged after they recovered from the infection. With these new cases, the total number of active cases in the district rose to 1,975. And, the total number of deaths has gone up to 364. The neighbouring Bidar district reported 290 new cases and one death, taking the total number of active cases to 1,773 in the district and the toll to 192. As per a bulletin, a 78-year-old man, who was diagnosed of SARI, was admitted to a COVID-19 hospital on Monday last and died on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagi-reports-291-new-cases-two-deaths/article34298591.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Now, BPF sends its candidates abroad||Two days after the AIUDF and the Congress packed at least 20 of their candidates off to a luxury hotel in Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the BPF sent 10 candidates overseas, app-arently amid fears of horse-trading by the BJP prior to the declaration of the Assam Assembly poll results on May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-bpf-sends-its-candidates-abroad/article34298744.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Ugadi: Vendors prepare for loss of another season||A second wave of COVID-19 infections has ensured that Ugadi remains a sombre affair this year too. For vendors, there is little cheer even though Ugadi is only a few days away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ugadi-vendors-prepare-for-loss-of-another-season/article34298868.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Now, BPF sends its candidates abroad||Two days after the AIUDF and the Congress packed at least 20 of their candidates off to a luxury hotel in Jaipur, the Bodoland People’s Front sent 10 candidates overseas, app-arently amid fears of horse-trading by the BJP prior to the declaration of Assam Assembly election results on May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-bpf-sends-its-candidates-abroad/article34298920.ece
12 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||COVID-19: Gujarat HC to hear suo motu PIL today||The Gujarat High Court on Sunday took suo motu cognisance of a public interest litigation on the worsening COVID-19 situation in the State and listed the matter for urgent hearing on Monday morning. The court, in its order, cited media reports of shortage of beds, oxygen supply, testing facilities and medicines as the pandemic has gripped the State with soaring cases and deaths. On Sunday, the State recorded 54 more deaths and 5,469 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-gujarat-hc-to-hear-suo-motu-pil-today/article34299026.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Striking RTC employees, govt. stick to their guns||The striking road transport corporation (RTC) staff and State government hardened their stands on Sunday, quashing hopes of resumption of bus services from Monday. RTC staff have announced Statewide protest with families on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/striking-rtc-employees-govt-stick-to-their-guns/article34298703.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Tough times ahead for power infrastructure||Climate projections for 2021–2050 for Karnataka show that the summer maximum temperature is projected to increase by 1.4 to 2.4 degrees Celsius in the districts with thermal power plants, and by 1.7 to 2.4°C in districts with solar power plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tough-times-ahead-for-power-infrastructure/article34298704.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,||CM to hold COVID-19 review meet today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will on Monday hold a meeting with Ministers and senior officials to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-today/article34298499.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N reports 6,618 cases of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu reported 6,618 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 41,995. Twenty-two persons also succumbed to the infection||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-6618-cases-of-covid-19/article34298500.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||Villagers lose grazing grounds at Pangong Tso||The south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) — one of the two locations from where Indian and Chinese troops disengaged in February — has become a “no man’s land” for the cattle grazers of Chushul in Eastern Ladakh, the area’s councillor said. The Defence Ministry, in a communication to Konchok Stanzin, Chushul councillor, said that “due to the present operational situation in Ladakh, grazers have been asked to restrict their cattle movements”. Crucial for cattle Mr. Stanzin told The Hindu that in April 2020, the areas around the foothills of Helmet Top, Black Top and Gurung Hill were accessible to the grazers, but they were out of bounds now. “There are nearly 180 households here and of them, some 60 depend on livestock rearing for a living. The animals need to be taken to these locations for winter grazing as this is also the breeding season. If they do not get good quality fodder, the livestock could die,” Mr. Stanzin said. He said he had raised the issue with the Defence Ministry in January. On April 2, he received a reply from Major General K. Narayanan, Joint Secretary (Army and TA), Delhi, which said, “Non-delineation of LAC [Line of Actual Control] on ground leads to incorrect interpretation of alignment by civilians, which may result in own grazers inadvertently crossing over to the Chinese side. Moreover, due to the present operational situation in Ladakh, grazers have been asked to restrict their cattle movements.” The disengagement at Pangong Tso, where Indian and Chinese troops were in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation on the north and south banks since June and August last year, respectively, was announced by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament on February 11. The process was completed on February19 after a consensus was arrived at only for one of the friction points — the north and south banks of Pangong — after the 10th round of Corps Commander-level talks. Shrinking space “This area is not frequented by the Chinese grazers much; the Army should not set a precedent by not allowing the Indian grazers at these locations. Before you know, this might become a permanent arrangement, much to our disadvantage,” Mr. Stanzin pointed out. The 11th round of talks was held at Chushul on April 9. The focus of the talks was to work out a phased disengagement plan for the other friction areas in eastern Ladakh — Gogra, Hot Springs, Depsang and Demchok. Statements issued separately by India and China suggested that no concrete agreement had been reached. As reported, since April 2020, Chinese troops blocked Indian troops from at least 10 patrolling points, from Depsang Plains in the north to Pangong Tso in the south. In all, there are more than 65 such points from the base of Karakoram to Chumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/villagers-lose-grazing-grounds-at-pangong-tso/article34298359.ece
12 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP leader warns of ‘more Sitalkuchi cases’||BJP West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday courted controversy by warning that “there will be Sitalkuchi cases in various places” if anyone took the law into their own hands. “Where have so many naughty boys come from? The kind of naughty boys who got shot in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar won’t remain in Bengal. This is just the beginning… Those who take the law into their own hands will be dealt with in a befitting manner… If they want to fight, then they have seen what happened at Sitalkuchi. There will be Sitalkuchi cases in various places. So be careful,” the he said at a public meeting at Baranagar in North 24 Parganas. Mr. Ghosh, who is no stranger to making outrageous comments, said that those who thought that the guns carried by the Central forces were “just for show” were now realising the “strength of the guns”. Mr. Ghosh accused Ms. Banerjee of inciting violence and demanded that the Election Commission prevent her from campaigning. The remarks drew condemnation from different political parties, including the Trinamool Congress and the Left parties. “We have always said that the BJP is a fascist party, and Dilip Ghosh’s comment has proved the point... I have no words to condemn it,” Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said. Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that Mr. Ghosh did not understand the meaning of democracy and had “no proper conception of human rights”. While the administration and security forces said that security personnel fired in self-defence when the mob tried to snatch their weapons during polls in Sitalkuchi, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee blamed Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leader-warns-of-more-sitalkuchi-cases/article34298378.ece
12 April 2021||Pune,||Uddhav defers lockdown plan||With Maharashtra on the verge of a lockdown, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held a crucial meeting with the COVID-19 task force of doctors and municipal authorities as the State continued to reel under a record spike in case load. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said a decision could be taken on the lockdown in two or three days. The two-hour meeting focused on the availability of oxygen and beds in hospitals, the use of Remdesivir, treatment protocols, ways to enhance the capacity of facilities and the imposition of restrictions and fines for violating COVID-19 norms. “In today’s meeting, the task force has acknowledged that a situation warranting a lockdown has been created in the State. Issues such as the duration of the possible lockdown, management of medical facilities and hospitals, enhancement of medical infrastructure to cope with rising cases were discussed… The Chief Minister may take a decision on or after April 14 after the Cabinet meeting later in the week,” Mr. Tope said. Principal Secretary, Health, Pradeep Vyas said a staggering four lakh cases had been reported across the State between April 4 and 10, apart from 1,982 deaths. “The positivity rate is 26% and the more tests we do, the higher the positivity rate. At present, 75% of the 20,250 ICU beds are full and 40% of the 67,000 oxygen beds are full. Beds are not available in 11 or 12 districts,” Mr. Vyas said. Yet another series of meetings is expected over the next two days, including a discussion with the Finance Department, said sources, adding that Mr. Thackeray’s meeting with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Finance Department Secretaries on Monday would be regarding provision of relief packages in the event of a lockdown. Some doctors in the course of the two-hour videoconferencing are believed to have recommended a 14-day lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cm-meets-task-force/article34298394.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre to certify shrimp farms||To bolster confidence in India’s frozen shrimp produce, the country’s biggest seafood export item, the Centre has kicked off a new scheme to certify hatcheries and farms that adopt good aquaculture practices. India exported frozen shrimp worth almost $5 billion in 2019-20 to the U.S. and China — its biggest buyers. But a combination of factors had hurt export volumes in recent months, including container shortages and incidents of seafood consignments being rejected because of food safety concerns. “We have seen some recent consignments sourced from Indian shrimp farms being rejected due to the presence of antibiotic residue and this is a matter of concern for exporters,” a Commerce Ministry official said. The Marine Products Exports Development Authority (MPEDA) has developed a certification scheme for aquaculture products called Shaphari , a Sanksrit word that means superior quality of fishery products suitable for human consumption. “We already have a National Residue Control Programme for food safety issues in farm produce and pre-harvest testing system in place, but this certification was proposed as a market-based tool for hatcheries to adopt good aquaculture practices and help produce quality antibiotic-free shrimp products to assure global consumers,” the official said. Frozen shrimp is India’s largest exported seafood item. It constituted 50.58% in quantity and 73.2% in terms of total U.S. dollar earnings from the sector during 2019-20. Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the major shrimp producing States, and around 95% of the cultured shrimp produce is exported. “Overall, certified aquaculture products will help exporters to export their consignments to markets under stringent food safety regulations without the fear of getting rejected,” the official explained. The Shaphari scheme is based on the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization’s technical guidelines on aquaculture certification and will have two components — certifying hatcheries for the quality of their seeds and, separately, approving shrimp farms that adopt the requisite good practices. The certification of hatcheries will help farmers easily identify good quality seed producers. Those who successfully clear multiple audits of their operations shall be granted a certificate for a period of two years. “The entire certification process will be online to minimise human errors and ensure higher credibility and transparency,” the official said, adding that the guidelines for certification of farms are under preparation in consultation with stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-certify-shrimp-farms/article34298362.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Gauhati HC clears man of foreigner tag under NRC||The Gauhati High Court has set aside a two-year-old order of a Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) declaring a man a foreigner for failing to establish linkage with all relatives in the pre-1971 voters’ lists. Establishing the lineage from people who resided or have been residing in India before March 24, 1971, the cut-off date for detecting and deporting foreigners, according to the Assam Accord of 1985, is crucial for entry into the National Register of Citizens (NRC) that was updated in August 2019. About 19.06 lakh of some 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the list for lack of documents establishing their citizenship. The FT-III of western Assam’s Barpeta had on January 30, 2019, declared Haider Ali a foreigner for failing to establish his linkage with five persons other than his grandfather Nadu Miya and grandmother Aymona whose names appeared in the voters’ list of 1970. Hearing Haider Ali’s case on March 15, Justice N. Kotiswar Singh observed that the petitioner’s claim would have strengthened had he disclosed the family tree in more detail. “…but failure to disclose the names of all the members of the family cannot weaken his case and render his evidence unreliable, nor reduce the credibility of his evidence, when there are other corroborating evidences,” the court’s order on March 30 said. The court observed that Haider Ali, a resident of Kawaimari Block 12 village, had documents saying he was the son of Harmuz Ali and grandson of Nadu Miya, both admittedly Indians. “The fact that Harmuz Ali was the son of Nadu Miya has already been duly proved by the aforesaid voters’ list of 1970 and 1965, the genuineness of which was not questioned by the State,” the order said. “Thus, non-explanation of relationship of the petitioner with other persons mentioned in the voters’ list of 1970 cannot be a ground for disbelieving the correctness of the entry of names of the grandparents in the voters’ list, when the correctness of the entry of the names of the petitioner’s father and grandfather was not questioned,” the court said, setting aside the FT order and ordering that the foreigner tag be removed from the 35-year-old Haider Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gauhati-hc-clears-man-of-foreigner-tag-under-nrc/article34298370.ece
12 April 2021||KOLKATA/NEW DELHI,||Bengal electoral battle enters urban arena||At almost halfway through a tough, now violent eight-phase election in West Bengal, the battle has shifted from rural to urban centres and what are called seats of Greater Kolkata. In the coming phases, the ruling Trinamool Congress holds sway and the BJP seeks to improve on its tally of Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha election rather than its dismal 2016 showing. In a change typical of Indian politics, in West Bengal at least, the BJP seems to have less of a sway in urban areas than the ruling Trinamool, the regional outfit. According to calculations made by the BJP itself, however, there is scope that the samikarans (community equations calculus) can be swung in its favour. “While in the 2019 Lok Sabha elecion, the BJP saw a rise in its support base, in Kolkata and its surrounding districts such as Howrah, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, which tot up to 91 Assembly seats, the BJP’s performance was below par, with the party posting a lead in only 16 of the seats, amounting to 36.2% of the vote. In comparison, the Trinamool swept the region with a lead in 75 seats and a 49.4% vote share, while the Left and the Congress were wiped out,” a senior BJP office-bearer said. He said the party was optimistic about its prospects as the vote share leapt from a single digit in the the 2016 Assembly election to being second in 72 seats and can make significant gains. In terms of vote share from 2019, the BJP posted its best performance in North 24 Parganas with 39.5% and lagged behind in South 24 Parganas with 33.1%. The Trinamool is more optimistic of its prospects going ahead. Senior party leader and former Union Minister Saugata Roy told The Hindu that with the battle entering urban areas, the Trinamool had a clear edge. Good run “From the third phase itself, we are having a good run. The fifth phase, which is largely in North 24 Parganas, and the last two phases will help us sail through,” he said. His colleague Kalyan Banerjee exuded confidence with regard to north Bengal too, which is dominated by the BJP. “The alliance with Bimal Gurung will help us. Out of the 26 seats we are fighting in north Bengal, we will win 25 including the three seats being fought by Bimal Gurung,” he said. This rural-urban divide, though turned on its head in West Bengal, with the BJP showing a strong turn in rural Bengal, is put down to demographics, according analyst Sajjan Kumar, who has extensively toured the State before the polls. He said that in constituencies in and around Kolkata, the “Bengali exceptionalism” among the cultural elite still held ground, where the BJP was still regarded as a bit of an outsider. The demographics also helped the Trinamool in the upcoming rounds of polling. “There are 27% Muslims in Bengal but they are not scattered across the State; instead they are concentrated in a few pockets and it is these pockets that will be going to vote in the next stages. This election is being fought on religious lines and this gives the Trinamool an upper hand in the next rounds,” he added. He said, however, that the Trinamool would struggle in the last phase in Birbhum district, where minority voters were few and far between.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-electoral-battle-enters-urban-arena/article34298372.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||TIPRA rewrites political equations in Tripura||“The results of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council election are a vindication of my stand,” said Pradyot Manikya, who led the newly formed Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), to victory, winning 18 of the 28 seats. The victory comes 19 months after Mr. Manikya quit the Congress over differences with the party’s stand on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register for Citizens (NRC). While the Congress was opposed to the NRC, Mr. Manikya, who was then president of the Tripura Pradesh Congress Committee, went to the Supreme Court seeking an NRC in the State. The Congress, he said, also wanted him to go slow on its opposition to the CAA. “When I quit Congress, I was very hurt to see many senior leaders allege that I will soon join the BJP. I met Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and told her that I am not joining any party and that I will ensure the BJP’s defeat in the tribal council polls. And today, I stand vindicated,” Mr. Manikya told The Hindu . The TIPRA was formed just two months before the council elections. The BJP is the second largest party in the council with nine seats. Its ally, the Indigenous People’s Party of Tripura (IPFT), however, failed to win a single seat. The Left Front which held the council since May 2015 did not win a single seat; nor did the Congress. Many political observers believe that the Tripura Tribal Council polls could have influenced the outcome of Assam Assembly election had it preceded the latter. In Assam, the anti-CAA voices were scattered with many trying to take ownership of the movement with an overall impact of making the issue electorally less relevant. Similar sentiments “Tripura and Assam share the anti-CAA sentiment. Unfortunately in Assam, there is no single leader to rally the issue,” Mr. Manikya said. The CAA cannot be allowed to be implemented, giving the Hindu Bengalis settled in the Northeast a free run and squeezing out the indigenous population, the TIPRA chairman said. “It is a matter of survival of the indigenous people, protecting their interests, language, culture and identity,” he said. While Mr. Manikya completely rules out rejoining the Congress in future, he feels that his former party needs a strong president. “It is one of the oldest political parties and without a fulltime president to lead the party, it will just wither away,” he added. For now, Mr. Manikya and the TIPRA have their eyes set on the next Assembly election, which is two years away, in 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tipra-rewrites-political-equations-in-tripura/article34298375.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI questions staffers of Deshmukh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday recorded the statements of two staff members of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with a preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption against him. “The statements of two personal assistants of Mr. Deshmukh have been recorded, as their names had come up during the probe being conducted to determine if a prima facie case is made out,” a CBI official said. The agency earlier examined former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, ACP Sanjay Patil, suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and others. DCP told to join probe A DCP of the Mumbai Police was told to join the preliminary inquiry, which has been initiated by the CBI on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The statement of a complainant in the matter, Jayshree Patil, has also been taken by the agency. It was alleged that some police officers had been told to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. After the High Court directed the initial CBI probe, Mr. Deshmukh had resigned. Mr. Vaze was recently arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in a bomb scare in Mumbai. The NIA later took over the case of alleged murder of an automobile parts dealer, Mansukh Hiran, in which the suspected role of the suspended police officer is also being looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-questions-staffers-of-deshmukh/article34298353.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre bans export of Remdesivir||The Centre has prohibited the exports of Remdesivir injection and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) in an order issued on Sunday stating there was a sudden spike in the demand for the drug used in COVID-19 treatment. “India is witnessing a recent surge in COVID-19 cases and there is a potential of further increase in the demand for injection Remdesivir in the coming days,” the Centre said in a statement. Seven Indian companies are producing injection Remdesivir under a voluntary licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences of the U.S. They have an installed capacity of 38.8 lakh units a month. The release issued by the Health Ministry noted that to ensure easy access to the injection, all domestic manufactures of Remdesivir have been advised to display on their website, details of their stockists and distributors. “Drug inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks and check malpractices and also take other effective action to curb hoarding and black marketing. The State Health Secretaries will review this with the drug inspectors of the respective States/Union Territories,’’ added the release. It added that the Department of Pharmaceuticals was in contact with the domestic manufacturers to ramp up the production of Remdesivir. As per the National Clinical Management Protocol for COVID-19 of the Central government, Remdesivir is listed as an Investigational Therapy (i.e. where informed and shared decision-making is essential).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-bans-export-of-remdesivir/article34298383.ece
13 April 2021||New Delhi,||Visually challenged struggle with e-textbooks||For Class 7 student Tejasvi Raj, doing his homework comes with the double challenge of being visually challenged in the COVID-19 era of virtual schooling. His screen reading software cannot access the PowerPoint presentation that his teachers had prepared. E-textbooks provided on the government’s virtual platform, DIKSHA, which it has promoted as a transformative resource for digital education, are not fully accessible either. “The PowerPoints [presentations] for Zoom classes are sent to students in PDF format, so they are not readable for him. The NCERT [National Council of Educational Research and Training] e-textbooks are only partly readable. Any time they have images or diagrams, it is blank for him. Hindi and Sanskrit books are not readable at all,” his mother, Manorama Yadav, said. “Teachers are already coping with so many changes in online school. Even for his assignments and exam papers, I have to keep reminding them to send it in Word format,” she added. According to a recent study by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, more than half the NCERT textbooks on DIKSHA are not accessible for visually challenged students. The DIKSHA platform itself is difficult to navigate for them, the report said. “Take for example, the dropdown menu for language selection. Rather than clearly stating different language options available, the screen reader announces ‘clickable, clickable, clickable’. This is due to different scripts used for the different languages, which are not readable by a screen reading software,” said the report, adding that the filter for selecting the correct class, and the links for downloading materials were also not accessible. An analysis of 65 chapters from e-textbooks published by NCERT and the Tamil Nadu and Telangana State Councils of Educational Research and Training (SCERTs) found that many pages are published in formats which are not navigable for the screen reader, while visual elements such as images, graphs and watermarks impede comprehension. More than 60% of the NCERT chapters were either totally or partially inaccessible, the report said, while it was over 95% for the SCERT books. More than half of the 907 learning activities in the NCERT texts were also inaccessible, with the worst being 80% for mathematics. For Sanya Gandhi, an 18-year student of political science at Delhi’s Hindu College, the challenges are familiar. “I’m a person with a lot of logical and reasoning ability, and I would have liked to do mathematics. But I could not access so much of my maths textbooks in school, especially geometry or trigonometry,” she said. Anirban Mukherjee, a visually challenged English teacher in a small town 40 km from Kolkata, adds that the difficulties are worse for students in vernacular languages. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education texts are not accessible on the DIKSHA platform, and most books are uploaded in scanned PDF formats that are impossible for a screen reader to access, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visually-challenged-struggle-with-e-textbooks/article34298356.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Tika Utsav’ is start of second big war against virus: Modi||Calling the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) the beginning of the second big war against COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday laid stress on social and personal hygiene. The festival started on Sunday on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and will continue till the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar on April 14. The PM noted that India should move towards zero vaccine wastage, and said optimum utilisation of vaccination capacity was a way to increase our capacity. Reiterating his advice Dawai bhi, kadai bhi (Take medicines, follow rules), he said awareness and responsible behaviour would succeed in containing the virus again. “Make targets at personal, social and administration levels for these four days of ‘Tika Utsav’ and diligently make effort to achieve them.” Four points The Prime Minister stressed four points with regard to the drive. First, “Each one, vaccinate”, meaning those who can’t go themselves for vaccination, such as the unlettered and the aged, should be assisted. Second, “Each one, treat one”, which involves helping people in getting treatment, if they do not have resources or knowledge to get it. Third, “Each one, save one”, meaning one should wear a mask and save herself and others. This should be stressed, Mr. Modi said in his statement. Finally, society and people should lead in creating “micro containment zones”. “Family members and community members should create a micro containment zone, even if there is only one positive case. Micro containment zones are a key component of fight against corona in a densely populated country like India,” he said. Mr. Modi emphasised testing and awareness, and said every eligible person should get vaccinated. “This should be the primary effort of both society and the administration.” The Prime Minister said our success would be determined by awareness of “micro containment zones”, by not moving out of our homes unnecessarily, vaccination of all eligible persons and how we follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and other protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tika-utsav-is-start-of-second-big-war-against-virus-modi/article34298385.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition joins call to cancel exams||Opposition politicians have joined the chorus of student voices worried about board examinations being held amid the surge of COVID-19 cases. Congress leaders called for cancellation of exams to be considered, warning that the Centre would hold legal liability if exam centres became hotspots. The Shiv Sena asked the Centre to institute a uniform national policy on the examinations, so as not to affect the prospects of students in States which have been hit hardest by the pandemic. More than 1.5 lakh people tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, setting a new record, and exacerbating the worries of many students, parents and teachers who garnered almost two lakh signatures for a Change.org petition demanding that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) cancel board examinations. The hashtag #cancelboardexam2021 has been trending on Twitter for several days, recording over five lakh tweets on Sunday. Congress MP and senior leader Rahul Gandhi urged that their concerns be taken into account. “In the light of the devastating Corona second wave, conducting #CBSE exams must be reconsidered. All stakeholders must be consulted before making sweeping decisions,” he tweeted on Sunday, referring to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “On how many counts does GOI [or Government of India] intend to play with the future of India’s youth?” he added. His sister and fellow Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Sunday, saying their apprehensions were well-founded. “By forcing the children to sit for the exams during a raging pandemic, the government and the CBSE Board will be held responsible in the event that any of the exam centres prove to be hotspots at which large numbers of children become infected with the disease,” she wrote, asking if the Centre was prepared to “own the legal liability”. Noting that State governments are banning large assemblies of people, she asked on what “moral grounds” young children alone could be asked to assemble for examinations. In Maharashtra, which has seen the most serious spikes, the State government has indicated it is considering a cancellation of State board exams. Shiv Sena leader and South Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant wrote to the Union Education Minister on Saturday, asking for a nationwide policy decision, so that there is “no discrimination of safety measures or of opportunity” between students of different States. “A unilateral decision by any State would lead to the students of that particular State being at a disadvantage career and opportunity wise. Your intervention would mean national consensus,” he told Mr. Nishank. Neither the Education Ministry nor the CBSE responded to The Hindu ’s requests for comment.  In the light of the devastating Corona second wave, conducting #CBSE exams must be reconsidered Rahul Gandhi Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-joins-call-to-cancel-board-exams/article34298388.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Now, BPF sends its candidates abroad||What the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) can do, their ally Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) can do better. Two days after the AIUDF and the Congress packed at least 20 of their candidates off to a luxury hotel in Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the BPF sent 10 candidates overseas, apparently amid fears of horse-trading by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prior to the declaration of the Assembly election results on May 2. The Congress, the AIUDF and the BPF are the main constituents of the 10-party Mahajot and grand alliance that contested the three-phase State polls. An ally of the BJP during the 2016 polls, the BPF had fielded 12 candidates this time. But Rangja Khungur Basumatary, its candidate for the Tamulpur seat, joined the BJP six days ahead of the third and final phase of polling on April 6. Of the remaining 11, all except Minister Pramila Rani Brahma exited Assam on Saturday. There is speculation that they are in adjoining Bhutan, whose nearest point is a few hours drive from Kokrajhar town, where all the candidates were asked to assemble by BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary. “They [the candidates] have left Assam. I have also heard they are out of India, but I cannot say where they have gone as I have not been able to get in touch with them,” Ms. Brahma said. She also said more than a dozen elected members of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) could have left Assam. “They may have gone on vacation or are away because of the possibility of horse-trading at the council level,” she said. The BPF had emerged as the single largest party in the BTC election in December 2020 but the BJP formed the government there in alliance with the United People’s Party Liberal. The State unit of Congress has expressed the need to exercise caution because of the possibility of the BJP trying to lure Mahajot candidates away in the event of a tight finish when the Assembly election results are declared on May 2. “We must be cautious in order to beat the BJP’s anti-democracy moves. From the past, we know the BJP can go to any length for a Congress-free India. They prevented us from forming governments in Goa, Manipur and Sikkim,” Congress MLA Devabrata Saikia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-bpf-sends-its-candidates-abroad/article34298369.ece
12 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat HC takes suo motu cognisance of COVID-19 upsurge in State||The Gujarat High Court on Sunday took suo motu cognisance of the worsening COVID-19 situation in the State and listed the matter for urgent hearing on Monday morning. The court, in its order, cited media reports of shortage of beds, oxygen supply, testing facilities and medicines as the pandemic grips the State with soaring cases and deaths. Chief Justice Vikram Nath, in his oral order, said, “The newspapers, news channels are flooded with the harrowing tales, unfortunate and unimaginable difficulties, unmanageable conditions of the infrastructure, the shortfall and the deficit of not only testing, availability of beds, ICU, but also supply of oxygen and the basic medicines like Ramdesivir, etc.” “Had it been stray news here and there, I could have ignored it but the volume of reports in the leading newspapers having nationwide circulation cannot be ignored. It is the time that the court must intervene,” he noted, listing the matter for urgent hearing in a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on Monday morning. Based on local media reports about long queues outside hospitals for receiving Remdesivir injections, waiting periods at crematoriums, and people struggling to access hospital beds, the Chief Justice directed the court registry to file a new suo motu PIL and list it before the Bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice B.D. Karia. The new PIL has been registered under the title “In Re: Uncontrolled Upsurge and Serious Management Issues in COVID Control”. It may be noted that earlier too the high court had suggested to the State authorities of imposing a lockdown to break the chain of transmission of the virus, with the State witnessing an upsurge in cases and deaths. On Sunday, the State recorded 54 more deaths and 5,469 new cases. Fresh infections are on the rise in main cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara, where oxygen supply is rapidly depleting and shortage of Remdesivir injections has made national headlines.  The volume of reports in the leading newspapers having nationwide circulation cannot be ignored Chief Justice Vikram Nath Gujarat High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-hc-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-covid-19-upsurge-in-state/article34299027.ece
12 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat HC to hear suo motu PIL on COVID||Citing media reports of shortage of beds, oxygen supply, testing facilities and medicines amid the pandemic, the Gujarat High Court late on Sunday took suo motu cognisance of the worsening COVID-19 situation and listed the matter for urgent hearing on Monday morning. Chief Justice Vikram Nath said, “Had it been stray news here and there, I could have ignored it but the volume of reports in the leading newspapers having nationwide circulation cannot be ignored. It is the time that the court must intervene.” Chief Justice Vikram Nath in his oral order said: “The newspapers, news channels are flooded with the harrowing tales, unfortunate and unimaginable difficulties, unmanageable conditions of the infrastructure, the shortfall and the deficit of not only testing, availability of beds, ICU, but also supply of oxygen and the basic medicines like remdesivir, etc.” The Chief Justice has directed the court registry to register a new suo motu PIL petition and list it before the Bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice B.D. Karia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-hc-to-hear-suo-motu-pil-on-covid/article34298923.ece
12 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN(IM) wants Assam Rifles outpost shifted||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland [NSCN (IM)] has objected to an outpost of the paramilitary Assam Rifles near its council headquarters at Hebron near Nagaland’s commercial hub Dimapur. The outpost was set up in “blatant violation” of the ceasefire ground rules, the extremist group said in a statement on Saturday. The NSCN (IM) had declared ceasefire with the Central armed forces in July 1997. It said the ceasefire rules stipulate that the Centre would not establish any base of the armed forces on the Dimapur-Hebron road. It urged New Delhi to move the outpost out of the area.  The Centre-NSCN (IM)peace process has been hanging fire for over two decades now. The talks appear to have been stuck on the issues of a separate flag and constitution for the Naga-inhabited areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscnim-wants-assam-rifles-outpost-shifted/article34298354.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Investment projects bounce back in Q4||The fresh surge in COVID-19 cases and the spate of lockdowns would certainly be an impediment in the return to complete normalcy, so the government should step up its investment plans, intensify the vaccination drive and extend support to the private sector to sustain the growth in project investments through 2021-22, Mr. Hegde said. Private sector investments grew by a sharp 43.5% over Q3 to Rs. 2.26 lakh crore in Q4, with manufacturing investments rising by a healthy 40.6% on top of the 88.4% quarter-on-quarter growth in Q3. Mining was the only major sector where investments dried up in the quarter. Odisha received the highest investments in the quarter of Rs. 62,352 crore, driven largely by the Rs. 50,000 crore integrated steel plant announced by Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh followed with projects worth Rs. 40,902 crore, and Rs. 39,610.92 crore, respectively. “518 new manufacturing projects entailing a total projex of Rs. 1,11,458.89 crore were announced in Q4, of which 12 were mega projects (with a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore or more) promising to bring in investment of Rs. 74,999 crore,” the report said. Overall, the quarter recorded as many as 87 mega projects taking off, up from 62 such projects in Q3. Infrastructure projects, that had been rising since Q2 of the lockdown-affected year, continued to rise, while the construction sector, where project execution activities came to a complete standstill following the nationwide lockdown last year, grew for the first time in the year. After a 20.3% dip in Q3, real estate, commercial complexes and industrial parks grew 47.4% in Q4, with fresh investments in real estate more than doubling from Rs. 15,634.6 crore in Q3 to Rs. 38,905.4 crore in Q4. Food processing, cement and automobile sectors recorded a decline in investments in Q4, but drugs & pharma as well as industrial alcohols continued to grow healthily in the wake of the pandemic. An indicator of the pace of projects execution at ground level, the project implementation ratio improved from 36.69% in March 2020 to 37.64% in March 2021. This is the highest project execution ratio recorded since March 2016, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/investment-projects-bounce-back-in-q4/article34298360.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal CM speaks to kin of victims||“Each of the deceased have been hit in neck or chest,” she said. The Chief Minister alleged that the order of the Election Commission of India banning political leaders from visiting Cooch Behar for the next 72 hours was meant to prevent her from visiting the site. “What harm would it have done, if I had gone and pacified the people who have lost their family members. This order was to prevent me from going there,” she told mediapersons in Siliguri. Ms. Banerjee, who spoke to the families in a videocall, said she would provide financial assistance to them. Five persons were killed in two separate incidents of firing at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar during the fourth phase of polling on Saturday. Four persons died when Central forces opened fire at booth number 126 at Jor Patki gram panchayat Ms. Banerjee had said on Saturday that she would visit the village on Sunday. Ms. Banerjee took to social media on Sunday expressing strong reservations against the ECI order. “EC should rename MCC as Modi Code of Conduct! BJP can use all its might but NOTHING in this world can stop me from being with my people & sharing their pain. They can restrict me from visiting my brothers & sisters in Cooch Behar for 3 days but I WILL be there on the 4th day!” she said.  Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha, who recently joined the Trinamool, said: “Election Commission has covered itself with mud by stopping Mamata from going to Cooch Behar. After all she is still the CM and it is her duty to visit the place of this unfortunate occurrence. We know for certain now that EC is not fair.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-cm-speaks-to-kin-of-victims/article34298364.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ready for talks, won’t abandon protest: SKM||The protesting farm unions are ready to resume talks with the government but will not accept any pre-condition to abandon their agitation, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said on Sunday. They were responding to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who cited the spike in COVID-19 cases and appealed to farmers to withdraw their protest saying the government is ready to resume talks whenever they come with a proposal. Thousands of farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for almost five months, demanding the repeal of three Central farm reform laws and asking for a legal guarantee that their crops will be bought at minimum support prices. The pandemic cases have surged this week, with a record 1.45 lakh people testing positive on Saturday. “Now in the second wave of pandemic, the entire nation and the world is following COVID-19 protocols. Even protesting farmers should follow them. Their life is important for us,” said Mr. Tomar in a video message posted on his Twitter account on Saturday. “In the current situation, I urge them to call off their protest. The government is ready for a discussion whenever they come with a proposal,” he said. “The Agriculture Minister asked farmers to postpone the protest. The SKM understands that this statement of the Minister of Agriculture is not a suggestion but a condition that talks can take place after vacating the protest sites,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal, in a statement on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ready-for-talks-wont-abandon-protest-skm/article34298376.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||AAP leader says ‘vaccine nationalism’ is needed||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressing the urgent need for “vaccine universalisation” and “vaccine nationalism” to deal with a shortage of vaccine doses being faced in several States. Mr. Chadha accused the Central government of indulging in “diplomatic adventurism” by exporting over 64 million doses of vaccine to 84 countries, and “overlooking and neglecting the fundamental rights” of its citizens to healthcare. “Government of India has chosen to export over 64 million doses to 84 countries while Indian citizens are desperately looking for a vaccination centre that is still open. I wish to ask the government of India as to what its priority is — the people of Delhi or of Dominican Republic? The people of Maharashtra or of Mauritius? The people of Bengal or Bangladesh? Gujarat or Guyana? Odisha or Oman? Uttar Pradesh or United Kingdom? Kerala or Kenya?,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-leader-says-vaccine-nationalism-is-needed/article34298865.ece
12 April 2021||Pune,||Cong. ticks off ‘festival’ amid vaccine shortage||Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘vaccine festival’ from April 11-14 to step up mass vaccination, the Maharashtra Congress on Sunday questioned the idea at a time when vaccination centres across the State were rapidly shutting down. Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee chief Nana Patole said while ramping up vaccination was undeniably the need of the hour, how was Maharashtra, the worst-hit State, supposed to maximise its inoculation when the Centre was not supplying enough doses. “How can a ‘festival’ be held when most of the vaccination centres in the State are closed due to lack of vaccine supply? To make matters worse, the BJP at the Centre is playing politics over stocks despite our State achieving the highest vaccination and sample testing numbers,” Mr. Patole said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-ticks-off-festival-amid-vaccine-shortage/article34298389.ece
12 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||COVID-19 test report must to enter Himachal||Amid the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday announced that after April 16, people from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will be required to show a negative RT-PCR test report, which is not older than 72 hours, before entering the State. Delhi and the six States have been reporting a high caseload. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who presided over a meeting with the senior officers here to review the COVID-19 situation, said as of now the government would continue to allow tourists to visit the State. Hotel owners and tourists should strictly adhere to the standard operating procedures issued by the government, he said. ‘Arrange more beds’ The Chief Minister laid stress on testing, tracing and treatment with effective surveillance of micro containment zones. He said greater emphasis must also be laid on RT-PCR tests to achieve the target of 70% RT-PCR tests. “The health department must also take steps to increase bed capacity in order to meet any eventuality. The virus is spreading at a fast pace which is a big concern. During the last 45 days, the State reported 10,690 new cases. The number of deaths has also increased rapidly which is a matter of concern. A total of 120 deaths were reported in the State in the last 45 days,” he said. Mr. Thakur said devotees would be allowed to visit various temples in the State during the Navratri festival. At the same time, organising of langar s, bhandara s (community kitchen) and jagran (all-night prayer) has been banned. No overcrowding would be allowed in public and private vehicles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-makes-covid-19-test-report-must-for-entry/article34298392.ece
12 April 2021||Mumbai,||NIA arrests Sachin Vaze’s associate Riyaz Kazi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested police officer Riyaz Kazi, an associate of suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, in connection with the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, a police official said. After his arrest, Mr. Kazi was produced before a holiday court here which remanded him in NIA custody till April 16 for further probe into the case. “Assistant police inspector (API) Kazi was called for questioning again by the NIA on Sunday and later placed under arrest,” the police official said. After Mr. Kazi was presented in court on Sunday, the NIA told the court that he was arrested for destroying evidences and that he is involved in the conspiracy of the case along with Mr. Vaze. Mr. Kazi’s custody is required to confront him with every recovered article, the NIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-vazes-associate-riyaz-kazi/article34298655.ece
12 April 2021||Kolkata,||Divorced daughter entitled to Samman Pension: HC||The Calcutta High Court, in a recent judgment, said a freedom fighter’s widowed or divorced daughter is entitled to his pension and exclusion is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya said that with no independent source of income, widowed or divorced daughters stand on an equal footing with an unmarried daughter as heirs to the deceased freedom fighter. “The marital status of all of them is ‘unmarried’. Thus, the criterion of exclusion of widowed/divorced daughters, as sought to be projected by respondent no.1, is untenable in the eye of law,” the order read. Under Clause 5.2.5 of the guidelines of disbursement of Central Samman Pension a “widowed/divorced daughter is not eligible for samman pensions”. The clause points out that in order to transfer the pension to the spouse or daughter, a twin condition has to be fulfilled i.e. being unmarried and having no independent source of income. The court, in its order, said the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs were violative of Article 14 after observing that the “blanket exclusion of widowed/ divorced daughters, including even those who do not have any personal income in lieu of maintenance or otherwise, is patently de hors Article 14, which enshrines the guarantee to all citizens of India.” “Thus, as in the event an unmarried daughter who has no income is ineligible for the pension, widowed/divorced daughters stand on a similar footing as daughters of the deceased and shall not be eligible anyway if they have any independent source of income, which can very well be alimony or maintenance as well,” the April 7, 2021 order reads. The matter relates to a writ petition where the petitioner, being daughter of a deceased freedom fighter was getting pension under the scheme till his demise on December 4, 2012. After the demise of the father, the petitioner’s widowed mother had applied for the grant of pension, however her representation was kept pending for a long time. The mother died in 2019, leaving the petitioner who had obtained a decree of divorce on March 19, 1999. She was residing at her paternal home along with her son ever since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/divorced-daughter-entitled-to-samman-pension-hc/article34298357.ece
12 April 2021||Patna,||7 suspended over lynching of Bihar SHO||A day after a Bihar police official from Kishanganj district was lynched in West Bengal’s north Dinajpur while conducting a search in a motorbike theft case, seven policemen were suspended on Sunday for dereliction of duty. The suspended policemen were accompanying the Kishanganj town police Station House Officer Ashwini Kumar, a 1994-batch officer, while conducting the search at Pantapada village early on Saturday. Everyone apart from Mr. Kumar escaped unhurt while he was caught and lynched by a mob. He was declared brought dead at the local Islampur Sadar Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-suspended-over-lynching-of-bihar-sho/article34298922.ece
12 April 2021||Patna,||7 suspended over lynching of Bihar SHO||A day after a Bihar police official from Kishanganj district was lynched in West Bengal’s north Dinajpur while conducting a search in a motorbike theft case, seven policemen were suspended on Sunday for dereliction of duty. The suspended policemen were accompanying the Kishanganj town police Station House Officer Ashwini Kumar, a 1994-batch officer, while conducting the search at Pantapada village early on Saturday. Everyone apart from Mr. Kumar escaped unhurt while he was caught and lynched by a mob. He was declared brought dead at the local Islampur Sadar Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-suspended-over-lynching-of-bihar-sho/article34298367.ece
12 April 2021||Mumbai,||Sharad Pawar to undergo surgery today||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar was on Sunday admitted to a hospital here for a gall bladder surgery scheduled for Monday, party leader Nawab Malik said. “Mr. Pawar was advised to rest for seven days after he underwent a medical procedure [last month]. It was then decided that the surgery for the removal of his gall bladder will be performed after 15 days. Accordingly, Mr. Pawar was admitted to Breach Candy Hospital on Sunday,” he said. Mr. Pawar, 80, had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the hospital on March 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharad-pawar-to-undergo-surgery-today/article34298351.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The day after||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-day-after/article34298366.ece
12 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP cancels nomination of Sengar’s wife||The BJP on Sunday said it had cancelled the nomination of Sangeeta Sengar, wife of expelled MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar who was convicted of rape in 2019, as its candidate in panchayat elections. The step came after Ms. Sengar’s nomination drew criticism on social media. Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh said Ms. Sengar’s nomination from Unnao stood cancelled. “She won’t be the BJP candidate,” he told a television channel. A Delhi court had, in 2019, sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment for the rape of a minor girl in Unnao in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-cancels-nomination-of-sengars-wife/article34298863.ece
12 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||Pradhan candidate shot dead in U.P.||A candidate for the post of pradhan was shot dead in Varanasi ahead of the upcoming panchayat election. Pappu Yadav, a candidate who is also the former husband of a pradhan , was shot four or five times, said Varanasi Superintendent of Police (Rural) Amit Verma. The incident was reported from a village in the Badagaon area of the district. Pappu Yadav was shot by a person identified as Anil Yadav over a land dispute, said the officer. The two history-sheeters were friends earlier but Anil developed a grudge against Pappu after the latter secretively got some land registered from Anil’s relatives over which he also had a claim, Mr. Verma said. Anil allegedly shot Pappu late on Saturday. Pappu died on the way to hospital but before dying named the accused in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pradhan-candidate-shot-dead-in-up/article34298373.ece
12 April 2021||Lucknow,||Schools to shut in U.P. till April 30||Classes 1 to 12 in all government and non-government schools and coaching centres in Uttar Pradesh would be shut till April 30, the State government said on Sunday in view of the growing number cases of COVID-19. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also directed the Divisional Commissioner of Lucknow to not allow more than five persons to enter religious places at a time. He also instructed officials to trace 30-35 persons who had come in contact with an infected person and test them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/schools-to-shut-in-up-till-april-30/article34298387.ece
12 April 2021||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat HC to hear suo motu PIL on COVID today||Citing media reports of shortage of beds, oxygen supply, testing facilities and medicines amid the pandemic, the Gujarat High Court late on Sunday took suo motu cognisance of the worsening COVID-19 situation and listed the matter for urgent hearing on Monday morning. Chief Justice Vikram Nath said, “Had it been stray news here and there, I could have ignored it but the volume of reports in the leading newspapers having nationwide circulation cannot be ignored. It is the time that the court must intervene.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-hc-to-hear-suo-motu-pil-on-covid-today/article34298866.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||D. Raja admitted to AIIMS||CPI general secretary D. Raja was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Saturday, six days after he tested positive for COVID-19. He was on an intensive campaign trail for Kerala and Tamil Nadu Assembly polls and tested positive on his return to Delhi. He is stable. Mr. Raja said he had been shifted to the AIIMS as a preventive measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/d-raja-admitted-to-aiims/article34298391.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||Prefer strict safety measures to partial lockdowns: India Inc||Cautioning that partial lockdown measures could impact the movement of labour and goods, leading to a decline of up to 50% in production, India Inc believes stringent implementation of safety norms is a better option than partial lockdowns, according to a survey by the CII. The survey on the impact of partial lockdowns on industry was conducted among 710 CEOs and senior industry leaders from manufacturing and services sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prefer-strict-safety-measures-to-partial-lockdowns-india-inc/article34298395.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shoppers get a new experience at plaza||The first of its kind in the city, the pedestrian plaza in Pondy Bazaar is a hit with the citizens. Since the onset of second wave of COVID-19, shops are seeing customers coming in with masks. Some shops religiously follow the norm of thermal checks and offer hand sanitisers. Residents from distant suburbs such as Puzhal and Mugappair are in awe of the plaza and those living within its vicinity enjoy the surprises the plaza springs up occasionally. That apart, the multilevel car park, which was opened a month ago, is a novelty for many visitors although patronage is low. New experience On Sunday, several families that came from distant places, said they were using the multilevel car park facility for the first time. B. Shivashankar, who came from Puzhal with his family for shopping, said: “I tried to find a spot on the road. But there was no vacant spot.” He had to go around from Panagal Park via G.N. Road and then decided to use the multi-level car parking facility. “It is better that I park here. What if someone parks behind my vehicle and I am unable to remove it? I will have to wait till the owner returns for his car,” he said. Prasad Ramachandran from Mogappair, who was visiting Pondy Bazaar for the first time, had no qualms about permitting a valet to park his car. However, many continue to opt for on-street parking. According to the attendants at the multi-level car parking facility, during weekends around 150 to 160 cars are parked, whereas the number drops to 30 or 40 during weekdays. Patronage for two-wheeler parking slots was abysmally low. Less than a dozen two-wheelers were parked on any given day. The facility can accommodate 317 cars and 418 two-wheelers. Monthly pass Sources said the Greater Chennai Corporation officials were monitoring the situation. There had been representation from shop owners’ associations seeking monthly passes for vehicles. “The talks began but with resurgence of COVID-19 infections and the elections not much happened,” a source said. Overhead cost remained an issue for issuing monthly passes. The parking lot functions from 9.30 a.m. till 10 p.m. But keeping it open for a few vehicle owners who wish to park for an entire month was not feasible, sources point out. “It is not just that we have to appoint valets and parking attendants. We will have to keep track of the functioning of sensors. What happens if suddenly there is an emergency and somebody wants to take their vehicle out in the early hours?” asked the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shoppers-get-a-new-experience-at-plaza/article34298902.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6,618 persons test positive for COVID-19||Another 6,618 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 41,955 and the total case-load to 9,33,434. Among the fresh cases were four who flew down from the United Arab Emirates and one from Oman, and 30 persons who arrived by road: two from Bangladesh and 28 from other States. The daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said 2,314 more persons were discharged after treatment. So far, 8,78,571 persons have been discharged. The toll rose to 12,908 with the death of 22 persons. In Chennai district, 2,124 persons were found infected. The number of active cases went up to 15,761. And 606 persons were discharged. The district also recorded 12 deaths in the last 24 hours. So far, 2,65,126 persons have tested positive, 2,45,041 persons have been discharged and 4,324 persons have died in the district. In all districts, except Perambalur, which recorded four fresh cases, the number of infections rose to two- and three digits. The neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur recorded the most number of cases, with Chengalpattu reporting 631 cases and one death. In Kancheepuram, 206 cases were recorded. In Tiruvallur, 296 persons contracted the infection. The district also recorded two more deaths. In Coimbatore, 617 more tested positive and 248 persons were discharged. Two persons whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had no co-morbid conditions. While 14 deaths occurred at private hospitals, eight persons died at government institutions. Among the dead were two 95-year-old men with co-morbid conditions. A diabetic man from Tiruvallur who tested positive on Friday was admitted the same day to a private hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever for seven days and difficulty in breathing for a day. He died on Saturday owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another man from Chennai with diabetes and hypertension tested positive on April 3 and was admitted to a private hospital the next day with complaints of fever and cough. He died on Friday owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. 47,205 inoculated A total of 47,205 persons received vaccines on Sunday. As many as 15,726 persons aged over 60, 29,308 with co-morbidities in the 45-59 age group, 794 health workers and 1,377 frontline staff were inoculated. So far, 37,80,070 persons have been vaccinated in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6618-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34298545.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police deployed in strength to keep beach visitors away||With the government banning entry of people to beaches in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts on weekends and public holidays to control the spread of COVID-19, policemen have been deployed in large numbers to enforce the rule. While the beaches were deserted on Sunday, there has been mixed response from regular walkers and vendors to the ban. The beaches became out of bounds for the public when the lockdown was announced in March 2020. After eight months, they were reopened in December 2020. However as the State, especially the city, has seen a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases, the government closed the beaches for public on weekends and public holidays. On Sunday morning, when the order came into force, policemen were deployed in large numbers and the multiple entries into the service road along the Marina beach were blocked using barricades. “We have installed 30 temporary cameras in the service road to monitor movement of people on the beach. Besides, a mounted platoon will patrol the area,” said V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner of Police, East. ‘Lack of planning’ K. Rudraksh, a regular walker, said that though the move was welcome, it should be properly planned. “They have prevented entry into the service road but the crowd has started walking on the platform. This is dangerous and can spread the COVID-19 fast. They can allow people to walk on the sand during the mornings alone,” he said. There are over 1,800 vendors on the beach and many of them are fishermen. Desappa, who runs a bajji stall on the beach, said his business would be hit. But he was not complaining as it was in public interest. “On weekends, I earn around Rs. 3,000. On Saturday, I purchased vegetables to make the bajjis, but now they will go waste,” he lamented. Similarly, the police had been deployed on beaches in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. “In Mahabalipuram and Kovalam, we have deployed around 60 policemen to prevent entry of public. Highway patrol is being used to ensure compliance,” said E. Sundaravathanam, Superintendent of Police, Chengalpattu. P. Aravindhan, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur, said that 20 policemen had been deployed to prevent entry of people into Pulicat beach. “Not many people visit this beach. However, we have blocked all entry roads,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-deployed-in-strength-to-keep-beach-visitors-away/article34298507.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in COVID-19 cases fills up beds in Chennai’s government hospitals||The day-to-day rise in fresh coronavirus infections in the city has led to beds filling up fast in major government hospitals in the city. In fact, a significant number of patients required oxygen support. At the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, one of the earliest exclusive COVID-19 facilities in the city, 521 beds of the total 575 have been occupied. Of this, 337 patients were COVID-19 positive, while the remaining were patients with suspected symptoms of COVID-19. “The cases are on the rise and the admissions are proportionate to it. Around two-third of the patients required oxygen. We are admitting persons who have comorbidities and those with significant lung involvement. We are seeing more young persons with lung involvement. We are also seeing sudden deterioration in patients, including the young,” R. Jayanthi, Dean of the hospital, said. The Government Corona Hospital situated on the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy, was filled up nearly 20 days ago due to a steady flow of patients. The hospital has a total of 500 beds. “As of 6 p.m. on Saturday, we have 462 patients. We have reserved 15 beds for emergencies to resuscitate patients,” said K. Narayanasamy, Director of the hospital. At any given point of time, 150 to 200 patients require oxygen, he said. Admission depended on the number of patients discharged a day, he said, adding: “At least 80 to 90 patients are discharged a day. Another 10 persons, who have recovered, are shifted to the COVID-19 Health Centre at the K.K. Nagar Peripheral Hospital. Persons aged 30 years with no comorbidities are sent to the Athipet COVID-19 Care Centre after evaluation.” As the hospital sees a steady flow of patients seeking admission, the administration has put in place a team, including a doctor and nurse near the hospital’s entrance to screen patients for fever, oxygen saturation level and blood parameters prior to triaging. P. Balaji, Dean of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, said 337 beds were occupied, of the total 1,200 COVID-19 beds. Of the 1,150 beds allotted at the Athipet care centre, 143 were occupied. “We are facing an increase in the number of patients. On average, we admit 60 to 70 persons a day. While we send asymptomatic patients to home quarantine or to care centres after evaluation, we immediately admit patients who need oxygen and those who need further treatment due to comorbidities,” he said. He added that 60% to 70% of the patients admitted required oxygen. “Overcrowding in public places should definitely stop,” he said. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Dean E. Theranirajan said of the total 1,618 COVID-19 beds, the current in-patient strength was 650. Of this, 402 were positive patients and the remaining comprised patients with suspected symptoms. With a total bed capacity of 450, the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital had 260 patients, according to Dean P. Vasanthamani. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan earlier told reporters that patients were directly approaching the Government Corona Hospital and Omandurar Hospital for admission, while 50% of beds were vacant in the RGGGH. “Do not go to hospitals directly. The Greater Chennai Corporation has screening facilities where doctors will check for parameters, including blood profile, X-ray and lung involvement and then decide,” he said. A hospital authority noted that many patients, who approached for admission after taking chest CT scans, were being told that they had mild findings. “We are flooded with such patients. Do not take CT scans. The first line of investigation is the RT-PCR test. X-ray is adequate, and CT is indicated only for severe symptoms, such as breathing difficulty,” he said. A senior doctor said the rapidity of transmission had caught them unawares. “The rise in cases happened steadily last year, while it is too quick now,” he said. While there was a need for more manpower, he said in the advent of the sudden surge in cases, protective apparel, such as personal protective equipment, N95 masks and gloves, should be supplied in large numbers to ensure that the healthcare force was adequately protected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-covid-19-cases-fills-up-beds-in-chennais-government-hospitals/article34298909.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power cuts add to woes of residents||The city residents have been reeling under the impact of intermittent power cuts during the past one week. The outage lasts up to one hour in many localities. With the city experiencing hot climate since the end of March, the residents are left exasperated. Vepery, Otteri, Perambur, T. Nagar, Velachery, Madipakkam, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam, Thiruninravur and Thoraipakkam have been regularly affected by the disruption in power supply. Ramaswamy of Maheswari Avenue in Puzhithivakkam said power supply was disrupted on Friday night and was restored only after two hours at 2 a.m. He said the street had been facing power supply problems regularly. Abdul of Siva Shanmugapuram block in Otteri said the residents, who had been facing regular power cuts, made several complaints through the centralised call centre and to the local offices. Although the local officials visit the locality, they provide only a temporary solution which lasts two or three days and again the residents face similar power outages. He said the children and senior citizens suffered the most. Regular outage at night Disruption in power supply at night appears to have become the norm in Thiruninravur. A resident of Prakash Nagar said Thiruninravur, though located adjacent to the city, does not have a fuse off call centre and the landline of the electricity office had not been functioning for more than a year. A senior official of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation said sudden power outages in different parts of the city were related to local technical faults and were attended to immediately. He said the only occasion a major fault was registered was on March 31 when the Taramani substation experienced a technical issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-cuts-add-to-woes-of-residents/article34298897.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eateries, hawkers remain an eyesore in Pondy Bazaar||Roads leading to the pedestrian plaza in Pondy Bazaar on Theagaraya Road were spruced up to be on a par with the plaza. However, work came to a standstill after the announcement of election. The pavements that were laid just a few months ago have been damaged, thanks to indiscriminate parking of cars. Another sore point are the roadside eateries that have sprung up all along Venkatnarayana Road and the hawkers along the “no hawker zone” on Sivaprakasam Street off Theagaraya Road. Even the larger grocery shops spread their wares on the footpath. On some stretches of Venkatnararyana Road, the entire pavement had been taken over by the eateries pushing pedestrian again to the road. On Sivaprakasam Street nearly a dozen hawkers do brisk business through the day. Their business begins as early as 7 in the morning and continues till 10 p.m. Several shops spread their wares on the road leaving little room for pedestrians. By afternoon, dozens of two-wheelers are parked along the compound wall of the Greater Chennai Corporation complex on Sivaparakasam Street and Lakshmikanthan Street. Complaint on app A source involved in the Smart Cities project said residents could lodge complaints on the Namma Chennai app. “Since it is tracked, the officials respond quickly. People can lodge complaint by calling the Chennai Corporation’s helpline 1913,” the source said. Meanwhile, the police personnel from Soundarapandianar station on Theagaraya Road, who had dumped the confiscated vehicles, have almost cleared the pavement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eateries-hawkers-remain-an-eyesore-in-pondy-bazaar/article34298899.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple staff in a dilemma over enforcing restrictions||Temples staff are unsure of implementing the 50% entry of devotees as stipulated by the government due to an increase in COVID-19 cases in the State. An employee of a temple managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department pointed out that although they were being asked to implement the same SOP of 20 persons per 1,075 sq ft, no entry into temple ponds, no archanais or special pujas, 50 guests per wedding in halls and 10 inside temples, this time adhering to the 50% rule could become a problem. “People will accuse us of favouritism. Recently, in a temple festival, under the orders of the District Collector, the authorities restricted the number of devotees to 200 and people who had walked in created a ruckus. How can we turn away people saying they cannot enter, especially since these are places of worship?” asked a staff at a Siva temple in the city. After the guidelines were relaxed, temples saw a surge in the number of devotees and many were senior citizens, who could not visit due to the restrictions. About regular sanitising and cleaning of temple precincts, an employee at a small temple said they did not have funds for elaborate cleaning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-staff-in-a-dilemma-over-enforcing-restrictions/article34298891.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport to keep e-pass counters operative||Passengers who are arriving at the Chennai airport can get e-passes from the counters opened in the arrival hall of the domestic terminal, if they fail to get it online. A few days ago, the Tamil Nadu government introduced restrictions because of the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases and said e-registration was mandatory for international and domestic passengers, except those arriving from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry. Discontinued briefly Every day, thousands of e-passes have been issued at the counters at the Chennai airport. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) say these counters were opened last year for passengers arriving without e-passes, and they continued operating for many months. “Their operation was discontinued very briefly, and then resumed. The passengers can either apply online through the Tamil Nadu government portal for e-registration or get the e-passes from these counters on arrival,” according to an official. On an average, the airport handles about 20,000 domestic passengers. Among them are 8,000-9,000 arrival passengers who will need e-pass or e-registration, officials say. There are some passengers who are still wondering whether they needed e-passes, and they often raise this question on Twitter for AAI. Some say that though they got e-passes, no one checked them out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-to-keep-e-pass-counters-operative/article34298540.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Green panel slaps Rs. 10 crore fine on Mamallapuram resort||Radisson Blu Resort Temple Bay and GRT Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd, Mamallapuram have been directed by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal to pay Rs. 10 crore within two months as environment compensation to the State Coastal Zone Management Authority for making unauthorised constructions to the tune of 1,100.37 sq.m in No Development Zone — 0-200 m from the High Tide Line (HTL). Radisson Blu, Temple Bay, Mamallapuram is a unit of GRT Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd. Following a report submitted by a joint committee constituted by it to look into the issue of various violations, the NGT also ordered the resort to remove the constructions in the No Development Zone within two months, while allowing it to approach the authorities for ratification as a violation case the issue of excess construction made in the permissible area — 200-500 m from the HTL within three months. If the resort did not file an application within that time, the State Coastal Zone Management Authority has been directed to demolish the excess construction made in the 200-500 m from HTL. Radisson Blu and GRT Hotels have also been restrained from using the construction made in the No Development Zone area, and from using the excess area constructed till it is ratified by the authorities. The applicant had moved the Tribunal alleging that the resort was located in CRZ-1 and CRZ area and its operation hampered fishing activities in the area affecting the livelihood of fishermen. The applicant also alleged that the resort had encroached beach land and constructed its resort in the restricted CRZ-1 and CRZ areas. Over the course of the hearing, GRT Hotels argued that the structures built in the 0-200 m from HTL measuring 1,100.37 sq.m, had been existing for almost two decades and built as additional staff quarters after approvals from local authorities. It was willing to demolish the structures as a law abiding company, by way of abundant caution.  The resort pleaded that the structures in question were staff quarters built after getting approvals from local authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/green-panel-slaps-rs-10-crore-fine-on-mamallapuram-resort/article34298903.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai bypass may be brought under TOT mode||The 32-km-long Chennai bypass connecting Irumbuliyur with Puzhal may be included in the list of roads up for monetisation under toll-operate-transfer (TOT) mode. Under this model, concessionaires are given the right to collect user fees for a prescribed period under NH fee rules and maintain the road. This will be the second road in the State under this mode, if taken up. Already the Madurai- Kanniyakumari NH has been given to a concessionaire under TOT. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), whose roads are being given under TOT mode, would get a fixed sum and it is up to the concessionaire to ensure he gets his investment back. Sources in NHAI explained that this was a relatively new concept and was being tried out to bring in bigger and better companies that have the wherewithal to maintain roads better. “In build-operate-transfer mode, the concessionaire has to invest the money, construct the road and has to take the risk of waiting for land or delay in construction. Whereas in this mode, the TOT contractor gets a completed road and does not have the hassles of land acquisition and construction. And since they need to get back their investment, they have to ensure quality services,” he said. A former highways official, however, said that if the vehicle volume did not match the projection they would find it difficult to manage. “In many cases, even in BOT if the traffic is not as envisaged, the entire collection goes to the escrow account from which the bank that lent towards the construction of the project, takes the amount due to it. In the case of TOT too, the amount paid to the NHAI is raised from the market and at interest rates of around 10%. If the traffic volume is less then there is a chance it may go the BOT way,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-bypass-may-be-brought-under-tot-mode/article34298509.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Healthy diet, physical activity can reduce risk of cancer’||Healthy dietary habits, regular physical activity, and staying away from tobacco and drinking alcohol can help reduce the risk of cancer to a large extent, Dr. Jagadesh Chandra Bose, senior consultant, surgical oncology, Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC), said on Sunday. Addressing a webinar organised by The Hindu and the RIMC as part of the The Hindu Wellness Series on cancer prevention and treatment, he said the prevalence of cancer would continue to increase in the future. Highlighting that regular consumption of tobacco or smoking posed a high risk of cancer, particularly oral cancer, he said if a person consumed alcohol along with this, it would have a synergistic effect in increasing the risk. Dr. Bose said cutting down on carbohydrates and fried food and increasing the intake of boiled food, fruits and vegetables could reduce the risk of cancer. Since stress was a risk factor for cancer, it was important to strive for a stress-free balanced lifestyle with regular physical activities such as exercise and yoga. Regular check-up Pointing out that cancer was detected at an early stage only in 30 to 40 % of the patients as it could remain silent without any symptoms, Dr. Bose said it was important to undergo periodic health checks. “The earlier the diagnosis is done, the easier it is to treat and the risks of recurrence will be significantly low,” he said. Scanning Echoing his thoughts, Santhosh Sampath, consultant, nuclear medicine, RIMC, said some people got unnecessarily worried and voluntarily opted for a PET or CT scan. “However, such types of tests must be done only on doctor’s advice after certain primary investigations,” he said. Komalavalli Subbiah, consultant, radiology, RIMC, said all women aged above 40 should undergo periodic mammography to check for breast cancer, which according to her, was becoming increasingly prevalent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthy-diet-physical-activity-can-reduce-risk-of-cancer/article34298512.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro riders without masks to be fined||Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) will impose a fine of Rs. 200 on passengers from Sunday if they are found not wearing a mask or wearing it in a way that does not cover the mouth and nose while travelling in trains or on the station premises. According to officials of the CMRL, if a station controller or flying squad notices a passenger travelling without a mask, they will collect the fine and issue a receipt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-riders-without-masks-to-be-fined/article34299069.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to hold COVID-19 review meet today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will on Monday hold a meeting with Ministers and senior officials to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the State, as cases have spiked in the past week. Mr. Palaniswami will hold a meeting around noon at the Secretariat. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and officials of various departments are expected to take part. They are likely to discuss imposing further restrictions, conducting the Class 12 exams, the availability of hospital beds for COVID-19 patients and the pace of vaccination. Two days after the voting for the Assembly election concluded on April 6, the State government reintroduced various restrictions that came into effect on April 10. On Friday, the government warned that prohibitory orders at night and more restrictions would be imposed in the State if efforts to contain the increasing number of cases, in what is being seen as the second wave of COVID-19, fail to fetch the desired results.  Conducting Class 12 exams, availability of hospital beds and pace of vaccination will also be discussed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-today/article34298538.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T attachment no bar for registering property after expiry period is over||The Tamil Nadu government has issued fresh guidelines to sub-registrars on the registration of properties under provisional attachment of the Income-Tax Department. A clarification has been issued that they can proceed with registration of property documents after the expiry of the statutory attachment period of six months. Following complaints that sub-registrars were refusing to accept any registration of properties under provisional attachment under the Income Tax Act, 1961, even if it was brought for registration well beyond the expiry of the statutory attachment period, the State government has clarified on the issue. Pointing out that there was no need for the sub-registrars to refuse registration of such properties by insisting on revocation orders, the Inspector-General of Registrations, in a circular dated April 9, 2021, said such actions caused hardship to the registering public, business community and also led to revenue loss to the State’s exchequer. The circular said that the attachment order over any property issued by the IT department under Section 132(9B) of the IT Act, 1961, was only provisional and ceased to have effect after the expiry of six months. However, for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Director-General, Chief Commissioner or other senior officers in such capacity could extend the period of provisional attachment by such period/periods (each six months) as he/she deems fit. But the total period of extension shall not in any case exceed two years. AG opinion On complaints in this regard, the State referred the issue to the IT department and the Advocate General of Tamil Nadu for their views. The A-G made it clear that when the IT Act specifically provided for the order of attachment being time-bound, the department cannot rely upon Section 281 to contend that the time stood enlarged till the disposal of the proceedings. Accepting the views of the A-G, the government issued guidelines that if a property was submitted for registration of any further documents well after the expiry of statutory attachment period as said in Section 132(9C) or Section 281(B)(2) read with appended extension of attachment proviso of IT Act, 1961, the registering officer “is not required to insist on the production of revocation order of NOC from Income-Tax Department and can proceed with registration after the confirmation of the expiry of the statutory attachment period.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-attachment-no-bar-for-registering-property-after-expiry-period-is-over/article34298541.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Huge crowds throng Kasimedu harbour||Despite high prices of fish, the Kasimedu fishing harbour here saw good crowds on Sunday, the reason being it was the last Sunday before the annual 61-day-long fishing ban that will commence on April 14. The crowds, which began entering the harbour by around 6 a.m., threw caution to the winds. Not many wore masks and many had them on their chins.  Free masks A trader said that although the number was not more than 500, it was still a cause for concern in the wake of second wave of COVID-19. “Cases are on the rise,” he said. Sources in the Fisheries Department said that people entering the harbour were given masks free of cost. “But people are not wearing them. We are constantly asking them to wear masks,” said an official. “Traders, including retailers, wholesalers, exporters and those who source fish meant for other markets, visit the harbour. Retailers, especially women who sell on the streets, are usually in a rush as customers will be waiting for fish. If they are late, they might lose out to competition. Since the fish is not graded in any manner when it is brought in, all the traders have no other option but to enter at the same time,” said Nanjil Ravi, Akhila Indhiyaia Meenavar Sangam. Meanwhile, fish prices were up by at least 30% since the supply had been dwindling. “Since these are days before the ban, the catch has come down. The number of boats returning daily has come down from 70 to just 20. People are not heading out on voyages since the catch is dismal,” said a boat owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/huge-crowds-throng-kasimedu-harbour/article34298552.ece
12 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Man sets fire to partner, self||A man set himself and his partner, who was sleeping on one of the bays in CMBT, Koyambedu, on fire early on Saturday. The police said the victims were platform dwellers. They were rushed to the Government Kilpauk Hospital, where the doctors declared them brought dead, the police said. A case has been registered.  (Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-sets-fire-to-partner-self/article34299068.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth pushes hitch-hiker to death, caught||A 19-year-old youth has been arrested on charge of murdering a hitch-hiker who refused to pay Rs. 100 at the end of a ride in Kolathur on April 4. According to the police, a man was found dead with bleeding injuries by the side of the road in Kolathur. Passersby alerted the police and the victim was identified as Sankar of Tiruvannamalai. He was a daily wage earner and was living at Valarmathi Nagar in Kolathur. The police said that Sankar went Tiruvannamalai recently and returned on April 4. As he was tired, he stopped a youth, later identified as Sasikumar, on his motorbike and requested a lift. After dropping Sankar near his house, Sasikumar demanded Rs. 100. When Sankar refused to pay, Sasikumar pushed him down and Sankar fell unconscious. Sasikumar took Rs. 100 from Sankar’s pocket and fled the spot. Sasikumar has been charged with murder and remanded in judicial custody. “The youth pushed Sankar in anger as he was not able to get Rs. 100 to fill petrol as he had been roaming on his father’s bike since morning,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-pushes-hitch-hiker-to-death-caught/article34298892.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘NOC must for power supply to houses on poramboku’||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Ombudsman has ruled that a no objection certification (NOC) from the government official concerned is required to provide electricity supply to houses built on government poramboke land. In his petition, J. Soundararaj said he had sought a service connection to his house, built on a government poramboke land, in Vettuvadi, the Nilgiris. Tangedco had sought a NOC, which was later upheld by the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum, Nilgiris Electricity Distribution Circle. He noted that the Madras High Court had ruled that electricity should be given to the poor and needy on compassionate grounds even if they reside on government poramboke land in a case pertaining to a batch of 11 petitions from Tiruvannamalai district. In its response, Tangedco said since the land where power supply was required was a government poramboke land, a NOC from the district administration was necessary, as most of the land in the Pandalur and Gudalur taluks in the Nilgiris fell under the Janmam Land and Reserve Forest. S. Devarajan, Electricity Ombudsman, noted that the court verdict pertained to a specific case and cannot be applied in general, and to the Nilgiris in particular, which was an area having vast forest land involving environmental issues. He also pointed out that as per the provision of the Tamil Nadu Distribution Code, power supply should be given to those residing in poramboke/government land on production of a NOC and the applicant should also pay a security deposit twice the normal rate and ruled in favour of the Tangedco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/noc-must-for-power-supply-to-houses-on-poramboke-land/article34298574.ece
12 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camp for industry workers||Nearly 500 people got vaccinated against COVID-19 at a special camp held at Codissia Trade Fair Complex here on Sunday for MSME units. B. Karthigaivasan, General Manager of District Industries Centre, which co-ordinated the camp, said totally 490 people from 75 MSMEs were vaccinated. These included unit owners, staff, and workers. The camp will continue at the Trade Fair Complex till Thursday (April 15) and can be extended, if needed. Apart from this, the DIC and Health Department plan to organise camps at Pollachi, SIEMA premises (April 14), SIDCO Industrial Estate at Kurichi, and at individual industries.  MSMEs By April 26, a large number of MSMEs in the district will benefit with the special vaccination drive, he said. Industries that need details of the camps can contact the DIC officials on 892553392, 93, 94,95 or 96, he added. Those coming for the camps should have the Aadhaar card and a photocopy of the Aadhaar and should be aged 45 or above. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association M.V. Ramesh Babu said two teams of doctors took part in the camp on Sunday. “We expect 700 to 800 people on Monday and one more team will join the camp. Several industries have said that they will send the employees in buses,” he said. The camp at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex will be held from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Facilities Facilities were made at the camp for those vaccinated to have refreshments and wait for 30 minutes after the vaccination. Nearly 30 industry associations took part in a meeting held here recently regarding the vaccination drive. Member units of these associations are sending their workers and employees, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camp-for-industry-workers/article34298576.ece
12 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Beautification work in progress in weed-covered Krishnampathy tank||Concrete is poured on the Krishnampathy tank bund abutting the Poosaripalayam Road and Sundapalayam Road as the Coimbatore Corporation has taken up lake development work under the Smart Cities Mission project. The Corporation had taken up the tank under the third phase after taking up Ukkadam Periyakulam, Valankulam in the first phase and a few other tanks in the second phase. The Corporation had planned to spend Rs. 21 crore to develop the tank and scheduled to complete the work by this December. The work involved beautifying the tank by creating walking track, seating space and other amenities that would attract visitors, said sources overseeing the project. While work is on to develop the bund, the water spread area presents a complete different picture in that it is covered with water weeds so much so that in several parts of the tank, only the green weed is visible and only in a few others the water is seen. Environmentalists said the water weed grew fast because the Corporation had not taken steps to stop the flow of sewage into the tank. The 125-acre Krishnampathy tank that is a part of the River Noyyal system received water from both the South West Monsoon and North East Monsoon through the Chithirai Chavadi Channel and from catchments in Marudhamalai through the Karupparayan Kovil drain. The drain flowed through Vadavalli and Seeranaickenpalayam to drain water into the tank. But the drain, at present, was filled with sewage, the environmentalists said and added that unless the Corporation dredged the drain and cleaned the water, sewage would continue to flow into the tank to aid the weed growth. Environment work The environmentalists further said that this had been the case thus far with all the lake development work that the Corporation had taken up as the beautification measures seemed to have taken precedence over environment work. Sources in the Corporation said treating the sewage flowing into the Krishnampathy tank as well as other tanks taken up for development was as much a priority as the beautification work. The Corporation had started work on waste water treatment plant in a few tanks and it would soon start the work in Krishnampathy tank as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beautification-work-in-progress-in-weed-covered-krishnampathy-tank/article34298913.ece
12 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore’s caseload crosses 600-mark||The daily caseload of COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district crossed the 600-mark in the second wave of the pandemic on Sunday. The district reported 617 new cases against the 501 cases it had on Saturday. The district administration said that 6,614 swab samples were subjected to test in government and private facilities on Sunday. According to the Health Department, the district had 4,051 active cases, while 248 persons recovered from the disease. A total of 257 asymptomatic patients were being taken care at two COVID Care Centres. In Tiruppur district, 177 persons tested positive. As many as 1,106 patients were under treatment at different hospitals. Meanwhile, 77 persons got discharged from hospitals on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 36 people tested positive on Sunday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,937. The number of deaths in the district stood at 51, on Sunday while 220 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatores-caseload-crosses-600-mark/article34298916.ece
12 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Most migrant workers won’t benefit from vaccination drive||The Tamil Nadu government’s directive to industries to vaccinate all workers aged 45 and above will not cover a majority of them here as most of the migrant workers are aged 20-40. K. Selvaraju, secretary-general, Southern India Mills’ Association, says that of the 50 lakh workers employed in textile units across the State, just about 10% will be eligible for vaccination. A majority of the workers are from other States or women from different districts. They are all aged below 45. But textile units having in-house dispensary or healthcare centres are trying to vaccinate all their workers, he says. The number of permanent workers in textile mills is very less, and a majority of the migrant workers are aged below 45. All of them should be covered because they are the high-risk group, says AITUC leader M. Arumugam. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, and J. James, president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, say most of the workers in the micro, small and medium units in the district are from other States or districts and 80% are aged 20-40. If the government relaxes the age limit, the units will be able to vaccinate a majority of them, Mr. Ramesh Babu says. The government should allow industries to vaccinate all workers aged above 25, says Mr. James. The special camps being held for industries here from Sunday will cover the staff members. But the age limit should be reduced to vaccinate a large number of workers, says an official.  Of the 50 lakh workers employed in textile units across the State, just about 10% will be eligible for vaccinationK. SelvarajuSouthern India Mills’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-migrant-workers-wont-benefit-from-vaccination-drive/article34298542.ece
12 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth drowns in river||An 18-year-old youth feared drowned while taking bath in a river at Ambarampalayam near Anamalai on Saturday. The police have identified the deceased as P. Vasigaran from Maduraiveeran Kovil Street at Singanallur. According to the police, he drowned after being dragged by strong undercurrents. The body was recovered and shifted to the Government Hospital, Vettaikaranpudur, the police said. Girl electrocuted An 11-year-old girl from Sulur was electrocuted after she came into contact with a live electric wire on Saturday. The victim has been identified as M. Sathya, a resident of Radhakrishnanpuram near Sulur, said the police.  Though the girl was rushed to the Government Hospital, Sulur, after she suffered electric shock, the doctors declared her dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-drowns-in-river/article34298918.ece
12 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body official inspects fish markets||Coimbatore Corporation Deputy Commissioner S. Madhuranthagi on Sunday inspected the wholesale and retail fish market in Lorrypet and Ukkadam respectively to check if traders and customers complied with the COVID-19 safety protocol.  Wear mask After inspecting the place, she asked the traders to wear mask and maintain physical distance, said a press release from the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-official-inspects-fish-markets/article34298917.ece
12 April 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen||About 30 sovereigns of gold jewellery was stolen from a house in Morappur on Saturday. The police said, V. Kannan, a retired Insurance professional, resides with his family at Poonga Nagar near Morappur. Recently, Mr. Kannan had gone to visit his son in Salem and returned on Saturday to find the door of the house broken open and the jewellery stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen/article34298581.ece
12 April 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officers visit hospitals, COVID care centres in Dindigul, Sivaganga||Over 76,000 people have got the vaccine shot administered through 100 designated vaccine centres till date, said senior IAS officer and Monitoring Officer Mangat Ram Sarma here on Sunday. Accompanied by Collector M Vijayalakshmi, DRO Govindaraju, Corporation Commissioner Balasubramanian and among other officials from the Department of Health, he visited the Government Hospital, SIPCOT, SIDCO industrial estate and Kamala Nehru Hospital. The officials said that so far 76,250 persons above 45-years had been inoculated. The vaccine vials were adequate in the district. The Monitoring Officer who inspected the industrial estate checked the sheds and expressed satisfaction over the availability of hand sanitizers and display of boards cautioning workers to wear face masks compulsorily. So far, 29,018 fever camps were conducted in Dindigul and Palani by the doctors. The civic officials said that they have identified containment streets in the Corporation area and taken measures to curb movement of those patients with covid-19 positive. The officials said that from nine Government-run Hospitals, 700 beds were ready. Similarly, through 14 private hospitals, 450 beds were ready for accommodating patients, in the event of any rise in the number of positive patients. Similarly, they also informed that 835 beds were ready at the covid care centre and extensive campaigns were being held at bus stands and markets. Three shops, which had violated the Standard Operating Procedure were fined Rs. 10,000 and the outlets were sealed. As a first step, the motorists in the bazaar area were given free face masks and advised to wear compulsorily. The auto rickshaws and tourist cab operators in Kodaikanal Road Railway Junction were sensitized to beware of rail passengers coming from states like Maharashtra, Bangalore and Kerala as they would be required for mandatory screening. Karaikudi In Karaikudi, District Monitoring Officer Mahesan Kasirajan visited the TB Hospital at Amaravathipudur and inquired with inpatients at the isolation ward. According to a press release, the officer checked on the number of beds and patients admitted for virus. The doctors at the centre explained the daily schedule which includedkabasura kudineerand other vitamins and minerals. The Monitoring Officer interacted with some of the positive patients admitted in the centre. He appealed to them to take due care while at the centre and wished them speedy recovery. He assured them that the government would give them all assistance at this critical hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officers-visit-hospitals-covid-centres-in-dindigul-sivaganga/article34298559.ece
12 April 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmer producers reaping rich dividends in Dindigul||About four years ago, a few hundred farmers from Senthurai near here floated Kurinji Farmer Producer Company (FPC) after NABARD gave them the much-needed support, including financing. Initially, the small and marginal farmers did not have any clue about the functioning of a company or the rules and regulations to be followed. They, however, evinced interest after interactions with officials who explained them everything about the functioning of a company. Sensitisation Soon, regular sensitisation programmes and awareness workshops conducted by the officials witnessed positive signs from farmers. The farmers, after giving a name to the company, identified a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as mandated by laws. The objective of floating the FPC was to do away with middlemen, give collective bargaining power and direct sale of their commodities to buyers, said Assistant General Manager Balachandran here on Sunday. Speaking to The Hindu , a few of the directors of Kurinji FPC and CEO P. Thirupathi Raja said they had repaid a loan of Rs. 1 crore which was given to them by NAB-KISAN without any collateral security. “Now, we are a company with high credibility and integrity,” they said. The farmers said 10,000 farmers from 294 villages in the district had so far benefited. The officials also said out of the 304 FPCs promoted in Tamil Nadu, 20 were in Dindigul and 14 among them were supported by NABARD. Like Kurinji FPC, Mr. Balachandran said, they had Ayyampalayam FPC in Athoor where the members had grown coconut. Usually, the farmers either sold their produce to middlemen at a price quoted by them or sold them at rock bottom price to wholesale merchants, who helped them by extending advance for procuring fertilisers. Today, the members of Ayyampalayam FPC sell coconut oil as a value addition. With assistance from Agricultural Engineering Department, they had set up infrastructure for extracting oil. The turnover was around Rs. 80 lakh, NABARD officials said. Guava cultivation Similarly, Ayakudi village in the district which is famous for guava cultivation has an FPC and the farmers have been getting support from Producers’ Organisation Promoting Institutions (POPI). The farmers expressed satisfaction over the support from the Central government institution as they had eliminated middlemen. Many of the farmers were familiar with online trading and market rules. The younger ones had downloaded free apps in their mobile phones with which they were monitoring prices of commodities sold in markets, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-producers-reaping-rich-dividends-in-dindigul/article34298560.ece
12 April 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector, SSI test positive||An Inspector of Police and a Special Sub-Inspector in Kanniyakumari district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. After the test results were announced, the two officers were admitted to Asaripallam Government Hospital at Nagercoil on Sunday. Police personnel, who were in contact with them, have been advised screening. Meanwhile, the officials from the civic body and health department have intensified door-to-door checks across the district. Additional strength has been deployed at all check-posts for round-the-clock checks. After a policeman tested positive, a police station in Thoothukudi city was closed on Sunday. The policeman had taken COVID-19 vaccine a few days ago. After he developed symptoms of fever and cold, he went for a screening on Friday. As the result returned positive, he quarantined himself at his house. As a precaution, the police station he was attached to was closed and health department officials disinfected the premises, a Corporation official said. The other police personnel at the police station were also screened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-ssi-test-positive-in-kanyakumari-district/article34298565.ece
12 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘No one can claim exclusive right over properties of common use’||The District Munsif Court in Melur dismissed a civil suit, taking into account the fact that the suit property in Panikkankundukulam near Maruthur was a government poramboke and came under the classification of kanmoi / tank, with an expanse of 5 acres 46 cents. The court was hearing a suit filed by a group of villagers who sought the relief of declaration that they have the right of continuous, exclusive enjoyment over the suit property. They said that they enjoyed its possession and had not been disturbed by the government. While the plaintiffs said they enjoyed exclusive possession of the property, the defendants in the case said that the property was in common usage of the people of entire Maruthur and that the property was a tank. Referring to a Supreme Court judgement, District Munsif Raja S. Ramya observed that no one could claim exclusive enjoyment and right of adverse possession over properties which were meant for common usage. The property was a government poramboke and therefore comes under the classification of kanmoi or tank. It was clear that the suit property had been encroached upon by the plaintiffs and they were encroachers of the waterbody. Therefore, the plaintiffs were not entitled to the relief of permanent injunction to protect their possession as their possession was not a settled one, but an unlawful one. They were also not entitled to relief of declaration that they have the right of continuous exclusive enjoyment. The Madras High Court has held that no civil court shall entertain any suit or proceedings in connection with the removal of encroachment in waterbodies. Anyone who has encroached and was aggrieved by the action taken by authorities to remove the encroachment from the waterbodies was at liberty to move the High Court, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-one-can-claim-exclusive-right-over-properties-of-common-use/article34299004.ece
12 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Coconut farmers worried over whitefly attack in Madurai||Coconut farmers of Madurai district are in a state of worry following attack of Rugose Spiralling Whitefly, an invasive pest, in coconut trees. P. Manikandan, president of Madurai District Wet and Dry Land Farmers’ Association, said the attack is visible in the coconut trees for the past one month. “Earlier the attack was confined to Pollachi and Udumalpet and other places in the State,” he said. There are around 3,000 hectares of coconuts trees in Sholavandan and Kottampatti regions in Madurai district. J. Bhaskaran, a farmer whose coconut groves in Sholavandan were affected, said the whitefly attacks the leaves and palms of the coconut trees. As a result, the leaves start withering. “Ultimately the yield is affected resulting in heavy losses for the farmers,” he said. “Farmers are clueless about the solution for the pest attack. Even when we approach the Agricultural Department officials, it is to no avail,” he said. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said hot weather conditions are very conducive for the whitefly. Water spraying with force is one of the ways to contain the spread of the pest attack. Awareness of the pest and its control have to be intensified among the farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coconut-farmers-worried-over-whitefly-attack/article34298515.ece
12 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Driver gets bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court granted bail to a TNSTC bus driver accused of driving the bus in a rash and negligent manner that resulted in the death of two policemen on election duty in Sivaganga district. They were part of a flying squad. Justice G. Chandrasekharan granted bail to driver Kumar who has been in judicial custody since March 26. The speeding bus rammed into the policemen on election duty, as they were waiting to get into their vehicle. Special Sub-Inspector Karnan and Armed Reserve Police Constable Balasubramanian died while two others suffered grievous injuries and were admitted to the Government Hospital in Sivaganga for treatment. The court took into account the fact that the injured had been discharged from hospital and the witnesses in the case were official witnesses. The court granted bail to petitioner Kumar with certain conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driver-involved-in-accident-gets-bail/article34299002.ece
12 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers’ wards receive job offers||As many as 110 candidates received job offers from private companies in a job fair held exclusively for children of conservancy workers here on Sunday. The event saw 140 participants – postgraduates, degree holders and diploma holders – taking part in the event. Big companies such as TVS and Larsen & Toubro recruited candidates. Advocate Sahaya Philomin Raj of Madurai Legal Awareness Coordination Committee said the idea behind the job fair was to provide a platform for qualified youth who were unable to get a job and help them secure one. Due to lack of employment avenues, the qualified youth should not get sucked into the same occupation as that of their parents. The job fair was meant to prevent it. This is the fifth job fair organised by the committee, he said. The private companies have welcomed the idea and have shown interest in recruiting these candidates. As a result of this, the committee was planning to conduct job fairs more often, preferably one every six months, Mr. Philomin Raj said. Seven companies recruited candidates at the job fair. Companies dealing in garments, mobile applications and kitchen appliances participated in the day-long event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-wards-receive-job-offers/article34298562.ece
12 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 126.35 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 57 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs. The level in Vaigai dam was 63.66 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,315 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34298564.ece
12 April 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Two tagged migratory birds spotted in salt pans in Manakudy bird reserve||Two tagged migratory birds — a redshank and a whiskered tern — were spotted in the salt pans of Swamithoppu in the Manakudy bird reserve in Kanniyakumari district. Davidson Sargunam, a bird watcher and conservation educationist, has spotted the birds. He says the reserve has an adequate supply of freshwater fish fauna, crustaceans, barnacles and freshwater weeds, and has provided the birds security and a shield from sound pollution. Every year, birds from European countries visit the reserve for wintering from September to November. They leave by March or mid-April, depending on the availability of water in the wetlands, Mr. Davidson says. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), says this is the first time a whiskered tern, marked outside the country, is reported from India. “As the numbers in the ring are not visible, we are unable to conclude from which country the bird has migrated,” he says. The whiskered tern is possibly from European countries. “There are terns that breed in India, but those birds will not come here,” he reasons. According to Mr. Balachandran, there are five sub-species of redshank, and they migrate from the Himalayas, China, Mongolia and the Russian Far East. “The redshank spotted in Kanniyakumari district is possibly from the subarctic region and it could be one of the birds tagged by the BNHS. We follow the practice of tagging birds on the tibia, the upper leg of the bird. It was either from Point Calimere or Mumbai, the two places where these birds were marked in considerable numbers,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-tagged-migratory-birds-spotted-in-salt-pans-in-manakudy-bird-reserve/article34298550.ece
12 April 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes many parts of Kanniyakumari district||Heavy showers that were experienced in many parts of Kanniyakumari district for over 45 minutes on Saturday brought the mercury level down. Boothapandi recorded 37 mm of rainfall, Nagercoil 33 mm, Perunchani 23 mm, Puthanai and Kanniyakumari 22 mm each, Mambazhathurai 15 mm and Mookadal recorded 14 mm. In some areas, including Rani Thottam and Vadeeswaram Women’s Christian College Road, some old trees were uprooted in the rain. Fire Station Officer Durai and personnel removed them from roads in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-many-parts-of-kanniyakumari-district/article34298566.ece
12 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. sees a sharp spike in new COVID-19 cases||In a sharp spike, Puducherry recorded over 300 new COVID-19 cases even as two more deaths raised the toll to 691. A 67-year-old patient died at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer), while a 44-year-old patient succumbed to coronavirus at the Karaikal Government Hospital. Both had diabetes mellitus as a comorbid condition. With this, the cumulative region-wise toll is 556 in Puducherry, 79 in Karaikal, 45 in Yanam and 11 in Mahe. Of the 306 new cases detected from 3,348 tests, Puducherry accounted for 210, followed by Karaikal (71), Yanam (22) and Mahe (three). With 206 persons recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 2,316. Of these, 511 were in hospitals and 1,805 in home isolation. In Puducherry, the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute houses 259 patients and while 167 are in Jipmer. The test positivity rate was 9.13%, case fatality rate 1.57% and recovery rate 93.17%. The number of tests conducted crossed the 7 lakh mark with over 6.41 lakh returning negative. Meanwhile, 207 healthcare workers, 155 frontline staff and 2,961 members of the public took the first shot of the vaccine in the last 24 hours. The number of those immunised in the Union Territory to date aggregated to 92,821 persons — 28,887 healthcare workers, 16,629 frontline staff and 47,305 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-sees-a-sharp-spike-in-new-covid-19-cases/article34298555.ece
12 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Four-day free vaccination drive kicks off for those aged above 45||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has appealed for greater public participation in the adoption of safety norms and volunteering for immunisation for tackling the novel coronavirus pandemic. Inaugurating the Tika Utsav (vaccine festival) at the Government Primary School in Pakkamudaiyanpet as part of a nation-wide campaign from April 11 to 14, the Lt. Governor said even if the government did everything possible for the prevention of COVID-19, the contribution of the public was vital in ensuring the effectiveness of these measures. Good support The Lt. Governor, who also visited the Don Bosco Higher Secondary School and Primary Health Centre in Lawspet, noted with satisfaction that people had been giving good support to the vaccination initiative by getting themselves inoculated in full confidence that the shot will not cause any harm. The ‘vaccine festival’ is being organised across 100 sites to administer the shots free of cost to those above 45 years of age. She urged the beneficiary population to utilise the opportunity. Seeking greater public support for stopping the pandemic, Ms. Soundararajan said as the pandemic was once again spreading rapidly in Puducherry, the government was taking various measures to prevent it and the vaccine festival was one of the steps aimed at those above 45 years of age. In order to increase public participation, meetings had been held with religious leaders, voluntary organisations, medical practitioners and other influencers in society. Micro-containment  Citing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on helping each other in vaccination, treatment and prevention, Ms. Soundararajan also stressed the message of family members and community members creating micro-containment zones among themselves when a positive case is detected in their neighbourhood. Interacting with the media, Lt. Governor said adequate beds had been made available in institutions, including private medical colleges to cope with a second wave. Among those who were present were C. Chandramouli, adviser to the Lt. Governor, T. Arun, Health Secretary, Ashok Kumar, Higher Education Secretary, and G. Sriramulu, State Health Mission Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-vaccination-drive-kicks-off-for-those-over-45/article34298557.ece
12 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Medical students concerned over safety norms||Amid a resurgence of coronavirus cases, a section of medical students has raised concerns over lax safety norms at classrooms and hostels in some private medical colleges even after instances of students testing positive for COVID-19 on campuses. Students say that even after switching the first and second year medical students to the online mode, the proportion of students for whom physical attendance is still the norm was too substantial to maintain distancing in classrooms. The use of thermal scanners at entry points is not uniformly followed and even after cases have been reported on campuses and in hostels, testing of potential contacts is not followed, students of a private medical college allege. L-G’s order Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan had issued an order on March 25 according approval to the proposal for conduct of classes by all colleges (government and private) solely on online mode with six working days from March 26. Only practical classes for final semester students would be conducted in offline mode (classroom-based) following all safety norms as per SOP, the order stated. In a subsequent order on April 5, the Lt. Governor extended the online only mode to certain segments in medical colleges. As per the order, classes for first and second year and para medics would be held only through online mode. Regular classes would be conducted to students of third year, final year, interns and PG that require practical education. As for Jipmer, since students from all parts of India are studying in the institution, it may frame its own protocol meeting safety norm, the order stated. “The issue is that while in medical institutions across the country, classes from the first to third year have switched entirely to online mode, physical attendance for third year students is the norm only in Puducherry. The online mode for second year students is also not being followed in at least one private college,” a student said. Exempted students To a question on complaints regarding colleges asking exempted students to attend classes, the Lt. Governor at a press meet had said such an issue had not been brought to the notice of the Raj Nivas. She said a direction had already been issued asking colleges to go for online classes except for practical classes for final year students. “But, we will certainly look into the issue,” Ms. Soundararajan said. A spokesman for Pondicherry University said the order on online classes mode had been implemented across all 90 affiliate colleges. A spokesman for a deemed medical college said the online mode had been fully implemented for first and second year students. However, the first and second year students from other States had been given the option to remain in hostels and attend online classes from their rooms as they might find transportation difficult to return once offline classes resumed, he said.  Even after some have switched to online mode, the proportion of students for whom physical attendance is still the norm is too substantial to maintain distancing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-students-concerned-over-safety-norms/article34299074.ece
12 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G’s Special Secy. relieved from post||S.D. Sundaresan, Special Secretary to the Lt. Governor, has been relieved from his post. An order to this effect from Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said the officer was “relieved of all the charges held by him immediately, awaiting posting order”. The order stated that in pursuance of the direction of the Election Commission of India, Abhijit Vijay Chaudhari will, in addition to existing charges, hold charge as Secretary to the Lt. Governor. C. Udaya Kumar will look after the subjects of Information and Publicity, Fire Services, Sainik Welfare and Freedom Fighter Cell until further notice, the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-gs-special-secy-relieved-from-post/article34298573.ece
12 April 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumber worth Rs. 2 crore seized||A special police team on Sunday seized sea cucumber worth Rs. 2 crore and impounded a goods vehicle at Vedalai near Mandapam in the district. Following specific inputs about movement of illegal transportation of the goods, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik formed a special team that raided a private farm at NRT Nagar in Rameswaram and seized one ton. The team also intercepted a goods vehicle. Apprehending arrest, the driver escaped. When the team searched the vehicle, it found sea cucumber in 20 bags, each weighing 50 kg. An officer said the sea cucumber was intended for smuggling to Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-cucumber-seized/article34298516.ece
12 April 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||13 bonded labourers rescued in Ranipet||Thirteen members from three families, who were working as bonded labourers in a wood cutting and charcoal unit, were rescued with the help of district officials and Released Bonded Labourers’ Association (RBLA) at Melpudhupettai village near Walajah in Ranipet district. According to the police, the team headed by Ranipet sub-collector K. Ilambagavath raided the unit and rescued 13 members — four men, five women and four children, including a four-month-old baby. Release certificates (RCs) have been issued to them. The police said that they were natives of Kalambur village in Arni in Andhra Pradesh. They were forced to work in the unit for over three years and were underpaid. The owner of the unit, Arun Kumar, has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-bonded-labourers-rescued-in-ranipet/article34298553.ece
12 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Construction of Magudanchavadi flyover nearing completion||The works of flyover being constructed at the Magudanchavadi junction here are nearing completion and the flyover has been opened for trial run. Magudanchavadi is one of the important junctions on the Coimbatore-Bengaluru National Highway, often leading to traffic congestion and accidents. Also, frequent accidents have been reported while motorists diverted to Konganapuram and Edappadi from the National Highway. Similar accidents occurred while motorists diverted and entered the National Highway from Sankari. Considering frequent accidents at the spot, the State government proposed a flyover and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation for the project in 2019. The flyover is the second one on the National Highway with eight lane carriageway considering future expansion of the Highway. Officials said the flyover covered a length of about 1 km and each carriageway was about 16-metre wide. Major construction works in the flyover had been completed and minor works like marking of lanes and painting had to be done. Electrical works of the flyover had been completed and the entire work was expected to be over by the end of this month. The flyover was being constructed at an approximate cost of Rs. 45 crore. The Ariyanoor flyover that was recently constructed on the Highway also had eight lanes. The State government proposed a flyover at the Mamangam junction as well on the Highway to avoid traffic congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-magudanchavadi-flyover-nearing-completion/article34298586.ece
12 April 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 128 new cases||As many as 128 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Sunday. According to officials, all cases were indigenous including 74 in the Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 85 cases were reported, highest in recent times. Over 20 patients returned from Salem, Erode, Tiruchi, Chennai, and Karnataka. Erode reported 119 indigenous cases. While 132 cases were reported in Krishnagiri including one imported case, 44 indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri. The daily caseload of COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district crossed the 600-mark in the second wave of the pandemic on Sunday. The district reported 617 new cases against the 501 cases it had on Saturday. According to the Health Department, the district had 4,051 active cases of the disease on Sunday and 248 persons recovered from the disease. A total of 257 asymptomatic patients were being taken care at two COVID Care Centres. In Tiruppur district, 177 persons tested positive on Sunday. As many as 1,106 patients from Tiruppur district were under treatment at different hospitals. Meanwhile, 77 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-128-new-cases/article34298580.ece
12 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||900 people receive vaccination at special camps in Salem||As many as 900 people have received COVID-19 vaccination through special camps organised by the Salem Corporation here on Sunday. The Corporation formed special teams to conduct the vaccination camps. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran, City Health Officer K. Parthibhan and other senior officials reviewed the progress of the camp set up for residents of Selva Nagar. According to a release, 300 people received vaccination at the camp. About 150 people received vaccination at a camp set up in a private hotel near new bus stand and 450 bank officials and staff of a private firm received vaccination at a camp set up in Kumarasamipatti Urban Health Centre. Vaccination camps would be conducted on the premises of firms and residential areas where there were over 100 persons above the age of 45. The public could contact the Corporation at 7598130884 for setting up such camps, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/900-people-receive-vaccination-at-special-camps-in-salem/article34298575.ece
12 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Siddha-based COVID-19 care centre set up in Salem||The Salem Corporation in cooperation with Siddha practitioners here is setting up a Siddha-based COVID-19 care centre at a Government College in Gorimedu. The facility will have about 100 beds. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran, City Health Officer K. Parthibhan and other senior officials visited the place and reviewed arrangements. The Centre will start functioning from Monday. The Corporation is also organising Siddha medicine camps at various places to provide immunity boosters to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-based-covid-19-care-centre-set-up-in-salem/article34298583.ece
12 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two held for hunting||The Forest Department arrested two persons with country guns near Danishpet here on Sunday for indulging in illegal hunting. According to forest officials, based on information from District Forest Officer R. Murugan, a team led by Shevaroyan South ranger K. Chinnathambi with three foresters and eight forest guards conducted checks in Thekkampatti Forest beat area in Kurumbapatti reserve forest range. During the checks, the officials found two persons with country guns and headlights indulging in hunting. The team nabbed Matheyan and Periyasami, both from Alagapuram. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-hunting/article34298584.ece
12 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||RPF seizes 92 kg of ganja in election drive||As part of election surveillance drive, the Railway Protection Force seized 92 kg of ganja here. Pramod Nair, Assistant Commissioner of RPF, said a special drive was conducted between March 5 and April 6 and valuables from Coimbatore, Salem and Erode were seized. Officials said 92 kg of ganja worth Rs. 10.5 lakh was seized from different stations. RPF also seized 15 liquor bottles, 28 silver bars, silver ornaments and cash of Rs. 6.43 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-seizes-92-kg-of-ganja-in-election-drive/article34298582.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temporary vegetable market restarts at G. Corner||After a few rounds of hectic parleys, retail traders at the Gandhi Market in the city who had been resisting attempts by authorities to shift them to the temporary market set up at G. Corner near T.V.S. Tollgate on Tiruchi-Chennai Highway relented on Sunday. The temporary market began transacting business on Sunday evening. As per the instruction of Collector S. Divyadharshini, the officials of Tiruchi corporation closed some of the gates of the Gandhi Market on Monday morning, thereby denying access to retail traders. They were asked to move to the temporary market at G. Corner from Sunday, which had been re-established by the district administration to limit the crowding customers so as to check the spread of COVID-19 infections. Only wholesale traders were allowed to transact business as usual at the Gandhi Market. Though the retail traders were strictly asked to do business at G. Corner from Sunday, they visited the Gandhi Market and began trade as usual. But the Corporation officials curtailed them. To ensure shifting of retail traders to the G. Corner ground, the Corporation officials also began distributing tokens. But the traders strongly objected to the move, saying the action was discriminative, and would severely impact their livelihood. They pointed out that the customers as usual would tend to visit the Gandhi Market and the wholesale traders would cash in on the opportunity to sell vegetables and fruits to them. There would be no need for the customers, after buying vegetables at Gandhi Market, to visit G. Corner. The retail traders urged the district administration to shift wholesale traders too to G. Corner Ground. “Who will come to buy vegetables at a far-away make-shift location when Gandhi Market remains an easy option? There should be a level-playing field for all traders. It is better to shift all traders to G. Corner for the time being,” said M. K. Kamalakannan, a retail trader. Since chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Gandhi Market with more than 300 traders raising slogans against the officials, additional police personnel were posted. Thereafter, the officials sought the opinion of wholesale traders on moving to the G. Corner market, where all arrangements had been made for the traders. Their opinion was divided. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that as per the Government Order it was not compulsory for the wholesale traders to move to G. Corner market. However, many of them had come forward to move to G. Corner. Hence, tokens were distributed to all traders, who expressed their willingness to set up shops at G. Corner, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-vegetable-market-restarts-at-g-corner/article34298524.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Caution thrown to wind as many go without masks||The scenario of people flouting COVID-19 norms by not wearing face masks was all too visible in the city on Sunday, even as the number of cases keeps rising every passing day. Many carried masks in their pockets and chose to wear them only when they were confronted by authorities to avoid paying fines, while there were also people who threw caution to the wind and did not have masks at all. Some even blamed the scorching heat as a reason for not wearing the masks. “The fear factor is lost. People tend to think that COVID-19 is just a fever and it has become difficult to convince them about the harm that the virus can do,” a policeman posted near Mainguard Gate said. While officials of the Tiruchi Corporation and the City Police had come down heavily on violators during the lockdown last year, this time around, enforcement of COVID-19 safety protocol took a beating as many had been deployed on election duty and other works. A police official told The Hindu , “We do not fine all of them; many of the people we confront are daily-wage labourers who cannot afford a mask. For them, we hand out a mask and tell them the importance of wearing one,” he said. At the Mainguard Gate, where families and youth spend time on weekends shopping and consuming street food, mask-wearing was at its bare minimum. “It is very hot in Tiruchi and I am unable to breathe underneath the mask. It was easier to wear it during the winter,” an ignorant shopper said. Many are seen wearing masks on their chin or clutching one in their hands even in crowded areas such as Gandhi Market. “We have all been COVID-19 tested, and it returned negative,” a vendor said. The biggest challenge for the authorities this time is to ensure public adherence to the safety norms. “We think that the fine should be increased. If they do not understand the seriousness of the viral infection, let the fear of paying a fine make them wear it,” R. Shanmugham, a senior citizen said. A supermarket located on the Chennai Bypass Road was fined Rs. 5,000, for flouting COVID-19 norms. The supermarket was found to have exceeded the permitted 50% occupancy limit imposed by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caution-thrown-to-wind-as-many-go-without-masks/article34298528.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bring back garbage bins, residents tell civic body||The demand of reintroduction of garbage bins has resurfaced in the city even as garbage keeps accumulating by the roadsides and at street corners, Until 2017 and 2018, the residents used to relegate the domestic waste including vegetable waste and food leftovers in the garbage bins placed by the Tiruchi Corporation at various locations. The daily waste generated in the commercial establishments, restaurants, hotels and marriage halls was also dumped in the garbage bins. There were about 1,172 garbage bins in the city. The trucks operated by the Corporation would visit the designated places every morning and evening to move the garbage to the Ariyamangalam dump yard. When the City Corporation rolled out the initiative of door-to-door collection of waste, there was a considerable impact. Subsequently, the civic body started testing the method of removing garbage bins in the city, with the announcement that the residents and commercial establishments should hand over the waste only to the sanitary workers. It also introduced a spot-fine system to those violating the rules. Though a section of the people are accustomed to the system, there are others who still prefer to discard domestic and non-domestic waste in garbage bins. The residents say that in a big city like Tiruchi, it is not possible to avoid dumping of waste on streets. They complain that the garbage collectors pay poor attention to remove waste on the street corners. It often leads to a pile up. Upset over the inefficiency in the garbage cleaning management system, the residents have begun to demand the reintroduction of garbage bins. They bat for simultaneous methods of garbage removal trough door-to-door collection and placement of garbage bins. “It is quite common to see piling of garbage at various street corners. In the absence of garbage bins, the residents discard waste at their will. It has now become imperative for the Corporation to place garbage bins so that the waste collection could be carried out in an organised manner,” says N. Jamaludeen, a civic activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-back-garbage-bins-residents-tell-civic-body/article34298526.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Engineering colleges have no solution for students with arrears||Self-financed engineering colleges who have been apparently unable to find a way out to improve the pass percentage of the section of students pursuing graduation with government scholarships find themselves in a crisis situation in the wake of the Madras High Court expressing strong reservations over the State Government’s decision to cancel arrears exams citing COVID-19 pandemic. The instances of students with arrears in 15 and more number of papers forgoing their degrees have become all too common in most self-financed engineering colleges, since they constitute those who had been admitted with dismal scores in Plus Two, according to the faculty. The situation has come to such a pass since very many colleges that are unable to attract students in required numbers through the TNEA (Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions) counselling sustain themselves financially by enrolling students from rural parts who are entitled to government scholarships either by virtue of being first-generation graduates or belonging to SC/ST communities, through a network of agents. Recruitment woes This explains why recruiters have not been enthusiastic about conducting campus interviews in recent years. “This year, the situation is close to pathetic. The number of eligible students - those who have cleared all papers till date - is quite low. Recruiters look for an environment where they could screen students in large numbers and arrive at the best ones through a process of elimination,”a faculty member of a college involved in placement activities said. This time, the recruiters, of course, visited the colleges, albeit in lesser numbers and informed the small number of candidates fulfilling eligibility conditions that the subsequent screenings will be conducted online, another senior faculty member said. While established companies continue to pay reasonable salary, mid-level companies pay the students not more than Rs. 20,000 per month for technology-based jobs and less than Rs. 15,000 per month for call centre jobs, he said. There is very less likelihood of the companies visiting the college campuses again during this academic year in the context of the High Court’s position on arrears exams, the faculty observe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-colleges-have-no-solution-for-students-with-arrears/article34298505.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Toll plaza employees threaten to go on strike from May 20||The Tamil Nadu Sunga Saavadi Paniyalar Kootamaippu has decided that employees working in various toll plazas functioning on national highways would resort to strike from May 20 onwards if their demands such as job permanency, fixation of wages, job security and other pending issues were not resolved through talks with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) before May 15. A resolution to this effect was adopted at the State general body meeting of the CPI-affiliated Kootamaippu held here on Sunday. Over 120 representatives of 32 toll plazas functioning across the State attended the meeting that was presided over by the Kootamaippu president K. Ravi. A total number of nine resolutions were adopted at the meeting, according to a press release. It was resolved at the meeting that notice regarding the proposed strike would be given in support of their demands. If NHAI fails to resolve their demands through talks before May 15, the employees would resort to strike from May 20 onwards. Another resolution wanted the authorities concerned to streamline the work schedule of all employees who had been working for a period ranging from 10 years to 20 years collecting toll under the national highways scheme and providing them with job security and fixed wages. It also wanted the benefits given to permanent staff working in NHAI to be extended to all employees who had been working continuously for 480 days and more besides implementation of ‘equal pay for equal work’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plaza-employees-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-may-20/article34298518.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Butterfly conservatory sees a dip in visitors||There was a sharp decline in the number of visitors to the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam, a popular tourist spot, on Saturday and Sunday what with COVID-19 cases rising sharply in Tiruchi district over the past few days. Safety protocols were being strictly adhered to prior to allowing visitors into the lush green 27-hectare conservatory sandwiched between the Cauvery river and the Coleroon river, said a Forest Department official. The conservatory which remained shut for nearly eight months since mid-March last year in the wake of the pandemic was re-opened on November 12. Although the footfalls were initially less, it began to gradually increase. The number of tourists who visited the conservatory post re-opening on November 12 till date was over 68,000. However, the footfalls began to decline sharply on weekends from early this month when the number of COVID-19 cases began to increase. The footfall on April 3 (Saturday) was around 620 which further dropped to 415 on April 10. The scenario was the same on two preceding Sundays. The number of tourists who visited the conservatory on April 4 was around 900 and the footfall dipped further to a little over 600 on April 11. Only on March 28 (Sunday), there were a little over 1,000 visitors. The sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi district coupled with the fear of getting infected and the recent restrictions announced has caused a decline in visitor footfall to the conservatory, says the official. Thermal screening of every visitor was being done at the entrance where markings have been made to maintain personal distancing while buying tickets, the official added. Field-level personnel of the Forest Department deployed inside the conservatory advise the visitors to maintain personal distancing and wear masks inside the sprawling conservatory, the official further said adding that masks were stocked at the counter for visitors coming without covering their face.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/butterfly-conservatory-sees-a-dip-in-visitors/article34298532.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts record over 600 cases||The central region reported 693 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, one of the highest single-day spikes recorded in the region. They consisted of a large number of patients from Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi, which recorded a marked increase in the rate of infection. One death was reported in the region, in Perambalur district. A 50-year-old man who suffered from pre-existing ailments of diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease succumbed to COVID-19. Thanjavur district reported the highest number of cases in the region with 178 fresh cases. Nagapattinam reported 159, reflecting a marked rise over the last week, and Tiruchi, 154. Tiruvarur, too, recorded an increase in the number of cases reported with 100 patients testing positive on Sunday. Pudukottai reported 40 fresh cases, and Karur, 38. In Ariyalur district, 20 patients tested positive and in Perambalur, four persons were infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-record-over-600-cases/article34298529.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies in accident||An eight-year-old boy who was riding pillion on a motorcycle died after a car knocked the vehicle down at TVS Tollgate here on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as Yuvaraj of Devarayaneri in Tiruchi. Police said the motorcycle driven by D. Joseph Rathinam was taking a turn at TVS Tollgate when a car hit the vehicle. Yuvaraj died on the way to the hospital, while Joseph Rathinam who sustained head injury is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The car driver Vasanthakumar of Madipakkam in Chennai has been named as the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies-in-accident/article34298517.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T invites applications for M.A.||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has invited applications for M.A. English (Language and Literature) programme for 2021-22. The programme was initiated last year with an emphasis on bridging the gap between between arts, science and technology as advocated in the National Education Policy 2020 enables students to face real-time challenges and to develop critical/creative and related higher-order thinking skills, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said in a press release. The details are available in the information brochure that could be accessed through the portal www.nitt.edu. Issue of application closes at 5.00 pm on April 30. For further guidance, contact S. Mekala,Associate Professor and Head, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Ph. 9486001130.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-invites-applications-for-ma-english/article34298520.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Best Engineer Award||The Institution of Engineers, Tiruchi Local Centre, has presented the Best Engineer Award 2020 to the Chief General Manager of Tamilnadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd, Karur, A. Balasubramanian. N. Kumaresan, Chairman, Tiruchi Local Centre, handed over the award to Mr. Balasubramanian while Programme Convenor and Past Chairman of Tiruchi Local Centre Convenor Dharmalingam read out the scroll of honour. Mr. Balasubramanian said in his address that TNPL has performed well on all fronts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/best-engineer-award/article34298519.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||45 arrested for selling fake liquor||The Tiruchi Rural Police arrested 45 persons last week on the charge of selling spurious liquor in the district and lodged them in the prison. Raids conducted all over the district on Saturday also led to the arrest of 15 persons who were found selling lottery tickets and four others for selling ganja. A police press release here said those involved in selling lottery tickets, ganja, spurious liquor and those involved in illegal sand mining and gambling would be closely monitored and arrested. Those involved in offences habitually and sand smuggling would be arrested and detained under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-arrested-for-selling-fake-liquor/article34298530.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 98.28 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 193 cusecs and the discharge 1,050 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34298534.ece
12 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three of family killed in accident near Tiruppur||Three of a family, who were travelling to Bengaluru, were killed when their vehicle collided with a lorry at Kamanaickenpalayam in Tiruppur district on Sunday. In the impact, the lorry also hit another car. The Tiruppur District (Rural) Police said that the person, who drove the lorry, was under the influence of alcohol. According to the police, the deceased were identified as C. Karthikeyan (35) from Vallakundapuram near Dhali, his wife Saranya (30) and daughter Kanika (6). The police said that the lorry driver Kathiravan lost control of the vehicle which hit Karthikeyan’s car that came from the opposite side. The lorry also hit another car that came behind Karthikeyan’s car. Those who travelled in the second car escaped unhurt, said the police. The bodies of the three were shifted to the Government Hospital, Palladam. The Kamanaickenpalayam police have registered a case in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-family-killed-in-accident/article34298578.ece
12 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Curbs on tourist spots in the Nilgiris||To slow the spread of COVID-19, the Nilgiris administration has imposed restrictions on tourist places, and will fine those who are disregarding safety norms. Tourists will not be allowed to spend long hours at popular spots, and will be asked to take a fixed route to popular parks and gardens. The parks will only allow a limited number of tourists at a time. Collector J. Innocent Divya said containment zones would be reinstated wherever cases occurred in a high number. “A policeman, a member of the local body and volunteers will be stationed in a containment zone all the time to ensure no one leaves the area,” she said. Ms. Divya said tourists in need of RT-PCR tests to return to their home States would have to get themselves tested at private facilities. “Many tourists from Karnataka, Telangana and a few other States are insisting on getting tested before returning home. We cannot burden our healthcare system with additional tests. So we have held a meeting with resort and hotel owners and told them that these tourists must get tested at private facilities,” she said. Tourists would have to complete the e-registration process before entering the district. Ms. Divya said more than 160 people were being treated for the contagion and COVID-19 care centres were being set up across the district to treat asymptomatic patients. People aged above 45 and living in containment zones would also be vaccinated, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-on-tourist-spots-in-the-nilgiris/article34298547.ece
12 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 90 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 22,201 with 90 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 21,272 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 572. The district’s death toll touched 357. In Ranipet district, 88 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,959. In Tirupathur district, 31 new cases were reported on Sunday and the total number of cases stood at 8,027. In Tiruvannamalai district, 74 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 20,194. Out of this, 19,485 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 421.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-90-new-cases/article34299076.ece
12 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||44 new positive cases, one death in Virudhunagar||A 57-year-old man from Virudhunagar district died on on Saturday due to COVID-19 taking the number of deaths in the district due to the viral infection to 234. Media bulletin said the man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai on April 4 with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing died, due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Meanwhile, 44 new positive cases were detected in the district. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said efforts were being made to step up vaccination in the district. The District Industries Centre had been asked to coordinate with industrial units to identify eligible persons for vaccination, he said. “We are planning for en masse vaccination of workers of various industrial units in the district,” he added. The Collector also said that plans were afoot to further increase the daily testing, which was now at 1,500. Meanwhile, Makkal Needhi Maiam has demanded that the State government replace Secretary for Social Welfare S. Madumathi as COVID-19 monitoring officer for Virudhunagar district. ‘Replace officer’ In a memorandum sent to Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, party’s central district unit secretary J. Kalidoss said Ms. Madumathi conducted a review meeting of COVID-19 preventive measures but did not do any follow up work to contain the spread of the virus in the district in 2020. Stating that Virudhunagar saw a steep increase in COVID-19 positive cases during the first wave due to lack of effective steps to contain the infection, Mr. Kalidoss said the district should not face a similar situation during the second wave too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/44-new-positive-cases-one-death-in-virudhunagar/article34298570.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi Collector forms 37 containment committees||Collector K. Senthil Raj has formed 37 special teams to monitor the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid out by the State government to contain COVID-19 in Thoothukudi district. Each team will have officials from revenue, health and family welfare, sanitation and police departments and operate at corporation, municipality and panchayat levels. The objective of the teams will be to ensure that people moving on roads, visiting shops and commuting in buses or other modes of transport adhered to COVID-19 guidelines. Any violation, the official team will impose a fine of Rs. 200 each. For shops and establishments, the teams will order closure and penalty of Rs. 5,000. Violators of physical distancing norms in markets and shops will also not be spared. On Saturday, the teams collected Rs. 29,000 as fine from face mask defaulters, a corporation official said. According to doctors at Government Medical College Hospital, persons above 45 years of age are qualified for COVID-19 vaccination. They can get themselves inoculated at designated centres by producing photo identity card (Aadhaar). There is no shortage of vaccines for eligible persons, they said. Menwhile, the price of tender coconut has increased steeply and cost Rs. 50 to Rs. 55 each. Vendors say heavy demand due to scorching heat has resulted in the sudden spike. The pandemic too has forced regular transporters from States such as Maharashtra to keep away. Similarly, summer favourites such as sugarcane juice and water melon are also being sold at fancy prices due to demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-collector-forms-37-containment-committees-in-district/article34298569.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lurking-danger/article34298589.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mandatory gear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandatory-gear/article34299072.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cong. nominee dies of viral pneumonia||Congress national secretary Sanjay Dutt had earlier said Mr. Rao could not campaign due to COVID-19 infection, and his daughter, Dhivya Rao, filled in for him. His body was taken to his home at Khadi Board Colony at Srivilliputtur. The final rites will take place on Monday. DMK leader in hospital DMK general secretary and Katpadi candidate Durai Murugan, who tested positive for COVID-19 last week and was under home quarantine initially, was admitted to Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre in Chennai. Sources said he was doing well, and there were no serious complications. BJP State vice-president and Aravakurichi candidate K. Annamalai also tested positive. In a tweet, he asked those he had worked with during the campaign to get themselves tested. Former Minister and AIADMK Palladam candidate M.S.M. Anandan was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore on Sunday after he tested positive. On Saturday, CPI candidate for Tiruppur North M. Subramanian tested positive. As he was asymptomatic, he quarantined himself at home. Other prominent candidates and campaigners who tested positive during the campaign are DMK MP Kanimozhi, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah, former Minister and DMK Kurinjipadi candidate M.R.K. Panneerselvam, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and Makkal Needhi Maiam’s Velachery candidate Santhosh Babu and Anna Nagar candidate V. Ponraj. AIADMK Karaikal South candidate A.U. Asana and CPI candidate for Sivaganga Gunasekaran also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-nominee-dies-of-viral-pneumonia/article34298543.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The ‘wall of kindness’ initiative, which was launched near Union Club on Tamukkam Road to benefit the needy people remains locked. People, who want to donate books, clothes, footwear and other things, used to place them on two shelves fixed on the ‘wall of kindness.’ Poor people who are in need of those materials collect them. Now people leave the things on the floor. A bundle of clothes remain scattered on the road in front of the wall. These materials will be of use to none and the very objective of this initiative gets defeated. I request the people concerned to take steps to keep those two shelves open so that the donated materials can be kept safe and put to use.  M. Sainithii,      Sewage water is overflowing on Ezhumalai Konar Lane and Periyasamy Konar Lane of ward 83, North Masi Street in Madurai, for the past three months. The stagnant pools of sewage water have become mosquito breeding grounds, besides emitting a stench. As COVID-19 cases are on the rise again, this unhygienic state proves to be a major health hazard to the residents. Officials now relieved from election work may take a look on these uncared for streets and set things right.  V. Logaprakash, North Masi Street||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34299005.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||A nearly two-km stretch of road from Thenur in Alathur block of Perambalur district to Puthanampatti in Tiruchi district requires blacktopping. One part of the worn-out stretch of road is under the control of the Alathur Unon and the other part is under maintenance of the Forest Department. Potholes and erosion of gravel have caused discomfort for motorists. It will be good for students of an aided college at Puthanampatti, devotees visiting Chettikulam Murugan temple, and farmers if the stretch is widened for two-way movement of buses and other vehicles.  Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Since the second wave of COVID-19 virus infection affects children, it has become important to look out for new symptoms in addition to fever, body ache, loss of smell and taste and breathlessness. Studies have suggested that red eyes, gastrointestinal conditions, unusual cough, brain fog and hearing impairment should not be taken lightly M. A. Aleem Tiruchi   It was on account of several restrictions and preventive measures that the first wave of COVID-19 spread could be brought under control. But, complacency has now set in and people seem to have forgotten precautionary procedures. Adherence to safety precautions like wearing of face masks, social distancing and disinfection of hands with sanitisers has apparently dwindled. One must not let down the guard not only for own safety but also well-being of others. S. Raghavan Cantonment   The second wave of COVID-19 spread has caused crowding of hospitals. Blame it on carelessness of people to follow safety protocol, the second wave is bound to be deadlier due to the existence of many country-specific variants. No extent of governmental action, or intervention by healthcare workers will keep the viral infection at bay unless one takes care of safety at a personal level T. M. Ranganathan Srirangam   The Election Commission of India deserves appreciation for conducting the Assembly election in a peaceful manner. The arrangements made by ECI were effective and every individual involved in the election work deserves to be praised. R. Gireesachandran Tiruvanaikoil   The biometric-authenticated public distribution of essential commodities is a welcome initiative. Transparency in the system ensuring hassle-free supply of ration items would help in preventing smuggling. Senior citizens, particularly those above 70 years must be provided leverage to authorise their family members to get rations on their behalf. For this purpose, a random check at doorsteps at periodic intervals could be thought of in the interests of senior citizens. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram   Electricity consumers in rural parts of Thanjavur have a grouse as the meter reading cards are in short supply. There have been instances of consumers being advised by Tangedco's assessors to purchase new meter cards from a private printing press. The onus is on TANGEDCO to replace the old cards with new ones. R. Ravichandran Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34298521.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CITY ENGAGEMENTS||K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering: Virtual National Conference on 'Latest Trends in Mechanical Engineering', T. Ram Prabhu, Deputy Director, DRDO, Bengaluru, inaugurates, 10 a.m.  Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: Webinar on 'Role of Microbes as Biopreservatives', S. Vignesh, Associate Professor, Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology, Thanjavur, inaugurates, 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article34299103.ece
12 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah will quit Congress after bypoll results, says Kateel||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah will quit the Congress after the bypolls, Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP State unit president, said in Belagavi on Sunday. “He is tired of the party. He will not last even a month after the bypolls. I am telling you this,” Mr. Kateel said. Both Mr. Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar are working against each other. While Mr. Siddaramaiah is going around boastfully claiming that he will be the next chief minister, Mr. Shivakumar and his friends are conspiring to throw Mr. Siddaramaiah out of the party. Mr. Siddaramaiah is, in turn, working silently to ensure that the Congress loses all elections while Mr. Shivakumar is the State Congress president. Mr. Siddaramaiah will, therefore, come out of the Congress. “I know it,” Mr. Kateel said. In the past byelections in Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar, the BJP could easily win them due to the infighting in the Congress. This time too, the two leaders have come here to see that Satish Jarkiholi loses this election and his potential in politics is reduced, he said. Mr. Kateel said that the BJP had issued three notices to party MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal who has made several objectionable comments about Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra. When asked about Mr. Yatnal’s comment BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka on Arun Singh, Mr. Kateel said that Mr. Yatnal should do well to realise that he will have to face serious action by the party. “Let him go on speaking like this, if he knows its implications,” he said. Mr. Kateel said that the BJP would win all bypolls, including the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. The achievements of the NDA government at the Centre headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and also Suresh Angadi as Railway Minister, will help Mangala Angadi win the bypolls, Mr. Kateel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-will-quit-congress-after-bypoll-results-says-kateel/article34298596.ece
12 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Arun Singh should study State’s history: Satish||Satish Jarkiholi, Congress candidate for Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll, on Sunday clarified that his fight was against blind belief and not Indian culture as alleged by Arun Singh, BJP national general secretary in charge of Karnataka. “Mr. Singh should know that Karnataka is the land of Basavanna, who fought against blind belief and social evils all his life. He should study Karnataka’s history before entering the State. He should understand what we are doing here. We are fighting blind belief and social evils. We are trying to stand with the principles enshrined in the Constitution. If Mr. Singh has a problem with these principles, he should raise his questions before Basavanna and Ambedkar, not me,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. He was responding to Mr. Singh’s criticism that the Congress candidate was “regularly insulting Indian culture and traditions”. Mr. Jarkiholi defended his involvement in anti-blind belief movements taken up by Manava Bandhutva Vedike, an NGO that he founded. “The BJP has no issues to raise in these bypolls. It goes on ranting about communal and caste issues and Bangladesh and other countries. They don’t realise that they are here to campaign for the bypoll. They are spreading hatred instead,” he charged. The Congress leader alleged that BJP leaders were behind a large number of communal riots in the country. He accused the BJP on failing on the security front, saying that the highest number of terror attacks had happened during the NDA’s tenure. More soldiers had been martyred in the NDA regime than during the UPA rule, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arun-singh-should-study-states-history-satish/article34298607.ece
12 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Procurement price for milk increased in some districts||Dharwad Milk Federation has increased milk procurement price by Rs. 1.20 per litre. This means the cooperative body will pay more to milk supplying farmers in Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada districts. However, there will be no change in the price at which milk is sold. Federation president Basavaraj Arabgonda and other office-bearers took this decision following the increase in milk production and the improving financial condition of the federation, said a release. The decision was taken at the 16th meeting of the administrative board. The additional payment will help farmers buy dry and wet fodder whose prices are increasing. As per the new rates, cow milk will be procured by the federation at Rs. 29.50 per litre and buffalo milk at Rs. 38.25 per litre. However, the selling price of milk has not been increased in the interest of the general public, he said.  There will be no change in the price at which milk is sold||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/procurement-price-for-milk-increased-in-some-districts/article34298594.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vendors who cater to Ugadi prepare for loss of another season||For anyone who thought last year’s highly muted Ugadi was a one-off, a second wave of COVID-19 infections has ensured that yet another festival remains a sombre affair. For the vendors who cater to the demands of people during this festival, there is little cheer even though Ugadi is only a few days away. The quantum of festive shopping in the city is down by 50% (offline) and 30% (online) as the mood in retail markets remains dull because of the ‘second wave’ of the pandemic, say industry observers. “The reality is people always shopped more during festive seasons. However, this season has not seen normal volumes picking up. The overall mood is low and sombre as everybody has a friend or a family member who is affected by the virus,” said K. Vaitheeswaran, popularly known as the father of Indian e-commerce and also CEO of city-based AGAIN Drinks. This year, the Ugadi season coincides with the wedding season and also Ramzan, making it one of the potentially most lucrative seasons for merchants in the city. Sajjan Raj Mehta, a senior garment trader from Chickpet, the wholesale hub of the city, said, “Last year, we were under complete lockdown during the festival. The only saving grace this time is that we are open for business. But there has been no uptake in business volumes for the festive season, which essentially only means a washout. With restrictions on marriages as well, even that business has not picked up.” Certain brick-and-mortar stores are offering attractive offers to attract footfall. However, retailers, in general, believe that with the second wave of infections, consumers have become more cautious about stepping out. A senior manager with a chain of home appliances store in the city said Ugadi being the new year for the Kannada and Telugu speaking populations, many usually purchase new items during this season, causing a swell in business. “Despite a particularly hot summer beginning weeks ago, not even air cooler sales have shot up to expected levels, indicating the deep economic crisis and lack of purchasing power of people,” he said. While there has been a general slump in business volume compared to previous years, brick and mortar businesses have been particularly hit as consumers are increasingly moving online. Some 37% of households in Bengaluru are expected to be using e-commerce sites as their primary channel for shopping in the next six months, says Sachin Taparia of LocalCircles, a platform to gauge the pulse of the country. To cash in on Ugadi, most e-commerce players are offering huge discounts, some up to 70% to attract traffic to their sites. The only saving grace for the festival seems to be the prices of vegetables, fruits and flowers, which used to skyrocket. They are relatively cheaper this year, also indicating lack of demand and enthusiasm for the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vendors-who-cater-to-ugadi-prepare-for-loss-of-another-season/article34298871.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Striking RTC employees, govt. remain firm||The striking road transport corporation (RTC) employees and the State government hardened their stands on Sunday, quashing any hopes of resumption of bus services from Monday. As Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa ruled out any talks with the striking workers and the government unleashed a slew of punitive measures, RTC employees announced a Statewide protest demonstration with their families on Monday. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, honorary president of the KSRTC Employees League, announced that all RTC employees would gather outside the offices of tahsildars and Deputy Commissioners across the State with their family members and bang plates on Monday, as a mark of protest against the “government’s insensitivity”. “The only way the impasse can be resolved is throughtalks. With the ChiefMinister ruling out talks, we are left with no option but to hold protests,” he said. R. Chandrashekar, president of the league, said, “We will follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour.”  Ban on protests However, the demonstration is expected to become the latest flash point between the two sides, as the government has explicitly banned all protests till April 20 in view of the pandemic. Praveen Sood, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police, said any violation of the recently issued guidelines would be appropriately dealt with by the local authorities. Meanwhile, the RTCs have continued with the carrot-and-stick policy to break the ongoing indefinite strike. RTCs have gone ahead with the threat to withhold March salary of the striking workers and announced that salary of only those working would be paid on Monday, a move that has drawn much ire but defended by the Chief Minister himself. No compromise: CM Warning of “stern action”, Mr. Yediyurappa, who is campaigning in Maski, told mediapersons, “We know how to face the situation. There is no compromise. Salaries of the employees who are on strike will not be released. The government will proceed to take stern action against employees who do not return to work and they will only have themselves to blame for their plight”. The RTCs have also announced that the request for inter-corporation transfer of those participating in the strike would not be considered and transfer orders of those who have already been transferred from one corporation to another, would be cancelled, unless they report to duty immediately. Inter-corporation transfer has been a key demand of the striking RTC employees, one that the government has fulfilled. Dismissals continue The BMTC dismissed 62 trainees and 60 probationers on Sunday. Over 350 employees have been dismissed across the four RTCs. Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar defended the dismissals. “We have declared the strike illegal on the basis of many factors. The government and the RTCs have the right to take certain decisions to protect the interests of people,” he said and added that the department could stand with labourers only when their demands are raised in a fair manner. The slew of punitive measures RTCs have taken seems to be having some impact. For the first time since the strike began on April 7, nearly 2,500 buses made trips in the State on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/striking-rtc-employees-govt-remain-firm/article34298728.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second wave of virus cases is likely to peak in May: Minister||Experts who are part of theCOVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) have opined that the second wave of the infection is likely to peak by May first week and the number of cases likely to fall by the end of that month. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, after a meeting with experts on Sunday, told presspersons that there was a need for citizens to be vigilant till the end of May. “If there is surge in cases, our health infrastructure will be over burdened. Experts of the TAC have suggested being vigilant at the borders and ensuring that tests are conducted on travellers coming from States where the number of COVID-19 cases are high. The TAC has been directed to come up with a report, which will be submitted to the Chief Minister. Further measures will be taken after discussions with the Chief Minister,” said Dr. Sudhakar. He said that while suggestions which impact economic activities would not be considered, experts have suggested that there must be a curb on large gatherings and crowds. Dr. Sudhakar also pointed out that there was a need for officials and citizens to be alert as many people from Bengaluru may be travelling to their hometowns for Ugadi. “There is a high chance that they will spread the virus in districts where the positivity rate is low,” he said. Curfew plans Asked if the night curfew, which has been imposed in a few districts in Karnataka, would be extended to other districts, Dr. Sudhakar said it was too premature to discuss it as the night curfew only began on Sunday. While night curfew has been implemented in seven districts between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., experts on Saturday suggested that it should be implemented from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. The Minister also pointed out that with COVID-19 cases on the rise in the State, there was a need to strengthen the tele-ICU system.      If there is surge in cases, our health infrastructure will be over burdened. Experts have suggested being vigilant at the borders and ensuring that tests are conducted on travellers from States where the cases are high  K. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-wave-of-virus-cases-is-likely-to-peak-in-may-minister/article34298616.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tough times ahead for State’s power infrastructure||Climate projections for 2021–2050 for Karnataka show that the summer maximum temperature is projected to increase by 1.4 to 2.4 degrees Celsius in the districts with thermal power plants, and by 1.7 to 2.4°C in districts with solar power plants. The mean annual rainfall is projected to increase by 11% to 22% in the districts with power infrastructure, and heavy rainfall events by two to six events in districts with thermal power plants and by one to two events in some of the districts with solar power plants. For a State that has often battled with allegations of unreliable power supply infrastructure, what will this mean? And what are the challenges that the new push for renewable energy such as solar power faces with regard to climate change? The ‘Climate Risk Profile for Power Sector in Karnataka’ by the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP), brought out this March taking into account maximum temperature, heavy rainfall events, and vulnerability criteria, indicates that thermal power plants in Vijayapura are at “medium-high” risk, those in Raichur and Ballari are at “medium” risk, and the Udupi plant is at “very low” risk. Solar power plants in all the eight districts fall in the “low-medium” risk category. The implications of an increase in temperature and shortage of water include a 0.3% to 0.5% reduction in solar efficiency and material damage, a 0.4% to 0.7% reduction in thermal efficiency, and reduced transmission efficiency because of additional resistance and increased conductor sag. On the other hand, the implications of an increase in heavy rainfall events are 30% reduction in solar efficiency because of dark rain clouds and material damage, and reduced boiler efficiency because of increased moisture content of coal and delay in coal supply as Karnataka’s thermal plants rely on inter-State supply, the report adds. Extreme events Speaking to The Hindu , Indu K. Murthy, Principal Research Scientist, Domain Lead-Adaptation and Risk Analysis team at CSTEP, and one of the key authors of the report, said the idea of the study stemmed from the fact that not much attention is given to the power sector in India while rest of the world is looking at the risk factor. “We have been hearing about more and more extreme events. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences report, there will be more such extreme events till the end of the century. All infrastructure has been designed with historical climate in mind. It makes sense to look at what will happen in the future to design and maintain infrastructure. An initial climate change risk assessment is important for practitioners to make decisions and climate-proof infrastructure,” she said. The researchers started off with climate hazard mapping, looking at historical climate data and compared data with the future period. “What we see for districts in Karnataka with thermal and solar power plants is that there will be an increase in temperature over a 30-year period, and though the increase looks small it will not be a smooth curve,” Ms. Murthy explained. Furthermore, heavy rainfall events will also increase in the future. In certain districts with solar plants, such as Bagalkot and Chitradurga, no such events have been recorded historically. So the projected extreme rainfall events could become the new normal, she pointed out. So what is the way forward? The researchers suggest a multi-pronged approach involving technological interventions such as promoting better designs and improved standards, planning-related measures such as mapping climate hazards and risks to help formulate strategies for exposure reduction, and budgetary allocation for periodic review, repair, and upgrade to reduce climate vulnerability. They have also recommended development of a resilience index with a minimum acceptable standard for periodic review of existing infrastructure, drafting of a retrofit code, and imposing legal liability to adhere to standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tough-times-ahead-for-states-power-infrastructure/article34298606.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inter-State drug racket unearthed in Koramangala||The Koramangala police, on Sunday, busted an inter-state drug racket and recovered 106 kgs of marijuana which had landed from Visakhapatnam to be circulated among local peddlers. The police arrested the accused Ravikumar, 25, from Ramanagara, Marappa , 24 from Chamarajanagar and Raja Kishore Nayak, 26, from Odisha. The police said the accused were caught red-handed while they were receiving the consignment at Koramangala 8th block. The police recovered 23 kgs of marijuana from them. Based on their confession, the police raided a rented house in Begur where the accused had stored another 83 kgs. The trio told the police that they would source the drugs from their contact, Santosh from Visakhapatnam and smuggle it via various sources, including train, goods vehicle and sometimes private buses. They would then sell the drugs to local peddlers in the south and southeastern parts of the city, Srinath Joshi Mahadev, DCP, south east division, said. The total value of the seizure is estimated to be around Rs. 32 lakh. The Koramangala police booked the three under the NDPS Act and are investigating further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inter-state-drug-racket-unearthed-in-koramangala/article34298870.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deve Gowda lists his contributions to north Karnataka||The former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda on Sunday listed out his contributions for the development of north Karnataka region, and his work in securing the welfare of several downtrodden communities during his political career, ahead of the byelection in Basavakalyan Assembly constituency. “At 88 years, I am unable to come personally to seek votes. The younger generation is not aware of the contributions I have made to the north Karnataka region. In my last stage of life, I am humbly seeking to create awareness about the need for a regional party fighting for existence between two national parties,” he said in an open letter addressed to the “electorate from the land of Basavanna”, which was released on Sunday. Pitching for the JD(S) candidate in Basavakalyan, Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, Mr. Gowda said, “Only in the spirit to save the regional party that I am still alive. It is a question of survival now.” Reservation Mr. Gowda said it was owing to his efforts that the then Chief Minister late D. Devaraj Urs set up the L.G. Havanur Commission that later led to reservation to the backward classes. “Vokkaligas and Lingayats saw reduced opportunities during my tenure as Chief Minister as backward classes received increased reservation opportunities. The same policy continues even today. This was based on Basavanna’s teaching of equal share for all and equality for all.” While recalling his efforts with the then Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar in securing Scheduled Tribe tag for Valmikis, the former Prime Minister said, “Women were provided with 50% reservation in gram panchayats, andreservation was ensured for posts in local bodies. Women were also given 50% reservation in recruitment of teachers.” Further, he pointed out that it was he who created the Hyderabad KarnatakaDevelopment Board, and ensured that Basaveshwara’s memorial at Kudalasangama was preserved. Listing out his efforts in creation of the minorities development board, he said that reservation to Muslims was first provided in the country during his regime, and that the conflict over Idgah Maidan in Hubballi saw an amicable solution. “My friends in the Congress, who consider our contributions to minorities welfare lightly may have forgotten this. Unfortunately, I am forced to take lessons on secular principles from friends from minority communities who took benefits when they were in the party.”  In my last stage of life, I am humbly seeking to create awareness about the need for a regional party fighting for existence between two national parties.H.D. Deve Gowda,JD(S) national president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deve-gowda-lists-his-contributions-to-north-karnataka/article34298724.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PM calls CM to know about preventive measures in place||Prime Minister Narendra Modi rang up Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday to enquire about the measures that Karnataka was putting in place against the second wave of COVID-19. During the brief call in the morning, the Prime Minister advised Mr. Yediyurappa to concentrate on micro-containment zones. “During the interaction, information was provided on the measures that the State has taken to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Prime Minister expressed happiness with them. He advised us to focus on micro-containment,” Mr. Yediyurappa tweeted. The call followed the Prime Minister’s virtual interaction with the Chief Ministers of all States on Thursday amid the rising cases of COVID-19. Sources said that during the call, which lasted about five minutes, Mr. Yediyurappa, who was at Maski in Raichur as part of the byelection campaign, spoke about the State’s measures in containing the spread in eight high-incidence districts. He is learnt to have assured the Prime Minister that stricter measures would be implemented, if needed. When asked if the issue of a possible lockdown was discussed, sources in the Chief Minister’s Office clarified that lockdown was not an option since vaccines were available now along with medical infrastructure, unlike last year. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters in Raichur, Mr. Yediyurappa said that the State government had imposed night curfew to control COVID-19 spread since the spike in cases was going out of hand. “People also should cooperate with the efforts of the government. COVID-19 cases are increasing daily. Mr. Modi also expressed anxiety over the risein cases,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-calls-cm-to-know-about-preventive-measures-in-place/article34298611.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Funds released for zilla panchayats||The State government has released funds for zilla panchayats for meeting expenditure of rural local bodies for the period of five months in the current financial year. While the highest amount was released for Belagavi, the biggest district, at Rs. 238.36 crore, Kodagu, the smallest district, got Rs. 47.11 crore. The released funds are meant for implementation of zilla panchayat schemes under different departments. Funds released for some of the other ZPs are Bengaluru Urban – Rs. 186.74 crore, Bengaluru Rural – Rs. 50.4 crore, Shivamogga – Rs. 114.85 crore, Mysuru – Rs. 140.65 crore, Mangaluru – Rs. 90.24 crore, Kalaburagi – Rs. 139.37 crore, and Ballari – Rs. 119.97 crore. The chief accounts officer would take steps to make scheme-wise release of funds to the concerned implementing officers, the Finance Department said. The department has also released funds to all taluk panchayats in the State in the form of grants for the next five months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/funds-released-for-zilla-panchayats/article34298722.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Home isolation should be monitored’||Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said on Sunday that there was a need for better scrutiny of home isolation cases. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said that better monitoring of home isolation cases would ensure that the level of hospitalisation did not increase. He said strong, good home isolation would reduce the load on hospitals. He added that they had also told the government that there needed to be efficient utilisation of hospitals. “After a person whohas serious symptoms is admitted in a hospital, avails treatment, and recovers, he or she must be transferred to a COVID care centre so that the bed can be allotted to another patient who is in need of it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-isolation-should-be-monitored/article34298617.ece
12 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||RTE: Deadline extended||The deadline for submitting online applications seeking admission for the academic year 2021-22 in aided and unaided schools under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009 has been extended to April 2021. Parents who are interested to avail of this opportunity may submit an online application through the department’s websitehttp://www.schooleducation.kar. nic.in, according to an official release from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rte-deadline-extended/article34298869.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Women are role models’||Of the 72 lakh doses of vaccine received in the State, about 61 lakh doses have been administered to people . Of these, 53% have been administered to women and women are role models when it comes to participation in the vaccination drive, said K. Sudhakar, Minister for Health and Family Welfare. He was speaking at the inauguration of Lasika Utsav on Sunday. Vaccine was administered to women belonging to different faiths on the day as a symbolic gesture, he said. The special vaccination drive began on the birth anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule and will culminate on April 14, on the birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar. Dr. Sudhakar also said that he would continue to make surprise visits to hospitals and vaccination centres. “Irregularities and improper facilities will not be tolerated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-are-role-models/article34298612.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman murdered||A 40-year-old woman was murdered in her house in Electronics City on Saturday. The assailants smothered her to death using a pillow before slitting her throat, the police said. The motive for the murder is yet to be ascertained as nothing has been stolen, the police added. The deceased has been identified as Shahin Taj, a resident of Subhash Nagar. She was married to Chand Pasha, an autorickshaw driver. Shahin was running a shop from her house selling snacks and essentials. A senior police officer said that the incident took place after Pasha left for work. He returned home at night and found his wife’s body. He alerted neighbours who called the police. The family had no dispute with anyone, a police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-murdered/article34298608.ece
12 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP committed to ‘reform, perform, transform’, says Ravi||BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi said that the poll verdict in the States of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, and Union Territory Puducherry will be an answer to the Congress’ claims and also to those criticising the BJP-led government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi on Sunday, Mr. Ravi exuded the confidence in the party retaining power in Assam. The BJP will improve its base in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and will make a big gain in West Bengal, ending the Trinamool Congress rule, he said. Also expressing the confidence in the party winning the by-elections to one Lok Sabha seat and two Assembly seats in the State, Mr. Ravi recalled the landslide victory of the BJP in the by-elections to Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency in Bengaluru and Sira in Tumakuru last year. The trend will repeat in this by-elections too, he added. Coming down heavily on the Congress, the former Minister said that the Congress has become ideologically bankrupt; it is fighting the Left parties in Kerala but has joined hands with them in Assam and West Bengal. He also criticised the grand old party for striking an alliance with the Muslim League in Kerala, the Indian Secular Front (ISF) in West Bengal and the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam. If the Congress had had ideology, it would not have been in such a pathetic situation that it aligned with these forces now, Mr. Ravi said and reiterated that the BJP is the only party in India that has been consistently growing on the basis of its ideology. All of its top brass, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, began their political journey as common party worker and reached the national level after handling work in booth committees. The BJP-led government was committed to the principle of reform, perform and transform, he said. Mr. Ravi also attacked Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah for scrapping Lokayukta and letting corruption flourish during the Congress regime in the State when he was Chief Minister. Mr. Siddaramaiah formed Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to reduce the power of the Lokayukta and make it weak. Reacting to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar’s allegations against BJP leaders, Mr. Ravi described the Congress and its leaders as an empty vessel that makes the loudest noise. Mr. Ravi refused to answer questions over internal strife in the ruling party [between Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and party MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal] which has been brewing for some time. He was also tight-lipped about any decision by the BJP high command or the course of action that may be taken against Mr. Yatnal.  ‘If the Congress had had ideology, it would not have been in such a pathetic situation that it aligned with certain forces now’ ‘The BJP is the only party in India that has been consistently growing on the basis of its ideology’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-committed-to-reform-perform-transform-says-ravi/article34298598.ece
12 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Another meeting with fertilizer firms today: DVS||Refusing to give any concrete assurance on reducing the price of fertilizers, Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers D.V. Sadananda Gowda on Sunday said he had held a meeting with fertilizer companies and would hold another meeting with them on Monday. “We import 90% of the fertilizers from different countries. The price of fertilizers has gone up in the international market. DAP alone has seen over 200% increase in price in the international market. These developments have caused price rise in the domestic market as well. I would hold another meeting with the fertilizer companies tomorrow [Monday] and then will say something on it,” Mr. Gowda said, responding to queries by mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Sunday. In stock The Minister, however, said that fertilizers that had been stocked in warehouses would be sold to farmers at old rates. “Different fertilizers companies have enough stock in their godowns that could last for over a month. The government will ensure that the old stock is sold to farmers at old rates... Agricultural activities are over in the United States and Europe and we are expecting a drop in the price of fertilizers there. If that happens, we will import fertilizers from there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-meeting-with-fertilizer-firms-today-dvs/article34298716.ece
12 April 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||It’s same candidates in different camps this time around||Maski, an Assembly constituency reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, is all set to witness a fierce electoral battle, with the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates having changed places. Pratapgouda Patil, who has won all the three elections held in the constituency after it came into being in 2008 — as the BJP candidate in 2008 and as the Congress candidate in 2013 and 2018, is now again the BJP candidate. In fact, the byelection is necessitated by his defection to the BJP and subsequent disqualification from the Assembly. It is a matter of prestige for the party, particularly because Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra has camped in the constituency leading the campaign. Basanagouda Turvihal, who quit the BJP after Mr. Patil joined it, is now the Congress candidate here. For D.K. Shivakumar, president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, retaining the Congress seats in Basavakalyan and Maski would mean a lot for his leadership and election engineering skills. The fact that the same two candidates had fiercely fought the 2018 Assembly elections from the same constituency but from the opposite camp makes Maski particularly interesting. Mr. Patil had won by a slender margin of just 213 votes against his nearest rival, Mr. Turvihal, who had polled 60,174 votes. Anti-incumbency? Political analysts say there is a discernible anti-incumbency wave sweeping across the constituency against Mr. Patil. Lack of visible development in the constituency despite being its representative for the last 13 years. His returning to the BJP after defecting from the Congress has triggered dissent in the BJP ranks too. Though most Lingayats, an estimated 50,000 voters, in the constituency are believed to be BJP supporters, anti-incumbency is visible even within this group. Realising this, the BJP leadership has mobilised the community leaders from across the State for campaign. They are holding grassroots-level community meetings and projecting Mr. Patil as a Minister-to-be in Mr. Yediyurappa’s Cabinet, which would benefit the constituency. Mr. Patil’s consistent opposition to the NRBC 5A canal project is another stumbling block for the BJP. There is strong opposition to Mr. Patil in as many as 58 villages that would benefit from the irrigation project if implemented. Mr. Yediyurappa also rubbed salt into the wound by turning down the demand in his recent election campaign. Farmers from these villages who are on an indefinite protest demonstration at Pamanakallur village on rotation demanding the project are campaigning against Mr. Patil. No third option It remains to be seen if these would end up favouring Mr. Turvihal as there is no strong third candidate. The teamwork from the Congress and a strong following of youths are the biggest strengths for Mr. Turvihal. The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s campaign in the constituency might be useful for attracting around 20,000 Kuruba votes. Most of the 10,000 Muslim voters are expected to lean towards the Congress. Mr. Turvihal’s defeat in the last election by a slender margin has also created a kind of sympathy for him. “Presently, the Congress appears to have the upper hand. However, the BJP turning the tables on its rival with its enormous resources cannot be ruled out,” said Venkatesh Patel, a leader of the NRBC 5A Canal agitation and a political observer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-same-candidates-in-different-camps-this-time-around/article34298721.ece
12 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Labour Department always stood by employees whenever they raised demands legally: Minister||Responding to queries from media representatives, especially those related to the sacking of transport employees who were on an indefinite strike, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar justified the action taken by State-owned transport corporations in their efforts to tackle the ongoing strike. “We have declared the strike illegal on the basis of many factors. The call for the strike is illegal as it violated many norms, including the appointment of honorary president to the employees union and then, going on strike without proper notice. The government and the transport corporations that it owns have the right to take certain decisions to protect the interests of the people,” he said, addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Sunday. On criticism that the Labour Department was not protecting the interests of employees and their rights to protest against injustice, the Minister said that his department had always stood by the employees whenever they raised their demands in legal ways. “COVID-19 is spreading and people are suffering because of disruption in transport facilities due to the strike. The government is repeatedly appealing to the agitating employees to call off the strike and return to work to avoid inconvenience to the people. It has also made it clear that the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations cannot be applied to transport employees. The government has already fulfilled eight of their nine demands and the remaining one on revision of salaries cannot be addressed right now as the Model Code of Conduct is in force for the byelections. We have made it clear that we would address it soon after the expiry of the Model Code of Conduct and appealed to the agitating employees to call off the strike. Yet, the employees are rigid,” he said. His colleagues in the Council of Ministers S.T. Somashekhar, B.C. Patil, B.S. Anand Singh and Murugesh Nirani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-department-always-stood-by-employees-whenever-they-raised-demands-legally-minister/article34298600.ece
12 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Change in government office hours from today||Considering a fresh request made by the Karnataka State Government Employees Association (KSGEA) on April 1 seeking a change in office hours in the districts that record high temperature in summer, the government on Sunday issued an order changing regular schedule of its offices in the seven districts of Kalaburagi Division and Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts in Belagavi Division. As per the order, the new schedule would start at 8 a.m. and conclude at 1.30 p.m. The new schedule would become effective on Monday and remain in force till the end of May 2021. Turned down The government had, on March 31, issued an order clearly turning down the demand made by KSGEA on March 17 citing the spread of COVID-19. The KSGEA made another request on April 1 pressing for the demand. The government directed the employees in the districts concerned to discharge their duties ensuring that the public did not suffer from the changed working hours. Special tasks It was also made clear that the order would not apply to those employees who are assigned special tasks by Deputy Commissioners and Chief Executive Officers of Zilla Panchayats of the respective districts in emergency, especially with regard to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-government-office-hours-from-today/article34298592.ece
12 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Prakash Khandre returns to BJP at Basavakalyan rally||Senior politician and former MLA from Bhalki Prakash Khandre quit the Janata Dal(S) and joined the BJP at an election rally in Basavakalyan, Bidar district, on Sunday. National general secretary of the BJP Arun Singh admitted him into the party by handing over the party’s flag to him in the presence of Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Housing Minister V. Somanna, Bidar Lok Sabha member Bhagwanth Khuba and other senior leaders. As part of their strategy to strengthen the party ahead of the Basavakalyan byelections scheduled for April 17, senior BJP leaders, including Mr. Somanna, Mr. Savadi and Mr. Bommai, had held a series of meetings to rope in Mr. Prakash Khandre. Seeing these developments, Janata Dal(S) Legislative Party leader H.D. Kumaraswamy also held meetings with Mr. Prakash Khandre to retain him in the party. However, his efforts went in vain. In 2018, Mr. Prakash Khandre quit the BJP after he was denied party ticket. He contested the elections on Janata Dal(S) ticket and miserably lost by receiving just 9.06% of the polled votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prakash-khandre-returns-to-bjp-at-basavakalyan-rally/article34298601.ece
12 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Road widening begins in Parkala town||There were some initial resistance from residents of Parkala town in Udupi district on Sunday when the National Highways Division of the State Public Works Department (PWD) commenced building dismantling work in the town for the much-awaited widening of National Highway 169A (Malpe-Tirthahalli). Widening the highway into a four-lane road between Udupi and Hiriyadka had hit a roadblock with people opposing work in Parkala town, located between Manipal and Hiriyadka. The stretch had always been witnessing frequent traffic jams with just a two-lane narrow carriageway available for vehicles. With the Union Road Transport Ministry sanctioning funds for land acquisition, the PWD issued notifications for acquisition and finalised compensation. As the department initiated dismantling the acquired buildings on Sunday, residents and traders of the town objected to it stating that the process was started without any notice being given. They needed at least a week’s time to shift their belongings, the affected persons said. PWD’s Executive Engineer Nagaraj Naik and other officials visited the spot and pacified the public stating when the final acquisition notice was issued, it should be treated as a notice to vacate property. Later, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat visited the spot and convinced the agitating public about the need for speedy completion of works before the onset of rain. The dismantling work resumed thereafter.  Attractive compensation Mr. Naik told The Hindu that in all, 72 property were acquired for a 900 m length of road in Parkala town for four-laning NH 169A between Kadiyali in Udupi and Parkala. A majority of them were old buildings, while others were vacant property. When the Udupi City Municipal Council desired to acquire property for road widening eight years ago, the total compensation payable was pegged at Rs. 3.2 crore. However, at present, Rs. 21.85 crore was being paid as compensation to land and building losers, Mr. Naik said. The compensation was fixed at Rs. 3,096 per sq ft for non-agricultural land and two times of Rs. 84 lakh per acre for agricultural land. Compared to other regions, public in this area had extended their cooperation to road widening work, though there were some initial hiccups, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-widening-begins-in-parkala-town/article34299023.ece
12 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana yet to evolve to contemporary issues: Aithal||Yakshagana in the present traditional form is yet to evolve to contemporary issues and concerns, said B.R. Venkataramana Aithal, senior theatre person and former Principal of Ninasam Ranga Shikshana Kendra, Heggodu, here on Saturday. Speaking at the inauguration of a workshop “Yakshagana: Vartamanada Belakinalli Maruchintane”, Mr. Aithal said that Yakshagana, which is a comprehensive theatre art form, is facing a challenge in presenting contemporary issues in the traditional form. This theatre art form is yet to see new experiments in writing and presentation. “We should tender an apology to theatre person Shivaram Karanth for not having accepted the experiments that he brought into Yakshagana presentation,” he said. Folklore researcher and former Vice-Chancellor of Folklore University K. Chinnappa Gowda said that there should be a discussion on how to present Yakshagana in a three-hour period. There should be a serious thought given to why the number of Yakshagana troupes is increasing, which, he said, has not led to a corresponding increase in the quality of artistes. When Yakshagana troupes stage Jesus Christ and Veerarani Abbakka, artistes should have to make preparations to present them effectively. Chairman of Karnataka Yakshagana Academy M.A. Hegde and Principal of St. Aloysius College Praveen Martis also spoke. The Yakshagana team of the college presented Yakshagana ballet Macbeth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-yet-to-evolve-to-contemporary-issues-aithal/article34299015.ece
12 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More KSRTC buses hit the road||While more KSRTC buses began operating in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has appealed to KSRTC employees to stop their ongoing agitation and come forward for talks with the State government for a resolution to their issues. Meanwhile, a communiqué from KSRTC said that all buses, including Karnataka Sarige, Rajahamsa, Non-AC Sleeper, Volvo, Volvo Multi Axle and Dream Class, from KSRTC Mangaluru Depot No 2 were operated on Sunday. They included services to Tirupati, Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Ernakulam, Mantralayam, Bengaluru, Mysuru and Karwar. In a statement, Mr. Poojary said that of the total 480 buses from Mangaluru Division, 140 buses operated on Saturday. The services of 200 buses were made available on Sunday. As many as 45 KSRTC buses operated from Puttur Division on Saturday and the number went up to 75 on Sunday. These buses were operated towards Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga and Madikeri. Mr. Poojary said that efforts were being made by officials from KSRTC Mangaluru and Puttur divisions to operationalise more KSRTC buses and provide better services to people. While lauding KSRTC personnel who have joined duty, Mr. Poojary called upon the agitating personnel to join hands with the State government to tide over this difficult time caused by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-ksrtc-buses-hit-the-road/article34299017.ece
12 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||First electric loco-hauled goods train runs from Panambur||After the electrification of Panambur Yard, the first electric loco (AC Loco)-hauled freight train operated on the stretch on Sunday. The train left the yard at 7.05 p.m. The goods train having 21 covered wagons, carried 1,820 tonnes of neem-coated urea from Mangaluru Chemicals and Fertilizers (MCF) to West Hill, Kozhikode, Kerala, said a release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway. The electrification of the Panambur Goods Yard was completed last month at a cost of Rs. 8 crore. Followed by this, electrification of New Mangalore Port (NMPT) would be taken up next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-electric-loco-hauled-goods-train-runs-from-panambur/article34299021.ece
12 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Showing compassion to birds and animals||As Satish Kumar’s van filled with eatables such as packets of mixture [condiments], bhujiya and other snacks nears the Bengre beach, a flock of crows follow the vehicle. Mr. Kumar stops the vehicle and takes out a few packets of these snacks and spreads the content on the roadside at different locations. The crows start picking up mixture and bhujiya and fly to nearby trees to eat only to come back again. A good number of crows come out to eat the snacks thus spread on the ground. Within 10 minutes, the crows consume the snacks. Mr. Kumar, a resident of Kottara in the city, who has been in the business of selling snacks across the city, has been taking time off from sales to feed the crows for the last five years. “These are among species that need food. I try to fill their stomach in my own way,” he says. He offers snacks when he comes to Bengre once in two days. Apart from places near Bengre beach, Mr. Kumar offers snacks to crows at another place, also in Bengre. He has earmarked spots across the city, including a graveyard in Padil, where he offers food to crows. “Not just crows, street dogs also come and I offer them biscuits at some spots,” he says. Residents have largely not objected to his kind act. “Only in a couple of places, there was objection and I changed the area,” he adds. It is compassion for these birds and animals, he says, that has made him offer food. For about two months during the lockdown last year, Mr. Kumar offered food packets to those in need. “My wife prepared chitranna, pulav and bisibele bath, which I packed in packets and offered to the needy,” Mr. Kumar said and added, “I believe God comes to your aid when you selflessly serve the needy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/showing-compassion-to-birds-and-animals/article34299014.ece
12 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Searing heat and depleting dam levels in Mysuru region||The searing heat of the summer is being felt across the Mysuru-Mandya-Chamarajanagar belt with maximum temperature hovering between 35 degree C and 37 degree C. This has brought the focus on drinking water situation in the region as water levels in the reservoirs are prone to depletion due to high evaporation loss and release to the canals. The maximum temperature for Mysuru as per the India Meteorological Department during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday was 36.7 degree C which was 2.4 degree C above normal for the month. The all-time high record for Mysuru during April was 39.9 degree C which was recorded on April 25, 2016, according to IMD. Similarly, Mandya recorded 36.6 degree C which was 1.6 degree C above normal while Chamarajanagar recorded a maximum temperature of 35.8 degree C. While the day time temperature continues to hover around 36 degree C, the water levels in the major reservoirs are depleting due to evaporation loss and decline in the rate of inflow. But, the district administration in Mysuru has allayed fears of drinking water scarcity. Though the water levels in the major dams, including KRS which is the main source of drinking water to the region, is dipping, it was sufficient to last through summer, according to officials. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the water level at KRS was hovering at 100 feet as of Saturday and there was 22.82 tmcft of water available for use. The water level in the dam during the same period last year was 103.80 feet and the storage was 25.95 tmcft. Similarly, the storage in Kabini on Saturday was 8.44 tmcft, while there was 11.93 tmcft in Hemavathi and 2.93 tmcft at Harangi. The cumulative storage in the four major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin as on Saturday was 46.01 tmcft and it is 40.15% of 114.57 tmcft which is the total storage capacity of the four dams, according to the KSNDMC. The KRS and the Kabini are the main source for supplying drinking water not only to Mysuru and surrounding towns and cities in the region but also to Bengaluru, which requires about 1.5 tmcft of water per month, according to officials. While the storage may be sufficient to last through summer, any release to save standing crops or for agricultural activity coupled with the delay in the onset of south west monsoon could lead to a crisis. But, for now the situation seems to be comfortable, believe officials. But in the rural hinterland, the authorities are staring at a scarcity in 103 villages spread across all taluks except K.R. Nagar. The issue was also raised in a recent review meeting of the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat and measures have been initiated for ensuring water supply through tankers and drilling borewells if the ground water table was found to be at a higher level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/searing-heat-and-depleting-dam-levels-in-mysuru-region/article34298709.ece
12 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ugadi: Flower vendors shift to J.K. Grounds||The flower vendors at Devaraja Market have shifted to J.K. Grounds consequent to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) directive to prevent congregation of people for Ugadi festival purchase. The closure has been ordered as a measure to curb the possible surge in COVID-19 cases. The arrangement is in place till April 13 as large number of people tend to shop at Devaraja Market ahead of the festival. While such norms were accepted in the pre-pandemic times, the district administration took note of the possible surge in cases which was on the upswing in Mysuru since the last few days. Hence, it was decided to close the market for 3 days from Sunday. The authorities said daily trade in agricultural and floriculture produce is the lifeline of a majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ugadi-flower-vendors-shift-to-jk-grounds/article34298706.ece
12 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC, City Central Library officials to visit gutted library today||Amid mounting offers for donation of books and financial assistance for rebuilding the gutted library established by a 62-year-old man in Mysuru, the officials of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and City Central Library will visit the spot in Rajiv Nagar II stage in the city on Monday. Deputy Director of City Central Library, Mysuru, B. Manjunath said MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag will visit the park premises in Rajiv Nagar, where the library established by Syed Ishaq stood before it was destroyed in a fire on Friday. She will be accompanied by officials from the Department of Public Libraries. The visit of officials comes in the wake of publishers of Department of Public Libraries expressing their desire to contribute to the re-establishment of the library. Mr. Manjunath said the officials will examine the ownership of the land on which the library was set up. Even if the land is part of a park, there is provision for establishing a library, Mr Manjunath said. Report sent Raja Ram Mohan Roy Library Foundation, which is under Government of India’s Ministry of Culture, too had sought information about the library, he said. A report on the matter had been sent to the State government too through Director of Department of Public Libraries, Government of Karnataka, he added. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Prakash Gowda pointed to the presence of a transformer box next to the spot and said sparks from the electrical equipment could have fallen on the books, leading to the fire. However, he said the police will carry out an elaborate investigation to ascertain if the fire was due to an electrical short circuit or whether it was deliberate act of sabotage by miscreants. The police officials were inquiring with the local residents and checking CCTV cameras nearby as part of the investigation. Former Mayor Ayub Khan, who is MCC corporator of the area, sought to exercise caution against creating misunderstanding among the public that Kannada books in the library had been targeted. “All types of books, including religious books, were gutted,” he said. He said he would support the cause of rebuilding the library at the same place provided all necessary permission from the government authorities are obtained. If the land is civic amenities site, which has already been allotted to somebody, it will become illegal to rebuild the library on the same spot, he said, and urged campaigners seeking to rebuild the library to first obtain clearances from the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-city-central-library-officials-to-visit-gutted-library-today/article34298710.ece
12 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Good response to rebuilding library||Syed Ishaq, whose library of estimated 11,000 books was gutted in the fire, was flooded with offers of donation of books and financial assistance to rebuild the library. While a host of Kannada organisations vowed to stand by Mr. Ishaq in his efforts to rebuild the library at the same spot, several individuals and others had come forward to donate books and money. A day after former Minister and Congress leader B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan sent Rs. 2 lakh to Mr. Ishaq through an emissary, BJP State vice-president M. Rajendra visited the spot on Sunday and interacted with Mr. Ishaq. Mr. Rajendra is believed to have communicated to him the interest shown by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra in rebuilding the library. An online fundraising exercise raised over Rs. 15 lakh by Sunday evening. Muzaffar Assadi, chairman of Department of Political Science, University of Mysore, who had appealed to people to donate books, said he had received response from different parts of the country. “People are ready to send truckloads of books,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-rebuilding-library/article34298711.ece
12 April 2021||MYSURU/hassan,KARNATAKA||Vaccination: Chamarajanagar dist. crosses one lakh mark||Chamarajanagar district reached a significant milestone in the drive against COVID-19 with the vaccination coverage crossing one lakh population mark. The vaccination drive was launched on January 16 and it took almost three months to reach the one lakh mark clocked on Friday. There are 2.97 lakh persons aged over 45 in the district, of which 1,96,530 are in the age group of 45-59. There are 1,00,470 people who are 60 years and above in the district. As on April 10, 1,01,586 persons in Chamarajanagar have been vaccinated, according to local authorities. There are 60 Primary Health Centres across the district apart from community health centres at Santemarahalli, Beguru, and Kabballi where vaccination is administered. This is in addition to taluk hospitals at Kollegal, Yelandur, Gundlupet, and Chamarajanagar district hospital, the PHC and community health centres in the town. The district administration has also opened 14 health sub-centres for vaccination. Meanwhile, vaccination festival was launched on Sunday and will continue for four days. A publicity campaign drive was also launched in Chamarajanagar town, which commenced from Chamarajeshwara temple on Sunday. In Hassan The number of active COVID-19 cases crossed 1,000 in Hassan district, with 167 fresh cases reported on Sunday. The total number of cases has increased to 30,572 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-chamarajanagar-dist-crosses-one-lakh-mark/article34298707.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Going out is a big deal now’||Fear, caution, and an overall dullness in sentiment due to the second wave of COVID-19 has meant that Ugadi celebrations will be low-key at best. “No one seems to be excited about Ugadi shopping this time. We are only hoping and praying that we will have a happy Ugadi at least next year,” said Asha Micheal, an HR professional. Bhagya Channegowda, a homemaker and resident of Vijayanagar, said, “Going out is a big deal now when COVID-19 cases are on the rise again. I have two grandchildren, aged five and one. They play with me. I can’t take a risk. So no shopping this Ugadi.” According to Anjan Jayasinha, a communications professional who resides in Uttarahalli, gone are the days when families waited for festivals or special occasions for a shopping spree. “Now, shopping is a round-the-year activity for many people. If there wasn’t a threat of the virus, I would have loved to take my wife and sons out to shop for the experience.” Accounting professional Santosh Nanjundaswamy from Rajarajeshwarinagar has decided not to miss his family's Ugadi fun twice in a row. He took his wife Shruti and 12-year-old daughter out for a quick shopping session on Saturday. “We didn't go out anywhere the whole of last year and were waiting to shop for Ugadi this time. So we didn’t cancel our plan. But we went out with all possible safety gear,” he said. “It’s not a festival unless you buy new clothes. I ordered a silk sari online and my daughters too bought some stuff. As a final touch, we are shopping in Gandhi Bazaar on Sunday,” said Shantha Nataraja from Basavanagudi, who teaches computer science online.  I have two grandchildren, aged five and one. They play with me. I can’t take a risk. So no shopping this Ugadi Bhagya Channegowda, resident of Vijayanagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/going-out-is-a-big-deal-now/article34298875.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC staff stage protest||Family members of KSRTC employees, who were transferred by the corporation, staged a protest in front of the KSRTC Hassan division office in Hassan on Sunday. They demanded the transfers be cancelled and the State government fulfil the employees’ demands. The corporation transferred 34 employees of Hassan division to various deports in Puttur, Chickballapur, and Mangaluru divisions. The protesters said the corporation targeted employees who raised their voice for genuine demands. “The employees have been working hard for the corporation. They hardly take leave or holiday. We are also ready to go on a hunger protest seeking justice for employees,” the family members said. They appealed to workers, who reported to duty giving up the protest, to return to the protest. As many as 59 buses were operated on Sunday as 150 employees returned to work. KSRTC divisional controller Rajesh Shetty told The Hindu that gradually employees were returning to duty. “Yesterday, we operated 37 buses. On Sunday, till 5 p.m., we operated 59 buses. We are hopeful of increasing the services gradually,” he said. Further, he said the corporation had been taking tough steps as the employees’ strike had been rendered illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-staff-stage-protest/article34298713.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Boy crushed by machine||A 14-year-old boy lost his life after he accidentally got stuck in a dyeing machine at a unit in Hosaguddanahalli in Byatarayanapura on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Sachin from Uttar Pradesh. His family lives in Hosaguddadahalli. Police said Sachin's cousin was working in JM Handloom, which is located close to the house. On Saturday afternoon, Sachin went to give her lunch. He placed his hand on the dyeing machine and got stuck in the machine. He was crushed to death. The staff of the unit switched off the power and rushed him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-crushed-by-machine/article34298872.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Staff find boulder on rail tracks||Alert staff found boulders covered with grass dumped on the railway tracks between Bidadi and Ramanagaram on Friday. The incident came to light around 2.50 p.m. when their machine stopped abruptly in the course of their routine work. When the operator James Mathew got down to check the problem, he found the boulders. He immediately removed the boulders and alerted the control room. Railway officials, along with RPF personnel, rushed to the spot and inspected the area. The staff later filed a complaint with the railway police seeking criminal action against the perpetrators. The railway police are trying to track down the culprit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/staff-find-boulder-on-rail-tracks/article34298873.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cases breach 10,000 mark in Karnataka||He also said various projections had shown the transmission of the current variant of COVID-19 would be faster. “Along with this, people have let their guard down and are attending mass gatherings such as weddings, rallies, and processions. This is also responsible for the huge jump,” he said. The positivity rate for Sunday stood at 7.72 % and the case fatality rate stood at 0.39 %. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases stood at 10.65 lakh. The number of COVID-19 related deaths reported on Sunday was 40, taking the total number to 12,889 in the State. Meanwhile, 2,638 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of discharges to 9.83 lakh. Of the 69,225 active cases in the State, as many as 440 patients are admitted in ICUs across designated hospitals. On Sunday, as many as 70,000 people were vaccinated, taking the total number of people who have been vaccinated in the State to 58.51 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-breach-10000-mark-in-karnataka/article34298879.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fire in the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-in-the-sky/article34299019.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Keeping vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keeping-vigil/article34298603.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. likely to give Remdesivir to pvt. hospitals||The State government is likely to provide Remdesivir to private hospitals at the government rate after private hospitals reported an acute shortage of the drug, which is widely used to treat COVID-19 patients. Officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare discussed this proposal with the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), which requested them to supply the injection through the Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society. Health Minister K. Sudhakar said this was done last year and would be done this year too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-likely-to-give-remdesivir-to-pvt-hospitals/article34298877.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The term ‘sahukar’ that the people of Belagavi use to address the biggest leaders in the district seems to have assumed shades of insult recently. Followers of the former Minister and BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi(in picture)have sent legal notices to TV channels warning them against using the term ‘sahukar’ to identify the brothers. S.B. Giddanavar, advocate and a close friend of the Jarkiholi family, issued the notice on behalf of six persons, to several TV channels, saying they were using the term ‘sahukar’ in a demeaning manner. The tone and tenor of the channel reporters makes the viewers believe that they are insulting the leaders, the notice said. The term ‘sahukar’, however, is not restricted to the Jarkiholis alone. It has different connotations in different taluks. In Hukkeri, it refers to the Kattis, in Athani the Savadis, in Chikkodi the Kores and in Nippani the Jolles. It is routine for local journalists to use the term to refer to any of these leaders. Following the issue of the notice, the local media is in a fix. Should they stop using the term ‘sahukar’ for all the senior leaders or just the Jarkiholi brothers?   It seems Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is facing challenges on many fronts these days. Beside the challenge of containing COVID-19 cases and the bus employees’ strike, the latest to come his way is from the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah(in picture)who has dared him to field his son B.Y. Vijayendra from Varuna constituency in the next Assembly elections. Varuna is represented by Yathindra, son of Mr. Siddaramaiah. In the run-up to the campaign in Maski byelection, where the BJP has deployed its State vice-president Mr. Vijayendra to strategise campaign, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he would welcome whoever wishes to contest from Varuna, including Mr. Vijayendra. The Congress leader was responding to a query on Mr. Yediyurappa’s desire to pitch his son from Varuna against his son.   In a strange sequence of events, a university professor who paid a bribe to a middleman for getting the post of Vice-Chancellor of a university got suspended for his act, pending internal inquiry by Mangalore University. A regular FIR released by the police about the arrest of Prasad Attavar, associated with the Sri Rama Sene, on the complaint of Mangalore University professor M. Jayashankar boomeranged on the professor, thanks to some mediapersons. Mr. Jayashankar on March 27 complained to the police that Attavar, who had taken Rs. 17.5 lakh and promised to get him the post of Raichur University Vice-Chancellor, had failed to do so. Mediapersons wanted to know what action was proposed against the professor for paying bribe as it was an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Some Syndicate members too took up the issue. The Syndicate meeting held on Friday unanimously resolved to initiate an internal inquiry by a retired district judge against the professor. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Nagesh Prabhu Anil Kumar Sastry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34298719.ece
12 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||COVID surge leaves tourism sector reeling||The backwater tourism sector has hardly recovered from the scars left by the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, when it is staring at another headwind due to a spike in COVID-19 cases. With a dip in tourist flow, the stakeholders fear the second COVID-19 wave would spell doom for the sector, which had faced numerous setbacks in recent times in the form of Cyclone Ockhi, the Nipah outbreak, floods and the pandemic. Sagar S., a houseboat owner in Alappuzha, says he is finding it difficult to keep the business afloat in the face of recurring setbacks. “After the COVID-19-induced lockdown, the sector was on the path of revival. We did some good business during the Easter period. But with COVID-19 rearing its head again and the government tightening restrictions, we are now a worried lot. Any lockdown like in the previous year or halting of houseboat operations will be the final nail in the sector’s coffin,” says Mr. Sagar. For over six months The houseboat sector was among the first to come to a grinding halt after the outbreak started to sweep the world early last year. The houseboats remained anchored for more than six months before the government allowed the sector to resume operations in October 2020. In the absence of foreign tourists, the sector is depending on domestic tourists, a majority of them coming from the Malabar region, to survive. No enquiries, bookings Kevin Rozario, a houseboat owner, who is also the general secretary of the All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti, says there are hardly any enquiries or bookings in recent days. “With COVID-19 second wave sweeping different parts of the country, we are witnessing a dip in tourist footfalls. We are getting zero visitors from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh or Tamil Nadu. The tightening of curbs like mandatory quarantine is not helping either. The holy month of Ramadan, which is set to begin this week, will see tourists from the Malabar region too stopping their trips. We are bracing for tough times,” Mr. Rozario says. Apart from houseboats, shikara operators, homestays and hotels too are anxious about their future. In crisis “There were signs of revival. But the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has pushed the business into crisis. We do not expect a rise in business activity any time soon,” says Tomy Thomas, managing director, Arcadia Regency, Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-covid-sends-shock-waves-in-tourism-sector/article34298625.ece
12 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Sudhakaran flays ‘political criminals’||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran told media persons here on Sunday that political criminals were working against him. Mr. Sudhakaran termed some media reports that mentioned that he was inactive in the Left Democratic Front’s campaigning for the Assembly polls “political criminalism.” “I come from a martyr’s family. I am a disciplined party worker and did all the work the party had entrusted to me. I had addressed 65 election meetings in different parts of the State. Some of the media are peddling false news with the aim of tarnishing me and destroy the CPI(M),” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said that irrespective of political affiliations, the political criminals in Alappuzha remained in touch and were pushing forward their agenda. He added that the media persons were giving information provided by misinformers. He denied reports of a rift in the Alappuzha unit of the CPI(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-flays-political-criminals/article34298683.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Continue full subsidy: HDK||Urging for a rollback of the hike in the price of fertilizers, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said the Union Minister for Fertiliser and Chemicals D.V. Sadananda Gowda should speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for continuation of full subsidy. “The Minister should seek continuation of Rs. 1.55 lakh crore subsidy towards fertilizers. Currently, the subsidy has been halved by the Union government,” he said on Twitter. “The fertilizer rate has been increased by 60%.” He said that Mr. Gowda’s announcement that he would be holding talks with representatives of fertilizers companies would not help solve the problem. The former Chief Minister said that while the BJP had been pretending to be soft on farmers, it has actually backstabbed them. He also reminded that the BJP government had resorted to firing on farmers within hours after assuming power. Mr. Kumaraswamy said, “Lip sympathy towards farmers, keeping an eye on votes, will not help the farmers. At least now, help farmers to build a sustainable livelihood and withdraw the hike effected on fertilizers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/continue-full-subsidy-hdk/article34298688.ece
12 April 2021||COIMBATORE,KERALA||Eight elephants have died due to train hits||Eight elephants were killed after being hit by trains on the two railway lines, A and B, between Kanjikode and Madukkarai from 2016 to 2021, according to the Palakkad division of the Southern Railway. In reply to a query under the Right to Information Act, the division said the A and B lines passed through the forest and seven of the eight elephant deaths were reported on the B line. The division said there was no plan to shift the track on the B line, which passed through a dense forest. It furnished the reply to R. Pandiyaraja of Pavoorchatram, in Tenkasi district, in response to his application under the RTI Act. According to the division, widening of cutting and cess were done at various places to create sufficient space for elephants to move away on seeing trains. While Rs. 2.43 crore was spent on widening of cutting on the sides of the track from track location 513/500 to 519/400 B in 2017, a sum of Rs. 1.59 crore was awarded for widening of cutting on a 5-km stretch from track location 500 to 505 B in 2020. A tender for further widening of the cutting from track location 510 to 512/500 and 487 to 492 B at a cost of Rs. 3.1 crore is under finalisation, the division said. Sign boards to warn loco pilots, clearance of vegetation on the sides of the track, speed restriction on vulnerable sections (65 kmph during daytime and 45 kmph during night), elephant ramps on high embankments, lights to ward off elephants in cuttings, installation of audio alarms in the form of honey bee buzzing and a WhatsApp group of Railways and Forest Department officials were among other the measures taken to avoid elephants being hit by trains, said the division. “Suspension of traffic on the track on B line during the night and bringing the track on B line to the A line, which passes through considerably smaller patches of forest, are other solutions that can reduce such accidents,” added Mr. Pandiyaraja.  According to the division, widening of cutting and cess were done at various places to create sufficient space for elephants to move away on seeing trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-elephants-have-died-due-to-train-hits/article34299100.ece
12 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Vaccination at plantations||A mass vaccination drive against COVID-19 has begun in the tea plantation areas of Munnar. The KDHP (Kanan Devan Hills Plantations) Ltd. has arranged the programme for workers and staff above 45 years. The drive is done with the support of the district administration. A total of 450 persons were vaccinated at Letchmi estate and 500 persons at Mattupetty. The drive will continue in the coming days and the target is to vaccinate nearly 8,000 persons. The district administration decided to conduct a mass vaccination drive among workers in major tea plantations in Munnar to prevent the spread of the infection inside the area. According to the Health Department officials, the workers live in cluster houses, which increases the chances for spread. Dr. Telvin of Primary Health Centre at Devikulam, health inspector Manoj Varghese, KDHP medical officer S.R. Tholpadi and deputy manager Joseph Alex led the vaccination drive.  Initiative with the support of district administration to inoculate nearly 8,000 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mass-vaccination-drive-for-plantation-workers/article34298671.ece
12 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||SHRC takes suo motu case in bank manager’s death||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered an inquiry into the circumstances in which K.S. Swapna, manager of the Thokkilangadi branch of Canara Bank, committed suicide in the bank. The commission took a suo motu case and ordered Canara Bank Kerala Circle Chief General Manager (Thiruvananthapuram) and Canara Bank Regional Manager to submit a report after conducting a detailed investigation into the circumstances under which the manager ended her life. Judicial member K. Bijunath registered the case following reports in the media that Swapna, a native of Mannuthy, was under work-related stress. The commission also asked the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) convener to submit a report within four weeks after examining whether pressure was affecting employees of various banks in the State. Bank employees had committed suicide in Guruvayur three months ago and in Palakkad eight months ago.  Banks are pressuring their employees to achieve targets in investment, credit, insurance, medical insurance, mutual funds and FASTag, the commission observed.  Canara Bank officials, SLBC asked to submit reports||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-takes-suo-motu-case-in-bank-managers-death/article34298692.ece
12 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CB team visits Mansoor’s house||The investigating team of the State Crime Branch on Sunday visited the house and met the family members of P. Mansoor. Inspector-General of Police G. Sparjan Kumar and Dy.SP P. Vikram, who officially took over the investigation from the District Crime Branch, spoke to Muhasin, brother of slain Mansoor and other family members. The case documents will be collected and a detailed investigation will begin from Monday, said Mr. Kumar. Body cremated Meanwhile, body of second accused in the case Ratheesh Kooloth, was cremated on his house premises at Pullukkara Ochirakkal Peedika on Saturday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-team-visits-mansoors-house/article34298693.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lack of amenities hits tourism potential of Cherai beach||Even as the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) is going ahead with its projects to enhance infrastructure at the Cherai beach, several complaints remain about the popular tourism destination. A Rs. 43-lakh project under the Green Carpet scheme of the Tourism Department is nearing completion at the beach and is likely to be commissioned shortly. Under the scheme, funds are allotted for improving infrastructure at tourism destinations. “The construction of differently-abled-friendly toilets, complete with a ramp and a watch tower, and related amenities for lifeguards is now 80% complete and may be commissioned next month. An information centre, signage, and CCTV network are also being set up,” said S. Vijayakumar, Ernakulam DTPC secretary. While appreciative of the initiative of the DTPC, the Cherai Tourism Organisation said no major projects to develop the beach into a major tourism destination were being undertaken by the authorities concerned. “As basic an amenity such as parking space for vehicles of visitors is unavailable, leading to traffic congestions along the beach during peak seasons and holidays. Precious little has been done to address the problem despite having government land that can be utilised as parking space away from the beach that could also lead to the development of adjoining areas. “Illegal waste dumping along the beach is another major problem,” said Vinoj M.V., president of the organisation. He said the demand for a shack policy benefiting local people and helping them earn a livelihood, thus making them participants in tourism development, was also overlooked by the local body. Mr. Vinoj said illegal commercial establishments, including homestays and resorts, were thriving with impunity along the beach with little intervention by authorities. Cherai panchayat president Remani Ajayan said the local body was aware of the problem and was drawing up a plan to deal with it. “The model code of conduct ahead of the Assembly election kicked in within a month since the new governing committee assumed charge, leaving us with little time to make any meaningful intervention. We are now planning to give UA (unauthorized) building licence wherever possible and evict the rest,” she said. Mr. Vinoj alleged that illegal construction of groynes along Munambam had taken its toll on Cherai beach and the demand for geotextile protection of the beach was ignored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-amenities-hits-tourism-potential-of-cherai-beach/article34298983.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Thrikkakara tops in COVID-19 cases in district||Thrikkakara recorded another spike in COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 50 persons testing positive in the region. The district registered 842 new cases and a positivity rate of 9.04%. The positivity rate on Sunday saw a slight drop from a rate of 10.22% on Saturday. The highest number of active cases in the district is in the age category of 40 to 50 years, with 853 people in the age bracket recovering from the infection. This is followed by 836 people between the ages of 20 and 30 years, and 835 people between 30 and 40 years. Active cases also include 748 people between the ages of 50 and 60 and 439 people between the ages of 60 and 70. As many as 241 children up till the age of 10 are recovering from the infection. Vengola recorded 32 cases, Thripunithura 24, Chengamanad 20, Rayamangalam 19, Kadungalloor 18, and Fort Kochi 17. Elamkunnapuzha, Kalamassery, Cheranalloor, Palluruthy, and Vadakkekara saw 16 new cases each. Five health workers were among those who tested positive. A health official in Thrikkakara said testing and contact tracing would be intensified in the area from Monday onwards, as per directions from the District Surveillance Officer. The recent surge in cases from the area could be attributed to people testing positive from a few establishments and offices, he added. One cluster had earlier been identified at an establishment in the Cochin Special Economic Zone, the official said. Eight new cases were recently reported among members of a film shooting team who were staying in Thrikkakara. While 120 people tested negative on Sunday, the active caseload of the district is 5,908. Compared to a figure of 2,564 a week ago, the number of active cases has seen more than two-fold increase. A total of 9,317 samples were collected for testing on Sunday. Of those recovering from the infection, 4,218 are at home, 31 are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 16 are at PVS Hospital, and 55 are at the CIAL COVID treatment centre. At private hospitals, 385 people are admitted, while 46 people are recovering at FLTCs, and 217 are at SLTCs. A total of 18,393 people remain in quarantine. As many as 110 fresh admissions to hospitals and FLTCs were made on Sunday. So far, the district has recorded 1,35,216 cases, and 464 people have succumbed to the infection, going by figures from the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-tops-in-covid-19-cases-in-district/article34298989.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Experts bat for alternatives to metro rail||Faced with the Rs. 5,182-crore Kochi metro encountering a daily loss of around Rs. 1 crore and recording not even 10% of the passenger patronage mentioned in the DPR, urban transport experts are demanding that metro neo, metro lite, or modernised bus transport systems be adopted for its extensions and for mass rapid transport systems (MRTS) mooted for Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. This comes in the wake of fears that the Kochi metro might become yet another agency entrapped in massive losses, like the KSRTC, if the State government does not opt for practical and cost-effective ways while choosing MRTS for the three cities. Many tier-II cities and a Delhi metro extension have chosen metro lite over the conventional metro rail system. The Kochi metro’s Rs. 1,957-crore Kakkanad extension and light metros mooted for Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode are awaiting clearance of the Union Cabinet and the Centre respectively. Cheaper Chief executive officer of WRI India and former urban transport specialist of the World Bank O.P. Agarwal said the Kochi metro could well have a ‘metro neo’ system on the Kakkanad route. “It can be readied for around Rs. 75 crore per km, as compared to around Rs. 300 crore for the conventional metro. The metro system might be ideal for extensions that take off from the terminal points of the Kochi metro — from Aluva and Thripunithura. But metro neo is better for the Kakkanad extension, since it takes off midway (from Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium station, Kaloor) from the Aluva-Thripunithura metro corridor. Commuters can switch to metro neo from the stadium. Even in the conventional metro, commuters to Kakkanad will have to disembark from the metro’s Blue Line and board trains on the Pink Line [the Kakkanad extension], since it would be a different viaduct altogether,” he said. Metro neo advantages Elaborating on metro neo, which finds mention in the Centre’s new Metro Act along with metro lite, Mr. Agarwal said it had many advantages over the conventional metro and metro lite (which is a tram-like system). “Here, articulated buses [longer versions of buses] having rubber tyres would operate along a dedicated pathway on roads. Their advantage over the conventional metro is that they can be operated along steeper gradients and can negotiate sharper curves. They weigh much less than metro trains and do not need a viaduct [whose construction entails extensive quarrying to source aggregate],” he said. Among the MRTS options, metro neo looks promising due to its relatively low cost and the multiple energy sources (electricity or even hydrogen sourced from overhead lines) using which the buses can operate, said Shivanand Swamy, professor and executive director at the Centre of Excellence in Urban Transportation, Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT) University, Ahmedabad. At-grade (at road level) MRT systems work best, since commuters can check in easily and without hassles like security check and climbing up to the metro platform. They also ensure optimal use of road space, since they occupy 0.86 sq.m space per person, as compared to 3 sq.m space occupied by a car carrying a single passenger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-bat-for-alternatives-to-metro-rail/article34298999.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fish species in Vembanad have declined by 40%: study||The fish species richness of Vembanad lake has fallen by 40 per cent since the construction of the Thanneermukkam barrage, according to a group of researchers who assessed the post and pre-barrage period fish data of the waterbody. The fish diversity in the estuary is currently restricted to 90 species belonging to 17 orders and 48 families, which is 40 per cent lower that that of the 1980s. Most of the marine species that recorded prior to construction of the barrage has now disappeared. They have been replaced by freshwater and estuarine species, according to a group of researchers from the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), Kochi. The research paper was jointly published by K. Roshni, C. R. Renjithkumar, Rajeev Raghavan, K. Ranjeet of the university. The barrage, which was constructed in the middle of the lake in 1975, has a length of 1,402 metre. It prevents seawater from entering the low-lying paddy fields in the southern part of the estuary, enabling double cropping of rice and ensuring drinking water to nearby areas. Every year, the barrage is closed for three months from mid-December to mid-March. At times, the closure period will be extended up to May to prevent saline water intrusion. The unscientific management of the barrage over the past 45 years has hydrologically transformed the estuary into three distinct zones with distinct salinity regime and diverse physiography and hydrography, they noted. Fish sampling was carried out in each zone from June 2015 to May 2016, during monsoon, post-monsoon and pre-monsoon periods. Since the saline stretch of the estuary had been reduced considerably due to hydrological modifications, most migratory species are trapped near the barrage and caught in local fisheries, concluded the researchers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-species-in-vembanad-have-declined-by-40-study/article34298981.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Decision on Kathrikadavu bridge soon||The Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) will shortly take a call on building a bridge at Kathrikadavu, across the Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road, to ensure smooth flow of vehicles on NH Bypass-Thammanam-Pullepady-M.G. Road corridor which is slated to be widened into a four-lane stretch. The project preparation unit will suggest whether a four-lane bridge is necessary here or whether a traffic island or roundabout will serve the purpose for now. The alignment of the proposed corridor passed through less than 50 m away from the northern end of Kathrikadavu bridge on the Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road, said sources. Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) Chairman V. Salim said a four-lane overbridge would be ideal at the junction. The KRFB had taken over the project to widen the corridor from the Public Works Department (Roads wing) earlier this year. “A traffic survey and turning-movement survey to finalise the design of six junctions on the stretch, at Chakkaraparambu on NH Bypass, Thammanam, Karnakodam, Kathrikadavu, Pullepady and Padma Junction, are over. The road will not have any curves, except probably near Thammanam market. The survey team also completed a California Bearing Ratio (CBR) study, to assess the sub-grade strength of the corridor. Care will be taken to have wide junctions having dedicated free-left turns, since narrow junctions are the bane of Kochi,” said the sources. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), which is slated to fund the project, insists on having results of all technical tests, to ensure longevity of roads and pavements. It is mandatory to get the agency’s financial sanction to begin ground-level land acquisition. Project cost The estimated project cost of around Rs. 300 crore for the road project might vary, depending on the outcome of the detailed project report, which will be finalised soon and handed over to the KRFB. Once completed, the road corridor will considerably augment the much needed east-west road connectivity in Kochi, by linking NH Bypass with M.G. Road. The KRFB has set a year’s deadline from the moment widening works begin, to develop the four-lane road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decision-on-kathrikadavu-bridge-soon/article34298987.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youth Cong. worker ensures his recuperating leader’s presence||Before breaking the ground for his new house, R. Basheer piously brought a six-feet-long cloth hoarding of ‘Tony chettan’ , which he had kept safe after the Assembly polls. With the help of his friends, he fixed it vertically on the plot, facing the area where the trenching was to be done for laying the foundation for his new house. After moments of Mr. Basheer fixing the hoarding, someone picked up a trenching hoe and started excavating the ground. It did not bother Mr. Basheer, the Fort Kochi Mandalam president of the Indian Youth Congress, much that it was an election campaign poster of Tony Chammany, the UDF candidate from Kochi, that he had at hand. All that the young Congress worker was concerned about was the presence of  Tony chettan , as he fondly calls the former Kochi Mayor, even in the form of a hoarding on an auspicious occasion in his life. “I had deeply yearned for the presence of Mr. Chammany, who had earlier helped my family move into a house, while breaking ground for my new house. Unfortunately, he could not attend the event as he was recuperating from COVID-19 and spending the days in isolation. I wanted his presence and hence brought the display board to the site,” said Mr. Basheer. He gratefully recalled Mr. Chammany’s support to rehabilitate his family living on puramboke land on the banks of Manthra canal in Fort Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-cong-worker-ensures-his-recuperating-leaders-presence/article34298993.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||4 held in raids at rave parties in Kochi hotels||Customs and Excise department officials conducted a joint raid at weekend rave parties at luxury hotels in the city and arrested four persons on the charge of possessing high-end drugs, on Saturday night. The arrested are Ansar, 48, a disco jockey from Bengaluru; Nisvin, 39, Dennis, 42, and Jomy, 48, all Aluva natives. A total of 1.6 grams of MDMA drugs and 50 grams of ganja were seized from them. Personnel of the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) also joined the raids that were conducted at four hotels in the city and one in Fort Kochi. All the arrested were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. A foreign national who was the key organiser of the parties managed to escape. A drive is on to nab him. The raids were conducted with the help of sniffer dogs. Youths, including women, were found attending the weekend parties in large numbers. Drugs seized The city police arrested eight persons on Sunday on the charge of bringing in synthetic drugs like MDMA and ganja from neighbouring States in luxury vehicles. Mohammed Azarudeen, a native of Thalangara in Kasaragod, was arrested from his rented house at Kadavanthra, while Thalangara natives Sainudeen, Mohammed Irshad, and Mohammed Shanfier were arrested from Thammanam. Vishnu, Anandan, and Anoop of Nayarambalam and Santosh of Kadavanthra were arrested on similar charges. Information on drug peddling or usage can be passed on to the police over 99959-66666 (which has WhatsApp format yodhav app) as text, photos, video, or audio and also through 94979-80430. Details of informants will be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-held-in-raids-at-rave-parties-in-kochi-hotels/article34298678.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold worth over Rs. 2.5 crore seized at airport||The Customs Department seized around 2 kilograms of gold, worth over Rs. 2.5 crore, at the Cochin International Airport on Sunday. The metal was allegedly being smuggled out of the airport in liquid form in mango juice bottles, said initial reports. This is the first of such attempts to smuggle in gold, officials said. The gold was seized from a native of Kannur, who arrived from Dubai. Six bottles were used in the attempt, reports added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-over-rs-25-crore-seized-at-airport/article34298986.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Eight arrested on drug peddling charge||The city police arrested eight persons on Sunday on the charge of bringing in synthetic drugs like MDMA and ganja from neighbouring States in luxury vehicles. Mohammed Azarudeen, a native of Thalangara in Kasaragod, was arrested from his rented house at Kadavanthra, while Thalangara natives Sainudeen, Mohammed Irshad, and Mohammed Shanfier were arrested from Thammanam. Vishnu, Anandan, and Anoop of Nayarambalam and Santosh of Kadavanthra were arrested on similar charges. Information on drug peddling or usage can be passed on to the police over 99959-66666 (which has WhatsApp format yodhav app) as text, photos, video, or audio and also through 94979-80430. Details of informants will be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-arrested-on-drug-peddling-charge/article34298988.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Paliath Vikraman Achan passes away, aged 102||Paliath Vikraman Achan of the Paliam family at North Paravur, passed away at the age of 102, in Bengaluru on Sunday morning. The cremation will be held in Bengaluru on Monday noon. The next Valiachan will be Paliath Ravi Achan, family sources said. He officiated as the Paliath Valiyachan (patriarch) in the name of Govindan Valiyachan. It was under his leadership that Paliam Eswara Seva Trust, which took care of the Paliam Kovilakam and Nalukettu, a symbol of the royal connection to the erstwhile Cochin Kingdom, was made part of the Muziris Heritage Project. Thus Paliam Kovilakam and Nalukettu became protected heritage monuments. Paliam has 41 temples under a trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paliath-vikraman-achan-passes-away-aged-102/article34298991.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Residents set up benches on Chellanam beach||Residents of Chellanam under the aegis of Kolping, a voluntary agency, have set up a set of benches on the beach to enable visitors to view sunset and relax. Jinson Veluthamannungal of Kolpling said the benches had been set up on the Maruvakkadu beach and close to the Velankanni Matha Church through voluntary contributions. Sea erosion The installation of benches is also part of efforts to draw attention to problems facing the coastal village due to severe sea erosion. The end of 2017 had seen Chellanam suffer from cyclone Ockhi. Since then, there have been efforts to help protect the coast, but measures like establishing geotextile tubes have failed. There have also been efforts to repair and maintain segments of old sea walls in the coastal village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-set-up-benches-on-chellanam-beach/article34298996.ece
12 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.5 crore seized||The Customs Department seized around 2 kg of gold, worth over Rs. 2.5 crore, at the Cochin International Airport on Sunday. The gold was allegedly being smuggled out of the airport in liquid form in mango juice bottles, said initial reports. This is the first of such attempts to smuggle in gold, officials said. The gold was seized from a native of Kannur, who arrived from Dubai. Six bottles were used in the attempt, reports added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-seized/article34298685.ece
12 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A challenge to restore Meenachil river’s beauty||A long expanse of lawn, where butterflies flutter around, goes down till the edge of the water that flows past the countryside. On the grassland, a vast array of trees and picnic groves are neatly lined up. This riverside locale on the foothills of the Western Ghats, which offers a fantastic view of a check-dam on the Kunnonni canal, near Poonjar Thekkekara, and beyond, is now setting the model for a unique challenge to restore the beauty of the Meenachil river in Kottayam. The challenge, named “Green shore, Beaming shore” (Haritabha Threeam, Abhimana Theeram), will take off to a start at four locations along the river’s course in June this year. According to Eby Emmanuel, general secretary of the Meenachil River Protection Committee, the initiative takes a cue from the experiences of Naalumanikattu, near Kottayam, and the Kunnonni canal beautification project that have helped check waste dumping in waterbodies. “To start with, the project will be implemented at four locations, Vazhikkadavu in Vagamon, Pathampuzha, near Poonjar, Malayinchippara and another location in the downstream. Based on its success, the project will be expanded to more areas as several volunteer groups have expressed interest in the challenge,” he said. Volunteer groups The challenge, according to him, envisages developing select locations along the riverbanks through aesthetic planting and landscaping, which will also help soil conservation. “The designing and development of each of these locales will be entrusted to a particular individual or a collective like Mithranikethan in Vazhikadavu or the St. Joseph’s Upper Primary School in Malayinchippara. Help from outside, including that of the Social Forestry Department, will be sought in procuring endemic plant varieties and preparing a support system,” he added. A recent survey along the Meenachil’s shores, carried out by the Kottayan Nature Society, has confirmed the presence of several species endemic to the southern Western Ghats in the vegetation cover there. Arun K. Jans, who developed the 200-m grassy meadow at Kunnonni, said the project drew inspiration from his childhood memories of rocky shores with boulders jutting from the water and trees lining the banks. This view, however, gave way to a slew of development works such as bank restoration and road construction. “We began by planting imported varieties like arcalia trees but soon turned to the local species. Now it feels completely part of the glorious countryside that once surrounded it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-challenge-to-restore-meenachil-rivers-beauty/article34298674.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More curbs in Kozhikode as cases rise||Entry to beaches and dams in Kozhikode district will be closed to the public after 5 p.m. and other tourism destinations will have only 200 visitors at a time. Public gatherings will not be allowed in containment zones and first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) will be opened within local body limits. These were among the latest steps brought in by the district administration on Sunday when fresh COVID-19 cases surged above 1,200. According to District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, FLTCs will come up in Kozhikode Corporation, Vadakara, Koyilandy, Payyoli, Eramala, Thurayur, Villyappally, Chorod, Moodadi, Koothali, Kakkur, Kattippara, Arikkulam, Meppayyur, Kizhariyur, Chengottukavu, Ulliyeri, Edachery, where hotspots have been identified. Each of the centres will have at least 100 beds. Police personnel have been asked to supervise the restrictions imposed on tourism destinations and other public places. Each station will have a patrolling team led by an official not below the rank of an assistant sub inspector to ensure compliance with the protocol. Incidental commandants have been appointed for each of the four taluks. Any violation will invite one year in jail or fine or both under the Disaster Management Act. Mr. Rao said though COVID-19 cases had declined in the district in the past five months, carelessness during the Assembly poll campaign had led to large crowds and the violation of pandemic protocol. It resulted in a high daily test positivity rate (TPR) and a large number of fresh cases in the past one week. The number of locally acquired infections had been going up and most of the newly infected are aged above 60. There had been a decline in testing and vaccination as well. Mr. Rao said the TPR rate was higher than the State average and there had been between 500 and 1,200 cases in the past week. Vaccination drive As many as 10,753 people were vaccinated at mega camps organised in different parts of Kozhikode city on Sunday. The Kozhikode Corporation was planning to hold similar events in the coming days, its secretary said. According to Corporation sources, the National Health Mission, the Health Department, and the district administration were part of the exercise. All the 75 wards within the Corporation limits were covered with one camp each for three wards. It began at 9 a.m. and went on till 5 p.m. Mayor Beena Philip opened the event at Chevayur UP School in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-curbs-in-kozhikode-as-cases-rise/article34298637.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ghat Road cable car project back on track||The multi-crore cable car project proposed by the Wayanad Chamber of Commerce (WCC) across the Thamarassery Ghat Road is back on track, with Western Ghats Development Limited (WGDL), formed by stakeholders, having cleared all technical hurdles. A final review meeting and an adalat chaired by senior Revenue officials for those who own property near the project area will be held soon as part of preparations to launch the base station work at Adivaram in Kozhikode district. Global tenders will be floated for major civil engineering works, including the construction of towers, base and upper stations, drive unit, and cable works. The implementation of the project, which was proposed in 2017, had been pending for three years following an unexpected change in the first alignment. The main reason for the delay was legal disputes over property initially purchased for the construction of the upper station at Lakkidi. While resolving it, the WGDL team was also compelled to change the first alignment completely and repeat all the technical procedures for approval. “We were all set to start the cable car service in 2021, but the unexpected change in the first alignment derailed our plans. There were also procedural delays for securing approval for the new alignment owing to the COVID-19 outbreak. Now, we are on track, and the Rs. 100-crore project will soon move to the construction phase,” said P. Johny, managing director, WGDL. He added that several NRI businessmen from Kozhikode and Wayanad districts had expressed willingness to buy shares and support the speedy completion of the work. Noticing the tourism prospects of the project, many prominent investors have visited the project area and examined the scope of starting allied tourism ventures, including amusement parks, theme resorts, and other adventure rides. Some of them have also purchased land near the base station and upper station for innovative tourism ventures. Entrepreneurs in the tourism sector believe that the cable car project supported by the Tourism Department will be a major boost for the domestic tourism sector in Wayanad and Kozhikode. According to them, the main advantage of the cable car service between Adivaram and Lakkidi is that passengers can cut short the 23-km journey on the Ghat Road to just 3.5 km even as enjoying the thrill of a pleasure ride. WGDL functionaries pointed out that it would be the longest ropeway project in south India with a length of 3,670 metres on completion. A Kolkata-based company which prepared the DPR for the project said the cable cars would be able to transport 400 persons across the mountain pass per hour. It will also serve as an alternate route to bypass the hairpin curves on the mountain pass, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ghat-road-cable-car-project-back-on-track/article34298622.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stray dog menace on the rise in city||Morning walkers in Kozhikode city are having a harrowing time thanks to the spiralling number of street dogs. Despite the implementation of projects to stop stray dog menace, there has been no considerable improvement in the situation. On Butt Road beach, morning walkers are often chased by dogs. Elderly persons and children are the worst-hit. “Unexpected mouthing and nipping by dogs startle us. It is even more dangerous if we try to resist or escape. The safest way is to just wait until they leave you,” said a martial arts trainer who goes to the beach for practice. Many a time, furious canine scuffles create scary moments for people, he added. Instances of dogs chasing two-wheelers and cyclists are also on the rise. Those using narrow village roads are mostly the victims of such attacks. Service roads leading to the Sarovaram Biopark have emerged as the riskiest spot in the city. Since multiple shots of rabies vaccination are required for even a small scratch on the body, many are scared even at the sight of stray dogs. Moreover, shortage of quality vaccines is a matter of concern. “Besides rabies, many street dogs are suffering from contagious diseases like mange, distemper, and parvo infection. In the absence of treatment, it spreads among wandering dogs. At least, there should be a proper rehabilitation project,” said a dog handler from Vellayil. He pointed out that people who fed street dogs out of mercy were least concerned of their illnesses and treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stray-dog-menace-on-the-rise-in-city/article34298642.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Norms during festive season leave traders a worried lot||Traders and merchants in Kozhikode district are peeved over the loss of business in the Vishu-Ramzan festival season owing to the restrictions imposed by the administration to contain COVID-19. Tough phase continues District functionaries of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi, the biggest platform of traders in the State, said their members were going through a tough phase for the past few years. They had to face the Nipah outbreak that affected Kozhikode and Malappuram in 2018, back-to-back floods, and the pandemic. When it was felt that there had been a dip in fresh cases in recent weeks, the traders had stocked materials to sell during the Vishu-Ramzan season this year. The restrictions have now dashed their hopes. At S.M. Street “S.M. Street in Kozhikode city is one of the worst affected places. Even after the lockdown was withdrawn, it remained closed for long, along with some parts of Valiyangadi. The traders and merchants are staring at a bleak future as most of them had stocked up materials on credit for sale now,” said K. Sethumadhavan, one of the State secretaries of the Samithi, based in Kozhikode. He said that if the officials had hinted about possible restrictions after the Assembly elections, the traders would not have stocked things. “From today, beaches in Kozhikode are closed to the public after 5 p.m. That means more people may come to S.M. Street. But the two entrances to the street are blocked. Those who are coming here are reportedly being turned away by the police. And, people are scared of coming out as they may have to cough up a fine,” he said. He pointed out that the district administration had not consulted the traders before imposing restrictions. “The State council of the Samithi will discuss how to go about doing business,” he added. Meanwhile, a statement from the State council of the Samithi blamed politicians for the current mess, saying that Ministers and other elected representatives had no restrictions during the election campaign. Lakhs of people had attended their rallies and pandemic protocols were thrown to the wind. Efforts were on to impose restrictions on traders who were already struggling to stay afloat, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-during-festive-season-leave-traders-a-worried-lot/article34298640.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Hariyali’ sets a model in waste management||The Hariyali Haritha Karma Sena of Vadakara Municipality earned around Rs. 3.7 lakh in 2020-21 through the sale of shredded plastic used for road tarring. The women who are part of the Sena can differentiate between around 30 different varieties of plastic and segregate waste accordingly. P. Prakashan, district coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission (HKM), lauded the change brought in by the group of 63 women in just a few years, which led to the municipality winning several awards for waste management. Mr. Prakashan was in Vadakara on April 9 as part of a reality audit of the waste management programmes in various local bodies in the district. Post-COVID, the waste management system had crumbled in most local bodies. He was accompanied by officials of the Town Planning Department and Suchitwa Mission and resource persons from HKM. They felt that the administration and management of Hariyali was not less competent than any corporate company. “They have their own office, computer and up-to-date registers. All money transactions are through a bank accounts, except user fee collected from houses and shops in the town. Office details are all computerised,” Mr. Prakashan said, adding that the professional approach to waste management was what made Hariyali different. Many sectors Hariyali has also ventured into several sectors, one being a green consultancy giving technical guidance. Besides seven local bodies in Kozhikode district (Ramanattukara, Maniyur, Thiruvallur, Ayancheri, Arikkulam, and Keezhariyur, Hariyali is now a green consultancy to Pattazhi, Thalavur, Vadakkekara, Pathanapuram, Kizhakkudi, Piravanthur, Vettikkavala, Kulakkada, Melila, Mailam, Pavithreshwaram and Ummannur grama panchayats in Kollam district. It has also ventured into the tourism sector, managing the Vadakara municipal park and sand banks. “It is not just about waste management. Hariyali is an excellent model for women empowerment too. The personality change and the confidence in each of its members is commendable,” Mr. Prakashan said, appreciating the role of Manalil Mohanan, the brain behind the success of Hariyali. The reality audit will continue in the coming days. A team of officials will conduct inspections in Kozhikode district till April 15. They will analyse the functioning of waste management system in each local body including that of the Haritha Karma Senas, material recovery facility, and material collection facilities. The hygiene status conferred on local bodies will also be audited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hariyali-sets-a-model-in-waste-management/article34298631.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||District records highest number of new cases||Kozhikode reported the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the State on Sunday when 1,271 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily test positivity rate too surged to 16.12%, among the highest reported so far from here, when 8,203 lab results were made available. There were 1,246 locally acquired infections and the source of 18 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation alone accounted for 339 cases of local transmission of the infection, while Meppayyur reported 60 cases, Koyilandy 53, and Chemanchery 41. Only 407 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload reached 6,584. In October last year Sources said the fresh cases had not gone above 1,000 after October 28. It was on October 1 that the district reported 1,072 cases for the first time. There were 1,134 cases on October 2; 1,165 on October 4; 1,576 on October 7; 1,206 on October 9; 1,324 on October 10; 1,219 on October 11; 1,290 on October 15; 1,153 on October 21; and 1,145 on October 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-records-highest-number-of-new-cases/article34298638.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MP seeks repair of Arappuzha bridge||M.K. Raghavan, MP, has urged the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to complete the repair of Arappuzha bridge across the Chaliyar river on the Kozhikode-Palakkad Highway on a war footing. A release quoting him said here on Sunday that traffic jams had become a regular affair on the bypass road, with vehicles moving very slowly due to the large potholes on the bridge there. The passenger car unit as per the Indian Roads Congress is that of a six-lane road here. But there was only a two-lane road on the bridge, said the MP. He pointed out that though repair works were taken up regularly earlier, the situation changed after the NHAI took over the maintenance of the bridge. As the number of vehicles on the road is going up very fast, any delay in repair works will lead to longer traffic snarls both on the bypass road as well as in Kozhikode city. The lag in repair works of the Arappuzha bridge has been attributed to the delay in construction of the six-lane road under the NHAI. Blaming the company that had bagged contract for the six-lane road, the MP said the lethargy of the authority was complicating matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-seeks-repair-of-arappuzha-bridge/article34298634.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Boy’s death: CB squad recovers mobile phone||The district Crime Branch squad investigating the death of a 16-year-old boy from Narikkatteri in Nadapuram has recovered a mobile phone which was reportedly used to shoot the physical assault on the victim allegedly by his own elder brother. Police sources said the phone, allegedly used by the victim’s stepsister, would be examined by cyber forensic experts. The victim’s brother will be interrogated again on the basis of the forensic report, they added. It was on May 17, 2020 that K. Abdul Azeez was found dead in his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boys-death-cb-squad-recovers-mobile-phone/article34298643.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Documentary filmmaker Jyothi Prakash passes away||National and State award winning maker of documentary and short films Jyothi Prakash passed away at his residence here on Sunday. He was 60. Mr. Prakash was suffering from cancer and was undergoing treatment at the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram until recently. He is survived by wife Geetha and children Adityan and Chand Prakash. He is known for the national award winning documentaryIthihasathile Khasak, based on O.V.Vijayan’s Khasakinte Ithihasam and later a one-hour-long film “Atman” featuring M.R. Gopakumar on the perils of globalisation. His documentary on artist A.S. Nair “A.S. Varakalkkumappuram” and “C.H-Navodhanathinte Harithakshari” were also well appreciated. An artist and poet too, Mr. Prakash’s latest poem appeared in Chandrika online magazine a couple of months ago. He started off as an assistant director to director A.T. Abu, best known for the filmDhwani. He did not stick to commercial filmmaking and chose to take a different path. After retiring from government service recently, he had been involved in a new project. Mr. Prakash was an constant presence in film festivals across the country and was an active film society worker. Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan condoled the filmmaker’s demise. The mortal remains were cremated with State honours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/filmmaker-jyothi-prakash-passes-away/article34298633.ece
12 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Governor visits Sabarimala||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and his youngest son Kabir Arif visited the Lord Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala and offered prayers on Sunday. Carrying an irumudikkettu on his shoulders, the Governor ascended the holy hillock from Pampa by 5.10 p.m through the Swami Ayyappan Road. Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) president N. Vasu and TDB Commissioner B.S. Thirumeni accorded a reception to him at the Valiya Nadapanthal. Later, he climbed the 18 holy steps to offer a darsan at the Ayyappa temple and other associated shrines. Mr. Khan will return to Raj Bhavan after offering prayers at the temple once again on Monday morning. Prior to leaving Sannidhanam, the Governor will also plant a sandalwood sapling in the Malikappuram Devi temple premises and attend a programme in connection with the Punyam Poongavanam project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-visits-sabarimala/article34298695.ece
12 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Escaped accused held again||Officials of the Aranmula police station were on their toes on Saturday night after a 23-year-old man, arrested in connection with a theft case, fled from their custody. The accused, identified as Pratheesh, escaped with his handcuffs on around 11.30 p.m. while being taken to the District Hospital, Kozhencherry, for medical examination. The police, however, took him to custody after an intense search operation lasting several hours. According to the police, the accused had landed in police custody in connection with a car battery theft. He, however, escaped the police net on Saturday night. He was traced and taken into custody again by 8 a.m. on Sunday. Second incident The incident, according to officials, was the second such instance to be reported from the district within a week. Earlier last week, a Tamil Nadu native who had been accused in the murder of his five-year-old stepdaughter too escaped from custody from the Pathanamthitta police station. He, however, was arrested from a location near his residence a few hours later. District Police Chief R. Nishanthini suspended one Civil Police Officer in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/escaped-accused-held/article34298681.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. braces itself for a post-poll reckoning||Congress appeared to have braced itself for a post-election reckoning. Its leaders were confident of a win. Nevertheless, a few Congress insiders said there was a growing realisation within the party that the campaign had run into trouble in at least a few key constituencies. They pointed out the Vattiyurkavu segment in Thiruvananthapuram as a classic example of the alleged inner-party electoral dysfunction. The Congress campaign in the segment had arguably floundered at its final phase. The state of affairs aggrieved Congress candidate Veena V. Nair. According to party sources, Ms. Nair had fought an uphill battle against a well-entrenched CPI(M) election machinery. Ms. Nair often found she lacked the kind of organisational support that her primary opponents, V. K. Prasanth of the LDF and V. V. Rajesh of the BJP, took for granted. Soon, Ms. Nair’s campaign managers recovered costly electioneering material from a wastepaper shop. The discovery was a propaganda disaster for the Congress and reportedly the last straw for the candidate. It appeared that Congress workers had sold the freshly printed posters for paper value instead of using them for Ms. Nair’s electioneering. Complaint registered The candidate has complained to KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. She reportedly stated that campaign managers had failed to bolster her pitch to voters. Ms. Nair, arguably, fought a lonely battle aided only by a set of dedicated Congress workers. Organisational support was reportedly not forthcoming as anticipated. Mr. Ramachandran said Ms. Nair’s complaint had merit. The KPCC had taken the matter seriously. It has appointed a three-member committee to investigate the allegations and file a report. “The guilty would have no place in the Congress,” Mr. Ramachandran said. The party had fought the Assembly polls with relatively lesser financial resources compared to the LDF and the NDA. The callousness of conducting the campaign in Vattiyurkavu would not go unpunished, he said. A party insider said Ms. Nair’s complaint was just the tip of the iceberg. More similar complaints were trickling in from other regions. The Congress had not lacked in election preparations. It had reconstituted 19,500 ward-level election committees. A galaxy of top national-level Congress leaders had monitored the campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-braces-itself-for-a-post-poll-reckoning/article34298697.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corpn. to begin monsoon cleaning||The city Corporation’s pre-monsoon cleaning drive, with an aim to clear up drains, will begin on Monday. Mayor Arya Rajendran will launch the drive by leading the clean-up at the Amayizhanjan canal. In each of the 100 wards, the respective councillors will lead the clean-up drive on the first day. With the city getting short spells of summer rains over the past few days, the health officials are giving priority to clearing up all stormwater drains to ease the flow of water and prevent flooding. Last year, the civic body had a kind of resource crunch ahead of the pre-monsoon cleaning drive with much of its staff involved in the COVID-19 prevention activities on ground, in running community kitchens and in keeping track of and meeting the requirements of those under home quarantine. This time, the drive coincides with an intensive vaccination drive in which local bodies also play a key role. The ward-level sanitation committees will coordinate the cleaning up activities at the local level. Activities The activities to be taken up include cleaning of drains, source destruction of mosquitoes, cleaning up of waste dumps, and awareness campaigns. One volunteer will have the responsibility of a specific number of houses in source destruction activities, say health officials. As part of the drive, one day every week will be observed as dry day. Awareness campaigns on prevention of vector diseases, COVID-19, and importance of dry day, will be organised in government and private organisations. The public will be made aware of ensuring that no water is collected in the surroundings of their homes, inside coconut or egg shells, sun shades or bottles, and behind the refrigerator. Ms. Rajendran has requested the city residents to ensure that no waste is dumped in public and that everyone makes use of the systems put in place by the Corporation for waste management at source. Special focus will be given to cleaning up the surroundings of houses that are lying vacant. Larvae destruction activities will be carried out in unused wells.  This time, the drive coincides with an intensive vaccination drive in which local bodies will play a part||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-begin-monsoon-cleaning/article34299094.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IGNOU regional centre in capital soon||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), the country’s largest distance education provider, will soon have a regional centre in Thiruvananthapuram. Foundation stone for the building that will house the centre was laid on Sunday. Speaking at the ceremony, Vice Chancellor Nageshwar Rao said IGNOU had reached out to a large number of learners through online programmes in recent times. Social networking platforms were also being utilised to disseminate learning content. Online programmes Following the University Grants Commission (UGC) decision to exempt the university from its stringent regulations on online programmes, IGNOU had launched 16 online programmes with national and international reach. While there had been good response for these programmes, the university had also been playing a significant role through SWAYAM, a massive open online course platform, and SWAYAM PRABHA, a group of 34 channels devoted to telecasting educational programmes, he said. “During the COVID-19 lock down, Gyan Darshan (a State-owned television channel telecasting from Doordarsham) and four SWAYAM PRABHA channels allotted to the IGNOU could reach out to several learners in their homes. We have also been tapping the social networking platforms such as Facebook to provide study content at a fast pace,” he said. Prof. Rao added that the IGNOU introduced a set of new courses including nine undergraduate Honours and four postgraduate programmes last year as part of expanding its bouquet of programmes. The university, which was accredited A++ grading by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in its first cycle of accreditation three months ago, has been building a robust international brand of late. Its global acceptance had come to the fore recently when the government of Guyana approached the IGNOU to provide scholarships for 20,000 learners in the Caribbean country. Guyana tie-up The programme was promised by Mohamed Irfaan Ali, president of Guyana, in his party’s manifesto in the run-up to the country’s general elections last year, Prof. Rao said. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, who laid the foundation stone virtually, said the Centre was committed to providing all technical support to IGNOU’s regional centres. The growth of these centres was crucial for the implementation of the National Education Policy, he added. Envisaged to be developed with a built-up area of 2264.60 sq.m, the two-storeyed permanent campus of the Thiruvananthapuram regional centre will come up at Muttathara. An amount of Rs. 17.48 crore has been sanctioned for the project that is expected to be completed by March next year. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has been awarded the project. IGNOU Pro-Vice Chancellor Satyakam, Registrar V.B. Negi, Finance Officer Jitendra Dev Gangwar, CPWD chief engineer Sandeep Mehta, and regional director B. Sukumar also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ignou-regional-centre-in-capital-soon/article34299086.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools unlikely to open early in June||The second wave of COVID-19 transmission has dimmed the chances of schools reopening in time in the new academic year. General Education Department officials say they are not thinking about the reopening yet. Since the COVID-19 situation in the State is still fluid, the possibility of school reopening in the beginning of June is slim. It will most likely be at the end of that month. The primary focus is on completing the ongoing SSLC and Plus Two examinations. The Plus Two practical examinations are also scheduled to be conducted from April 28 to May 15. Valuation While the valuation of SSLC answer scripts will be held from May 14 to 29, that for higher secondary Plus Two will be from May 5 to June 10. The SSLC results will likely be out by June 10. There is uncertainty over the conduct of the Plus One examinations too. While in-person education is desirable, the department is gearing up for digital classes keeping in mind the worst-case scenario. However, the delivery mode of the classes will need to change; there will have to be increased teacher interaction, they say. In the new academic year, there will be need need to ensure that children are viewing the digital classes. The challenge, officials say, is how to increase interaction with students instead of sticking to pure digital mode in order to address the learning gaps. Live classes As far as technology is concerned, they say they are on a strong wicket, having facilities to provide live classes along with recorded ones. However, mental stress in the absence of in-person education, particularly among primary students, needs to be paid attention to when possibilities of school reopening are being discussed, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-unlikely-to-open-early-in-june/article34298624.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID case graph rises with 6,986 new cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continues to rise steadily with new cases rising incrementally on a daily basis. The daily tally of new COVID cases soared to 6,986 on Sunday, when 65,003 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began, rose to 11,67,190 cases. The test positivity rate registered 10.75% on Sunday. The active case pool of the State, which had just 24,268 patients on March 24 has swollen to 44,389 patients in less than three weeks. The active case load is the highest in Kozhikode, which has 6,828 patients, followed by Ernakulam (5,908) and Kannur (5,229). With 2,358 recoveries being reported on the day, the cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began touched 11,17,700. New hospital admissions in the State on Sunday was 1,133. Another 13,629 persons were newly added to the pool of people on home or institutional quarantine on the day. 16 deaths The addition of 16 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State on Sunday took the State’s cumulative COVID toll till date to 4,783 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported six deaths, Kozhikode three, Kannur two, while one death each was reported from Alappuzha, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kasaragod. The number of critically ill COVID patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State rose to 600 on Sunday, according to official reports, while the number of patients requiring ventilator assistance was 173. Among districts, new cases are spiralling up in Kozhikode which jumped from 791 cases yesterday to 1,271 cases on Sunday. Ernakulam reported 842, Malappuram 728, Kottayam 666, Kannur 575, Thiruvananthapuram 525, Thrissur 423, Alappuzha 339, Palakkad 325, Kollam 304, Idukki 291, Kasaragod 251, Pathanamthitta 246 and Wayanad 200 cases.  The number of critically ill COVID patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs rose to 600 on Sunday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-case-graph-rises-with-6986-new-cases/article34298701.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest dept. seedlings benefit local bodies||The intensive greening and food security schemes undertaken by the State have come as a blessing for the Forest Department in circumventing a steep fall in demand for seedlings during the pandemic-hit last year. While schools remained closed for much of the year, the department re-strategised its afforestation plans to cater to local self-government institutions that have taken up the government schemes in a big way. Around 70% of the seedlings produced in the State during the last fiscal were utilised for various schemes implemented by the Haritha Keralam Mission through the local bodies.  ‘Pachathuruthu’ A bulk of these went towards the agency’s ‘Pachathuruthu’ project to develop green islets on unused and ‘puramboke’ lands across the State. The drive turned out to be a major success with the Haritha Keralam Mission exceeding its target of setting up 1,000 mini-forests. “Schools are usually our primary beneficiaries for seedlings. However, with educational institutions either remaining shut or functioning only partially, we had not been able to supply the normal quantity from our plant nurseries. However, the high demand for certain plant varieties for the Haritha Keralam Mission’s projects prompted the department to rework our priorities,” E. Pradeep Kumar, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), said.  Last year’s distribution He pointed out that 40 lakh out of the 58.8 lakh seedlings produced in the State last year had been distributed for such schemes. Of the remaining, 11 lakh were utilised for the department’s afforestation drives and the rest distributed during the World Environment Day and other occasions. The onus of nurturing the plants will on the local bodies themselves. There has also been demand for seedlings towards the government’s food security project ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ that aimed at cultivating vegetable, fruit, tuber, paddy and other crops on fallow land. Thiruvananthapuram In Thiruvananthapuram alone, around 80% of the 4 lakh seedlings have been supplied to local bodies free-of-cost for the project. A majority of those supplied were fruit-bearing species, according to Y.M. Shajikumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-seedlings-benefit-local-bodies/article34298984.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KAMCO’s power tillers, reapers make their way to Assam||A Parcel Cargo Express Train (PCET), carrying power tillers and power reapers manufactured by the Kerala Agro Machinery Corporation (KAMCO) Angamali, were dispatched early on Sunday to Changsari, Assam. The PCET special, with 24 fully loaded High Capacity Parcel Van (VPH), is expected to reach Changsari on the fourth day. This is the first instance that a full rake formation of KAMCO agro machineries are being dispatched in a time-tabled parcel special train by the Railways. Reliable transport The Railways has been providing reliable and economic transport for KAMCO agro machines since January 26, 2017, when the first consignment carrying 28 tillers were dispatched to Dimapur in Nagaland. So far, the machines were moved through parcel units of trains to locations in Orissa, West Bengal, Tripura and Assam. Eighty percent of KAMCO’s products are transported to eastern and northeastern areas and remaining to Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka. KAMCO found transportation through rail economical since the cost of such a transport comes down by 44% and the transit time to five days instead of 15 days by road. Power tillers, which are essentially mini-tractors with two wheels and rotary tillers, are preferred over the tractors by the small farmers. Revenue earner Transportation by rail in parcel vans is safe, speedy, and cheaper, and the division has latched on to the opportunity, as it will fetch revenue for the Railways at a time when it is trying to increase freight movement by all means.  Railways are trying to increase freight movement to increase revenue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-tillers-reapers-by-rail-to-assam/article34298677.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID: 525 more test positive in capital||The COVID-19 caseload remained on a high level in Thiruvananthapuram district where the recovery rate showed signs of plummeting. The active caseload rose to 3,918 on Sunday after 525 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the last 24 hours. Only 130 COVID-19 patients recovered from the illness during the period. Two health care workers were among those who were diagnosed with the disease. As many as 1,881 people were placed under quarantine, while 809 others were excluded from the quarantine list. There were currently 17,997 people who were undergoing quarantine in various parts of the district. The City police continued its vigil to rein in violations of the COVID-19 protocol. Legal action were initiated against 231 people in the city in this regard. Among them, 89 people were charged under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Another 139 people were fined Rs. 69,500 for failing to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-525-more-test-positive-in-capital/article34299093.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pallipuram dacoity: jewellery owner’s former driver in custody||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police, which have been probing the alleged dacoity in which nearly 100 sovereigns of gold were stolen in Pallipuram few days ago, has taken into custody the former driver of the jewellery store owner who was looted. The former driver, Gopakumar, is being questioned by the investigation team led by Attingal Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) C.S. Hari. Gopakumar, who allegedly led a similar crime four months ago, in Thuckalay is currently on bail after being arrested with four others in connection with the case. The accused had then purportedly looted the complainant Sampath Surve when he was travelling from Kanyakumari to Neyyattinkara. Sketches being made The police were also set to prepare sketches of the suspects in the Pallipuram dacoity case based on the information provided by the complainant. Abduction The investigation team is also verifying the statements of his co-travellers Arun, his driver, and Lakshmana, his brother-in-law, both of who were allegedly abducted by the gang and abandoned later, to weed out inconsistencies. Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram rural, is likely to review the progress of the case on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pallipuram-dacoity-jewellery-owners-former-driver-in-custody/article34299087.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crowd of Gagarins to celebrate the cosmonaut||He was born on April 12, 1961, the day Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first human to journey into outer space. It was but natural that his father, a Communist and a space enthusiast, named him Yuri Gagarin. But when Yuri was in primary school, other students gave him a hard time owing to his name. By Class 5, he had had enough and insisted his name be changed. So, Yuri was struck off from his name, and only Gagarin remained. Today, he is known as P.D. Gagarin, a member of the Kadakarapally grama panchayat, Cherthala. Mr. P.D. Gagarin was among 16 persons in the State with name Gagarin who got together here on Sunday evening under the umbrella of the Russian House as part of a space festival to mark the 60th anniversary of Gagarin’s space flight. People with name Gagarin from across places across the State such as Punalur, Cherthala, Ernakulam, and Kannur reached the Russian House and offered flowers, along with Russian nationals in the city, at the Yuri Gagarin monument outside the Russian House. Singer Kavalam Sreekumar then sang poet Ayyappa Paniker’s Hey Gagarin .  First name Ratheesh C. Nair, Honorary Consul of Russia and Director of the Russia House, said it was interesting that though Gagarin was a surname, many used it as first name. Among the attendees was Yuri Gagarin from Kannur, the only one with the complete name as the Russian cosmonaut. A farmer in Kannur, Mr. Gagarin, the only one among his siblings to have a Russian name, was overjoyed at being able to meet other Gagarins at the event. Born in 1962, a year after the space flight, Mr. Gagarin decided to attend the programme at the Russia House when he was told he would be the only one among the attendees to have the name Yuri Gagarin. “It would have been a great loss had I not been been able to make it. I am very happy, and will never be able to forget this day,” Mr. Gagarin said. Never had he come across a Gagarin, though he had long wanted to find out if there were more of his namesakes around. The youngest among the attendees was Gagan Gagarin, a student, who came with his sister Geethu. Their father Gagarin got his name after his elder sibling who was initially named Gagarin (born to a Communist father 10 years after the space flight) died when still an infant. When he was born, his brother’s name passed on to him. Gagarin Babu, a finance consultant from Ernakulam, said his father was one of the earliest members of the CPI who named his son, born in the year of the space flight, Gagarin. Russian names His two elder brothers too had Russian names, though the name of the eldest was changed later. Mr. Ratheesh C. Nair said a number of programmes had been organised since March 27 to commemorate Yuri Gagarin such as a seminar and photo exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crowd-of-gagarins-to-celebrate-the-cosmonaut/article34299092.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID vaccination drive picks up pace||The State’s attempts to improve COVID-19 vaccination among the 45-plus age group seemed to have picked up momentum on Sunday, with people turning up in large numbers at the mass vaccination drives organised in districts. However, the precarious position of vaccine stock in the State and uncertainties over when additional stock can be expected has dampened the enthusiasm of LSG officials mobilised in all districts to organise mass vaccination camps. Conducting such camps in the coming weeks could be a serious problem unless fresh stock arrives as the State has just 8,64,000 doses of vaccine in stock as on Sunday, senior Health officials say. According to the real-time information update in GoI’s CoWin portal, Kerala administered 61,974 doses of the vaccine on Sunday. So far, the State has administered 48,30,581 doses, of which 4,96,868 are second doses. Thiruvananthapuram district, which created a record of sorts by vaccinating over 30,000 people on Saturday, could deliver only 13,000 doses on Sunday because of depleting vaccine stocks. “The district has between 30-35,000 doses in stock now, which would be barely enough for Monday. We may not have any left for the day after,” an official says. Vaccination was brisk in Kozhikode and Thrissur also on Sunday.  The capital delivered only 13,000 doses on Sunday because of depleting vaccine stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace/article34298626.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dalits, women find less space in history: writer||Kerala Sahitya Akademi vice president Khadija Mumtaz has flayed the scant importance given to women and marginalised sections in the annals of the State’s history. Dr. Mumtaz was speaking at a discussion on ‘Haleema Beevi and Kerala Renaissance’ organised by the Vakkom Moulavi Memorial and Research Centre in Vakkom on Saturday. According to her, Dalits and women could not find a significant place in Kerala’s mainstream history. “It remains a travesty of the State’s renaissance achievements,” she said. She said such exclusions were bound to prevail as long as the writing of history remained a prerogative of the privileged classes and castes. “But we tend to forget the fact that the very renaissance of Kerala began with the struggles of the suppressed sections. Yet another problematic dimension of the renaissance narrative was the obliteration of the women’s role owing to various factors. Even while the contributions of Vakkom Moulavi and Swadeshabiman i Ramakrishna Pillai have been widely discussed, those made by their own disciples among the womenfolk have been neglected,” Dr. Mumtaz said. Haleema Beevi, for instance, was the first Muslim woman editor in the State. She had to confront challenges as a woman as well as a Muslim. Besides facing harassment from within and outside her community, she had also come across threats from people in positions of power such as C.P. Ramaswamy. Sadly, Haleema Beevi, a person with achievements in journalism and social service, also passed into oblivion, the writer said. Citing other examples, Dr. Mumtaz said social reformer Poykayil Appachan’s wife Janamma, who led the spiritual movement for decades after his death, seldom emerged in the renaissance history. Writers Noora and Noorjahan who co-authored the biography of Haleema Beevi also spoke at the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalits-women-find-less-space-in-history-says-writer/article34298985.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU exams||The results of the part-time B.Tech second semester supplementary examinations conducted by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University have been published on the university website. The deadlines for applying for copies of the answer books and revaluation are April 13 and April 22 respectively. The seventh-semester honours examination will commence on April 27. The detailed time-table is available on the university website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-exams/article34298699.ece
12 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||747 cases registered, 365 held for breaching Covid protocol||The police on Sunday registered 747 cases for violation of COVID protocol and arrested 365 people from various parts of the State. As many as 19 vehicles were seized during the Statewide operation to contain the spread of COVID-19. Action was taken against 4,550 people for not wearing a mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/747-cases-registered-365-held-for-breaching-covid-protocol/article34298700.ece
12 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for attack on police vehicle||The Medical College police on Saturday night arrested a 38-year-old man who had allegedly broken the wind shield of a police vehicle parked on the station compound. The accused has been identified as Deepu S. Kumar (38), from Bappuji Nagar in Pongummoodu. He broke the vehicle wind shield using a stone and attempted to run away. The police managed to overpower him. He is an accused in cases of attempt to murder, theft and armed attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-attack-on-police-vehicle/article34299096.ece
12 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID shadow over Thrissur Pooram||In the wake of second wave of COVID-19, the Health Department has sounded an alert over the possible risk to people if pandemic protocols are neglected during Thrissur Pooram, which attracts lakhs of people. “The positivity rate has been increasing fast. With much effort we had brought down the rate to 1.71 by the end of March (March 25). But it increased again during the election when people started crowding without maintaining COVID-19 protocols. The current positivity rate in the district is 9.4. If pandemic protocols have been ignored further, it will scuttle all the efforts taken by the Health Department so far to check the spread of COVID,” said District Medical Officer K.J. Reena. However, District Collector S. Shanavas said the district administration is going ahead with the preparations for the Pooram. “The sudden hike in pandemic cases happened in the last one week. We have almost two weeks to go to the pooram. With strict measures we can bring it down. In case of emergency we can think about controlling the number of people attending the Pooram,” said the Collector. The Collector has written to the Chief Secretary to issue an order regarding guidelines to check the crowd for the Pooram. No cancellation Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, who has been active in preparation of the Pooram, said there is no plan to cancel the pooram. “There is no change in plan. We can effectively control the crowds. The Devaswoms and the government are working together for the safe and successful conduct of Pooram,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-shadow-over-thrissur-pooram/article34298696.ece
12 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Journalist remembered||Friends and colleagues remembered Jeo Sunny, senior reporter of the Thrissur-based TCV, who died recently. Addressing a remembrance meeting organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Sunday, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar recalled Jeo as a hardworking and committed journalist. “He loved cinema and journalism. We have the responsibility to complete his work,” the Minister said. Jeo, who made many documentaries and short films, was working on a feature film. The 43-year-old journalist died of cardiac arrest a week ago. His fellow journalists recalled how he helped the organisation grow and helped it to win many awards. Press Club president K. Prabhat presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/journalist-remembered/article34299063.ece
12 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||10-year-old girl saves boy from drowning||Ten-year-old Angel Maria literally became the ‘guardian angel’ of three-year-old Anay on Sunday. Anay, son of Linto, of Ramavarmapuram, fell into an irrigation canal near his house on Sunday afternoon while playing. While the other children screamed for help, Angel jumped into the swollen canal. As water was released from the Peechi reservoir for irrigation, the flow was very strong in the canal. Though her leg was injured by sharp glass shards in the canal, Angel managed to rescue Anay. Angel, daughter of Joy Abraham, is a Class 4 student of Devamatha Public School, Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-year-old-girl-saves-boy-from-drowning/article34298644.ece
12 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Friends jive with medicos in support||‘If your plan is to hate, our plan is to resist.’ A group of medical students gives out a clear message, syncing their steps with Janaki Omkumar and Naveen K. Razak, whose 30-second dance video faced vicious attack on social media. A video uploaded by Janaki and Naveen, two medical students of Thrissur Medical College, on Boney M’s Rasputin became an Internet sensation recently. Soon, hatemongers went into overdrive, adding a religious tint. Their fellow medical students replied to the hate campaign with another video in which more students danced to Rasputin . In the video posted on Aikya College Union 19-20, the official Facebook page of the Thrissur Medical College Union, the students are seen dancing in their uniforms along with Janaki and Naveen. They tagged their Facebook pages with a strong message to the hatemongers: “You can find more details if you search the head and tail of the names.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/friends-jive-with-medicos-in-support/article34298675.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A promising thriller that ends in a whimper||Managing to build up the anticipation and to keep the audience guessing until the time of the scriptwriter’s choosing would mean half the job done in constructing an effective thriller. But much of the other half rests on how potent that final reveal is. Imagine the feeling when you expect a lion to walk out of a cave, after listening to its majestic roars for some time, and you see a mouse crawling out. In Nizhal , in the end, after much anticipation, we get to see something much better than a mouse, but something lesser than a lion too. Plot Judicial magistrate John Baby (Kunchakko Boban) is recovering from an accident that has left him with a post traumatic stress disorder. During consultations with his clinical psychologist friend Shalini (Divya Prabha), she tells him about a school student Nithin (Izin Hash), who had narrated a disturbing story in the class. The boy’s over-protective mother Sharmila (Nayanthara) is initially reluctant at the idea of digging deeper into this, but soon she joins John in trying to unravel the mystery. Appu N. Bhattathiri, who has made a name as a film editor, dons the director’s hat for the first time in this moody, atmospheric thriller, that is concerned a lot about the mindscape of its characters. Script S. Sanjeev’s script keeps the audience wondering as to where the thread will lead next, with each possible lead turning cold. The viewer has much to chew on. But the final reveal appears as somewhat of a whimper. A wish on the part of the screenwriter to leave the audience with a message seems to have led to that rather tame ending, which is a letdown considering the genuine effort in maintaining the mystery almost all through.  Nizhal is worth a watch if you are of the kind who enjoys the journey rather than the destination. S. R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-promising-thriller-that-ends-in-a-whimper/article34299084.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a bountiful Vishu||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-bountiful-vishu/article34298628.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Colours of nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colours-of-nature/article34298687.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||One with nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-with-nature/article34298995.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Golden showers in the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/golden-showers-in-the-sky/article34299089.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taken over by the sea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taken-over-by-the-sea/article34299098.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Time for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-for-action/article34299102.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lording over the season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lording-over-the-season/article34299067.ece
12 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntakal railway division nets revenue of Rs. 605.57 cr.||In Guntakal Railway Division has achieved 9.765 million tonne of loading of goods, despite sluggish activities owing to COVID-19 pandemic in 2020-21 financial year. Even as it was 9.58% less when compared to 10.64 million tonne in the previous fiscal, the division has generated a revenue of Rs. 605.57 crore. The division improved infrastructure facilities and enhanced the capacity on some fronts during the financial year hit by the lockdown owing to the COVID19 pandemic, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Alok Tiwari said told the media here on Friday.  Special trains The infrastructure development the division achieved included doubling of track with electrification in 29.685 km between Taticherla and Garladinne stations, Chigicherla-Zangalapalle, and doubling with electrification work done in Edduladoddi-Pendekallu section as a part of Guntur-Guntakal doubling. At present, 198 special trains are running through the Guntakal Division as against the 337 (daily + non-daily+passenger) trains during the pre-COVID period. The DRM said that passenger trains would be reintroduced in a phased manner according to the guidelines of the Railway Board. One of the major achievements is the commissioning of the Electronic-Interlocking Panel at Gooty on July 12 last year. With the constant efforts of the Business Development Unit new traffic in both goods and parcel segments, a revenue of Rs. 149.027 crore was generated with major initiatives such as the Doodh Duronto, Kisan Rail, and the Happy Banana Reefer with Container Corporation of India (CONCOR). “The division took the lockdown as an opportunity to enhance safety by eliminating unmanned level crossings (15), improve efficiency of infrastructure by carrying out maintenance activities. This was possible by constructing 12 road under bridges (RUBs), 2 road over bridges (ROBs), and a direct closure,” Mr. Alok Tiwari added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntakal-railway-division-nets-revenue-of-rs-60557-cr/article34299034.ece
12 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight faculty members of JNTUA bag awards||Eight faculty members of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University(JNTU), Anantapur, were among those who bagged the annual awards for 2019 and 2020 announced by the Indian Society for Technical Education(ISTE). The JNTUA in a release said that while the Life Time Achievement Award for Engineering Educator in 2020 was given to K. Lal Kishore, former Vice-Chancellor of the university, the Best Civil Engineering Teacher was won by C. Sasidhar, Best Woman Engineering Teacher Award was won by P. Sujatha and the award for the Best Researcher among the Engineering Faculty went to S.V. Sathyanarayana. For the year 2019, the Best Engineering Teacher Award was won by M.L.S. Deva Kumar, while V. Sankar was named the Best Electrical and Electronics Engineering Teacher. The Best Woman Engineering Teacher award was won by Assistant Professor G. Mamatha and the Best Researcher amongst Engineering Faculty for 2019 was C. Shobha Bindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-faculty-members-of-jntua-bag-awards/article34298451.ece
12 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raids at Rayadurg hospital||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of the Andhra Pradesh police conducted raids and checked the documents of some purchases made in the biomedical equipment at Government General Hospital, Community Health Centres and Area Hospitals in Anantapur district. Kurnool CID Inspector Rishi Keshav, who visited the Rayadurg Government Hospital on Saturday, said as part of the raids that began on Friday all over the State, they came to Rayadurg to check if the equipment purchased during 2015-2018 was functional. Complaints “We want to assess on 14 aspects if they are non-functional and not working, what was the cause, as there were complaints against these purchases and the State CID officials had initiated these raids,” he told media persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raids-at-rayadurg-hospital/article34298450.ece
12 April 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tika Utsav fails to take off as vaccine stock dries up||The ‘Tika Utsav’ announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi failed to take off in Anantapur and Kurnool districts as the stock of COVID-19 vaccines dried up by Saturday night and new stocks was yet to arrive. This is the case with many districts in the State with a few of them having meager stocks enough for half a day. The ‘Tika Utasav’ was launched in a token manner in certain urban locations on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, people are hesitant to get vaccinated just two days prior to the Ugadi festivities. “People in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka do not want to get bogged down by the side effects of the vaccines on a festive day,” said S. Siva Prasad, who registered for vaccination, but did not go to the inoculation centre on Saturday. In Anantapur, the vaccine stock has been exhausted at all urban and rural health centres, where the ‘Tika Utsav’ was to begin on Sunday. No formal inauguration of the programme was done in Anantapur as even as the district officials administered 24,500 doses (inclusive of 800 of II dose) on Saturday alone. “Except for a few PHCs, there is no vaccine stock. The programme will begin only after the stock arrives. We have administered close to 3 lakh doses so far to eligible people,” said District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad Focus on urban locations In Kurnool district, 2,62,523 people were inoculated by Friday night and 17,000 doses were administered (totally 2,79,523) on Saturday. The district was left with 5,600 doses for the Sunday’s ‘Tika Utsav’. “We are focussing on 26 urban locations in Kurnool, Nandyal, Adoni, Nandikotkur, and Atmakur, to administer the vaccine as part of the programme. However, the stock will be enough till 1 p.m.,” said District Medical and Health Officer Rama Giddaiah on Sunday morning. Anantapur was the only district in Andhra Pradesh that had reached its target given by the State government and exhausted the entire stock of vaccines by Saturday. Kurnool had a stock of 6160 doses left by Saturday night, which were utilised today. Krishna district had 32,500; SRS Nellore 11,670 and Vizianagaram 16,610 doses in their stock by Saturday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tika-utsav-fails-to-take-off-as-vaccine-stock-dries-up/article34298453.ece
12 April 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tika Utsav cancelled in district as vaccine stocks exhausted||The Tika Utsav, scheduled to begin across the country on Sunday, was cancelled in Visakhapatnam district as the vaccine stock was exhausted. The initial apathy of the people to get the jab, has turned into one of urgency, amid the surging second wave. This could have contributed, to some extent, in the vaccine running out too soon. Those who have had their first shot a month or more ago are now worried whether they will be able to take the second dose on time. A senior citizen of Marripalem VUDA Colony, who had his first dose at a private hospital near NAD Junction, was asked to wait for a couple of days. Two weeks ago, a resident of Muralinagar, who went to a private hospital near Simhachalam, was politely told that they had run out of stock and fresh supply had to be sourced from the district authorities. He was asked to come after a couple of days. It is a different matter that the hospital procured vaccines subsequently. A resident of Official Colony near KGH took the first dose a month ago at a private hospital near the colony. He approached the hospital on Saturday for the second dose but was told there was no stock. He is worried whether he will be able to take the second dose in the stipulated time. P.V. Sudhakar, COVID-19 Special Officer for Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, and P. Suryanarayana, DM & HO, have confirmed that the vaccine stocks in the district have been exhausted, when contacted by The Hindu on Sunday. When the concerns of the people were brought to his notice, Dr. Sudhakar said: “We expect fresh vaccine stock to arrive in a couple of days. Those who have taken the first shot need not worry as a few days delay in taking the second dose is unlikely to reduce the efficacy of the vaccine.” “There is no compulsion that a person, who has taken the first shot at a particular hospital, should take the second one at the same place. As the vaccine name, patient name, date of vaccination and schedule for second dose are uploaded on COWIN app, the details can be accessed by all the hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-stocks-dry-up-in-vizag/article34299043.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 staff suspended for manipulating tests||Two Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) contract employees at a primary health centre in Kodigehalli were suspended on Saturday after they were caught manipulating COVID-19 testing kits. The two were allegedly sending swabs to laboratories without actually taking any nasal or oral samples from people, said police sources. They were doing this in an attempt to meet the testing targets. A video clip of them manipulating the data was uploaded on Twitter, sparking off outrage with many questioning the validity of the BBMP’s testing data. Civic officials suspended the duo— identified as Mohan and Nagaraj — and lodged a complaint with the Kodigehalli police. “We have filed an FIR against them for providing false information and for criminal breach of trust,” said a police officer. The two had been working at the PHC for the past 10 months. “They were caught on a mobile phone camera putting random swab testing sticks into vials without taking samples and testing. Four others were also heard talking in the background. They have been identified as ASHA workers Kusuma, Prema, Padma, and staff member Ashok,” the officer said.  Questions about testing A video clip of the two manipulating the data was uploaded on Twitter, sparking off outrage with many questioning the validity of the testing data||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-staff-suspended-for-manipulating-tests/article34298397.ece
12 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka bus strike enters fifth day||Bus services continued to be remained largely affected across Karnataka on Saturday as the strike by employees of the Road Transport Corporations (RTC) entered its fifth day. With a stalemate between the government and employees of the four transport corporations in the State over their demand for revised wages as per the Sixth Pay Commission continuing, the majority of workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off the roads and inconveniencing commuters. The four RTCs have a fleet of over 23,000 buses.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has ruled out holding any talks with the employees and asked them to join duty immediately. “ If there is any action against them, they will only be responsible,” he added. The RTCs have announced that they would withhold the March salaries of the striking employees. The RTCs also announced that the request for inter-Corporation transfer of those participating in the strike would not be considered, and transfer orders of those who had already been transferred from one Corporation to another and reported to duty, would be cancelled, unless they reported to duty immediately. Inter-Corporation transfer has been one of the key demands of the striking RTC employees, and one of the nine demands that the government has fulfilled. ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-bus-strike-enters-fifth-day/article34298413.ece
12 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lure of treasures behind theft of Nandi idol||The district police on Sunday cracked the mystery behind the disappearance of a 200-kg Nandi idol from a 500-year-old Siva temple at Devalampeta village located deep in the forest of Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary, near Palamaner, last month. The police could trace all the 11 accused, but one of them had died in a road accident a couple of days ago near Srikalahasti. The police also recovered broken pieces of the idol, two auto-rickshaws, three two-wheelers and some tools used in the theft. The temple management had lodged a complaint with the Palamaner police on April 4 stating the Nandi idol had been stolen. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar had constituted special teams with personnel of the Palamaner and Gangavaram police circles. Following the initial leads, it was observed that a luggage auto had passed by the temple location along with strangers on the night of March 26. The police had verified about 100 hours of CC camera footages at various places and identified a few suspects with the help of mobile signals. After a week-long investigation, the police nabbed 10 youth, while the 11th one had died in a road accident on April 7. According to information, Srinivasulu alias Aswathama of Nagar Kurnool in Telangana and Hari of Kandada village of Yerpedu mandal in Chittoor district had developed friendship a couple of years ago while both were working in a paddy field. Attracted to the treasure hunting errands, the duo had met again during the Maha Sivaratri festival last month. After visiting several temples at isolated locations, the duo had selected the Sri Mallikarjuna temple, believed to be 500 years old, inside the wildlife sanctuary zone. Except during the Sivaratri festival, the dilapidated temple would hardly see any devotees. The deal Going by the hearsay that the Nandi idol at the temple had gold, rubies and diamonds worth Rs. 60 crore inside its belly, the duo had roped in four more youth known to Hari from Poyya and Velavedu villages near Srikalahasti. Srinivasulu had reportedly assured that each of them would be getting Rs. 10 lakh. The accused had reached the temple in a luggage auto on the night of March 26 and took away the Nandi idol after dislocating it using crowbars. In view of night patrolling near Chittoor, the accused, instead of going to Srikalahasti, had proceeded towards Gangasagaram village on the outskirts of Chittoor, and dumped the idol in a pond adjoining a house that belonged to the relative of Rangababu of Poyya village, who too joined the accused in committing the crime. The accused later dispersed after deciding to break the idol on the night of March 28. However, Rangababu did not turn up at the fixed hour. Strangely, the other members found the idol missing from the pond. In the meantime, Rangababu with five others, reached the pond on the night of March 27, took away the idol to Poyya, and hid it in the fields. On the night of April 2, Rangababu and his team broke the idol into pieces, but found nothing inside it. They gathered the pieces into three gunnysacks and dumped them beneath the Swarnamukhi bridge nearby. Using technology, the police teams nab the 10 accused including Hari and Srinivasulu, on Sunday. The eleventh accused, identified as Gopi, had died in a road accident. Interestingly, two hours before the accident, a police team was at Gopi’s village to nab him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lure-of-treasures-behind-theft-of-nandi-idol/article34298399.ece
12 April 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||130 held for taking part in rave party in Hassan||The Hassan police conducted a raid on a private homestay near K. Hoskote in Alur taluk on Saturday night and arrested 130 people participating in a rave party where alcohol and other intoxicants were being served illegally. A team of policemen, led by Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, conducted the raid based on a tip-off. The police seized around 20 cars, more than 50 two-wheelers, besides liquor and drugs. The estate is owned by Gagan, a resident of Iduru in Alur taluk. The police arrested him as well. All the arrested were brought to a marriage hall in Alur, where the police interrogated them. The SP, speaking to presspersons in Alur, said the police received information about the rave party, involving people from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Goa and other places. As the State government had imposed a night curfew in Bengaluru, many people had joined the weekend party in the village. A few had travelled by vehicles with stickers suggesting that they were on emergency duty. “We have booked a case on charges of serving liquor illegally. We also found ganja at the spot,” the officer said. The arrested were subjected to blood test as well. Police from Alur, Sakleshpur, and Hassan were involved in the raid. MLA for Sakleshpur H.K. Kumaraswamy commended the police action. Saying that such parties in the villages, known for frequent movement of elephants, were risky, he urged the police to take stern action against the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/130-held-for-taking-part-in-rave-party-in-hassan/article34298714.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana set to fine violators Rs. 1,000||Telangana issued an order making violation of COVID-19 protocol punishable with a fine of Rs. 1,000 to stem second wave cases which touched 3,187 on Saturday. The protocol requires facemasks to be worn in public places, work spaces and transport. Any deviation from the government order would attract prosecution under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, chairperson, State Executive Committee on Disaster Management, directed District Collectors and Commissioners/Superintendents of Police to strictly enforce the instructions. The police were conducting awareness rallies on the importance of masks. The department was monitoring its CCTV network to check for violations and challans were sent through SMS. A figure of over 3,000 cases was logged on August 25 last year when it stood at 3,018. Fresh cases crossed 500 in Greater Hyderabad (551) and there were seven deaths in the State. In Tamil Nadu, another 6,618 persons tested positive on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 41,995 and the total case-load to 9,33,434. Four cases were travellers from the United Arab Emirates and one from Oman, and 30 persons who arrived by road: two from Bangladesh and 28 from other States. Kerala’s Health Department sounded an alert on pandemic protocols during Thrissur Pooram, which attracts lakhs of people. District Collector S. Shanavas, however, said the administration was going ahead with the preparations for the Pooram. “The sudden hike in pandemic cases happened in the last one week. We have almost two weeks to go for Pooram. With strict measures we can bring it down. In case of emergency we can think of controlling the number of people attending,” said the Collector. New cases soared in Kerala to 6,986 on Sunday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.75%. There were 24,268 active cases on March 24 but it touched 44,389 in less than three weeks. With 16 more recent deaths added on Sunday, the cumulative toll was 4,783 deaths. Andhra Pradesh registered nine deaths and 3,495 infections on Sunday. At 11.02%, the TPR of the 31,719 samples tested during the period was the highest since September 17. So far, 1.542 crore samples had been tested with a positivity rate of 6%.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, and Vijayawada bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-set-to-fine-violators-rs-1000/article34298410.ece
12 April 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training the abandoned tiger cub to hunt for prey continues||As a rule, animals in wildlife sanctuaries are not given names. The State has broken the rule for once and christened a female tiger cub at the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). The cub was abandoned by its mother in the forest on the border with Tamil Nadu last year and the PTR staff had found it in an emaciated state. A temporary shelter was set up near the place it was found. Two veterinary doctors monitored it constantly. Once the cub was nursed back to health, it was named Mangala. Why the name Sunul Babu, PTR deputy director, said the cub was found abandoned near the remains of Mangala Devi Temple and hence the name. The authorities initially tried to trace its mother. The search was extended to Tamil Nadu and camera traps were set up. Nothing came of it. A Forest Department official said that either the mother was dead or it must have left with other cubs to the deep forest, leaving the weak one behind. No prepared food Mangala has regained health, but the training to hunt for prey continues full-throttle. It is never given prepared food so that the instinct to hunt remains sharp, said an official at the PTR. Initially, Mangala learnt to hunt chicken. Slowly, the cub will be moved to an environment with no human presence. It is cared for as per the guidelines prescribed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority of India (NTCA). It’s a slow process Nearly 15 acres of forest is marked and will be fenced soon. The width of its cage will be increased with time. Mangala, now five months old, will be released into the forest when it turns two. Normally, when a tiger cub is rescued from the forest, it is shifted to a zoo. But PTR officials decided to train Mangala in preparation for its future forest stint. Once it is released into the forest, Mangala will remain untraced, like the other tigers in the PTR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-the-abandoned-tiger-cub-to-hunt-for-prey-continues/article34298402.ece
12 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,938 people get the jab in East Godavari||The COVID-19 vaccine has been administered to 3,938 persons on the first day of the Tika Utsav which commenced on Sunday in East Godavari district. However, it was confined to four secretariats – two in Kakinada and one each in Rajamahendravaram and Rampa agency. The inoculation programme is supposed to be conducted across the district, covering everyone aged above 45, but that did not happen owing to shortage of the vaccine. The utsav was inaugurated by Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop in Kakinada city. “By Sunday, we were left with only 4,000 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine and 3,938 people were given the jab. Now there are no stocks left in the district,” District Medical and Health Officer Dr. K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao told The Hindu.   Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that they had informed the higher authorities about the shortage of the vaccine. He said more than 3.3 lakh people had been administered the vaccine in the district since January 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3938-people-get-the-jab-in-east-godavari/article34299037.ece
12 April 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monsoon was stronger 7,000 years ago: study||A study carried out by researchers from the Central University of Kerala has found that the monsoon was much stronger 7,000 years to 5,000 years ago and it underwent a cyclic change caused by variations in solar radiation. A.V. Sijinkumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Geology, who led the research team, said the study was carried out in the Indian Ocean to understand changes in the monsoon in the past. This would help researchers forecast monsoon variability and the results could be used for building models that would offer insight into future variations in the monsoon, especially in the context of global warming. “The monsoon is critical to Indian economy. A weak monsoon has led to severe droughts, famine, affecting the economy and food security, whereas a strong monsoon may lead to floods like those in Kerala in 2018 and 2019,” he said. Mr. Sijinkumar said the main finding of the report was that the monsoon started weakening 4,200 to 2,000 years ago, before arriving at the present condition. The study found a strong summer monsoon in approximately every 10,000 years in the last 55,000 years. Long-term records He said the researchers looked for monsoon details in geological records because instrumental records (rain gauge data) were available only for the past 150 years. To improve forecasting, it was necessary to have long-term rainfall records, he said. “We have reconstructed monsoon variability by using the marine sediment core collected from the Andaman Sea. The Andaman Sea was selected because of its excellent preservation of fossils and the significant influence of river water run-off,” he said. Radiocarbon dating Mr. Sijinkumar said the sample fossil shells were dated using the radiocarbon dating technique. The study covered the time span of the past 55,000 years with a time resolution of 200 to 400 years. The microfossil shells, which look like sand grains to the naked eye, but were shaped in spirals, disks, spheres, tubes, and cones under microscope, were picked, identified, and their abundance recorded in each sample. The isotopic and chemical composition of each samples was measured. The analyses gave the temperature and salinity of seawater at the time when foraminifera, a single cell organism, was alive. They tell about past freshwater runoff levels in the ocean from rivers. Less saline conditions indicate times of increased rainfall. The study was led by researchers of the Central University of Kerala; the National Institute of Oceanography, Goa; the National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad; and Brown University, U.S.; with financial support from Science and Engineering Research Board of the Union government. The results of the study were published in the Journal of Quaternary Science. Dr. Sijinkumar said they were also planning similar studies by collecting longer high-resolution sediment cores from the Bay of Bengal with the collaboration of the National Institute of Oceanography, Goa and the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research Goa.  Study covered the past 55,000 years and reconstructed monsoon variability using marine fossils collected from the Andaman Sea||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-highlights-cyclic-change-of-monsoon/article34298406.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||LuLu chairman, wife escape unhurt as chopper crashlands||A private helicopter carrying businessman Yusuf Ali - chairman of LuLu Group, his wife and three others crashlanded in a marshy plot off the NH Bypass at Panangad near here on Sunday morning, reportedly following technical snag in inclement weather. None of them was injured and have been placed under observation at a private hospital nearby. The pilot, co-pilot and others walked through hip-deep water, helped by people of the locality, and were taken in vehicles to a Lakeshore Hospital nearby, which was founded by Mr. Yusuf Ali. He is in the hospital and is cheerful, hospital sources said. Mr Ali and others had boarded the helicopter that bore the logo of his group, from his house in Kochu Kadavanthra, to call on a relative who was admitted in the hospital. It was slated to land in the ground of Fisheries College, Panangad but landed on the marshy plot around 200 m away. Sources in Panangad Police Station, located a stone’s throw away from the spot said it was a safe landing, although the busy NH Bypass, power lines and a transit mixer were located nearby. The pilot steered clear of these potential hazards and managed to land the helicopter within the compound wall of a vacant marshy plot. Emergency landing A statement issued by LuLu Group said that the helicopter made an emergency landing at a safe place, due to sudden deterioration of weather conditions and heavy rains, to prevent any risk to life of those on board and to the public at large. The helicopter will be removed from the plot in a day or two and police personnel are on duty there, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lulu-chief-4-others-escape-unhurt-as-chopper-crashlands/article34298404.ece
12 April 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ratheesh death: autopsy does not rule out murder||The Kozhikode rural police have started an investigation into the death of Ratheesh Kooloth, one of the accused in the Panoor Mansoor murder case. According to police sources, the investigation under the District Crime Branch was launched to check whether the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] activist was endangered to save other suspects involved in the murder case. It was on last Friday that the 36-year-old Panoor native who was at large after the Muslim Youth League worker's murder was found dead at Chekkiyad in the Valayam police station limits. His body was found hanging from a tree. Though it was initially registered as a case of suicide, the post-mortem report was reportedly found carrying some solid references indicating the possibility of a murder. Soon after the death of Ratheesh, there were allegations of mystery behind the incident. Meanwhile, the police sources said the investigation was a follow up of the already registered case. It would check in detail some of the suspicious references made in the post-mortem reports and the related allegations, they said. However, senior police officials who visited Chekkiyad on Saturday for collecting more scientific evidence with the support of forensic experts and fingerprint squad remained tight-lipped over the allegations that the youth was reportedly strangled to death. They also denied revealing the details of their interactions with the medical team which conducted the post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ratheesh-death-autopsy-does-not-rule-out-murder/article34298400.ece
12 April 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flurry of events at Srisailam temple ahead of Ugadi||The Kailasa Vahana Seva was organised at Srisailam Bhramarambha Mallikarjuna Swamy temple on Sunday evening as part of the ‘Ugadi Utsavams’, which will conclude on Wednesday. Day-long programmes Maha Durga Alankaram was done to the ceremonial deity taken out in procession during the ritual. Day-long programmes have been scheduled on Monday ahead of Ugadi festivities on Tuesday. On Saturday night, the Brungi vahana Seva was conducted with Mahalakshmi Alanakaram in which the priests and temple executive officer Karanam S. Rama Rao participated and carried the vahanam on the streets. On Monday, Rudraparayana and Rudrahomam will be conducted on the temple premises, while Prabhotsavam will be conducted in the evening followed by the Nandi Vahana Seva. Celestial wedding Kalyanam(celestial wedding) of the presiding deities will be conducted in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flurry-of-events-at-srisailam-temple-ahead-of-ugadi/article34298455.ece
12 April 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police launch ‘no mask, no entry to road’ drive in Krishna||In an attempt to check the spurt in coronavuirus cases, the police have launched a ‘no mask, no entry to road’ programme in Krishna district and are imposing penalty on the violators, apart from educating people on the COVID appropriate behaviour. “Special drives were undertaken in Machilipatnam, Gudivada, Nandigama, Avanigadda and Nuzvid divisions and cases were booked against those who were venturing out wearing masks. As many as 12,000 such cases have been booked in just 10 days and penalty of Rs. 8.46 lakh have been imposed on the violator,” said Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu and appealed to the people to adhere to all the COVID protocols. Meanwhile, a massive awareness drive has been launched in the district and the police personnel are appealing to the public to wear mask, use sanitisers and maintain social distance. The police, in association with the revenue and health departments, educational institutions and NGOs, took out a rally in Machilipatnam on Sunday. Carrying placards, the participants shouted slogans urging the people to take all the precautions to keep the virus spread at bay. Masks distributed Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao visited several villages in Krishna district. He took part in a special drive at Chandarlapadu village and distributed masks to the villagers. DSPs B. Srinivasulu and G. Nageswar Reddy and other officers participated in the programme. Additional SP Mallika Garg appealed to the people to celebrate festivals in strict adherence to the COVID protocols and try to avoid parties and large gatherings and postpone journeys, if not urgent. “We appeal to the people not to venture out without wearing masks,” said Ms. Mallika. Earlier, the SP, along with Additional SPs Satyanarayana and Ms. Mallika, RDO Khaja Vali, Police Unit Hospital doctor Jayasri, DSP Masoom Basha and other officers organised an awareness rally. Students, employees of various government departments and NGO representatives participated in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-launch-no-mask-no-entry-to-road-drive-in-krishna-district/article34298464.ece
12 April 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||350 kg PDS rice seized from godown, 3 held||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials, with the help of Inaguduru police and the civil supplies officials, arrested three people during a raid on a godown at Rajupeta on Saturday night and seized 350 kg rice which was meant for Public Distribution System (PDS), said SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal. Following the directions of Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, the team led by DSP Masoom Basha and Deputy Tahsildar T. Mallikharjuna Rao and Inaguduru CI G. Srinivas raided the godown and seized the rice bags. The team also seized the rice bags loaded on a lorry. Police took Kandula Jaya Babu, Kodali Srinu and E. Prasanth into custody. They were allegedly smuggling the rice stocks to East Godavari district, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. A case has been registered under the Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, and under 420 of the IPC, Mr. Vakul Jindal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/350-kg-pds-rice-seized-from-godown-3-held/article34299115.ece
12 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu challenges YSRCP MPs to resign for SCS||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday challenged the YSRCP to ask its MPs to resign to secure Special Category Status (SCS) to State and to press for implementation of all assurances given at the time of bifurcation. “The three TDP MPs, and TDP candidate Panabaka Lakshmi, if elected, are ready to put in their papers for the State’s cause,” he said while addressing a series of meetings in the Venkatagiri Assembly segment of the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency in Nellore district. All sections of people were dissatisfied with the “misrule” of the YSRCP, which had got the mandate to secure SCS for the State in the 2019 elections. It was unfortunate that the YSRCP failed to extract SCS to the State for 15 years, a promise made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Tirupati. He also accused the government of giving a go-by to its poll promise of introducing prohibition in phases. Ms. Lakshmi said it was unfortunate that the YSRCP, instead of questioning the BJP for promising SCS to Puducherry after denying it to Andhra Pradesh, chose to campaign for the saffron party in the Union Territory. ‘I am not after CM post’ As enthusiastic party workers greeted him as future Chief Minister at Rapur, Mr. Naidu said, “I am not after the post. I am more worried over the State suffering because of the inept government.” “I am perturbed over the wrong policies of the YSRCP government as the future of youth is at stake. I will stay put in Tirupati for eight days to enlighten people on the need for teaching a lesson to the YSRCP in the byelection,” he added. Lockdown imposed to combat COVID-19 had provided a conducive atmosphere to wean people away from liquor. But the YSRCP government had gone to the extent of making school teachers oversee the queue for sale of liquor. History will not forgive the YSRCP government that vied with the Centre to impose hefty taxes on people, which led to skyrocketing prices of essential commodities, Mr. Naidu said. Picking holes in the government’s new sand policy, Mr. Naidu recalled that he had ensured sand free of cost to people. Now the key construction material was out of reach for the people as it made its way to Chennai and Bengaluru clandestinely, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-challenges-ysrcp-mps-to-resign-for-scs/article34299049.ece
12 April 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine shortage puts dampener on Tika Utsav||There was no let-up in the intensity of coronavirus in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, where 405 persons contracted the viral disease while two more succumbed to it in a span of 24 hours. This included 190 cases in SPSR Nellore district and 215 in Prakasam district. The toll rose to 1,110 in the region as one person each in Nellore and Prakasam districts died due to pandemic, a health bulletin released by the State government said on Sunday. As many as 99 patients, including 38 in Prakasam district, were discharged on recovery during the period. Meanwhile, ‘Tikka Utsav’, a four-day vaccination festival to inoculate as many people as possible, turned out to be a low-key affair in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts as the health authorities announced they had run out of stocks. “We have zero stocks now in the two districts,” said the health officials, worried over the number of active cases increasing to 2,961 in the region, taking the cumulative COVID cases to 1,28,748. On the first day of the ‘Tika Utsav’, Prakasam inoculated a little over 1,000 persons while Nellore’s figures are not yet available. It may be noted that as many as 5.41 lakh beneficiaries, including 2.85 lakh in Nellore district, have been inoculated since the beginning of the vaccination drive on January 16 in the region. “Nellore is perhaps the first district in the country in using the entire vaccine stock fully,” Joint Collector(Health) N. Prabhkar Reddy told The Hindu . The district administration had sought replenishment of six lakh doses of vaccine, said Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S. Rajyalakshmi while taking stock of the health situation in the district. In Prakasam too, whatever little leftover stocks the district administration had got exhausted on Sunday, District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli said. “We are awaiting the stock by the Centre to continue the drive,” she said. As many as 2.56 lakh persons have been vaccinated so far in the district, which had 1,221 active cases as on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-shortage-puts-dampener-on-tika-utsav/article34299039.ece
12 April 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film set at Palakkad temple vandalised||The shooting of a Malayalam film in a temple compound at Kadambazhipuram in the district was disrupted, allegedly by a group of Sangh Parivar supporters on Saturday. The attackers vandalised the film set. The police arrested five persons on a complaint by the crew of the film Neeyaam Nadi . A girl was injured and some shooting equipment damaged in the attack. The incident occurred at Vayilyamkunnu Bhagavathi Temple, Kadambazhipuram. The shoot of the film, portraying the story of a Hindu-Muslim romance, was in progress when a group of men barged in. The men were apparently provoked on seeing the shoot in the temple compound with one of the actors wearing a Muslim costume. The Hindu Aikya Vedi (HAV) alleged that the film crew had violated the temple customs and thus wounded people’s sentiments. The Vayilyamkunnu Bhagavathi Temple Trust said it would not allow the film crew to continue the shoot. Trust chairman N.V. Gopalakrishnan said no permission had been granted to the film crew for the shoot.   However, Salman Faris and Sivalal, two director-actors of the film, said they had been given oral permission by the temple authorities. They later shifted the shoot to another location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-set-at-palakkad-temple-vandalised/article34298412.ece
12 April 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BCs will lose job quota due to PSU privatisation’||All India Backward Classes Federation president Dabbiru Srinivasa Rao has said that the rapid privatisation of public sector units would lead to social injustice and denial of reservation to BCs and other sections. He was felicitated by Aditya Walkers Club for his services to the backward classes and protection of human rights of victims in various cases. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that more welfare schemes and job opportunities were needed for BCs in the State. Club members Polumahanti Uma Maheswara Rao, Boddepalli Damodara Rao, Budumuru Rajesh, Baggam Srinivas Patnaik and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bcs-will-lose-job-quota-due-to-psu-privatisation/article34299041.ece
12 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP proposes ‘Dharmacharya Mandali’ for temple management||Ahead of the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, the BJP has revealed its trump card on the issue of management of Hindu temples in the State. BJP State president Somu Veerraju, along with JSP political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar, BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, candidate K. Ratna Prabha, and general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy, released the party’s manifesto here on Sunday. The manifesto proposes a ‘Dharmacharya Mandali’, with specific reference to Tirumala and replicable across the State. The party, which has always been critical of the interference of the State government in the daily affairs of the religious institutions, announced to release the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) from the “clutches of the government” and form an authorised body of seers to guide and monitor its affairs. ‘Spiritual capital’ This, the manifesto said, would be replicated and applied to all the Hindu temples in the State. With a promise to make Tirupati the spiritual capital of the world, the party also proposed in the manifesto to curtail propagation of other religions and take steps to perpetuate traditional practices, culture, art, music and dance forms flourish. The party recalled the Centre’s efforts to develop Tirupati as a modern city by infusing funds from Smart City Corporation, establishment of national institutes like the IIT, IISER, Indian Culinary Institute and development of national highways, railway stations and sea ports on global standards. Even while preserving the traditional practices such as Kalamkari and handicrafts that were endemic to the constituency, priority would be accorded to upskilling the artisans, Mr. Narasimha Rao observed. Similarly, critical care hospitals would be established in Chittoor and Nellore districts, the party promised. For the farmers, the BJP promised modernisation of market yards, establishment of cold storage facilities, micro irrigation facility and low-cost debts to cattle and sheep rearers. Targeting the coastal areas, the party promised Kisan credit cards to fishermen families, development of Pulicat lake and fishing harbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-proposes-dharmacharya-mandali-for-temple-management/article34299051.ece
12 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Peddireddi accepts Naidu’s ‘referendum’ challenge||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has accepted the ‘referendum’ challenge thrown by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, and has agreed to get the YSRCP MPs resign to their post if the party loses the byelection to the Tirupati LS seat. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy sought to know if the TDP members would quit if the YSRCP won the election. With the Opposition making an issue out of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy deciding not to participate in the campaign due to spurt in COVID-19 cases, he said it showed the responsibility of a leader towards a social cause and not a sign of diffidence as was being projected by a section of the media. “Our Chief Minister is our trump card and we will win the seat with a massive mandate by going to the polls with Jagan Mohan Reddy’s picture,” he asserted. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy recalled that the Chief Minister had sent letters to every household explaining the welfare programmes and appealed to the voters to cast their vote in favour of the party candidate. Dig at Pawan Coming down heavily on the BJP – Jana Sena alliance, he dubbed Pawan Kalyan as a “political paid artiste,” who was bent on mudslinging and resorting to false propaganda against the ruling party. Similarly, he questioned the BJP on why should the public vote for it, when it failed to fulfil the bifurcation promises and betrayed the State on the Special Category Status. “The YSRCP is the only party with conviction to seek people’s support, having fulfilled 90% of the promises made in the manifesto,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/peddireddi-accepts-naidus-referendum-challenge/article34299055.ece
12 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Morphing’ case: Uma dares govt. to arrest him||Accusing the YSRCP government of trying to corner him with a CID case for allegedly highlighting ‘morphed’ videos, TDP senior leader Devineni Uma Maheswara Rao on Sunday dared the authorities to arrest him ‘if they had the conviction about his involvement in the case’. Addressing the media during his campaign for the Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll, Mr. Uma Maheswara Rao said he had only revealed the intention of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on various issues and insisted that ‘it would not amount to morphing’. The video in question shows the Chief Minister making a speech, in which the latter purportedly said ‘literate people would not wish to live in a place like Tirupati, given the pace of development in the temple town during the TDP regime’. The video went viral before the ruling party and the State government took note of it. “We only showed the CM’s perspective on Tirupati, how does it amount to morphing?” questioned Mr. Uma Maheswara Rao. He also accused the CID of abusing the law by using irrelevant sections of law against him in the case, pointing out that ‘nowhere the word morphed had been used’. ‘A letdown’ The former Minister also flayed the State administration for being ‘incapable and indifferent’ for having agreed to bring the irrigation projects of the State under the purview of the Krishna River Management Board (KMRB), which he said was ‘a letdown’. “With this move, the YSRCP government has severely compromised on the interests of the State and its farmers,” the TDP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/morphing-case-uma-dares-govt-to-arrest-him/article34299053.ece
12 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI-designate prays at Tirumala temple||Supreme Court Judge and CJI-designate Justice N.V. Ramana offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala on Sunday. Mr. Justice Ramana and his family members were given a formal reception by TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy and Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy at the main entrance. After darshan, Mr. Justice Ramana received the ‘laddu Prasadam’. The priests showered ‘Vedasirvachanam’ on them. TTD Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti and Deputy Executive Officer Harindranath were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cji-designate-prays-at-tirumala-temple/article34299057.ece
12 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly couple found dead||An elderly man and his wife were found dead in a lodge in the railway station area here on Sunday. The deceased were identified as T. Chinnabba Naidu (73) and Rukmini (63), residents of Vedagirivaripalle of Irala mandal in Chittoor district. They allegedly ended their lives by consuming pesticide. Mr. Naidu was admitted to SVIMS hospital as he was suffering from paralysis. Tirupati East Police, who are investigating the case, suspect that they might have committed suicide due to their prolonged suffering due to the disease. People having suicidal tendency can call 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-couple-found-dead/article34298457.ece
12 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIRRD stops out-patient services||TTD’s Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD) here has temporarily stalled out-patient services from Monday, in view of the spurt in COVID cases. A decision has been taken to admit only trauma-related cases from Monday, hospital’s Special Officer R. Reddeppa Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/birrd-stops-out-patient-services/article34298456.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. looking to export 5,000 tonnes of mangoes||The Horticulture Department has set an ambitious target of exporting 5,000 metric tonnes (MT) of mangoes to various destinations across the world this year. During the 2017-18 financial year, 248.01 MTs of fresh fruit was exported from Andhra Pradesh by different agencies. During 2018, ‘Panukulamanu’, the slightly less-sweet mango variety, was exported to Germany where it was received well. Also, ‘Suvarnarekha’ mangoes were exported to South Korea for two years. In 2018, 2.5 MT of Suvarnarekha was exported to Germany. During the same year, 1,471 MT of Benishan and Alphonso were exported to various countries. Also, 82,500 MT of mango pulp of Bangolora and Alphonso varieties were exported to pulp industries in Algeria, Netherlands, Austria and West Asia. The department set a target of 3,000 MT last year. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted exports, sources said. When contacted, Horticulture Commissioner S.S. Sreedhar said that fresh mangoes and mango pulp are being exported from Krishna, Chittoor, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts to Middle East countries, Netherlands, UK, USA and Japan. The department has already organised a buyer and seller meet recently as part of the initiatives to promote exports from the State. The aim of the meet is to provide a common platform for interaction between buyers and sellers of Mango to promote marketing to domestic as well as international destinations from Andhra Pradesh, thereby facilitating higher results to the farmers, he says. Citing the previous years’ experience, Horticulture Joint Director (Fruits) M. Venkateswarlu said that the efforts to promote fruits from Andhra Pradesh were yielding good results. “The Vapour Heat Treatment (VHT) plant at Tirupati is the only VHT in the country which meets export quality requirements,”.he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-looking-to-export-5000-tonnes-of-mangoes/article34299036.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP writes to CEO seeking derecognition of Telugu Desam||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) has lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Andhra Pradesh alleging that the TDP and its candidate for the byelection for the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, Panabaka Lakshmi, were distributing pamphlets containing an allegation that the ruling party had mortgaged the State’s legitimate right to Special Category Status (SCS), to get some of its leaders acquitted from cases pending on them. In a letter to the CEO on Sunday, YSRCP General Secretary L. Appi Reddy said the ‘false propaganda unleashed by the TDP leaders at the behest of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’ was violative of the Model Code of Conduct and the Representation of People’s Act, 1951. He said it was a ‘known fact that the TDP and the Congress had foisted cases on Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’ in the past and the same were pending in courts. Before the courts gave their judgements in the said cases, the TDP had been making baseless allegations to derive electoral mileage. Mr. Appi Reddy further said the YSRCP had not given up its commitment to obtaining the SCS for the State and the party had been fighting hard for it. Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy is tirelessly pursuing the matter with the Central government. Keeping these in view, the CEO should take appropriate action against the TDP and its candidate and recommend to the Election Commission of India to derecognise the party (TDP) as a punishment for its ‘misconduct’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-writes-to-ceo-seeking-derecognition-of-tdp/article34298407.ece
12 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM pay tributes to Jyotiba Phule||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid tributes to Mahatma Jyotiba Phule on the occasion of his 195th birth anniversary at a programme held at the Raj Bhavan here on Sunday. The Governor said that Jyotiba Phule was a great social reformer, who led the movement against caste restrictions in the country during the 19th Century and fought for the rights of the peasants and downtrodden people of society. He was also a pioneer of women;s education and was the first to establish an orphanage for the underprivileged, the Governor said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid tribute by garlanding a portrait of Jyotiba Phule and recalled his contribution to the society. Meanwhile, political leaders cutting across party lines and people’s organisations paid tributes to the social reformer across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-pay-tributes-to-jyotiba-phule/article34299062.ece
12 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two labourers drown in NSP canal||Two labourers drowned in NSP canal in Adavi Kothur village in Reddygudem mandal in Krishna district on Sunday. The victims, identified as Polagani Venu and Kandula Vasu, were natives of Mittagudem village. They had reportedly gone to the canal to take bath. A case has been registered and investigation is on, said Reddygudem SI D. Anand Kumar who, along with locals, retrieved the bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-drown-in-nsp-canal/article34298462.ece
12 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 2 lakh seized||The Special Task Force (STF) police seized 1,816 liquor bottles being smuggled in a cement-laden lorry in Krishna district on Sunday. On a tip-off, the police team led by Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Vakul Jindal and STF officer Murali Krishna intercepted the lorry at Anumanchipalli village in Jaggaiahpet mandal and seized the liquor stocks worth about Rs. 2.14 lakh. The STF police arrested one person in this connection and seized the lorry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-worth-rs-2-lakh-seized/article34299114.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spell out details on Brahmin welfare: TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has demanded that the YSRCP government spell out what it has done to for the welfare of the Brahmin community in the State. Addressing the media on Sunday, TDP State vice-president Vemuri Anand Surya said that the YSRCP leaders should come out with details of expenditure on the welfare of Brahmins during the 2019-20 and 2020-21 financial years, though the government had allocated Rs. 244 crore for the purpose. “The government is making tall claims that Rs. 244 crore was spent on Brahmin welfare. Now, it should tell us how the Brahmin students were benefited under the Amma Vodi and other schemes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spell-out-details-on-brahmin-welfare-tdp/article34299058.ece
12 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan Kalyan goes into quarantine||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan went into quarantine on the advice of doctors after many of his party leaders, personal staff and organisers were infected by coronavirus last week, as a precautionary measure. According to a party release, people who used to closely work with Mr. Kalyan tested COVID positive in recent days, prompting him to go into self-quarantine. However, he is doing his daily work and keeping in touch with his party leaders in the virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-kalyan-goes-into-quarantine/article34299060.ece
12 April 2021||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||First Kisan Rail flagged off from Vijayawada||The first Kisan Rail from Vijayawada left for New Delhi with 220 tonnes of mangoes, loaded at Nuzvid, said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. Mango rake loaded after six years “The mango rake was loaded after a gap of six years from Vijayawada division. It is expected to fetch the SCR(South Central Railway) Rs. 9.9 lakh revenue. In total, about 40 rakes will be loaded during the summer, fetching the SCR Rs. 3.5 crore revenue,” Mr. Srinivas said. Nuzvid is famous for its varieties of mangoes, including Banginapalli, Chinna Rasalu, Pedda Rasalu, across the country. The Government of India has started the concept of running Kisan Rails for boosting income to the farm sector, by providing a hassle-free, safe and speedy transport services of agricultural produce. To encourage the farmers, Ministry of Food Processing Industries announced 50 percent tariff concession on transportation of notified fruits and vegetables through Kisan Rails under ‘Operations Greens – TOP to Total’. “The Business Development Unit (BDU), Vijayawada division, conducted regular negotiations with farmers and explained to them the benefits of transportation of their produce through Kisan Rails,” said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P. Bhaskar Reddy. Appeal to farmers He appealed to the farmers, traders and the exporters to utilize the opportunity of Kisan Rail Special trains for safe and speedy transportation of the fruit stocks. Railways is offering special concessions on transportation of agriculture products, Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-kisan-rail-flagged-off-from-vijayawada/article34298459.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: industry leaders seek protection of livelihoods||With significant scientific knowledge on the pandemic and with the vaccination programme in place, India should focus on protecting livelihoods along with lives in its fight against the pandemic, instead of going for partial lockdowns, said Solomon Pushparaj, Deputy Director and Head, Confederation of Indian Industry(CII), Visakhapatnam. Referring to the CEOs poll on ‘Impact of lockdown on the industry’, conducted by the CII, he said that 710 CEOs from both manufacturing and services sectors, have responded to the poll questionnaire. A vast majority (75%) of the respondents expressed the view that partial lockdown measures could impact the movement of labour as well as goods, which would significantly affect industrial production. “Stringent enforcement measures, to promote strict adherence to health and safety protocols are essential and any measures to restrict social gatherings should not be extended to regular functioning of industry and commerce,” said T.V. Narendran, president-designate, CII. While the Indian Industry is well prepared and equipped for implementation of stricter health and safety protocols, stringent implementation of safety norms would be better than the option of partial lockdowns. “Protecting livelihoods along with lives is essential and industry is keen to work with the government on universal coverage (18 years and above) of vaccination programme and in implementing strict health and safety protocols,” said Mr. Narendran.  Mass vaccination Several CEOs expressed their desire to work with the government for mass vaccination of eligible workforce, who are 45 years and above. They expressed the need to stock raw materials in excess of just-in-time levels to meet any likely shortage, about 31% of the industry leaders said that they would accommodate their labour force in the factory in case of movement restrictions due to night curfew. More than 60% of the CEOs suggested that the government should allow movement of workers in all shifts during night curfews and also free movement of goods along with the required personnel to facilitate the movement of goods. This should be allowed with all workers and industry staff, strictly following health and safety protocols. “This will help India recover from the economic contraction and stabilise the upward growth trends being currently witnessed in several sectors,” said Mr. Narendran. Member companies and the industry at large are being encouraged to consider enabling vaccinations of the eligible workforce at the workplace itself. Awareness programmes are also being conducted to sensitise the workers on the safety protocols and COVID appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-industry-leaders-seek-protection-of-livelihoods/article34299124.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 405 new COVID-19 cases||The district recorded 405 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 65,270. The new tally has become the highest single-day tally recorded so far this year. Moreover, for the first time since seven months, the COVID-19 day-tally has crossed the 400-mark in the district. The total number of cases reported this month so far are 2,931. Of the total cases, 1,131 cases were reported in the last 72 hours. The death toll stands at 558, with no death reported from the district in the last 24 hours. The active cases have increased to 2,643 as on Sunday morning. With the recovery of 202 persons, the number of recovered increased to 62,069. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, out of the total number of active cases, around 20 % of cases are being treated in various hospitals, while the remaining are being treated under home isolation. “There are approximately 300 patients in the CSR block of King George Hospital and very few at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD). Around 100 to 150 people are being treated in private hospitals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-405-new-covid-19-cases/article34299128.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police launch special drive on installation of CCTV cameras||In the early hours of March 21, three persons, including a juvenile, broke into the Karakachettu Polamamba temple in the city and stole ornaments and other valuables. The police arrested the accused and recovered the stolen property within two weeks. In this case, a shop at Poorna Market, where the accused had purchased some implements and left them behind at the temple, played a crucial role in zeroing in on them. Similarly, in many other cases, the CCTVs are playing a pivotal role in preventing crimes apart from helping the police to investigate, detect crimes and also to collect scientific evidence to bring the perpetrators to book. With a motto to make the city more safe, the city police have been insisting on installation of CCTV cameras at all self-owned premises and private establishments in the name — ‘Mana Illu - Mana Badhyatha.’ There was a brief lull due to the Urban Local Body (ULB) elections. The police have intensified the drives in all divisions from April 1 and impressing upon residents of apartment complexes and private establishments on the need to install CCTVs in their premises. According to Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, the police personnel were checking the availability of adequate number of cameras, their location at vulnerable points and functioning, during the special drives. The CCTV system should have a recording backup for at least 15 days, he said. According to police statistics, there are around 402 lodges in the six sub-divisions — East, Dwaraka, North, West, Harbour and South. Among them, 392 lodges have installed 5,243 CCTV cameras, while 10 lodges are yet to install them. East Division houses the maximum number of 240 lodges and of them 236 have already installed CCTV cameras, the police said. Out of around 1,217 apartments in the six sub-divisions, 687 have installed 5,144 CCTV cameras, while 530 apartments are yet to install them. In Dwaraka sub-division, out of 360 apartments only 148 have installed CCTV cameras. Similarly, out of 301 apartments in South sub-division, only 164 have CCTV cameras, while 137 apartments are yet to install them. Similarly, out of 624 restaurants in the six sub-divisions, 417 restaurants have installed CCTV cameras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-on-installation-of-cctv-cameras-launched/article34299113.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out at scrap unit||A fire accident took place in the premises of M/s.Pooja Scrap Industries in Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) under Duvvada police station limits here on Sunday afternoon. Mild tension prevailed as thick smoke and flames engulfed the surroundings due to the fire. Fortunately, there were no casualties and no person was injured in the mishap. VSEZ Development Commissioner Ram Mohan Reddy has coordinated with Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), APSEZ, Ramky and other units for deployment of fire tenders. It took nearly three hours for the fire fighters to bring the flames under control. According to the preliminary information by the officials, the cause of the fire is suspected to be electric short-circuit. The officials have constituted a committee with senior officers to enquire into the incident and to assess the damage caused and submit a detailed report to the district administration and all the departments concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-unit/article34299044.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surveillance stepped up in AOB region after encounter||After the April 3 attack on the security forces by the Maoists near Bijapur in Chhattisgarh, which left eight from the District Reserve Guard (DRG), seven from the CRPF’s CoBRA, six from the Special Task Force, and one from the ‘Bastariya’ battalion of the CRPF dead and over 31 injured, the security forces in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region have stepped up surveillance and combing operation on both sides of the border. Possible routes With the security forces in Chhattisgarh in hot pursuit of the attackers, the Left Wing extremists can either move deeper into the Abuj Madh area of Narayanpur-Dantewada-Bastar region or to Sukma. The possibility of the Maoists moving towards Telangana or Maharashtra are less as the borders are well secured in both the States. The chances of the attackers sneaking into the Malkangiri area of Odisha via Sukma and then moving further to the AOB region too are minimal, says a senior officer in the Intelligence wing of the anti-Maoist operation. Normally, after launching such a big attack, members of the group re-assemble at a place and then take different routes to reach their strongholds, he says. In Chhattisgarh, the Maoist strongholds, or what they call “liberated zones,” are Bijapur, Narayanpur, Kanker, Dantewada, Sukma, Bastar, Kondagaon and Rajnandgaon. ‘Taking no chances’ “The chances of their movement towards the AOB region are less. But we never know. So, adequate measures are being taken,” says a senior police officer. The presence of the Maoists in the AOB regions has dwindled over the years. Apart from the Pedabayalu Area Committee, their existence is negligible, he says. They are mainly dependent on militia members, as their cadre strength has dwindled in the last one decade. It is learnt that most of their senior leaders such as Akkiraju Haragopal alias RK, Chalapathi, and Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, who is the secretary of the Andhra-Odish Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC), are no longer in the AOB region and have moved to the Sukma or Dantewada regions. The operations in the region are left to Aruna and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan. But since the Maoists have declared a year-long Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC), the security forces have also stepped up the counter measures. After receiving a series of setbacks and with low new recruitments, the Maoists have planned the TCOC to show their presence and regain faith among the tribal people. Cadre strength dwindles In the AOB region, TCOC is difficult at this juncture, as they are on the run and their cadre strength has depleted. During TCOC, their tactics have been to feed wrong intelligence and, if the security forces fall for it, they run into an ambush, or IED attack. “It has happened in the past, and we have learnt our lessons. We never follow the wrong lead. We strictly adhere to our SOP. And that is why the TCOC has been failing in this part of the region,,” says a senior officer engaged in the anti-Maoist operation in the AOB region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surveillance-stepped-up-in-aob-region-after-encounter/article34299032.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protest organised against sale of public sector units||A ‘prabhata bheri’ was organised jointly by Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) and Greater Visakha Residential Colony Associations’ Federation (NIVAS) at the Alluri Sitaramaraju statue at Seethammadhara here on Sunday in protest against the decision of the Centre to sell Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) and privatisation of public sector units like LIC, GIC, Banks, BSNL, Port and HPCL. The participants raised slogans opposing the privatisation of Public Sector Industries, which have immensely contributed to the growth of the city besides contributing to the national economy. They demanded immediate allocation of captive mines to the steel plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protest-organised-against-sale-of-public-sector-units/article34299121.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alumni meet organised||The alumni meet of Class X batch of 1997-98 of CAH School, Munchingput, was held at the school premises on Sunday. The batchmates recalled their school days. The topper of the batch, M.V.R. Lakshmi, was felicitated . The batch has presented books and some others items of use to the school and announced that they will continue their support to the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alumni-meet-organised/article34299118.ece
12 April 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks distributed||To create awareness among people about the need to wear a mask in the wake of the surge in coronavirus cases, members of the Alliance Club, Marripalem Vuda Layout, in the city, distributed masks on the National Highway near R & B Junction on Sunday morning. Holding placards, the club members stopped the pedestrians and vehicle riders who did not wear a mask and educated them about taking safety measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/masks-distributed/article34299123.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ugadi sambaralu’ organised||The AP Working Journalists’ Federation (APWJF) and the AP Broadcast Journalists’ Association jointly organised Ugadi sambaralu at Vysakhi Jala Udhyana Vanam here on Sunday. Journalists and their families participated in the celebrations, which began with an ‘Ugadi Kavi Sammelanam’ and ‘Panchanga Sravanam’. Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari and her husband were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ugadi-sambaralu-organised/article34299126.ece
12 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Phule||District Collector V. Vinay Chand paid floral tributes to the portrait of Jyotirao Phule on the occasion of his birth anniversary celebrations, at the Collectorate here on Sunday. Mr. Vinay Chand remembered the services rendered by Phule, the greatest Indian reformist, who led the movement against the prevalent caste restrictions in India. Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao, DRO A. Prasad and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-phule/article34299130.ece
12 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of vaccine hits inoculation even as cases rise in North Andhra||The shortage of COVID-19 vaccines hit the ‘Tika Utasav’ in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, even as the infection count countiued to rise on Sunday. The ‘Tika Utsav’ which was scheduled to beorganised between April 11 and 14 was confined to frontline warriors with a little availability of doses in these two districts. As many as 17 lakh people aged above 45 years need vaccination, but the availability of does was confined to below 50,000. The officials hope that the stock would arrive soon. Meanwhile, they are giving a wide publicity to vaccination drive and making arrangements for the mass vaccination programme. “The State government has already requested the Centre for 25 lakh vaccines. Till the stock arrives, the vaccination cannot resume. Meanwhile, people need to take all the precautions such as wearing masks, sanitising hands and maintaining social distance,” said a health department official. Viziangaram district reported 193 new cases on Sunday, taking the active cases to 573. In Srikakulam district, 293 new infections were reported and the cumulative tally went up to 1,294. Awareness programme Meanwhile, the BJP cadres are creating awareness over the benefits of COVID-19 protocol in Itchapuram, Srikakulam and other places. Itchapuram BJP in-charge G. Sai Kamesh said the party’s central leadership directed them to give a wide publicity to the benefits of vaccination. “Many people have doubts about vaccination. We are visiting government and private hospitals to motivate patients and others to take vaccines. We hope that the vaccine stock would reach Srikakulam in a few days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-vaccine-hits-inoculation-even-as-cases-rise-in-north-andhra/article34299042.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drawing attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drawing-attention/article34298461.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eco concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eco-concerns/article34299120.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recharge station||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recharge-station/article34298415.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Serving the needy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/serving-the-needy/article34299046.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drawing attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drawing-attention/article34299117.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free training in tailoring||A 45-day free training programme in tailoring was provided to women at Sri Sathya Sai Women’s Vocational Training Centre at Yendada in the city. The programme was conducted by the women’s wing of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation(SSSSO), Visakhapatnam district. Certificates were awarded to all the participants on the completion of the training. Usha, the trainer, was felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-training-in-tailoring/article34299122.ece
12 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Leveraging tech to foster art forms||Artisans of the Naikpod tribal community are all set to leverage technology to upgrade their skills and produce wooden miniature masks to foster their age-old art forms and tap a wider market for tribal handicrafts globally. Thanks to the initiative of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, a group of artisans of Naikpod tribal community formed Naikpod Tribal Arts & Crafts Society and set up a Computer Numerical Control (CNC) router with 90% financial assistance at the ITDA campus in Bhadrachalam recently, sources said. The Rs. 32-lakh CNC router facilitates production of wooden miniature masks in impressive designs to serve as decorative artefacts. The artisans of Naikpod community are famous for their centuries-old craft traditions of paintings and hand-carved wooden masks of replicas of various tribal deities and mythological characters of "Pandavas." They wear the wooden masks during special occasions and local festivals. Pasula Buchaiah, General Secretary, Adivasi Naikpod Seva Sangham. Telangana, says the masks of horse-headed chief goddess “Lakshmi Devara” are most revered by Naikpod tribal people during festival occasions. The CNC router unit will help the Naikpod artisans preserve the traditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leveraging-tech-to-foster-art-forms/article34298960.ece
12 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Surveillance stepped up||Surveillance at vital installations and construction sites of various road and other development works in Telangana’s Bhadrachalam Agency has been bolstered following the alleged torching of four heavy machines and one tractor by Maoists at a water treatment plant under construction in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Sunday. Vigil in forest fringe areas in Dummugudem and Charla has been intensified following Sunday’s alleged encounter. between security forces and Maoists. in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district, in which a senior Maoist cadre was killed, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surveillance-stepped-up/article34298972.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||With 3187 cases, State’s daily tally touches all-time high||Telangana hit a grim milestone on Saturday as it recorded an all-time single-day high of 3,187 coronavirus cases. With this, more than 3,000 cases were logged for the second time in the State since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The previous highest daily tally was 3,018 recorded on August 25 last year. While 61,040 samples had been examined then, Saturday saw 1,15,311 tests being performed. Results of 3,753 persons were awaited. The number of COVID-positive cases crossed 500 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region with 551 infections. The second highest of 333 was detected in Medchal-Malkajgiri, followed by 271 in Rangareddy, 251 in Nizamabad, 154 in Nirmal, 134 in Jagtial, 113 in Kamareddy, and 104 each in Kamareddy and Sangareddy. The lowest of 13 cases were recorded in Mulugu. In terms of fatalities due to the coronavirus, the toll has reached 1,759 with seven new deaths on Saturday. So far, 1.09 crore samples have been put to test and 3.27 lakh have tested positive for the virus. For the third consecutive day, more than one lakh samples were tested to detect the presence of coronavirus. Of the 1,15,311 samples examined on Saturday, 1,03,267 were tested at government labs and the remaining 12,044 were examined at private facilities. Of the total, 20,184 were active cases while 3.05 lakh have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-3187-cases-states-daily-tally-touches-all-time-high/article34298934.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CAG unearths non-enforcement of contractual provisions||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in a recent report tabled in the Assembly brought to light non-enforcement of contractual provisions by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) which resulted in undue favour of Rs. 1.05 crore to a contractor. The issue was about construction of a ring sewer main to divert sewage from Kukatpally nala to prevent it from flowing into the downstream of Hussainsagar. The government had accorded administrative approval and technical sanction for the work costing Rs. 58.96 crore in February 2015. In April 2015, the works were divided into four packages and entrusted to two agencies. Agency 1 got package I for Rs. 7.23 crore and package III for Rs. 7.80 crore. Agency 2 got package II for Rs. 7.87 crore and package IV for Rs. 4.82 crore. As against the scheduled date of completion of October 2015, the works were completed in April 2016. The contractor was supposed to dig probing pits of specified dimensions, including road cutting, at every 100 meter interval along the alignment to accurately locate and determine position of existing utilities and obstructions. All utility lines and structures, whether indicated on the drawings or not, which were to remain in service, should be protected by the contractor from any damage likely to result from his operations. Any damage to any utility resulting from the contractor’s operations should be repaired at the contractor’s expense. During the execution of the work in July 2015, the Transmission Corporation of Telangana requested HMWS&SB to take precautionary measures by maintaining sufficient clearance of minimum three metres between cable trench and pipeline trench to prevent collapse of cable trench for the already existing 132 KV underground power cable. In August 2015 and again in April 2016, TRANSCO discovered damages to the 132 KV UG power cable at Necklace Road. TRANSCO fixed the responsibility for rectification of power cable on HMWS&SB. The repairs were carried out by TRANSCO and a claim of Rs. 1.05 crore was levied towards damage charges. HMWS&SB paid Rs. 1.05 crore during December 2015 to July 2017 to TRANSCO towards rectification works for the damaged UG cable. It did not, however, invoke the contractual clauses to recover this amount from the contractor. Non-enforcement of contractual provisions by HMWS&SB resulted in undue favour of Rs. 1.05 crore to the contractor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cag-unearths-non-enforcement-of-contractual-provisions/article34298952.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Techie-turned birder gets to live her passion||For someone who could have made it big in the world of engineering being a graduate from JNTU (Anantapur), 41-year-old Syamala Rupakula decided to chart a different course and make a mark for herself in the world of bird watching. And, Syamala has every reason to look back with a sense of pride at her passion that began in 2012, for she now leads, effectively, in motivating hundreds of bird watchers to visit Ameenpur lake with her ‘first-time’ sighting of some of the rare birds species like Indian Pitta, and Indian Blue Robin. “Staying close to Ameenpur lake has been definitely one of the reasons for my growing passion for bird watching. Somehow, I got hooked to the birds and not to the big cats for I love clicking action pictures like these winged visitors taking flight or feeding their chicks,” Syamala says. To her credit, Syamala has so far shot 310 species of birds and 80 of them at Ameenpur lake. “I remember the first time I saw a flock of 13 flamingos at the lake about three years ago and my joy knew no bounds. It was such an amazing experience,” she recalls. Interestingly, the passion for bird watching for the mother of two (her son T. Krishna Prem Kumar too is an avid bird watcher making strides in photography) makes her visit the neighbouring States too. “Yes, during my last visit to Ganeshgudi in Karnataka, I had the immense satisfaction of shooting the Malabar Trogon. To be frank, Indian Pitta (Ameenpur lake), Mottled Wood Owls (Anantagiri in Vikarabad) and daughter T. Jayasree (who is into sports) gave me great satisfaction,” says Syamala. Not surprising, this passionate nature lover has the backing of her husband T. Bala Subramanya Kumar (software engineer) and the entire family including her mother-in-law. “This is obviously my asset as my husband makes it a point that I should explore different species of birds every weekend. And, I enjoy watching these wonderful birds,” she says. That Syamala is one of the most familiar names and grateful to the members of Hyderabad Birding Pals in improving her knowledge about birds, is a tribute to her amazing passion at an age when many of her contemporaries would like to stay back at home and relax watching some entertainment programmes on TV. “Is this not a better way to beat the pandemic too?” she signs off with a big smile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-turned-birder-gets-to-live-her-passion/article34298955.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Green nod to SCCL mine put off||Non-compliances with closure plan for the existing mine, safety issues related to proposed coal washery and want of information on several other aspects have made an expert committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forests defer the environmental clearance proposal for the expansion of Jalagam Vengal Rao opencast mine of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. At its meeting held during the fourth week of March, the appraisal panel of experts noted that the proposed project was expansion of amalgamation of JVR-I and II of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. in 1,953 hectares at Kommepalli in Khammam district as the coal reserve of JVR-I is likely to get exhausted by the end of the year. The the mine void of JVR-I would be used for dumping the overburden material. According to company officials, the total geological reserves reported in the mine area are 309.55 million tonnes with 291.97 million tonnes of extractable reserves. The balance extractable reserves as on March 31 last year were estimated at 230.63 million tonnes with the mine life span of 26 years from 2020-21. The committee observed that surface water quality of nearby water tank was poor and exceeding the norms. It was noted that disposal of washery rejects from the proposed new coal washery in OB dump may have safety issues and could lead to wastage of extracted resources. It was pointed out that the certified compliance report of JVR-II has various non-compliances based on the site visit conducted in September 2019. Besides, the project proponent (SCCL) did not submit the certified compliance report of EC of JVR-I and the amendment of EC conditions of JVR-II regarding transportation by road till December 2021 was still under the consideration in the Ministry. The expert committee further observed that there were various issues which require further deliberations and suitable response. While deferring the proposal for recommending EC, the MoEF committee listed out gaps in information on the past production details of both the mines since their inception, sought fresh compliance report and action-taken report on ECs for JVR-I and II. Details of control blasting with adequate safeguards for nearby people, conducting noise and vibration monitoring in nearby villages during day and night for one month and proper response of local people’s demand on pollution mitigation measures raised during the public hearing were sought by the expert panel. The panel recommended formation of a sub-committee to conduct site visit to analyse the prevailing condition and implementation of measures. Meanwhile, the expert panel has issued terms of reference for appraisal of the proposal for P.V. Narasimha Rao opencast mine in 1,071 hectares near Venkatapur in Mulugu district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-nod-to-sccl-mine-put-off/article34298962.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||In civic polls, TRS plays IT card||After promising to make Warangal and Khammam into next IT hubs in Telangana, and also taking the first steps in that direction, the TRS government is keen on using it its main weapon to appeal to young voters in those corporations. The TRS led by its working president, K.T. Rama Rao has drawn up plans to capture the corporations, and will continue the positive winning steam it has seen in the recent Graduate MLC elections. It has decided to deploy a battery of leaders consisting of Ministers and MLAs, who will take charge of each division. So it will be an extension of the ongoing campaigning in the Nagarjunasagar bypoll as Ministers and MLAs would have to shift to either Warangal or Khammam to continue the campaign irrespective of the result in the bypoll. Government’s intentions are quite clear as the State Election Commissioner has initiated the process of elections despite the appeals from opposition parties on postponing them, citing rising corona cases. In fact, the State Election Commissioner (SEC) also sent a strong signal of conducting the exams stating that when Assembly polls could be conducted in the country in the present circumstances why should the corporation elections be withheld. The TRS clearly wants to leverage its strength in these districts as most of MLAs and other public representatives are from the ruling party and its fresh success in the MLC elections is playing on its mind. KTR has already kicked off the party campaign indirectly launching several developmental programmes in Khammam and also lining up the same in Warangal. The government has already decided to increase the wards in Khammam from 50 to 60 and from 58 to 66 in Warangal. The delimitation of wards would obviously be done to suit the ruling party and also the reservations. Though considered weak in Khammam district, the party has strengthened itself in recent times and Transport Minister, Puvvada Ajay is going full steam with the support of KTR. But it is perturbed a bit by groupism in Khammam TRS. Warangal, however, has been the bastion of TRS ever since the party was launched. In the previous elections, the TRS secured 44 out of 58 seats in Warangal while Congress got four and BJP and CPI(M) got one each. Rebels and Independents emerged winners in eight divisions but later joined the TRS team. In Khammam it secured 34 seats, Congress secured 10 while CPI(M) and YSRCP won two corporations each. The BJP drew blank despite contesting in 11 divisions. However, this time it was expected to do better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-civic-polls-trs-plays-it-card/article34298966.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Evoking Jana as ‘next CM’ sentiment||As the campaign for Nagarjunsasagar bypoll reaches the final stage, Congress is harping on a new weapon to get the decisive vote for its candidate K. Jana Reddy projecting him as Chief Minister candidate for the 2023 Assembly elections. ‘Elect Mr. Jana Reddy, who will be Chief Ministerial candidate in the next elections, and that will bring the constituency into the limelight’ is what the Congress leaders have been projecting to locals in the internal campaign. “If TRS wins Mr. Bhagat will be one among the 100 MLAs with constituency unlikely to get any special favour,” is the line taken by the Congress leaders. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy opened this argument for public debate during his campaigning on Sunday and the party hopes to take the narrative to a new level just before Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is planning a massive public meeting, a day after Ugadi on April 14. A TRS leader in the constituency agreed that this sentiment will have some impact as Mr. Jana Reddy was always seen a CM candidate in the party during the Telangana agitation as well. Moreover, he has a connect of over four decades with the constituency and knows every inch of it apart from its people. A Congress leader also recalled that Mr. Jana Reddy was the front runner as president of the first Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC), at the peak of the Telangana agitation, as well but lost out due to some miscommunication. Former Minister Ponnala Lakshmaiah was then appointed Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and led the party in the 2014 Assembly elections.  Jana working overtime Meanwhile, Mr. Jana Reddy is working overtime to revive his contacts reaching out to people who matter in each and every village seeking their support using the emotional connect he has with them. Community leaders who have been with him over the years and benefited politically or otherwise but are now with the ruling party for other reasons are being tapped for the help at the crucial stage of his political career. His son Raghuveer Reddy has opened the back channel efforts identifying influential people in certain sections and engaging them with his father. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders, who were ignored by the late Nomula Narasimhaiah, and with little say in the party are also on the radar. Most of these leaders had personal relation with Mr. Jana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/evoking-jana-as-next-cm-sentiment/article34298965.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police book 6,478 cases in one week for mask violation||With a sharp rise in coronavirus cases, Telangana police are on an intensive enforcement drive to make citizens comply with the ‘Mask On’ rule even as the face mask has been made mandatory by the government. In the past seven days, the police registered ePetty cases against 6,478 erring citizens and slapped a penalty of Rs. 1,000 on each. While Narayanpet police failed to register even a single case since April 5 even as coronavirus-positive cases are on the rise in the district, their counterparts in Jagtial, Wanaparthy and Jayashankar-Bhupalpally booked one case each. However, Hyderabad Commissionerate topped the list with 2,030 ePetty cases, followed by commissionerates of Ramagundam (938), Rachakonda (670) and Cyberabad (514). In semi-urban police commissionerates, Karimnagar and Siddipet, there were just eight and nine cases respectively, while among districts, Sangareddy topped the list with 349 ePetty cases, followed by Kamareddy at 272 cases, and Suryapet at 257 cases for mask rule violation. Police in tribal districts like Adilabad, Mulugu, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad have registered five, 16, 22, and 48 cases, respectively. Asked if people from a specific age group or gender were not complying with the ‘mask-on’ rule, a senior police officer said violations were noted across age groups and genders. “It is high time that people realise the necessity of masks for their own safety, safety of their loved ones and fellow countrymen,” he told The Hindu . The officer, who did not wish to be named, said that the police cannot check every citizen. “They should realise it themselves,” he added. Recently, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy held a video conference in which he directed all unit heads to intensify the enforcement of mask use in public places. He asked them to coordinate with the stakeholders in local communities, including residents welfare associations, and officials at the village or ward level to ensure strict implementation of the mask rule. “Involve self-help groups across the State in securing voluntary compliance by local communities. Strict enforcement measures, including prosecuting repeat offenders by registering specific cases, should be taken up all over the State,” Mr. Reddy told the officers. Awareness under way Meanwhile, police are also using public address system and conducting rallies to create awareness among people on the usage of mask and how it protects one from contracting the deadly virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-book-6478-cases-in-1-week-for-mask-rule-violation/article34298943.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR passenger earnings see a 93% dip with Rs. 974.24 crore||South Central Railway (SCR) running only special express train services ever since the pandemic induced lockdown was lifted last year, has suffered a 93% dip in passenger earnings for 2020-21 with Rs. 974.24 crore. While this was expected, the previous year (2019-20) earnings was about Rs. 4.100 crore! This is reflected in the numbers too with just 24.25 million passengers till March end compared to 363.45 million the previous year. Freight has definitely done better with 95.9 MTs when compared to 109 MTs the previous or the drop has been just 10% with Rs. 8,372 crore when compared Rs. 9,339 crore the year before, disclosed General Manager Gajanan Mallya in a virtual media interaction on Friday. “We wanted to start 10 local train services and had obtained permissions but we backtracked due to rising coronavirus cases as the non-reserved travel could lead to crowding in trains. We are taking steps to keep our running staff and passengers safe by following the prescribed safety protocols. We are planning to complete the vaccination for 45 years and above this month with 12,764 vaccinations done till date for frontline workers,” he said. About 7,500 personnel tested positive last year and with occupancy of beds reaching 60-70% in Secunderabad, Vijayawada and Tirupati, health facilities are being augmented. “We may consider opening isolation centres if the cases rise further,” said the GM. With just 180 trains running, the space available was used to strengthen safety and infrastructure works during the year, he said insisted there has been no overcrowding in any station urging people not to believe in rumours being floated on the social media. Works done include the Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) extended to 321 more km spread over 34 stations with high density routes to get priority. Speeds up to 130 kmph were cleared between Duvvada-Vijaywada, Renigunta-Wadi and Secunderabad-Kazipet. New lines of 42.5 km — Manoharabad – Gajwel (31 km) and Jaklair – Makthal (11.5 km), doubling of 161.5 km (Uppaluru – Gudivada –Moturu & Gudivada – Machilipatnam (68.7 kms), Nallapadu – Perecherla (7.8 kms), Gajjelakonda to Donakonda (12.4 kms), Pendekallu – Eduladodi (8.6 kms), Gollapalli – Shadnagar (30.2 kms), Chigicherla – Zangalapalle (10.7 kms), Taticherla – Garladinne (9.1 kms) and Falaknuma – Umdanagar (14.0 kms). About 60.4 km of tripling (between Kazipet –Balharshah section and Vijayawada – Gudur section) was done while gauge conversion of 44.4 km between Akola –Akot section. About 750 km track was electrified and 81 manned level crossings were removed, explained Mr. Mallya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-passenger-earnings-see-a-93-dip-with-rs-97424-crore/article34298948.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus vaccine stock at some private hospitals over||If you are planning to get COVID-19 vaccine at a private hospital here on Monday, it would be a good idea to call ahead for a confirmation as a few private health facilities have run out of jabs. This reporter called up 14 hospitals and four stated that they have not been provided with fresh stock. Two others said they were not sure if vaccination will be provided on Monday and could give a correct idea only in the morning. On Saturday, Telangana joined several states in flagging a vaccine shortage to the Centre with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar writing to the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, stating that the State was left with only 5.66 lakh doses of COVID vaccine doses which would last three days at the maximum. Mr Somesh Kumar has requested at least 30 lakh more doses for the State for the next 15 days. Sources in State Health department said no response has been received yet. Health officials said priority is given to government-run vaccination centres as far as supply of doses is concerned and that they are closely monitoring the stock to assess when they will run out of it at government centres. Vaccination paused Three hospitals in Gachibowli had to stop vaccination on Sunday. “We were not provided with fresh stock, so immunisation was not organised on Sunday. We can’t say anything about tomorrow either,” said an employee of one of the hospitals. A staff member of a major hospital said the vaccination drive will not be arranged till Thursday. Sources in corporate hospitals said those who took the first dose at their facility have called and enquired why they were not providing the second dose. “We are closely monitoring the stock availability. Since Ugadi is this week, fewer people might turn up for vaccination. If the State is not provided with some more stock, there might be a problem when the usual high turnout resumes,” sources in the Health department said. The number of beneficiaries across the State has risen from around 60,000 a day in the beginning of April to over one lakh now. On Sunday, 1,62,385 beneficiaries received the jab. Of them, 1,53,295 beneficiaries received the first dose while 9,090 took the second dose. The net vaccine consumption in the State was 21,23,510 of which 20,61,395 doses were administered. That puts the vaccine wastage at 2.93%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coronavirus-vaccine-stock-at-some-private-hospitals-over/article34298935.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engineering graduate arrested for stealing rental vehicles||A 27-year-old Electrical and Electronics Engineering graduate was arrested by the Cyberabad police for allegedly stealing self-driven rental vehicles. The inter-State offender, Gudati Mahesh Nuthan Kumar, a mobile phone technician, is a native of Seesali village in Kalla mandal of Bhimavaram, Andhra Pradesh. He was residing at Chengicherla village of Medchal-Malkajgiri district. The sleuths of the Special Operation Team (SOT), Shamshabad, who apprehended Kumar, recovered an SUV, three sedans, two hatchback cars and a Royal Enfield bike, all worth Rs. 70 lakh from his possession. Stating that the accused had a typical modus operandi, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that Kumar committed the offences individually after joining the bachelor rooms through room sharing mobile application. He stole the identification proofs (driving licences, and Aadhaar cards) of his room mates, apart from cash, and fled. Later, he morphed the photograph on the stolen ID cards with his photo and produced it to take self-driven cars on rent from Zoom cars, Drivezy, Revv and Royal Brothers. Kumar removed the GPS devices and original number plates, affixed fake number plates and sold them to his friends and relatives at cheaper rates. “He sold the vehicles at 30 to 40% less than MRP to his customers,” Mr. Sajjanar said, adding the Kumar committed offences in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra and West Bengal. In March, a Zoom car manager lodged a complaint with Madhapur police stating that on February 25, a person produced the ID card of one M. Kiran Kumar and took a Suzuki Swift car on rent. He removed the GPS device from the vehicle and did not return the vehicle. Based on their complaint, a case was registered and a probe was launched to identify and nab the accused. According to the Commissioner, Kumar, who was arrested on Thursday, was involved in 13 cases in seven States. Earlier, he was arrested by Malakpet and SR Nagar police as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineering-graduate-arrested-for-stealing-rental-vehicles/article34298953.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many doctors on COVID duty test positive despite jabs||Several doctors in government hospitals, who attend patients in COVID-19 wards, have tested positive for coronavirus despite taking two doses of the vaccine. In fact, there have been quite a few cases of vaccinated persons being diagnosed with the infection. Officials in the State Health department said that severity of the infectious disease will be low in those who took the jabs. Doctors working in Government General and Chest Hospital at Erragadda, and the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences have tested positive for the virus. As the cases steadily increase, admission of COVID-19 patients, too, in government hospitals has also been on the upswing. “Since we completed vaccination against the infectious disease, we are not highly concerned about out health. But the concern is that we might spread the infection to our family members who are not vaccinated yet. At the end of the day, we return to our homes after attending COVID patients,” said a doctor from the Chest Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-doctors-on-covid-duty-test-positive-despite-jabs/article34298937.ece
12 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mask is the best weapon: Cyberabad CP||With a rapid spike in coronavirus cases, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said mask is the best weapon available to protect oneself and to stop the spread of the deadly virus. “Your mask protects me and my mask protects you. Together, we will protect our near and dear ones,” he said, while addressing a press conference here on Friday. He said the cases now are rising faster than they did during the first wave: “So it goes without saying that wearing a mask and maintaining social distance are very important precautions everyone must follow.” Mask must be a compulsory accessory just like a mobile phone, Mr. Sajjanar said. “Shoppers, too, must keep strict vigil on their customers. Violators must not be allowed to enter their premises,” he said. He also directed the operators of public transport to ensure that passengers strictly adhered to government protocols prescribed. Following COVID norms is patriotism now, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mask-is-the-best-weapon-cyberabad-cp/article34298944.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vaccination centre opened at SCR Chilkalguda health unit||SCR Secunderabad divisional railway manager Abhay Kumar Gupta inaugurated a COVID vaccination centre at Chilkalguda health unit in the presence of chief medical superintendent Dr. C. Ravindra Sharma and additional DRM Ravichandran on Saturday. The DRM urged serving or retired employees and family members to utilise this centre as a safety measure to stop spread of COVID-19. Vaccine will be given to the staff on registering their names at the counter provided. A COVID testing camp was also conducted for the staff at the divisional headquarter of Sanchalan Bhavan to detect asymptomatic cases. On April 1, another vaccination centre was opened at the COVID Care Centre in Kazipet for the benefit of the staff and their families, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-centre-opened-at-scr-chilkalguda-health-unit/article34298950.ece
12 April 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boy suffers burns, KTR promises help||A eight-year-old boy, Nishanth, a resident of Moulali, is battling for life at a private hospital in the city, after accidentally coming in contact with a live electric transformer. When Mohd Asif Hussain Sohail tagged IT and Industries Minister KT Rama Rao on Twitter seeking help, the latter promised to take care of the boy. Malkajgiri MLA M. Hanumantha Rao promised to take care of medical expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/boy-suffers-burns-ktr-promises-help/article34298963.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pilgrim special trains to visit south, north India||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation of the Indian Railways has announced the launch of “Pilgrim Special Tourist Trains” originating from Renigunta and Secunderabad, respectively, for ‘Uttara Bharat Yatra’ and ‘Dakshin Bharat Yatra’ later this month. The main objective is to enable people visit pilgrim destinations through affordable tourist trains. Uttara Bharat Yatra starts on April 24 morning from Renigunta with boarding and de-boarding in Nellore, Ongole, Vijayawada, Guntur, Nalgonda, Secunderabad, Kazipet and Ramagundam. Places covered are Agra, Mathura, Vaishno Devi, Amritsar, Haridwar and Delhi. There will be five sleeper coaches, five AC three tier coaches and a pantry car. Fares are Rs. 10,400 per person for sleeper coach and Rs. 17,330 per person for AC three tier. Dakshina Bharat Yatra starts on May 11 morning from Secunderabad and the journey is for six nights and seven days and return on May 17. Boarding and de-boarding are in Secunderabad, Warangal, Khammam, Vijayawada, Tenali, Ongole, Nellore, Gudur and Renigunta. Places covered are Tiruchirapalli, Thanjavur, Rameswaram, Madurai, Kanyakumari-Mahabalipuram and Kanchipuram. The train will have five sleeper and five AC three tier coaches with pantry car. Fares are Rs. 6,620 per person for sleeper class and Rs. 11,030 per person for AC three tier. Contact: 040-27702407 9701360701, 8287932228, 8287932229, www.irctctourism.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pilgrim-special-trains-to-visit-south-north-india/article34298947.ece
12 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Man hacks wife, mother-in-law to death||A man hacked his wife and mother-in-law to death, suspecting the fidelity of his wife. Bollaram CI G. Prashanth said Narasimha of Annaram village was married to Swaroopa (35) of Bollaram. For the past few months, Swaroopa had been staying with her mother Yellamma (55). Narasimha suspected the role of her mother-in-law also in the “objectionable” behaviour of wife and hacked both of them to death and surrendered. The police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-hacks-wife-mother-in-law-to-death/article34298969.ece
12 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Swatch Badi launched||In a move to teach lessons on solid waste management, a Swatch Badi (a learning centre to know and deal with garbage) was formally inaugurated at the district headquarters by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Sunday. This is the second such school in India. The first one is located at Bengaluru. Here the faculty will teach collection of garbage, segregation of wet, dry and harmful garbage, public health involved in the system, avoiding plastic, and how to produce compost from garbage at houses. Dr Prashanthi from Bangaluru will supervise the functioning of the school. “Here lessons will be taught not only to children but even to elderly people on garbage management. People will also be taught how dangerous it will be if the garbage is not treated properly. I thank Dr. Shanthi and others in this regard for the cooperation they have extended in establishing this school,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that about 40 metric tonnes of garbage would be produced in the district headquarters and treating it properly was important. “Garbage will be segregated at three levels and we can know how it can be used through school. Training will be offered to school children, DWCRA women and leaders in digital form, practical demos and power point presentations. People can use the compost generated here to use at their back yards. Use of pesticides and chemicals has been harming our health while compost will offer better healthy vegetables,” said the Minister. Mr. Harish Rao said that lake festival would be held for three days from April 12, and the first glow garden would be established at Komaticheruvu, the first in the country. Similarly, musical fountains would be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/swatch-badi-launched-at-siddipet/article34298968.ece
12 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Harish to inaugurate lake festival||As part of making Komaticheruvu more beautiful, Glow Garden arrangements are being made with special focus. Three-day lake festival will be held from Monday. Musical fountain will be there for 15 minutes in the middle of the tank. There will be cultural programmes from 6 p.m. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao will inaugurate the festival on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-to-inaugurate-lake-festival/article34298971.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Officials in border districts concerned||Of concern to officials on Telangana side of inter-State border with Maharashtra is the unhindered vehicular movement on roads connecting the two States in Nizamabad and Kamareddy districts. In these days when Maharashtra is registering a steep rise in COVID positive cases, thousands of people are entering the two districts from Deglur, Biloli, Dharmabad and other places of adjoining Nanded district in Maharashtra. Initially, the Telangana government officials who set up obstacles to traffic coming from Maharashtra lowered the guard subsequently. The staff conducted thermal screening on passengers travelling by buses at the check-post at Salabatpur in Madnoor mandal. If any one was found with symptoms of COVID, they were quickly moved for rapid antigen tests. But, nothing was done with passengers in autorickshaws, jeeps, lorries, cars and two-wheelers. They have a smooth drive into the State. The positive cases numbered 282 in Madnoor mandal.   Resurgence of COVID pandemic has become a cause of concern for the authorities and people alike. The steep rise in cases in spite of availability of vaccine has thrown up a challenge to the authorities. Questions are being raised on whether there is an enforcement mechanism to make people follow the protocols or COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in the State. The State could at best penalise people violating norms like not wearing facial masks, but what about the gatherings witnessed in functions and public meetings especially election meetings in Nagarjunasagar where a bypoll is slated soon? It is time the authorities concerned initiated stringent measures to prevent such gatherings.   The State government appears to have landed in a piquant situation as far as COVID-19 vaccination is concerned. At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is stressing the need for ‘each one-vaccinate one’, stressing the need for extending help to those who cannot themselves go for vaccination, the State is reportedly running short of stocks of vaccine. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar was understood to have sent a communication to the Centre seeking additional vaccine doses to overcome the shortage. Given the clarion call given by the Prime Minister himself, it should become imperative on the part of the Union government to equip States with adequate stocks of vaccine to take up vaccination festival, christened Tika Utsav by Mr. Modi.  (N. Rahul, and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-in-border-districts-concerned/article34298964.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Quick pick||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quick-pick/article34298958.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Remembering a leader||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/remembering-a-leader/article34298974.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Weaving a livelihood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weaving-a-livelihood/article34298946.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||RESPONSE: Ramp up vaccination||These are some e-mails that we received from our readers offering suggestions to deal with the second wave of the pandemic. We have also received a flood of suggestions on our social media handles.      The vaccination process need to be more streamlined. I visited one of the designated hospitals in Mettuguda, but was told that vaccines are in short supply and there was uncertainty over when the new stocks would arrive. This was after I had registered through the Centre’s Co-WIN website. The government, which has opened this digital mode of registering for vaccination, could at least have sent an intimation via SMS to all those enrolled regarding the shortage and given the next date accordingly. Kumar Shastri, Moula Ali    The government should ramp up vaccination for all age groups, and take measures to stop viral transmission via inter-State travel. It should also take stringent action against those violating COVID norms, and make people aware that every family is like a soldier in a war. All the medical establishments across the State should also be made aware of treatment protocols to be followed. Hemanth Jadhav, Hyderabad    The government should allow more vaccines that have been found effective like those from Sputnik and Johnson & Johnson into the market in addition to Covishield and Covaxin. It should ensure that there is no shortage of vaccine even in the remotest of places. In this regard, the help of voluntary organisations can be taken. Besides, fierce monitoring of crowd gathering, and footfall at malls, cinema halls, bars and pubs should be done to control the virus spread. Failure to adhere to the norms should be punishable by cancellation of commercial licence. P. Balasubramaniam Pavani, Venkatapuram    It’s high time that testing is intensified to curb the super-spread of infection by both symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers. Weekend lockdowns and night curfews won’t have much impact on the massive surge. The best solution is to ramp up vaccination and extend them to all, including those in the 18-45 age group, without delay. Besides, timely funds, facilities and raw material supplies should be provided by the government to vaccine-manufacturing pharmaceutical companies on a war footing. Keerth Mukund R., Balanagar   During Unlock, a grave mistake was committed by the government that threw open wine shops, bars, pubs and temples. The government has to close them again. With schools and colleges closed, children are seen playing on the roads day in and day out without even wearing masks. Police patrolling should be intensified in the interior colony roads too and hefty penalty should be imposed for not wearing masks and not maintaining distancing in public places. Vaccination should be provided on all days, including holidays. I.V.Prabhakar Rao, Vanasthalipuram    In addition to testing, tracking and treating, it is important to educate and, if need be, acting tough with those not following the protocols. Police officials and health workers need to distribute masks and sanitisers. Ministers, MPs, MLAs and all those who matter should first adhere to the protocols and impress upon the public about the imminent danger. Jayasheela Rao, Hyderabad    Many citizens are not wearing masks or wearing one without covering their nose and mouth despite the Rs. 1,000 fine announced for violators. I feel there is a need to educate people about the importance of wearing mask through awareness activities like putting hoardings in the markets, windscreen stickers on all taxis, posters on the back of all autorickshaws and the sides of all TSRTC buses. Adherence to safety norms would bring the cases down. T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/response-ramp-up-vaccination/article34298939.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||Car CD player (1) Original Skoda Car CD player Rs. 5,000. (2) Intel mini-computer, built-in CPU (blue colour) Rs. 2,000. Contact M. Eswara Prasad on phone 9391021027. Refrigerator Samsung refrigerator 230 litre, double-door model in good working condition is on sale for Rs. 7,000. Contact C. Satish on phone 9849620114.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article34298940.ece
12 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana Police secures conviction of 30 accused||The Haryana Police secured conviction of 30 accused booked for rape, murder and other provisions under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act during the first quarter of 2021. Giving this information, a Haryana Police spokesperson said that due to effective investigation, and evidence given by the police, eight accused were convicted by courts in January, 18 in February and 12 were brought to justice and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment ranging from five years to life imprisonment in March. The courts also imposed fines ranging between Rs. 7,500-55,000 on the convicts. The spokesperson said Director General of Police, Haryana, Manoj Yadava, had been closely monitoring the Commissioners of Police and district Superintendents of Police to ensure effective investigation in cases pertaining to child rape and other grave crimes to ensure stern punishment to the accused and speedy justice to the victim. The establishment of fast-track courts is also proving helpful in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-police-secures-conviction-of-30-accused/article34298732.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||An order to remove disorder||A recent order of the Delhi High Court could see all construction workers who have, and will be working on the ‘Central Vista Redevelopment Project’ and ‘Pragati Maidan Redevelopment Project’, reap the benefits of the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Fund. The High Court, on March 23, ordered the Secretary (Labour) of the Delhi government to convene a meeting on April 13 to “amicably resolve all the issues” relating to registration and renewal of construction workers under the welfare scheme. A Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Asha Menon also took note that the registration form to be filled in by the workmen is complicated and cumbersome. Sluggish implementation It has been around 25 years since the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 and the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996 came into force. However, the implementation of this social benefit scheme on the ground remains sluggish, primarily on the issue of registration and renewal of construction workers, especially migrants who face various vulnerabilities during the ongoing pandemic. In March 2018, the Supreme Court had ordered that “all construction workers should be given identity cards and should be registered in terms of Section 12 of the BOCW Act”. The top court had then lamented: “Symbolic justice — there is nothing more to offer to several millions of construction workers in the unorganised sector — not social justice, not economic justice.” The apex court further lashed out at the reluctance of the States to conform to the laws. “No State government and no Union Territory Administration (UTA) seems willing to fully adhere to and abide by [or is perhaps even capable of fully adhering to and abiding by] two laws solemnly enacted by Parliament, namely, the BOCW Act and the Building and Other ConstructionWorkers‘ Welfare Cess Act, 1996 (the Cess Act),” the top court had then said. Total apathy Last year, the Delhi High Court also has passed several directions to ensure timely registration and renewal of the construction workers under the BOCW Act. Social worker and activist Sunil Kumar Aledia, on whose petition the Delhi High Court passed the directions, said that most of the Capital’s construction labourers and other workers entitled to benefits under the BPCW Act are currently residing in various labour camps, construction sites, homeless shelter homes, emergency shelter homes and on streets. “These labourers spend their blood and sweat for meagre daily wages for the development of Delhi, India and, of course, for the profits of construction companies, building owners and builders,” Mr. Aledia said. But they get little rewards, even those that they deserve. “However, due to the lack of responsibility taken by employers, governments and departments alike, these workers are not just left to fend for themselves but are also deprived of the mandated benefits of crores of funds collected in their name,” he added. Mr. Aledia has taken it upon himself to organise a special camp for facilitating the registration of construction workers at Labour Colony Sarai Kale Khan and Maharani Bagh Sub Station in the Capital. During a camp organised on January 26 this year, he interacted with hundreds of construction workers working at two mega projects — the ‘Central Vista Redevelopment Project’ and the “Pragati Maidan Redevelopment Project’. “I did not come across even one worker who was registered under the BOCW Act,” Mr. Aledia said. Voluntary registration According to Central Public Works Department officials, the onus is on workers to get registered with the State Building and Other Construction Workers Board under the BOCW Act, 1996. A senior official said registration camps were being organised, but it was a voluntary exercise. The official added that other welfare measures for the workers at Parliament site, including COVID-19 vaccination camps for those over 45 years of age were being carried out. The official added that a registration camp would be held on April 13, which also happens to be the date of the court-ordered meeting to be convened by the Delhi Secretary-cum-Labour Commissioner. The workers had been given a place to stay at a camp in Sarai Kale Khan, besides food and medical facilities as well as the transport to and fro from the site, according to a source involved with the project. The agency carrying out the Parliament project, Tata Projects Ltd., declined to comment on the matter through a spokesperson. Subhash Bhatnagar, coordinator of the National Campaign Committee for Central Legislation on Construction Workers, said the issue was “in a fluid state” as the BOCW Act had been replaced by the Code on Social Security 2020, but the rules to implement the Code had not been notified. Under the BOCW Act, employers are supposed to pay 1% of the construction cost to the State for the BOCW Board to use for welfare activities of registered workers. “Under the BOCW Act, the registration is voluntary but the new Code will make it the responsibility of the employer to have the workers registered. Since they will be making huge payments, they should get the workers registered. Government construction sites should at least ensure that all workers are registered,” he said. The benefits In Delhi, according to the Delhi BOCW Board’s website, 5,52,843 workers were registered as of March 31, 2020. All building workers 18 to 60 years of age who have been engaged in construction for at least 90 days in the preceding 12 months are eligible to register. A registered construction worker is eligible for medical assistance up to Rs. 10,000, in case of hospitalisation for five or more days due to accident or any disease. The worker also gets financial assistance for marriage of self and for children (up to two children). For marriage of female registered member, a sum of Rs. 51,000 is provided while a male registered member is given Rs. 35,000. Pension, ex-gratia A registered worker is also eligible for a pension benefit of Rs. 3,000 per month after completion of 60 years. Apart from that, 50% of the pension received by the pensioner or Rs. 1500, whichever is higher on the death of a pensioner, will be given to the surviving spouse. There is also a provision for disability pension Rs. 3,000 per month to permanently disabled member due to paralysis, leprosy, T.B and accidents etc. Also exists an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 1 lakh in case of permanent disability. The rule also provides for maternity benefits of Rs. 30,000 to registered women members and wives of male members (up to two children). If a construction worker dies due to an accident, during the course of employment, the nominees/dependents are entitled to get Rs. 2 lakh as a death benefit. In case of normal death of the worker, the nominees/dependents of the members are entitled to Rs. 1 lakh. Mr. Bhatnagar said the number of registered workers had gone down during the pandemic and that only 40,000 workers in Delhi received the payments given to 2 crore construction workers in the country in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/an-order-to-remove-disorder/article34298742.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ghazipur wears deserted look as farmers leave for civic polls||The protest site at Ghazipur border wore a deserted look on Sunday as farmers have gone back to their villages for harvesting and for upcoming panchayat polls. Yoginder Chaudhary, a protester, said the crowd is thin since the beginning of the harvesting season and it has further reduced after the dates of panchayat polls were declared. Rumours of complete lockdown have also caused panic among the protesters and they went back. Protesters will be back in Ghazipur after the panchayat elections. Dharmendra Malik, media in charge of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), said that the government should not mistake farmers’ protesters as protesters in Saheen Bagh. “We won’t leave the protest site at any cost. We have distributed face masks, kept sanitisers in tents and instructed protesters to strictly follow social distancing norms. If required, more tents will be erected to ensure social distancing, but they won’t fall in trap of the government like they did with Shaheen Bagh protesters,” said Mr. Malik. Mr. Malik said that the protest site will again witness huge crowds after Panchayat polls. Like they said earlier, farmers are on standby and if any emergency situation arises, then protesters will immediately march towards Ghazipur border. Protesters said that it’s been more than four months and there is a complete deadlock between the government and farmers. It is tough to protest on road when the temperate is 42 degrees, but they have made arrangements to keep protesters safe. “We are taking extra care of senior citizens, who are part of the farmers protest, by separating their tent and also delivering food to their tents. Protesters who used to come daily visit the protest site have also avoided coming due to night curfew,” said Bhanu Singh, a protester. Protesters spend the daytime under the flyover and they move back to their tents erected on the highway, after sunsets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ghazipur-wears-deserted-look-as-farmers-leave-for-civic-polls/article34298735.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two contract killers arrested in transgender’s murder case||Delhi Police arrested two contract killers who were allegedly involved in a murder case of a transgender at GTB Enclave area, the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Gagan Bhardwaj alias Gagan Pandit, a resident of Paschim Puri, and Varun (19), a resident of Lal Quan, they said. They were wanted in a shoot-out case of GTB Enclave on September 5, 2020, in which one Ekta Joshi, a transgender, was killed. Pandit and one Aamir had fired at Ekta, the police said. Ekta, with her step-mother Anita Joshi and step-brother Ashish Joshi, had come to her residence from Laxmi Nagar. Around 8.30 pm, two persons came on a scooter and fired multiple shots and she died, they said. “The police received information regarding the accused and laid a trap near Nirankari Samagam Grounds on Saturday. The accused were spotted in a car around 5 a.m. coming from Majlis Park metro station side. They were signaled to stop, but the accused whipped out their pistols and fired at the police. However, the police team led by Inspector Shiv Kumar nabbed the duo,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said. Pandit disclosed that he is the mastermind behind Ekta’s murder. One Manzoor Elahi, a member of a group of transgenders, had approached him for killing Anita and Ekta, members of rival group of transgenders, the DCP said. Elahi agreed to pay Rs. 55 lakh to Pandit for the murder, the police said. Rivalry Groups of transgenders headed by Sonam and Varsha of Faridabad and Kamal and Manjoor Elahi of GTB Enclave were the rivals of Ekta’s group and her step-mother Anita, the police said. The rivalry between both the groups of transgenders was on the issue of domination in Trans-Yamuna area in collection of money from people on social occasions, the police said. Pandit was previously involved in 14 cases, including one of murder, four of attempt to murder, three of dacoity and three of robbery, in Delhi and U.P., they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-contract-killers-arrested-in-transgenders-murder-case/article34298738.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Firefighters rescue five persons from blaze in Greater Kailash-II||The Delhi Fire Services early on Sunday rescued five persons from a blaze in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash-II area, officials said. According to the officials, they received information regarding the fire at 4.18 a.m. The fire broke out in a house at GK-II. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Domestic articles and five air-conditioners on the first floor of the building had caught fire. The DFS rescued five persons safely from the second floor. The rescued persons have been identified as Shivani (27), Bharat (35), Naveet (31), C.R. Ram (60) and Romil (57), a senior fire official said. Meanwhile, a major fire occurred in Shastri Park here. The DFS were informed at 12.45 a.m.. The fire broke out at a furniture market at Vijay Court near Shastri Park metro station. Around 200 furniture shops were gutted in fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/firefighters-rescue-five-persons-from-blaze-in-greater-kailash-ii/article34298737.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||High Court grants bail to two men in north-east Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to two persons, facing prosecution in a case of murder and criminal conspiracy relating to last year’s riots in north-east Delhi. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said: “Keeping in view that petitioner is in judicial custody since April 02, 2020, and trial of the case shall take substantial time, without commenting on merit of the case, this court is of the opinion that the petitioners deserve bail.” The High Court also said that “the veracity of the allegations” alleged against the accused, Pradeep Rai and Aman Kashyap, shall be tested at trial. The duo, in their respective petitions, had sought bail in connection with an FIR registered at police station Dayalpur, Delhi. Both the accused are facing offences under Sections 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intent) of the Indian Penal Code. They argued that one of the eyewitnesses, is also an eyewitness in multiple FIRs registered at Dayalpur police station in connection with the riots on February 25, which took place in Gali No. 10 as well as in Gali No.3. “How the eyewitness, a resident of Gali No. 8 could see the present incident in Gali No.3, is doubtful,” Justice Kait noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-grants-bail-to-two-men-in-north-east-delhi-riots-case/article34298731.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for killing man in Mangolpuri||The Delhi Police arrested two persons for allegedly killing a 35-year-old man in north-west Delhi’s Mangolpuri area, they said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Pradeep and Raju, both residents of Mangolpuri, they said. The police said that the body of one Chandarbhan, a resident of Mangolpuri, with injury marks was found on Monday at 9.35 a.m. He used to work as a cardboard box painter.  To trap the accused, the police told them that since the area was under surveillance through satellite cameras of NASA, they were seen with the victim in footage, following which the accused confessed their involvement, they said. The accused said the victim deceased used to abuse them after drinking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-killing-man-in-mangolpuri/article34298733.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Saurabh- CDV||A civil defence volunteer was killed on Sunday in an accident while performing his duty at Baba Haridas Nagar here, the police said. The deceased has been identified as Punit Gupta, a resident of Pandav Nagar. Accused Devinder Singh from Najafgarh, was caught along with his truck, they said. “During enquiry, it was revealed that Gupta was injured in the incident and declared brought dead at Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka,” said DCP (Dwarka). Later, a case was registered and Singh was arrested. He was released on police bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/saurabh-cdv/article34298924.ece
12 April 2021||Dubai,||‘Suspicious’ blackout hits Iran nuclear site||Iran’s underground Natanz nuclear facility lost power on Sunday just hours after starting up new advanced centrifuges capable of enriching uranium faster, the latest incident to strike the site amid negotiations over the tattered atomic accord with world powers. Iran described a blackout at its Natanz atomic facility an act of “nuclear terrorism,” raising regional tensions. Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, stopped short of directly blaming anyone for the incident. Details remained few about what happened early on Sunday morning at the facility, which initially was described as a blackout caused by the electrical grid feeding the site. Multiple Israeli media outlets reported on Sunday that an Israeli cyberattack caused the blackout in Natanz. Public broadcaster Kan said the Mossad was behind the attack. Channel 12 TV cited “experts” as estimating the attack shut down entire sections of the facility. While the reports offered no sourcing for their information, Israeli media maintains a close relationship with the country’s intelligence agencies. If Israel caused the blackout, it further heightens tensions between the two nations, already engaged in a shadow conflict across the wider West Asia. Austin meets Netanyahu “To thwart the goals of this terrorist movement, the Islamic Republic of Iran will continue to seriously improve nuclear technology on the one hand and to lift oppressive sanctions on the other hand,” Mr. Salehi said, according to state TV. He added: “While condemning this desperate move, the Islamic Republic of Iran emphasises the need for a confrontation by the international bodies and the (International Atomic Energy Agency) against this nuclear terrorism.” Sunday’s developments also complicates efforts by the U.S., Israel’s main security partner, to re-enter the atomic accord aimed at limiting Tehran’s nuclear programme. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who on Sunday met with U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, has vowed to do everything in his power to stop the nuclear deal. “It’s hard for me to believe it’s a coincidence,” Yoel Guzansky, a senior fellow at Tel Aviv’s Institute for National Security Studies, said of Sunday’s blackout. “If it’s not a coincidence, and that’s a big if, someone is trying to send a message that ‘we can limit Iran’s advance and we have red lines.’” It also sends a message that Iran’s most sensitive nuclear site is “penetrable,” he added. Israel typically doesn’t discuss operations carried out by its Mossad intelligence agency or specialised military units. In recent weeks, Mr. Netanyahu has repeatedly described Iran as the major threat to his country. ‘Sabotage, infiltration’ Malek Shariati Niasar, a Tehran-based lawmaker who serves as spokesman for the Iranian Parliament’s energy committee, wrote on Twitter that the incident was “very suspicious,” raising concerns about possible “sabotage and infiltration.” He said lawmakers were pursuing details of the incident as well. Natanz was built largely underground to withstand enemy airstrikes. It became a flashpoint for Western fears about Iran’s nuclear plan in 2002, when satellite photos showed Iran building its underground centrifuges facility at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suspicious-blackout-hits-iran-nuclear-site/article34298342.ece
12 April 2021||Amman,||Jordan King, Prince in first joint appearance since rift||Jordan’s King Abdullah appeared in public on Sunday alongside his half-brother Prince Hamzah, state TV showed, their first joint appearance since a palace crisis involving the prince rocked the kingdom. The images showed a group of Hashemite royals at a mausoleum, where their ancestors are buried, on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the desert kingdom. The palace Twitter account published pictures of the group at a cemetery. All were dressed in civilian clothes, apart from Hussein, the heir to the throne, who wore military dress. The government had accused Prince Hamzah — a former Crown Prince who was sidelined as heir to the throne in favour of King Abdullah’s son Hussein in 2004 — of involvement in a conspiracy to “destabilise the kingdom’s security”. At least 16 people were arrested. Prince Hamzah, in a video message published by the BBC on April 3, claimed he had been placed under house arrest and accused Jordan’s rulers of corruption and ineptitude. But King Abdullah said on Wednesday that Prince Hamzah, who has signed a letter pledging his loyalty to the king, was safe in his palace under his “care”. In an address, the king added that “sedition has been nipped in the bud”. Prince Hamzah had been appointed Crown Prince and heir to the throne in 1999 in line with his father’s wishes, but the King stripped him of the title in 2004 and named his own eldest son Hussein in Prince Hamzah’s place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jordan-king-prince-in-first-joint-appearance-since-rift/article34298344.ece
12 April 2021||Berlin,||Two conservatives declare bids in race to succeed Merkel||The head of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its smaller Bavarian sister party both declared themselves willing to run for Chancellor on Sunday, with the bloc poised to decide who will represent it in the race to succeed the veteran leader in September elections. CDU chief Armin Laschet and Markus Soeder, the head of the smaller Bavarian CSU party, told reporters they were open to being the centre-right alliance’s candidate for Chancellor during a crunch meeting of conservative MPs in Berlin. “We have established that we are both suitable and both willing,” Mr. Soeder said. September elections Mr. Laschet, 60, a long-time Merkel ally, took over as CDU leader in January, and would normally be first choice to lead the parties into the elections on September 26, when Ms. Merkel will retire from politics after 16 years as Chancellor. But the sister parties’ backing is tumbling over their recent handling of the coronavirus crisis, and some have called for Mr. Laschet to step aside in favour of the charismatic Mr. Soeder, 54. Mr. Laschet said on Sunday that he and Mr. Soeder had agreed that they would both stand, stressing: “Our goal is to provide as much unity as possible between the CDU and CSU.” Mr. Soeder had spent months avoiding showing any clear interest in the top job — while doing little to dispel talk that he wants the chancellorship for himself. While Mr. Laschet remains more likely to win over party bigwigs, Mr. Soeder has also already drawn the support of several CDU lawmakers, as conservative MPs face falling poll ratings with growing nervousness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-conservatives-declare-bids-in-race-to-succeed-merkel/article34298862.ece
12 April 2021||Kyiv,||Ukraine says one soldier killed amid tensions on Russia border||The Ukrainian military said that a soldier was killed and another seriously wounded in artillery fire from Russia-backed separatist rebels on Sunday, as hostilities rise sharply in the east. As of the reported attack, Ukraine said 27 soldiers have been killed in the east this year, more than half the number who died in all of 2020. Attacks have intensified in recent weeks and Russia has built up troops along the Ukraine border. Russia denies Western claims that it has sent troops into eastern Ukraine to help the rebels, but officials say the Army could intervene if Ukraine tries to retake the area by force. The troops buildup has raised sharp concerns in the West. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned on Sunday that “if Russia acts recklessly, or aggressively, there will be costs, there will be consequences.” Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists have been fighting in eastern Ukraine since the 2014 annexation of Crimean Peninsula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ukraine-says-one-soldier-killed-amid-tensions-on-russia-border/article34298350.ece
12 April 2021||Beijing,||China considers mixing vaccine to boost efficacy||China is considering the mixing of different COVID-19 vaccines to improve the relatively low efficacy of its existing options, a top health expert has told a conference. Authorities have to “consider ways to solve the issue that efficacy rates of existing vaccines are not high”, Chinese media outlet The Paper reported, citing Gao Fu, the head of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. His comments mark the first time a top Chinese expert has publicly alluded to the relatively low efficacy of the country’s vaccines, as China forges ahead in its mass vaccination campaign and exports its jabs around the world. China has administered around 161 million doses since vaccinations began last year, and aims to fully inoculate 40% of its 1.4 billion population by June. But many have been slow to sign up for jabs, with life largely back to normal within China’s borders and domestic outbreaks under control. Mr. Gao has previously stressed the best way to prevent the spread of COVID-19 is vaccination, and said in a recent state media interview that China aims to vaccinate 70% to 80% of its population between the end of this year and mid-2022. At the conference, Mr. Gao added that an option to overcome the efficacy problem is to alternate the use of vaccine doses that tap different technologies, referring to mRNA vaccines. Sinopharm’s vaccines have efficacy rates of 79.34% and 72.51% respectively, while the overall efficacy for CanSino’s stands at 65.28% after 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-considers-mixing-vaccine-to-boost-efficacy/article34298346.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||De-escalation trend positive, says China||“We hope the Indian side could cherish the current positive trend of de-escalation and cooling in the border area, adhere to the relevant agreements between the two armies and the consensus of the previous talks and move towards the same direction as the Chinese side to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area,” the spokesperson said, reported State broadcaster China Global Television Network (CGTN). The PLA, unlike in previous rounds, did not acknowledge the remaining issues or the need to expeditiously resolve them. This was also the first instance since at least the sixth round of talks in September last year that both sides did not issue a joint statement, suggesting there is no agreement, as yet, on resolving issues at the Patrolling Points in Gogra and Hot Springs. Also unlike in previous rounds, China’s statement did not come from the Ministry of Defence in Beijing, but from the Western Theatre Command, which is headquartered in Chengdu, noted the Communist Party-run Global Times . The changes “indicated that the latest meeting did not result in an agreement of a full disengagement in other areas as expected,” Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the newspaper, adding that “it could be challenging to solve remaining issues”. Mr. Qian added that with the spring and summer months usually marking a spike in tensions along the LAC, a situation where “the temperature picks up and troops are still not disengaged in other regions” could impact the “momentum of de-escalation”. Resolving issues in Gogra and Hot Springs has taken longer than expected. Following the 10th round of talks on February 20, both sides in a joint statement hailed the “smooth completion” of disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake, which was seen as the most difficult dispute to resolve, and said it was “a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues”. They had agreed to convene the 10th round to take up the remaining issues 48 hours after completing disengagement at Pangong Lake. The joint statement issued after the ninth round on January 24, during which both sides made a breakthrough and agreed to a plan to disengage at Pangong Lake, said India and China had “agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops.” India has said there will be no return to normalcy in relations with China until disengagement is fully completed, followed by de-escalation along the LAC and the return of PLA troops, which had deployed in large numbers along the LAC, to their peacetime positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/de-escalation-trend-positive-says-china/article34298363.ece
12 April 2021||Dubai,||70 dead in battle for Yemen’s Marib||Fierce fighting for Yemen’s strategic Marib city has killed 70 pro-government and Houthi rebel fighters over the past 24 hours, with battles raging on three fronts, loyalist military officials said on Sunday. The Houthis have been trying to seize Marib, the capital of an oil-rich region and the government’s last significant pocket of territory in the north, since February. Two officials from pro-government forces said that the rebels were mounting a concerted push that had left 26 loyalist soldiers dead as well as 44 Houthis. The rebels rarely disclose their losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/70-dead-in-battle-for-yemens-marib/article34298345.ece
12 April 2021||MULTAN,||AS--Pakistan||Counterterrorism police killed one of Pakistan’s most wanted militants in a shootout in Rawalpindi overnight, police said on Sunday. Police identified the slain militant as Niaz, active with the Pakistani Taliban group Tahreek-e-Taliban in Punjab province. Niaz was involved in planning a 2015 suicide attack that killed former Home Minister of Punjab, Shuja Khanzada. Three of the militant’s accomplices escaped.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-pakistan/article34298349.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Through a backchannel, steps forward||The absence of evidence, they say, is not the evidence of absence. More than a month after India-Pakistan border commanders agreed to strictly observe all agreements between the two countries, the absence of official acceptance of a backchannel seems far outweighed by indicators that there is, in fact, such a channel in place, approved by the Prime Ministers of both countries. Several clues For many, the statement issued by the Director Generals of Military Operations on February 25 was the first clue. The fact that it was a joint statement and employed terms like the resolution of “core issues” indicated both coordination at a diplomatic level and high-level political approval. The events that followed, including the scheduling of the much-delayed Indus Water Treaty talks, the granting of sports visas, and the salutary messages between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, strengthened rumours of a backchannel. These stand out after a particularly recriminatory period in India-Pakistan ties that followed the 2019 Pulwama attack, the Balakot strikes and capture of an Indian pilot thereafter, and the government’s decision on Jammu and Kashmir. More recently, the lack of any references to Pakistan in electoral speeches by Mr. Modi and his Cabinet during the ongoing Assembly elections as well as the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA)’s decision not to criticise the obvious U-turn by Mr. Khan on trade are seen as more such clues. Nor has the MEA or Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) issued rebuttals or denials to news reports in credible international and national news organisations in the past few weeks that have said that talks overseen by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and Pakistan Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa have been taking place for months, in different neighbouring countries, facilitated by foreign governments including the United Arab Emirates. Quite the reverse, in fact: the MEA and MoFA’s responses to specific questions in the past week about the existence of a backchannel have been carefully worded non-denials. An unbroken chain For those aghast at the prospect, a look at the history of backchannels, or officially sanctioned contacts between nominees from India and Pakistan, is instructional. They have operated in the worst of times, including wars, terror strikes and military action, and their existence brought to light only years later. For example, it was only when former Inter-Services Intelligence chief Hamid Gul, reviled for his role in building the Taliban and arming Kashmiri militants, died that former Research and Analysis Wing chief A.K. Verma wrote about their channel for peace talks that began in 1988. The talks had been initiated by General Zia-ul-Haq and Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi through Jordanian Crown Prince Hassan. The leaders were close to an agreement when General Zia’s death in a plane crash ran the process aground, Mr. Verma wrote. Later, during the Kargil War, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee chose an unorthodox back-channel interlocutor, R.K. Mishra, journalist and founder of the Observer Research Foundation. Mishra met with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s envoy, diplomat Niaz Naik, to hammer out the contours of the ceasefire and Pakistan’s withdrawal, with both men shuttling between Islamabad and New Delhi on secret visits. Both Mishra and Naik died in 2009, and never spoke of their work themselves, but their conversations were the beginning of an unbroken chain for the next decade, handed over on the Pakistani side from Tariq Aziz to Riaz Mohammad Khan and Shahryar Khan  and on the Indian side from NSAs Brajesh Mishra and J.N. Dixit to Special Envoy Satinder K. Lambah. Over the years, little has been said publicly, but stories abound of Indian and Pakistani diplomats scouring Delhi’s Connaught Place for a proper map of the India-Pakistan Line of Control in order to work out their resolution — of one interlocutor arriving at the hotel room of another’s past midnight to discuss some part of the plan, and of backchannel diplomats travelling across the border without visas or any official record. On one occasion, the Pakistani President did not even know about the arrival of the Indian interlocutor until he found the Indian plane parked next to his on the tarmac in Islamabad. Learning from the past Prime Minister Modi, by many accounts, initiated contacts even before he assumed office. In early 2014, a Washington-based Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh member, Jitendra Tuli, visited Pakistan and reportedly told the Pakistani NSA and other senior officials about a soon-to-be-sent invitation for Prime Minister Sharif from India. By his own account, he suggested that it would be advisable to hold off giving India ‘Most Favoured Nation’ status, something the Sharif government had already proposed to do, until after the elections in India. After Mr. Modi invited Mr. Sharif to his swearing-in, the two leaders were believed to have exchanged messages through steel magnate Sajjan Jindal, whose meeting with Mr. Sharif in Murree set off a controversy in Pakistan. Even as official channels faltered, and Foreign Secretary-level talks in Islamabad and then NSA-EAM talks in Delhi were cancelled, other channels were activated. Mr. Doval’s first contact with Pakistan Special Envoy Lt Gen Nasir Janjua in Bangkok as well as Mr. Modi’s surprise visit to Lahore in December 2015 were clearly prefaced by some ‘non-official’ officially sanctioned contact. After the Pathankot attack in 2016, the Doval-Janjua backchannel worked to ease tensions and facilitate the visit of a Pakistani investigative team to the scene of the terrorist attack. After Kulbhushan Jadhav’s arrest, the channel worked until the MEA confirmed publicly in January 2018 that the two officials had met in Bangkok on December 26, the day after Mr. Jadhav’s family was allowed to meet him in Islamabad. “Terror and talks cannot go together but talks on terror can definitely go ahead,” the MEA spokesperson had explained. In 2016, six former Pakistani High Commissioners also travelled to Delhi for a Track-II consultation with nine former Indian High Commissioners, where they met NSA Doval and senior MEA officials, indicating that the present dispensation is not averse to learning from the successes and failures of past channels. Why a backchannel now? As a result, the latest revelations of a backchannel being in place since 2020 should not be received with much surprise and comes with several instructional messages. To begin with, what appears to be clear is that while friendship and trust between inimical neighbours with a bitter history, such as what India and Pakistan share, may seem impossible, engagement is inevitable. Second, domestic constraints and challenges on other fronts often put the spotlight back on the need for a workable peace on the India-Pakistan front. Pakistan’s dire economic condition and the mounting pressure from the Financial Action Task Force to shut down all terrorist safe havens or face severe sanctions is clearly one imperative for Islamabad’s willingness to engage via the backchannel even after India’s decision on Jammu and Kashmir. For India, the stand-off with the People’s Liberation Army at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh has made the possibility of a two-front war more real, and fuels the push to reduce tensions with Pakistan. For both Delhi and Islamabad, it is important to be mature parties in the regional engagement with Afghanistan as well, by not providing a conflagration at their boundaries. These reasons take precedence for the moment in the absence of a terror attack in India traceable to Pakistan. Finally, the existence of a backchannel at this time, which would not be possible without support right from the top, could answer the question posed by former Pakistani Foreign Minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri, who, in his memoir titled Neither a Hawk Nor a Dove , wrote that every leader he had ever interacted with had said privately, “Let’s make history!” And he asked, “How could Prime Minister Modi, with a sense of destiny about himself,... be an exception to that?” suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/through-a-backchannel-steps-forward/article34298331.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Why the Personal Data Protection Bill matters||The pandemic has forced more people to participate in the digital economy. More people have taken to digital channels to fulfill a variety of needs like purchasing groceries and accessing health services. Unfortunately, the number of personal data breaches from major digital service providers has increased worryingly in the same period. The recent alleged data breach at MobiKwik could stand to be India’s biggest breach with the data of 9.9 crore users at risk. Robust data protection regimes are necessary to prevent such events and protect users’ interests. Unfortunately, the existing data protection regime in India does not meet this standard. However, the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, now under scrutiny by a Joint Parliamentary Committee, could play a big role in providing robust protections to users and their personal data. In this context, this article seeks to answer a fundamental question: How can the Bill protect users’ interests in the digital economy? No effective protection How different entities collect and process users’ personal data in India is mainly governed by the Information Technology Act, 2000, and various other sectoral regulations. However, this data protection regime falls short of providing effective protection to users and their personal data. For instance, entities could override the protections in the regime by taking users’ consent to processing personal data under broad terms and conditions. This is problematic given that users might not understand the terms and conditions or the implications of giving consent. Further, the frameworks emphasise data security but do not place enough emphasis on data privacy. In essence, while entities must employ technical measures to protect personal data, they have weaker obligations to respect users’ preferences in how personal data can be processed. As a result, entities could use the data for purposes different to those that the user consented to. The data protection provisions under the IT Act also do not apply to government agencies. This creates a large vacuum for data protection when governments are collecting and processing large amounts of personal data. Finally, the regime seems to have become antiquated and inadequate in addressing risks emerging from new developments in data processing technology. The need for a more robust data protection legislation came to the fore in 2017 post the Supreme Court’s landmark judgment in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd) v. Union of India that established the right to privacy as a fundamental right. In the judgment, the Court called for a data protection law that can effectively protect users’ privacy over their personal data. Consequently, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology formed a Committee of Experts under the Chairmanship of Justice (Retd) B.N. Srikrishna to suggest a draft data protection law. The Bill, in its current form, is a revised version of the draft legislative document proposed by the Committee. The upcoming regime The proposed regime under the Bill seeks to be different from the existing regime in some prominent ways. First, the Bill seeks to apply the data protection regime to both government and private entities across all sectors. Second, the Bill seeks to emphasise data security and data privacy. While entities will have to maintain security safeguards to protect personal data, they will also have to fulfill a set of data protection obligations and transparency and accountability measures that govern how entities can process personal data to uphold users’ privacy and interests. Third, the Bill seeks to give users a set of rights over their personal data and means to exercise those rights. For instance, a user will be able to obtain information about the different kinds of personal data that an entity has about them and how the entity is processing that data. Fourth, the Bill seeks to create an independent and powerful regulator known as the Data Protection Authority (DPA). The DPA will monitor and regulate data processing activities to ensure their compliance with the regime. More importantly, the DPA will give users a channel to seek redress when entities do not comply with their obligations under the regime. The Bill seeks to bring a massive and meaningful change to personal data protection in India through this regime. However, the reality could be different. Several provisions in the Bill create cause for concern about the regime’s effectiveness. These provisions could contradict the objectives of the Bill by giving wide exemptions to government agencies and diluting user protection safeguards. For instance, under clause 35, the Central government can exempt any government agency from complying with the Bill. Government agencies will then be able to process personal data without following any safeguard under the Bill. This could create severe privacy risks for users. Similarly, users could find it difficult to enforce various user protection safeguards (such as rights and remedies) in the Bill. For instance, the Bill threatens legal consequences for users who withdraw their consent for a data processing activity. In practice, this could discourage users from withdrawing consent for processing activities they want to opt out of. Additional concerns also emerge for the DPA as an independent effective regulator that can uphold users’ interests. The way forward The time is ripe for India to have a robust data protection regime. The Joint Parliamentary Committee that is scrutinising the Bill has proposed 86 amendments and one new clause to the Bill – although the exact changes are not in the public domain. The Committee is expected to submit its final report in the Monsoon Session of Parliament in 2021. Taking this time to make some changes in the Bill targeted towards addressing various concerns in it could make a stronger and more effective data protection regime. Indradeep Ghosh is the Executive Director of Dvara Research and Srikara Prasad is a Policy Analyst at the Future of Finance Initiative housed at Dvara Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-the-personal-data-protection-bill-matters/article34298326.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Going backwards on Indian history||The recent University Grants Commission (UGC) directive framing the undergraduate history syllabus points to the involvement of ‘experts’ who are still stuck in the discipline as it was practised and taught years ago in the 1950s. A crucial element of the discipline is its division into different periods, or periodisation. The notion of periodisation in history was alien to all societies and civilisations, until Europe instituted it towards the end of the 17th century, though its evolution had started from the 16th century in the history of Christian theology and its Church. The tripartite division of ancient, medieval and modern history was formalised by a German,Christoph Cellarius, in 1688, and was extended beyond theology and Church. Underlying it was the assumption that with the “modern” age of rationality, Europe had left its ‘dark age’ of superstition and irrationality behind. As Europe colonised the rest of the world, its intellectual constructs were universalised as well — among them was periodisation. If Europe had emerged from its “dark age”, the rest of the world was still lodged there and needed to emulate Europe’s progress. Three periods Its implantation in India came in a further distorted form: James Mill’s division of history into Hindu, Muslim and British periods in his notorious bookA History of British Indiapublished in 1817. Whereas the ancient-medieval-modern nomenclature implied Europe’s emergence from the medieval “dark age” to the “modern” age of reason through its own autonomous evolution, India, in Mill’s vision, was still stuck in its own dark age of religion from which the British colonial rule was obligated to rescue it. Hence, the asymmetrical Hindu-Muslim-British period. As a utilitarian, Mill treated religion with utter contempt. If his comments on Islam were derogatory, those on Hinduism were scandalous. “The vices of falsehood, indeed they carry to a height almost unexampled among the other races of men” is one of his moderate comments on Hindus. However, the periodisation schema became pervasive in every book of Indian history irrespective of its author. Its basic frame implied that Indian history predominantly comprised the accounts of conquests and defeats, administrative measures and relevant “policies” of dynasties and individual rulers, and that their driving force was their religious fervour. History could thus be divided into the Hindu period beginning with the Aryans (Harappa had not been discovered yet) and ending with the death of Harsha in 647 CE, the Muslim period from 1206 with the establishment of the Delhi Sultanate and ending with Aurangzeb’s death in 1707, and the British period opening roughly from 1765 with the grant of Diwani to the East India Company. The gaps between 647 CE and 1206 and 1707 and 1765 were marked by a historical drought. Mill also emphasised the exclusivity of and implicitly irreconcilable hostility between the Hindu and Muslim communities, a precursor of the two-nation theory of Savarkar-Jinnah, which perhaps explains the UGC’s preference for it. Even when the nomenclature of periods was altered to ‘ancient’, ‘medieval’ and ‘modern’ in 1903 by Stanley Lane-Poole, the basis of the division remained unaltered until after Independence. Notably, the new nomenclature came in his bookMediaeval India Under Mohammedan Rule. However, for any undergraduate in 1955-60 at Delhi University, almost the same dates demarcated the three periods, with Hindu-Muslim-British often interchanged with ancient-medieval-modern. The scope of the study also remained largely tied to Mill’s parameters. Multi-layered explanations The 1960s saw a sea change in Indian historians’ understanding of the past, which undermined the given periodisation. The study of history tied to the story of dynasties and rulers and which located all historical explanation in a single cause, namely religion, was found very restrictive. As historians began to explore new facets of the past — social structures, economic drives, cultural mores, politics as exercises in the notions of power and social and ethical norms, confrontations and accommodations at the social, cultural and politico-administrative levels — the discipline began to move from hitherto simple explanations to complex, multi-layered ones. An immediate and major casualty of this metamorphosis was the inherited periodisation and fixed dates of transition from one period to the other. Changes in reigns and dynasties can be traced to fixed dates and years, but social, economic and cultural changes occur as long-term processes that are hard to pin down to specific dates, years, or at times, even decades. It is interesting that while the tripartite schema of periodisation remained, its temporal boundaries began to get flexible to account for these. The notion of the ‘early medieval India’ was an important intervention covering changes at the ground level between, say, the eighth and the 12th centuries, both being porous boundaries, thus giving the term a new meaning. The use of the pre-fix ‘pre-modern’ for the period starting from the 16th century has gained considerable traction in recent decades.  By the 1980s and thereafter, history began to acquire much more expansive dimensions, such as the study of ecology (of deserts, forests and rains), of women’s role in shaping history both in the household or in the community, or even at the level of the state, ever-evolving notions of time and space, perceptions of the past, gender identities of local or regional deities, or gender identities even of state systems, diseases and their cures, migrations all through history, the history of memories, the history of substructures sustaining massive imperial structures, and so on. All this is already percolating to undergraduate levels in universities and colleges. The UGC draft is completely ignorant of these magnificent departures Indian history has registered since Independence and wants to take us back to James Mill’s colonial format, which is too simplistic academically to be tenable and has already demonstrated its social and political consequences in the country’s Partition. The prescribed reading list reinforces this ignorance by recommending books mostly written in the 1950s. Is this the grand vision for our ‘New India’? The author taught history at JNU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/going-backwards-on-indian-history/article34298339.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A fragile ecosystem||Information in the public sphere often travels in two contradictory and contending trajectories. One is aimed at empowering citizens and helping them in sharpening their spirit of critical inquiry. The other is to serve the whims of the government, where the role of the information ecosystem is reduced to that of a mere amplifier of the claims of those in power. Journalism, in its desire to remain the node of empowerment, has to constantly remind itself and the citizens of the troubled past and the fragile present. But the battle to erase hard-won victories seems to be a new normal today. Often, there were questions about the nature of this column itself. As I am the lone news ombudsman in a mainstream media outlet in India, with no peer comparison, each reader tends to read the terms of reference spelt out for the Readers’ Editor (RE) from different perspectives. Some expect the RE to look at complaints from readers alone. Some feel that the RE should expand his remit to include comments on the business side of the news such as advertisement, subscription and circulation. And a vast majority of readers are very appreciative of the media literacy component in the columns. There are many reasons for drawing the attention of the readers to factors that govern our news ecology. From financial sustainability to an enabling legal and regulatory framework, a news organisation must be firmly wedded to the vibrancy of our democratic institutions. As a journalist and a media development professional, I worked closely with a team of journalists from Myanmar in creating a new, democratic and legal framework in the wake of the success of the pro-democracy movement in the country. There was international support for creating institutions that would ensure media freedom and accountability. In my column, ‘From exile to excellence’ (June 9, 2014), I recorded with a sense of pride the creation of the first news ombudsman in Myanmar by Mizzima Media. I reproduced the letter from Soe Myint, editor-in-chief of Mizzima Media, based in Yangon, that read: “Dear Panneer, Mizzima has introduced Readers’ Editor for Mizzima Daily newspaper. It would be great if you could support Mizzima with advices and suggestions for the Readers’ Editor.” Everyone who is invested in democratic values should know the story of Mizzima. A decade after the 1988 uprising, three veterans of the Burmese struggle for democracy — Soe Myint, Thin Thin Aung and Win Aung — came together to establish the Mizzima News Agency in New Delhi in August 1998. As I have mentioned elsewhere, the editorial team chose the name ‘Mizzima’, a word derived from the Pali language meaning ‘middle’ or ‘moderate’, to reflect their journalistic values of being an unbiased and independent media outlet. All of them were refugees. With no resources back home, they valiantly invested all their private savings to start the venture. When the military junta was blocking all the information from that country, Mizzima and other media outlets in exile provided credible news to the world. A formidable challenge Their journalistic journey was an uphill task. As a media organisation in exile, they knew about the dangers faced by those who contributed for them from back home. The desire to inform amidst a crackdown, where the information channel was under the close scrutiny of the military junta, helped them trump many an impediment to emerge as the voice of the people of Myanmar. Mizzima’s exhaustive coverage of the protest by Buddhist monks in 2007 and its untiring documentation of the wreckage caused by Cyclone Nargis in 2008 played a significant role in attracting the attention of the international community to the blight that had hit the country that lay sandwiched between India and China. All this eventually led to a phased democratic transition. Inspired by the opening up of the democratic space, the editorial team decided to shift their base from India to Myanmar in 2012. But in less than a decade, their hopes have been dashed. On February 1 this year, Myanmar’s military seized power after detaining Aung San Suu Kyi and other democratically elected leaders. The military has already ordered the closure of many independent media outlets. Nandita Haksar, a keen observer of Myanmar’s politics, has revealed that her friend Thin Thin Aung, the co-founder of the Mizzima news group, was arrested on April 8. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-fragile-ecosystem/article34298336.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A case for cash transfers||The Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) has become more relevant since it was first proposed two years back. By resurrecting it in its Kerala manifesto, the Congress has an opportunity to make the idea even more robust. Even the best policy proposals find it hard to survive an unsuccessful election campaign. So, it was unexpected to see a version of NYAY, the Congress’s flagship 2019 scheme that proposed a monthly transfer of Rs. 6,000 to households living below the poverty line, resurface prominently in the Congress-led United Democratic Front’s manifesto for the Kerala Assembly election. Unconditional cash transfers to the poor is a resoundingly good idea. Of course, cash transfers lead to important short-term effects: better nutrition, less food insecurity, higher consumption, and so on. But their benefits extend beyond this. Research shows that by freeing people from being held hostage to hunger and insecurity and anxiety about basic needs, even a modest cash transfer can radically transform people’s futures, unlocking stymied entrepreneurship, investment, and eventually a sustainable exit from poverty. It is hard to dream and plan on an empty stomach, and cash transfers help ease that problem. They are, thus, a powerful instrument for sustainable poverty reduction. Behavioural tools NYAY was already a good idea in 2019. But the COVID-19 pandemic and the hardships endured by rural-urban migrants during the countrywide lockdown, followed by the crippling economic slowdown, have only made the case for it stronger. Had a NYAY-like scheme been in place, migrant workers who found themselves thrown out of work by the lockdown might have had the wherewithal to remain where they were, rather than being forced to make perilous journeys home. Businesses that faced labour shortages might have found it easier to restart activity once restrictions eased, and cash in the hands of potential consumers could have helped in recovering from the dramatic economic slump that the pandemic set off. This is not mere speculation. A non-profit behavioural science research and design firm, ideas42, has been testing several ‘nudges’ to help people make the most of their government cash benefits, in partnership with the World Bank and governments in Africa. Much of this work predated the pandemic, and it was being seen that the behavioural methods that were designed, consisting of a simple tool to help people articulate long-term goals and figure out how much money to set aside to achieve these goals (often things like purchasing livestock or inputs for a small business), helped people save more, make some productive investments, and pay off high-interest debt. After the pandemic hit, ideas42 was able to interview beneficiaries of cash transfer schemes in Kenya’s rural areas — both those who had received only cash and those who had also received the behavioural ‘planning tools’. Several months into the pandemic, everyone reported a loss of income and said the cash they had received helped them cope. However, those who received the “nudge” tools fared better because they had saved more, were more likely to have made productive investments, and were more optimistic about their future. Even during a pandemic, cash transfers helped people feel in control, and adding behavioural tools increased the cash’s impact on people’s well-being. A state-level implementation of a programme like NYAY facilitates the necessary tinkering and ironing out of logistical challenges. It also allows for strategically incorporating ‘nudges’ and other proven interventions that can help magnify the impact of cash transfers. Such interventions can help ensure that people receiving cash are not only able to meet their immediate needs, but are also able to set some money aside for contingencies, such as a pandemic or natural disasters. Whether or not NYAY sees the light of day in Kerala depends on the outcome of the election. But the Congress is right to stick with a concept that has become more significant now. Saugato Datta is managing director at ideas42, where he oversees anti-poverty work in the developing world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-case-for-cash-transfers/article34298340.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Wrong shots||Five people were killed on Saturday during the fourth phase of polls in West Bengal, where the first three phases were largely eventless. While one person was allegedly killed by political rivals, four others were killed when security personnel fired more than 15 rounds in a span of two hours at Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has concluded that the police action was necessary, and taken in “self defence,” but the political storm kicked up by the episode continues to rage. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has alleged a conspiracy by the BJP to scare her supporters and called for the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah. Mr. Shah, in turn, has said the Chief Minister’s call to gherao personnel of the Central security forces led to the flare-up. The Trinamool Congress has alleged that Central forces are restricting it and helping the BJP in the campaign. It is unclear whether the force used to control the mob was proportionate and the deaths were avoidable. Elsewhere in the State, a group of people tried to stop the vehicle of a BJP MP. All these are bad omens, against the backdrop of an intensely competitive political battle between Ms. Banerjee’s Trinamool and the BJP. The ECI’s role in Bengal has been called into question by Opposition parties for various reasons. Its explanation for spreading the polls over eight phases over a month has not mitigated the concern that it gave undue advantage to the BJP. Its practice of redeploying civil and police officials is a time-tested measure to keep the election process fair. However, if redeployment leads to administrative chaos and partisanship, it is a matter of concern. While the ECI has been proactive in acting on charges of religious appeals made by Trinamool leaders including Ms. Banerjee, such alacrity has been missing in its dealings with the BJP. BJP leaders have made brazen communal appeals and gone scot-free. ECI advertisements that invoked the sacrifices of security personnel amounted to the Commission overstepping its strictly apolitical role. The personal role of the Prime Minister in a State election has made the task of the ECI much more difficult, and it has not risen up to the challenge. Ms. Banerjee may have gone over the top in trolling the ECI to “rename MCC as Modi Code of Conduct”. But it is not the first time that a Chief Minister has questioned the ECI’s impartiality. Narendra Modi himself had questioned the fairness of the ECI when he was Gujarat Chief Minister. Its reputation built over decades kept public trust intact, through all this. That trust is now being eroded, through acts of commission and omission. There are four more phases of polling in Bengal and the ECI must take measures to prevent violence, and keep the process fair and enabling for voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/wrong-shots/article34298321.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Enforcing claims||For several years now, the relationship of the U.S. and India has been marked by their sensitivity to each other’s concerns as they deepened cooperation on strategic issues, and aligned positions on multilateral issues. As a result, the April 7 press release by the U.S. Navy that announced that its 7th fleet’s Destroyer, the USS John Paul Jones , had traversed India’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) in order to “challenge” India’s claim that it must be notified before any military activity in these waters came as a surprise, particularly as it followed two successful visits by senior U.S. officials, including the U.S. Defence Secretary and Climate Envoy to Delhi. In the press release, the U.S. Navy said its ship had “asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent,” claiming this was “consistent” with international law, referring to the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). While the U.S.’s decision to conduct “Freedom of Navigation Operations” (FONOPs) is not new, as it regularly carries out such operations in order to “assert” international law off the coasts of 19 countries, most notably China, what appears to be new is the statement issued by the U.S. Navy itself. The government, which responded to the operation on April 9, said it had expressed its “concerns” to the U.S. government through diplomatic channels. In addition, India contested the U.S. claim about international law, saying that UNCLOS did not authorise military manoeuvres on the continental shelf or EEZ, as the 7th fleet had carried out, without prior consent. While the matter has been disposed of diplomatically for the moment, it is clear that the government must prepare to grapple with the issue with the U.S. in the long term. The U.S.’s announcement indicates that a new SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) for these FONOPs is being adopted. To begin with, the government must clearly explain its own position, making it clear to all partners how the Indian law governing maritime claims is in line with international law. Next, it must analyse the U.S.’s motivations for this belligerence, and chart out a course accordingly. Primarily, the U.S. naval actions maybe a message to China, whose maritime claims are increasingly coming into conflict with those of the U.S. and its allies, but Washington is attempting to send a broader message that it will not tolerate any other country’s claims. As New Delhi contends with this new reality, it must seek answers from Washington about how their newly intensified Quad partnership, especially their stated objective to cooperate on keeping a “free and open Indo-Pacific”, can co-exist with the open challenge the U.S. Navy has posed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/enforcing-claims/article34298322.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Operation Dacca’||[Agartala, April 11] Sheikh Mujibur Rehman’s forces to-day launched their “operation Dacca” by opening a new front near Narsingdi, highly reliable reports from across the border said even as reports came in that Liberation Forces are in complete control of Mymensing district. The Liberation Forces engaged men of the Pakistani Army at Tarapur, near Narsingdi, where fierce fighting was going on. Meanwhile, Pakistan Army columns moved out of Dacca to-day for capturing Narsingdi. Crossing the Demra river, Pakistani troops took positions for the assault on the strong Liberation Force units at Narsingdi, according to reports. The Pakistan troops appeared to be making cautious moves for the assault, and have entrenched themselves at a distance of eight km from the Liberation Army formations at Narsingdi. The Liberation force inflicted a crushing defeat on a Pakistan army column near Tangail, a sub-divisional town of Mymensing district close to Dacca.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/operation-dacca/article34298334.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||How to duck small savings rate cut||Sometimes life gives you these little jolts that remind you to be better prepared for the future. The government’s flip-flop on small savings rates is one such episode. After announcing steep cuts of 40 to 110 basis points, it rolled them back to say that rates that prevailed for the January to March 2021 quarter would continue until June 30. But now that the government has signalled its intent, it may be best for investors in these schemes to prepare for possible reductions next time around. If you’re a 60-plus individual looking for regular income options, here’s a viable strategy to follow. Max out SCSS Even as interest rates on deposits with leading banks and NBFCs have fallen steeply, a government-guaranteed option that has continued to offer better rates is the post office Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (SCSS). The rates on this scheme, which were supposed to be slashed from 7.4% to 6.5% effective April 1, have been retained at 7.4% for one more quarter. This presents a good opportunity to lock into them. The SCSS account (which can be opened via India Post or leading banks) allows 60-year plus investors to park up to Rs. 15 lakh in total. It carries a 5-year lock in and offers regular payouts credited quarterly. Once you invest at a specific interest rate in the SCSS, you get the same rate for the next 5 years, making it a predictable option. As a conduit for central government borrowings, the SCSS is safer than every other fixed income option in the market, including bank deposits. Currently, 5-year deposits for seniors at leading banks such as SBI and HDFC Bank offer 5.8%, making the SCSS’ premium of 160 basis points over them quite attractive. Bank deposit rates have already reversed from their declines and begun to rise in the last three months. But these rates have a long way to go before they catch up with the SCSS, so it makes sense for seniors to max out their SCSS contributions at Rs. 15 lakh. If your spouse is 60-plus, your combined limit can go up to Rs. 30 lakh, with your investments fetching section 80C tax breaks also up to Rs. 1.5 lakh each. The interest earned is taxable and subject to TDS. Compared to other government-backed options offering similar rates, a key advantage of the SCSS is the flexibility it offers to break the 5-year lock-in. If you exit within a year, you forego all interest, within 2 years you lose 1.5% and after 2 years, you lose 1%. But such penalties are worth taking for the ability to withdraw money in case of emergencies or to invest in alternatives, should interest rates climb very sharply over the next couple of years. Limit PMVVY exposure The Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana, a government-backed pension scheme offered by the LIC, was repackaged and reintroduced last year. The scheme, open only to 60-plus individuals, is available until March 2023. It promises taxable pension at monthly, quarterly, half yearly or annual intervals for 10 years, in return for an upfront lump sum investment. It sets minimum and maximum limits on your lump sum investment at Rs. 1.56 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh. The interest rate on PMVVY is announced at the beginning of every financial year by the government. While the rate for FY22 is yet to be announced, PMVVY’s interest rate is aligned to the prevailing SCSS interest rate. With the SCSS rate now at 7.4%, it is likely that PMVVY too will offer 7.4% for FY22. Once you’ve locked into the PMVVY in a financial year, you get the same rate of return for the next 10 years. This offers predictability, but can be a distinct disadvantage if you invest at the bottom of a rate cycle as you will be doing now. Unlike SCSS, you cannot exit the PMVVY early except in the case of critical illness. Therefore, if you’ve already maxed out your SCSS, invest additional sums in PMVVY for decent returns, but don’t try to use up the entire Rs. 15 lakh limit. Explore FRSBs For regular income seekers (not just seniors) who would like to bet on rates rising from here, the Government of India’s Floating Rate Savings Bonds (FRSBs), paying out interest every six months, offer a good option. The rate on these bonds is reset every half year, on January 1 and July 1, at a 35-basis point premium over the interest rate on National Savings Certificates. The RBI has already announced that the FRSB interest rate will be 7.15% until June 30, based on the NSC rate of 6.8% that prevailed on January 1. Now that the NSC rate has been continued until June 30, it is likely that the FRSB will continue to offer 7.15% for the rest of this fiscal. Should interest rates rise next year, FRSBs will help you benefit from the rise too, given their floating resets. FRSBs carry a 7-year lock-in period and are sold through specially-designated branches of 11 nationalised and 4 private banks. Your holdings will be captured in RBI’s Bond Ledger Account and you may need to apply physically. The bonds only offer a payout option and the interest is taxable. FRSBs set no limits on the age of entry or maximum investments and you can use them, subject to your ability to lock in money to supplement SCSS AND PMVVY. We are at rock-bottom in the current rate cycle with inflation rearing its head and market interest rates just beginning to rise. Therefore, it is not advisable to invest all your debt money in long lock-in instruments mentioned above. Do park at least 20% of your debt allocations in up to 1-year bank deposits and high-quality debt mutual funds, so that you can capitalise on better rates if they become available in six months or one year from now.  Now that the government has signalled its intent to cut small savings rates, it may be best for investors in these schemes to prepare for possible reductions the next time around||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/how-to-duck-small-savings-rate-cut/article34298309.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Moment of truth in a policy contract||One objection to buying insurance, especially non-life insurance, is that the premium is a ‘waste’ if you wind up making no claim. Your premium is not an investment and the claim is not the return on investment (RoI). If so, the premium would not be so low! Premiums of large numbers of people are pooled to cover the loss of a few. The amount is calculated based on the likelihood of loss as shown by past experience. Yet, for you and me, our claim represents the moment of truth in an insurance transaction. We, as customers, are claiming our right and the insurance company has to fulfil its duty under the contract to make good the financial loss. Iffy proposition Let us understand the reason for the common perception that getting claims paid by insurance companies is an iffy proposition. Insurance is a legal contract and everything is in writing. It is our duty, as party to the contract, to know what we are paying for, what we can receive and under what terms and conditions. In fact, this duty begins with due diligence before buying an insurance policy because the best of contracts, if they are for the wrong product, will not serve our purpose.  Making a successful claim presupposes the following. That you have a valid insurance policy, that the loss you are making the claim for falls within the purview of the policy, and that you can support the nature, cause and quantum of loss with documentary proof. In addition, insurance companies ascertain that the claim itself is genuine because fraudulent claims are aplenty and they are a financial burden on honest policyholders. For ascertaining the facts independently and for quantifying the loss correctly, the insurance company may initiate a survey or investigation. It is your responsibility to give them your full cooperation. The process of making claims is simple in concept. Take an example. Let’s say your car meets with an accident on the way to work and the bumper is badly dented. For your claim to be admissible, your car insurance policy should be current and your documents such as the car’s registration certificate and the driving licence of the person driving the car at the time of the accident should be valid. Moreover, the accident should not have taken place while violating any law, the vehicle should have been used for its stated purpose and the driver should not have been under the influence of intoxicating substances. Medical attention What do you have to do when an accident takes place? Even before you formally inform your insurer, it is your moral duty to help any person injured in the accident to get emergency medical attention. You have to inform the police, if they are not already there and inform your insurance company by calling their dedicated call centre number. Calling your agent will be a good idea as he can assist you with all the instructions and take over the process of making the claim by submitting your documents. In the next instalment, we shall see the details of documents you would need and how to file your claim.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)   Your premium is not an investment and the claim is not the return on investment. If so, the premium will not be so low||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moment-of-truth-in-a-policy-contract/article34298307.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Stocks dance to rate tunes||Why did some stocks react to the RBI’s decision to hold interest rates? The stocks that rallied in the wake of the RBI’s monetary policy announcement on April 7 were predominantly a category broadly referred to as interest-rate sensitives. Investors bet that these firms stood to gain from the central bank’s decision. Why are these stocks termed as interest-rate sensitives? Prevailing interest rates may determine the pace of sales growth in specific sectors. When benchmark interest rates change, the fortunes of these sectors are in turn impacted. This reflects in their stock prices. Which sectors are most sensitive to rate changes? Firms whose products are mostly purchased using financing options as well as providers of credit are the most directly and immediately impacted by rate moves. While housing and real estate firms and automakers rely heavily on the availability of affordable credit to fund their customers’ purchases, banks, non-banking financial companies and housing finance firms are affected whenever the cost of credit falls or rises. How do these stocks react? As stock prices are indicative of future profits of firms, stock prices of banks, auto firms and companies servicing the housing sector tend to react quickly to such announcements. When RBI raises benchmark rates, it could well mean that lending institutions have to raise their own lending rates. For, they have to pay a higher rate when they borrow from the central bank. That means that home loan and auto loan rates for retail borrowers would increase, potentially dampening the keenness among buyers to purchase these products. When RBI lowers rates, borrowers have to pay a lesser rate than earlier for the same product price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stocks-dance-to-rate-tunes/article34298312.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am a 28-year-old working in a PSU for the last 4 years. All my monthly income goes towards repaying a home loan that I took 2 years ago, supporting a brother and a sister in their education and monthly expenses of parents (purchased house) and wife (rent) who live separately. I can save about Rs. 2 lakh in a year. I am planning to have a baby after a year. How should I plan to support a child and home loan repayment? I am the only earning member in my family. Ayush Kumar Shrivastava Vidya Bala answers: A.How much you can save is not clear. We assume you that you are suggesting you can save about Rs. 2 lakh a year. Whatever be the sum, starting investments early on for your child gives you distinct advantages. You can start off whatever you can spare by investing in PPF. If you have a girl child, then consider Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana. These two will provide tax deductions as well. Outside of these, invest in simple equity index funds. Q.I am a 62-year-old ex-employee of a PSU. I have invested my retirement benefits in equity and debt mutual funds expecting monthly dividend. Unfortunately, due to market conditions, the dividends are not coming and the capital has shrunk to 70%. Being retired and having no considerable pension, I am dependent on monthly dividends only. What is your advice? Should I take out the MF investment and invest in Jeevan Shanti or keep it for some more time and encash? Do you have other suggestions? G. Sudarsanam A.Mutual funds are not meant to provide regular dividend options. We do not know the nature of your funds (equity or debt) and their quality. But considering your situation, it is best you opt for: pension option of Vaya Vandana Yojana from LIC, small savings option of Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme (in post office or SBI) and Floating Rate Savings Bond from RBI (available in major banks). This will ensure you get regular income. If you are in the high-tax bracket, then consider about 20% in ultra-short term debt funds and do a systematic withdrawal plan. This will be more tax efficient. But choose the options mentioned first before considering mutual funds. Q.I am 26 years old and earning Rs. 6 lakh per annum. I have started investing in PPF recently. How much should I invest each month? Leena Pohankar A.Check with your employer on your tax liability and invest to that extent in PPF. When your pay goes up, you can also consider tax-saving options such as tax-saving mutual funds. But outside of tax savings, consider small SIPs every month (Rs. 5,000, at least) in Nifty-based equity mutual funds for superior returns. Q.I had taken a home loan from the government office where I am serving, for which I am paying EMI every month. The property is registered in my name. I am receiving rent. My question is can I get the house re-registered in my and my wife’s names? By doing so, will I get any income tax relief?  Rama Iyengar  Reply by N. Sree Kanth  A.As per Section 27 of the Income Tax Act read with Section 64 of the Income Tax Act, you would still be the owner even after transferring house property to your wife as the same will be carried out without adequate consideration, due to which any income accruing from such asset will be taxed in your hands and thus will result in no tax relief. This will apply even if only a part of the property is transferred as queried by you.  (Vidya Bala is Co-founder, PrimeInvestor.in. N. Sree Kanth is Partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article34298305.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34298311.ece
12 April 2021||Buenos Aires,||Sreejesh’s grit fetches India bonus point||India snatched a dramatic penalty shoot-out win over Olympic hockey champion Argentina after Harmanpreet Singh kept the side afloat in regulation time with two goals in the action-packed first game of the FIH Pro League tie here on Saturday. Harmanpreet gave India the lead in the 21st minute with a superbly executed penalty corner before a quick-fire double from Martin Ferreiro (28th, 30th) put Los Leones into a 2-1 lead at half-time. Argentina held onto the lead until the dying seconds, when Harmanpreet (60th) stepped up to tie the scores with a penalty corner. The draw guaranteed a point for each team, but India walked away with the bonus point, thanks to some brilliant goalkeeping by P.R. Sreejesh in the shoot-out. Cool finish Sreejesh denied Lucas Vila, Martin Ferreiro and Ignacio Ortiz before Dilpreet Singh sealed a 3-2 win in the one-on-ones with a cool finish against veteran Argentina goalkeeper Juan Vivaldi. The result meant India consolidated its fifth position in the FIH Hockey Pro League standings with 12 points from seven matches. Argentina is sixth with 11 points from as many games. Harmanpreet was declared Player-of-the-Match. “I think the most important thing was that we never gave up,” Harmanpreet said. “We fought until the last minute, and that is why we got a result here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreejeshs-grit-fetches-india-bonus-point/article34298483.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Rana and Tripathi star as Knight Riders outshine Sunrisers||Nitish Rana had to endure a tough start to the 14th edition of the IPL after he tested positive for COVID-19 late last month. But on Sunday, the left-hander showed he had shrugged off the setback by scoring a brilliant 80 (56b, 9x4, 4x6) to set up Kolkata Knight Riders’ 10-run win over Sunrisers Hyderabad at the M.A Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. Along with Rahul Tripathi, who came up with a quickfire 53 (29b, 5x4, 2x6), Rana added 93 for the second wicket to help Morgan’s men post 187 for six. Surnisers’ chase started poorly as it lost openers David Warner and Wriddhiman Saha cheaply. Jonny Bairstow, coming in at No. 4, resurrected the innings in the company of Manish Pandey with a 40-ball 55. The England player got going with a six off Shakib Al Hasan over extra-cover before wading into Andre Russell, the West Indian going for 15 in one over. As long as Bairstow and Pandey were in the middle, Sunrisers were in the hunt. However, Eoin Morgan’s punt to use Pat Cummins to break the 92-run third-wicket partnership worked as the Aussie pacer removed Bairstow, having him caught at point. Despite Pandey’s valiant unbeaten half-century (61 n.o., 44b, 2x4, 3x6), the asking rate climbed too steeply, exposing Sunrisers’ lack of explosive batsmen in the middle-order. Earlier, asked to bat, KKR began strongly, with Rana slamming a series of boundaries through the covers, both along the ground and over the in-field. He went after Sandeep Sharma, smashing the medium-pacer for three consecutive fours in the fourth over, two through the off-side and one over fine-leg. With Shubman Gill in tow, KKR raced to 50 from the PowerPlay overs before Rashid Khan gave Sunrisers the breakthrough, removing Gill. Rana and Tripathi ensured that the momentum was not lost, as they kept finding the fence with ease. KKR accumulated 95 runs from overs seven to 15. The right-handed Tripathi took on Bhuvneshwar Kumar in the 15th over, lofting the Indian pacer for a six over square-leg and hitting two fours behind point, to bring up his fifty off just 28 balls. Sunrisers did pull things back in the last five overs by getting four wickets, but it was not enough in the end.  Williamson needs a little bit extra time to get his match fitness, a bit more time in the nets... he will certainly come into the calculations as the tournament unfolds Trevor Bayliss SRH coach on why the NZ skipper did not play   I am delighted for Nitish. The thing that impressed me the most was his method. He played very aggressively and always took a positive option which set up our innings Eoin Morgan KKR skipper||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rana-tripathi-and-bowlers-deliver-for-kolkata-knight-riders/article34298430.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Royals and Kings will be keen on early impetus||One team finished at the bottom. The other, just two slots above. Both Rajasthan Royals and Punjab Kings, however, had chances to make it to the playoffs even at the business end of the last IPL. Neither eventually did because too much had been left to be done too late. They would be keen to avoid such a scenario in IPL-14. They come face to face at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium on Monday. In the first match at the famed venue on Saturday, a chase of 189 had proved a stroll in the park for Delhi Capitals against Chennai Super Kings. With both Royals and Kings boasting powerful batting line-ups, runs could flow thick and fast. And those runs could be a treat to the eye if batsmen like K.L. Rahul and Sanju Samson get going. If Rahul had made his debut as IPL captain last year, Samson will make his in this match. New look top-order He takes over from Steve Smith, whose departure means the Royals’ top-order will sport a new look. With the presence of gifted batsmen like Jos Buttler, Ben Stokes and Samson himself, with hard-hitting all-rounders Shivam Dube and Rahul Tewatia to follow, the batting shouldn’t be a worry, though. But, the absence of fast bowler Jofra Archer, who is out of the tournament’s initial stage with injury, is a blow. South African quick Chris Morris, the IPL’s most expensive buy, has his task cut out. He and the rest of the Royals attack, which includes Shreyas Gopal, Kartik Tyagi, Mustafizur Rahman and Jaydev Unadkat, may not find it easy bowling against the likes of Rahul, Mayank Agarwal and Chris Gayle. In the new costly recruits Jhye Richardson and Riley Meredith, along with Mohammed Shami, Chris Jordan, Moises Henriques and M. Ashwin, Punjab has plenty of options in its attack too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-and-kings-will-be-keen-on-early-impetus/article34298420.ece
12 April 2021||Madrid,||Real Madrid shades rain-soaked Clasico||Real Madrid beat rival Barcelona 2-1 at home in an entertaining, rain-soaked ‘Clasico’ on Saturday to stretch its winning run to six games in all competitions and go top of LaLiga for the first time in three months. Karim Benzema put the champion in charge at a soggy Alfredo di Stefano stadium with a delightful backheel in the 14th minute while a deflected Toni Kroos free kick doubled its lead in the 28th. Barca hit back on the hour mark through Oscar Mingueza and the defender almost found the equaliser later on, while the Catalans had a huge penalty appeal waved away when Martin Braithwaite fell following a challenge by Ferland Mendy. Zinedine Zidane’s side joined Atletico Madrid on 66 points and moved top of the table. Barca, which lost for the first time in the league since early December, dropped to third on 65. Inter Milan continued its march to its first Serie A title in more than a decade as it beat relegation-threatened Cagliari 1-0 on Sunday.  The results: Premier League: Burnley 1 (Vydra 18) lost to Newcastle 2 (Murphy 59, Saint-Maximin 64); West Ham 3 (Lingard 29, 44, Bowen 48) bt Leicester 2 (Iheanacho 70, 90+1); Tottenham 1 (Son 40) lost to Manchester United 3 (Fred 57, Cavani 79, Greenwood 90).   LaLiga: Villarreal 1 (D. Garcia 70-og) lost to Osasuna 2 (Moncayola 64, A. Budimir 74).   Serie A: Inter Milan 1 (Darmian 77) bt Cagliari 0; Juventus 3 (Kulusevski 4, Morata 22, McKennie 70) bt Genoa 1 (Scamacca 49); Verona 0 lost to Lazio 1 (Milinkovic-Savic 90+2); Sampdoria 0 lost to Napoli 2 (Pena 35, Osimhen 87); Roma 1 (Mayoral 44) bt Bologna 0.   Bundesliga: Schalke 1 (Serdar 4) bt Augsburg 0; Cologne 2 (Duda 43-pen, Skhiri 61) lost to Mainz 3 (Boetius 11, Onisiwo 65, Barreiro 90+2).   Saturday: LaLiga: Getafe 0 lost to Cadiz 1 (Timor 64-og); Athletic Bilbao 0 drew with Alaves 0; Eibar 0 lost to Levante 1 (de Frutos 45+2); Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 13, Kroos 28) bt Barcelona 1 (Mingueza 60).   Premier League: Crystal Palace 1 (Benteke 63) lost to Chelsea 4 (Havertz 8, Pulisic 10, 78, Zouma 30).   Serie A: Spezia 3 (Verde 63, Maggiore 89, Erlic 90+2) bt Crotone 2 (Djidji 40, Simy 78); Parma 1 (Gagliolo 66) lost to AC Milan 3 (Rebic 8, Kessie 44, Rafael Leao 90+4); Udinese 0 lost to Torino 1 (Belotti 61-pen).   Bundesliga: Hertha Berlin 2 (Ascacibar 23, Cordoba 49) drew with Borussia M’Gladbach 2 (Plea 27, Stindl 38-pen).   Eintracht Frankfurt 4 (Kamada 8, Jovic 27, Silva 54, Durm 61) bt VfL Wolfsburg 3 (Baku 6, Weghorst 46, Philipp 85); VfB Stuttgart 2 (Kalajdzic 17, Didavi 78) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Bellingham 47, Reus 52, Knauff 80).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-madrid-shades-rain-soaked-clasico/article34298433.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Praggnanandhaa stays ahead despite defeat||Notwithstanding a surprise defeat in the 15th round, R. Praggnanandhaa continued to lead in the online Polgar Challenge, the first leg of the $100,000 Julius Baer Challengers Chess Tour on Saturday. The third-seeded Indian held a half-point lead over top seed Uzbek Nodirbek Abdusattorov after aggregating 12 points. The two title-aspirants are due to meet in the final round, with Praggnanandhaa playing black. With four rounds to go, second seed Nihal Sarin jumped to tied third at 11 points with Awonder Liang (USA). D. Gukesh was sharing the sixth spot with two others at 10 points while Leon Mendonca was ninth with 9.5 points. Three wins Praggnanandhaa continued his fine form by winning against Christopher Yoo (USA), Polina Shuvalova (Russia) and Jonas Bjerre (Denmark). Gukesh held Praggnananandhaa in the 14th round before German-lad Vincent Keymer shocked the leader. The defeat did not hurt Praggnanandhaa as much because Nihal Sarin overpowered second placed Abdusattorov. This result protected Praggnanandhaa’s half-point lead. Team Polgar was 75-71 ahead after three rounds since the tally of only the top-nine players from each team was taken into account after the withdrawal of Team Kramnik’s Dinara Saduakassova.  The two title-aspirants are due to meet in the final round, with Praggnanandhaa playing black||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggnanandhaa-stays-ahead-despite-defeat/article34298478.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jeevan back on the pro Tour||After enduring hard quarantine for two weeks in Singapore, when he was negative for coronavirus all the time, Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan is back on the professional Tour, competing in the Orlando Challenger in the US. Road back “I am excited at playing on the Tour with Sriram Balaji again. It will take time to get back to my level before the lockdown. I don’t expect the road back to the top 100 to be easy, but that is my goal. It is a matter of staying fit, planning the right schedule and keeping morale high,” said Jeevan, from Orlando. Despite the distress — he could not “even step out for fresh air” — during the hard quarantine, when a fellow passenger in the flight had tested positive, Jeevan has taken the entire episode in his stride. “I did my strength work. Could not do much otherwise. After quarantine, while trying to train, I pulled my left adductor. That put me out for another 10 days,” he said. Even though he could not play the ATP event in Singapore, he and his partner Yuki Bhambri were given the first-round prize money. Moreover, ATP also took care of the quarantine expenses. The extended stay away from tennis also meant Jeevan could celebrate his fourth marriage anniversary with his wife, golfer Neha. “That kept my spirits up. It is a tough situation for a lot of people in many different ways. I see things in perspective, and count my blessings,” he said. At a disadvantage Jeevan does feel that many players on the Tour have a bit of “an inflated ranking”, owing to the new rules, which may put him at a disadvantage. He has slipped to 192, from a career-best 64. All about patience “As long as I am working on my game and staying fit, I am confident about getting back into double-digit ranking and competing in the Slams again. It is all about patience and acceptance,” he reasoned. While Jeevan is focused on the tennis circuit, wife Neha is training in Chandigarh for the next set of golf events in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevan-back-on-the-pro-tour/article34298490.ece
12 April 2021||BENGALURU,||I really expect a reaction, says Sunil Chhetri||The first few days after Sunil Chhetri tested positive for COVID-19 were the worst of his life. “The first five days, I struggled immensely,” he says. “I have never felt that kind of physical pain ever. It was brutal. You think you will be fine…you are a fit person and nothing will happen…. but I really struggled.” A month on, Chhetri is inching towards full fitness, slowly and steadily, even as Bengaluru FC (BFC) gears up for the 2021 AFC Cup Preliminary Stage Two clash against Nepalese side Tribhuvan Army FC, on April 14 in Goa. “You cannot give a percentage or you don’t know where you are lacking. It is a process and you have to be careful,” the India and BFC skipper adds. New era The AFC Cup contest will mark the start of a new era for BFC, under head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli. Following the disastrous 2020-21 Indian Super League (ISL) campaign, in which BFC finished seventh and saw its then manager Carles Cuadrat exit, Chhetri expects a response. “I really expect a reaction. I am the senior one, the captain, and I want it from myself. When you lose a game, sometimes, you start pointing fingers at each other. The good thing last season was that, each one of us were so bad, there are no pointing fingers. Apart from Cleiton [Silva], Suresh [Wangjam] and a few young guys, we were properly bad.” “But there is so much room for improvement. When you have a coach who has so much clarity and experience, it’s a boost.” The managerial change has brought in good vibes, Chhetri feels. “It is a very positive change. A new manager has no prejudice and no previous baggage of what one can do and one cannot. He will see whatever he sees in training and make up his mind. “Everyone knows this. Also, the fact that we were horrible last year, to say the least, gives us added motivation.” Wednesday’s clash against Tribhuvan Army is sure to offer significant cues and Chhetri remains quietly confident. “We are taking one game at a time. Generally, when I say this, we are the dominant side and it is meant to make us stay humble. But this time… we watched Tribhuvan in their last game and they play quite well. “[But] right now, it’s more about what the coach wants from us and not what the other team is doing. It’s exciting to have the fresh ideas he [Marco] has brought in. Looking forward to it. I hope I make the cut… we still have a few days and I hope I make the cut,” Chhetri says with a smile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-really-expect-a-reaction-says-sunil-chhetri/article34298497.ece
12 April 2021||Augusta,||Matsuyama climbs to the top||Hideki Matsuyama produced an incredible display to seize a four-stroke lead after Saturday's third round of the Masters, putting him on the brink of a historic triumph at Augusta National. Matsuyama, trying to become the first Japanese man to win a Major, fired a seven-under 65, his career-low 18-hole Masters total and the first bogey-free round of the week, to stand on 11-under 205. England's Justin Rose, Australian Marc Leishman and Americans Xander Schauffele and Will Zalatoris shared second on 209. Matsuyama adapted as lightning-fast Augusta National was softened by rain, taking full advantage by going six-under on a seven-hole stretch on the back nine. After a 78-minute storm delay, swirling winds vanished and the wet course was receptive. However, slowed greens became tricky to read — except by Matsuyama. Canada's Corey Conners electrified the crowd with a hole-in-one at the 180-yard par-3 sixth on his way to a 68 to stand sixth on 210.  Top scores: 205: Hideki Matsuyama 69, 71, 65; 209: Xander Schauffele 72, 69, 68, Marc Leishman 72, 67, 70, Justin Rose 65, 72, 72, Will Zalatoris 70, 68, 71 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/matsuyama-climbs-to-the-top/article34298422.ece
12 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Justice Varma is HCA Ombudsman: Azhar||Retired Supreme Court Judge Justice Deepak Verma will be the Ombudsman for the Hyderabad Cricket Association, HCA president Mohammad Azharuddin said here on Sunday. Speaking to the media after the Annual General Meeting at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium (Uppal), Azhar said he had taken the call as president and the AGM had ratified it by a show of hands. ‘Illegal meeting’ “The entire Apex Council had decided in this regard long back and I don’t know why objections are being raised now,” he said. “And, their (secretary’s group) meeting after I left the venue this morning is illegal,” he added. “It is unfortunate that some members are making allegations against Justice Verma, who is not an ordinary person. All rules will be followed,” he said. The HCA chief also announced that henceforth the Districts would get 20 per cent of the BCCI funds annually allocated to the HCA. “We will talk to the State government and provide land for putting in place needed cricket infrastructure,” he said. Azharuddin also made it clear that he would be attending BCCI meetings as the HCA representative. “The BCCI is not happy with the way things are happening in the HCA,” he said. “I am here to strengthen the affiliated Clubs of HCA and not to take away anyone’s rights,” he said. Azharuddin also named the Cricket Advisory Committee — comprising S.L. Venkatapathi Raju, Purnima Rau and Sudeep Tyagi — and said if anyone expressed inability to take charge, alternatives would be explored. The appointment of selection panels have been deferred, he said. ‘No backing for Azhar’ Meanwhile, HCA secretary R. Vijayanand disputed Azharuddin’s claims. “Azhar actually left the venue when he realised that the majority of the members were against his move to appoint Justice Verma,” Vijayanand said. “In fact, 120 of the 180 members have signed letters opposing Justice Verma’s appointment,” he said. The secretary also released copies of letters addressed to Justice Nisar Ahmed Kukru, retired Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, and Justice T. Meena Kumari, retired Judge of the High Court of Telangana, seeking their consent to being appointed Ombudsman and Ethics Officer respectively. The AGM had approved the move, he said. The secretary also named a CAC comprising former Test cricketer M.V. Narasimha Rao (Bobjee), Sudeep Tyagi (he also figures in Azharuddin’s panel) and Sravanthi Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/justice-varma-is-hca-ombudsman-azhar/article34298925.ece
12 April 2021||LONDON,||Blackmore rides into history books||Rachael Blackmore made Grand National history by becoming the first female jockey to win the famous steeplechase race as she steered Minella Times across the finishing line at Aintee on Saturday. The Irishwoman, who became the first leading jockey at the Cheltenham Festival last month, timed her finish to perfection as Minella Times surged ahead after the 30th and final fence. Minella Times, priced at 11-1, never looked threatened in the charge to the finish 100-1 shot Balko Des Flos coming second and Any Second Now in third place. Favourite Cloth Cap pulled up at the third last fence. The closest a female jockey had previously come to winning the most famous steeplechase in the world was Katiee Walsh on Seabass in 2012 when she finished third. Unbelievable “I cannot believe it,” Blackmore said. “He was a sensational spin. I’m so lucky to be riding. It is unbelievable. “He was just incredible and jumped beautifully. I tried to wait as long as I could. When I jumped the last and asked him for a bit, he was there. “I don’t feel male or female right now, I don’t even feel human. This is just unbelievable.” This year’s race took place in front of empty stands because of COVID-19 restrictions. De Bromhead, a self-confessed pessimist, also emulated his one-two in the Gold Cup with a one-two in the National as Balka des Flos finished second. “It feels amazing, it is something you dream of,” he said. “Rachael was brilliant, she kept him on the inside the whole way round. She is special.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blackmore-rides-into-history-books/article34298477.ece
12 April 2021||CHENNAI:,||Dinesh edges Anand, bags title||Dinesh Kumar pipped Anand Raghav 2-1 in the final of the Tamil Nadu State-ranking Tenpin bowling tournament at Du Bowl on Saturday. In a best-of-three game summit clash, a steady Anand won the first game 187-172. In the second, Dinesh fought back, scoring 200 to Anand’s 157. In the decider, Dinesh defeated Anand by 36 pins (182-146) to take the honours. In the semifinals, the fourth-seeded Anand edged top seed Yusuf Shabbir in a thriller. After splitting the first two games (179-164, 172-174), the two finished with 191 in the third game. In the one-ball roll-off, Anand scored a strike against 9 pins by Yusuf. In the other semifinal, third seed Dinesh overcame second seed Shabbir Dhankot 173-177, 174-138, 181-157. Actor Mahat Raghavendra gave away the prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dinesh-edges-anand-bags-title/article34298885.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI,||KSEB keeps semifinal hopes alive||Former champion KSEB blanked Golden Threads 2-0 to keep alive its hopes of entering the semifinals of the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Sunday. Both the goals came in an eight-minute spell early in the first half, through M.J. Johan and Eldhose George, but KSEB should have scored at least two more. The electricity men were unlucky to hit the crosspiece thrice later in the match. The victory, KSEB’s third from four games, carried it to joint second spot with nine points in Group-B along with Kerala United FC. It will play defending champion Kerala Blasters FC in its last league match later this week. For Golden Threads, which is out of contention for a semifinal spot, it was a third loss from four matches. At Thrissur, SAT drew 1-1 with Malappuram’s Royal Basco FC in a hard-fought Group-A thriller at the Corporation Stadium. SAT, which is currently in the second rung, finished its engagements in the six-team group with six points and will await the results of the next few matches which will confirm the second semifinal spot from the group. Gokulam Kerala FC had topped the group with an all-win record to take the first semifinal berth. Basco, which has two more matches to go, is in the fifth spot with two points from three matches.  The results: Group-A (Thrissur): SAT, Tirur 1 (Adheeb Basheer 33) drew with Royal Basco FC, Mlp 1 (C. Mohammed Shafi 80).   Group-B (Kochi): KSEB, Tvm 2 (M.J. Jonas 3, Eldhose George 11) bt Golden Threads FC, Ekm 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kseb-keeps-semifinal-hopes-alive/article34298668.ece
12 April 2021||Los Angeles,||LA Lakers rides on Drummond’s double-double||Andre Drummond finished with a double-double of 20 points and 11 rebounds as Los Angeles Lakers defeated Brooklyn Nets 126-101 on Saturday in a battle between two teams lacking much of their star power. The Lakers entered the game missing their two best players — LeBron James and Anthony Davis — but they overcame that with energetic play, strong perimeter shooting and a lockdown defence. Without James and Davis, the Lakers had been one of the NBA's lowest-scoring teams over the past couple of weeks. James was missing his 11th game in a row and Davis has been sidelined for the past 25. The Nets were without injured all-star James Harden and then lost guard Kyrie Irving, who had scored 18 points, when he was ejected for the first time in his career in the second half. In Salt Lake City, Donovan Mitchell scored 42 points and Utah Jazz won its 24th consecutive game at home with a 128-112 victory over Sacramento Kings. Mike Conley delivered 26 points and Joe Ingles came off the bench to score 20 to help the Jazz overcome a double-digit deficit en route to a one-sided win over the Kings. Conley also had five threes. The Jazz became the first team to reach 40 wins in the season and posted its 11th win in 13 games. Also, Devin Booker's 27 points, double-doubles from both Chris Paul and Deandre Ayton, helped Phoenix Suns to a dominating 134-106 victory over Washington Wizards.   The results: Brooklyn Nets 101 lost to LA Lakers 126; Oklahoma City Thunder 93 lost to Philadelphia 76ers 117; Cleveland Cavaliers 115 lost to Toronto Raptors 135.   Golden State Warriors 125 bt Houston Rockets 109; Phoenix Suns 134 bt Washington Wizards 106; Portland Trail Blazers 118 bt Detroit Pistons 103; Utah Jazz 128 bt Sacramento Kings 112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/la-lakers-rides-on-drummonds-double-double/article34298492.ece
12 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Ngidi, Behrendorff to miss CSK’s next game||Chennai Super Kings head coach Stephen Fleming has confirmed that overseas pacers Lungi Ngidi and Jason Behrendorff would be unavailable for the next match, against Punjab Kings, on Friday. While Ngidi arrived on Sunday afternoon and began his mandatory isolation-cum-testing, The Hindu understands Behrendorff will reach here by Monday night. The duo has to be in isolation for a week. The absence of a tearaway pace bowler cost the Super Kings dear as Capitals openers Prithvi Shaw and Shikhar Dhawan feasted on the medium-pacers. Fleming admitted raw pace was an area his unit was lacking at the moment. “It’s an area that we are probably short on. But we still look at the Indian bowlers and we have international bowler Sam Curran and probably expect a little bit more (from pacers).” Dhoni fined M.S. Dhoni has been fined Rs. 12 lakh for maintaining a slow over-rate during his side’s loss to Delhi Capitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ngidi-behrendorff-to-miss-csks-next-game/article34298424.ece
12 April 2021||Karachi,||PCB launches own Hall of Fame||The Pakistan Cricket Board has decided to have its own ‘Hall of Fame’ to acknowledge and celebrate the achievements of its stalwarts. As part of the launch, six members of the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame — Hanif Mohammad, Imran Khan, Javed Miandad, Wasim Akram, Waqar Younis and Zaheer Abbas — will be inducted into the PCB Hall of Fame. There will be three more inductions each year from 2021 with the inductees to be chosen by an independent panel and announced on October 16, the day when the country made its Test debut in 1952.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pcb-launches-own-hall-of-fame/article34298479.ece
12 April 2021||Sharm El Sheikh (Egypt),||Sasikumar loses in final||Top seed Sasikumar Mukund was beaten 6-2, 6-7(8), 6-4 by sixth seed Paul Jubb of Britain in the final of the $15,000 ITF men’s tournament here on Sunday. Even though he could not win his sixth title at this level, it was a brave effort by the 24-year-old as he saved four match-points to push the contest into the decider.   The results: $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh: Final: Paul Jubb (GBr) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-2, 6-7(8), 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sasikumar-loses-in-final/article34298493.ece
12 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Samprit and Thaniya given top billing||Samprit Sharma and Thaniya Gogulamanda will be the top seeds in the boys and girls sections respectively in the Altevol Asian under-14 tennis tournament to be played here from Monday.  The seedings:   Boys: 1. Samprit Sharma, 2. Kriish Tyagi, 3. Viraj Gohil, 4. Aarav Chawla, 5. Sahil Kothari, 6. Arnav Paparkar, 7. Vyom Shah, 8. Akshaj Subramanian.   Girls: 1. Thaniya Gogulamanda, 2. Aishwarya Jadhav, 3. Aarushi Raval, 4. Mrunmayee Joshi, 5. Mahika Khanna, 6. Divya Sharma, 7. Mehak Kapoor, 8. Priyanka Rana (USA).   The results (qualifying final round):   Boys: Om Verma bt Saurish Modi 6-2, 6-3; Pratham Kotak bt Tanay Mukesh Sharma 3-6, 6-2, [10-7]; Dev Vipul Patel bt Darsh Khedekar 6-0, 7-5; Prabir Mukesh Chavda bt Kartik Jain 6-2, 6-3.   Girls: Ela Pandey bt Meha Patil 1-6, 6-4, [10-4]; Sonkusare Narayan bt Rithika Kakarlamudi 3-6, 7-5 (retd.); Navya Sharma bt Angel Patel 6-4, 6-1; Anandi Bhutada bt Dhanashree Patil 6-2, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samprit-and-thaniya-given-top-billing/article34298494.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘MSD ’keeper-captains’ inspiration’||Rajasthan Royals’ Jos Buttler believes Mahendra Singh Dhoni is the inspiration behind emergence of wicketkeeper-captains in the IPL. In the 14th edition, skipper of four franchises — Dhoni (CSK), K.L. Rahul (PBKS), Sanju Samson (RR), Rishabh Pant (DC) — are wicket-keepers. “I am sure MSD (Dhoni) has something to do with the sixth sense and breeding of wicketkeepers who can captain. He obviously has been a fantastic captain and there are lots of players who want to follow his footsteps,” said Buttler. The English wicket-keeper feels stumpers enjoy an advantage as captains as they get a 360 degree view of the proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/msd-inspiration-behind-keeper-captains/article34298416.ece
12 April 2021||KOCHI:,||Easy for Bolghatty Footballers||Bolghatty Footballers thrashed Wayna FC 3-0 and entered the semifinal of the 37th C.H. Mohammed Koya memorial football tournament on Sunday.  The result (quarterfinals):   Bolghatty Footballers 3 (Krishnendu 4, Richard Daniel 9, Abhimanyu 48) bt Wayna 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-bolghatty-footballers/article34298666.ece
12 April 2021||Mission Viejo (USA),||Ledecky dips under 4 minutes to win 400 free in California||Katie Ledecky won the 400m freestyle at the TYR Pro Swim Series here with the world’s fastest time this year. The defending Olympic champion touched 3 minutes, 59.25 seconds to be the only swimmer to go under 4 minutes this year.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ledecky-dips-under-4-minutes-to-win-400-free-in-california/article34298486.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Yadu’s generosity||The Supreme One chose to incarnate in the Yadu vamsa to show the world the virtues of this family, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. In Vishnu Purana, sage Parasara describes the Lord’s qualities to Maitreya while telling him about Yadu, the first son of Yayaati. The Lord has all the worlds inside Himself. Those who want wealth worship Him. Those who are interested in the attainment of moksha also worship Him. His greatness is immeasurable. He has no beginning or end. The very fact that such a One was born in Yadu’s family shows the virtuousness of that family. Even when He was born, He showed that He was the Supreme One incarnate, for He was born showing His four hands. This too was His leela. Rama was not born like that. Rama’s other two hands were hidden from view, and only a few like Hanuman and Mandodari could recognise His Supremacy. Krishna hid His extra hands, only because His mother Devaki requested Him to. And this was only till the killing of Kamsa. Once Kamsa was killed, He was always seen with His four hands. Vedanta Desika, in his Yadavabhyudaya, describes Yadu’s generosity. Most people give only if we make a request to them. Even then they might give us much less than what we ask for. But Yadu gave much more than one asked for. Such generosity is indeed rare. Desika’s description of Yadu’s generosity is beautiful. He says that Yadu’s words assuring help to those who come to him are like the humming of bees that feast on the nectar in the lotus flower on which Lakshmi is seated. Krishna, although born in the Yadu clan, chose to grow up among cowherds. This was because when Bhooma Devi had approached Brahma for relief from Her burdens She had taken the form of a cow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/yadus-generosity/article34298386.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 08:27 IST,||Sudoku — April 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-12-2021/article34299252.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The lost manic Monday||As we complete a year that stretched into the longest 365 days of monotone, do you remember how defined each day was before the pandemic altered the way we live and work? In the first gloomy months of 2020, I encouraged my team mates working from home to stay on top of the psychological war with the virus. Which meant business as usual and dressing for office, even if one was working from the bedside table. Then, one Monday in April, I found myself attending the virtual meeting in flipflops. And gradually all the days began to unravel... starting with Sunday! Celebratory day In 1947, Kishore Kumar teasingly sang to Rehana in the Hindi film Shehnai , “ Meri jaan, meri jaan…Sunday ke Sunday aana… meri jaan, meri jaan… murgi ke ande khilaunga … (Oh beloved! Come every Sunday… I will feed you chicken eggs).” And so for a long time, after Independence, Indians sang the song and ate chicken eggs on Sunday till biryani replaced it in the ‘90s. Sunday was a family day with everyone sitting around the dining table and sharing a meal together. It was always celebratory. During the COVID-19 pandemic, with no schools or offices to go to and shopping reaching your doorstep, everybody was under the same roof for 24 hours. The excuse: ‘We don’t get quality time with each other’, was no longer valid. Nor did the made-with-much-fanfare Sunday biryani or ande (eggs) lunch. A cousin of mine, however, stuck to her Sunday routine of making biryanis, but was compelled to alter her weekday menus. “If it is Tuesday, it has to be baingan (brinjal), Wednesday was paneer (cottage cheese), Thursday was pasta… and so on and so forth. But with everyone at home and in the kitchen, there was something new and different daily. So we kept the Sunday biryani routine to keep us on track,” she said. Last Sunday, a familiar pre-COVID blue brought on by the thought of a lazy Sunday coming to an end was a welcome feeling of a hopeful return to normalcy. With no sign of return of the lost manic Monday that we once hated and now yearn for, we can only hum the 1986 hit song of the American pop band The Bangles:  It’s just another manic Monday   I wish it was Sunday   ‘Cause that’s my fun day   My I don’t have to run day.  It’s all the same Talking about how workdays and weekends have merged, a friend in Mumbai recalled the first six months of 2020 as smelling of banana bread in the oven “day-in-and-day-out”. As the baking frenzy petered down by autumn, other fads took over. The virtual timetable became — yoga thrice-a-week, family meets in the evenings, chai pe charcha every Saturday, webinars on Sunday morning, etc. In Kerala where I live, Tuesdays are largely vegetarian days. I am not sure why people of different faiths observe this, but I guess it is mainly about staying healthy. The Tuesday outing was to a place of worship, and everyone dressed appropriately for the occasion. Anjali, my friend, who would call every Wednesday in the late ‘80s to find out if I had been asked for a date, explained the theory behind it: “If you were asked for a date on Wednesday, it means you are the last girl on his list! And you should firmly say a NO.” Waiting for a date to materialise until Wednesday made the day singularly special. But in the new normal, Wednesdays are as grey as the undecided rain cloud that could come down or stay put. In the 2000s, I remember Kerala State Lotteries had made Thursdays a big day because the Rs. 1 crore bumper lottery results were out. Today, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursdays are about passage of time. “Fridays for fried eggs,” said another friend, when I asked her about her pre-COVID Fridays. Being the start of a weekend, Friday was a day to head out and hangout. Kochi-based DJ Savio gets spirited as he recalls spinning the turntables at Holiday Inn disco on Fridays. “The day was huge then, but no longer,” he rues. “ Jumaah (Friday) is for prayers,” explained a friend, and that makes it distinctive among the days of the week. He added that the curse of COVID-19 had converted all days to be steeped in prayer. “Who can think of a celebration in such a time. It is only prayer that gives us strength to tide over this health crisis,” he said. In 1977, the disco classic Saturday Night Fever made Saturdays iconic. Generations after that celebrated Saturday night dancing till the wee hours of Sunday, masquerading and dressing as John Travolta. “Those were the days,” said a friend who loved to shake a leg every Saturday. House-bound and with nowhere to go, he has taken to reading on Saturdays. This brings me back to my Sunday blues, which signalled a return to pre-COVID freedom. Looking at a glass half-full, I think I am going to prepare a big dekchi of biryani this Sunday in the hope of a return to good times.  A song for each day  ‘ManicMonday’ by The Bangles  ‘RubyTuesday’ by The Rolling Stones  ‘WednesdayMorning, 3 A.M.’ by Simon & Garfunkel  ‘Thursday’s Child’ by David Bowie  ‘Thank God It’sFriday’ by Love & Kisses  ‘SaturdayNight Fever’ by Bee Gees  ‘BeautifulSunday’ by Daniel Boone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-lost-manic-monday/article34298653.ece
12 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SAD, Cong. accuse Delhi police of assaulting Sidhana’s brother||Leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Congress and the radical Sikh outfit Dal Khalsa on Sunday accused Delhi police personnel of assaulting the brother of Lakha Sidhana, wanted by the Delhi police in connection with violence in the national capital on Republic Day. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, taking to Twitter, said, “Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory. It violates Punjab Govt’s authority - with whose connivance was it done?? Lessons should be learnt from Mamata Banerjee who put CBI behind bars when they encroached in W.Bengal’s jurisdiction.” Mr. Lakha Sidhana had on April 10 levelled an allegation that the Delhi police abducted his cousin Gurdeep Singh from Patiala and thrashed him badly. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the manner in which the Delhi police personnel had “abducted and mercilessly thrashed” Gurdeep Singh (Mundi Sidhana), the brother of Lakha Sidhana, was condemnable. “We want to ask Chief Minister Amarinder Singh why the Delhi police are being allowed to indulge in such acts. The Delhi police do not have any jurisdiction in Punjab but yet the Congress government in the State is allowing it a free hand to conduct raids with impunity and arrest youth on flimsy charges. This needs to be stopped immediately,” Mr. Badal said. The Dal Khalsa accused the Delhi police of committing “human rights abuses,” and strongly condemned the incident.  Why CM silent? Dal Khalsa chief Harpal Singh Cheema said, “It’s ridiculous that the Delhi police entered into Punjab unchecked and abducted Gurdeep and took him to the national capital where he was severely tortured. Lakha’s relatives were being targeted with no fault of theirs. It is ironic that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has maintained a studied silence and not questioned the Delhi police for violating the Punjab government’s constitutional authority.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sad-cong-accuse-delhi-police-of-assaulting-sidhanas-brother/article34298468.ece
12 April 2021||Pune,||Highest-ever spike of 63,294 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its highest-ever single-day surge with 63,294 cases as the State’s active case tally breached the 5.50 lakh mark to touch 5,65,587. A high fatality spike of 349 deaths (210 of which were reported in the last 48 hours, while the rest were from an earlier period) pushed the total death toll to 57,987. The State’s case fatality rate has incrementally declined to 1.7%. In contrast to the spike, just 34,008 recoveries were reported as the State’s recovery rate dipped to 81.65%. While the total case tally has now reached 34,07,245, the cumulative recoveries stand at 27,82,161. A record 2.70 lakh samples were tested. “Of 2,21,14,372 laboratory samples tested thus far, 34,07,245 (with the average case positivity rising to 15.41%) have returned positive, with over 2.70 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district — the worst-hit in the country — piled over 12,500 new cases to take its tally to 6,51,586. As per State Health Department figures, 16 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 8,532. As per district authorities, active cases have crossed the one lakh mark, and the toll has surged to 10,700. Mumbai reported 9,986 new cases, taking its total case tally to 5,20,498, of which 91,100 are active. A total of 79 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 12,023. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 2,552 cases to take its tally to 1,01,857. No deaths, however, were reported. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a spike of more than 6,700 cases as its total case tally reached 2,84,258, of which 58,507 are active. As per State Health Department figures, the district reported 34 fatalities to take its death toll to 4,318. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported more than 1,400 new cases to take its total tally to 98,844, of which 17,069 were active. A fatality surge of 36 deaths took the total death toll to 1,493. 3,300 cases in Nashik Nashik in north Maharashtra reported a surge of more than 3,300 cases, taking its total tally to 2,20,452, of which 35,147 are active. A total of 20 deaths pushed its cumulative toll to 2,441. A total of 31,75,585 people in the State are in home quarantine and 25,694 are in institutional quarantine.  Over 2.70 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/highest-ever-spike-of-63294-cases-in-maharashtra/article34298650.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will impose lockdown in Delhi only if health infrastructure collapses: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the government is against imposing a lockdown in the Capital but urged people to step out of their houses only if absolutely necessary. A lockdown would only be imposed if the health infrastructure collapses and as of now there are enough beds, ventilators and oxygen available to deal with the rising cases, he said. Mr. Kejriwal added that the fourth and current wave of COVID-19 is worse than the one in November and various curbs have been put in place to control the surge in cases in the city. ‘Only serious patients’ “Only those patients, who have a serious case of COVID-19, should visit hospitals. The rest should be under home isolation. We have enough hospital beds as of now. But, if the beds are occupied by patients with mild symptoms, then people whose conditions are serious, will not get one and this can even lead to death,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that Delhi has the world’s best home isolation plan, and that Delhiites must avail its benefit. “At this time, hospital management is the most important. I have seen how at the international level, hospitals fall short. It is such a contagious disease that if we fall short of hospitals, it will become a serious problem,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that he had been getting reports that people are moving from one hospital to the other trying to find beds. “Please download the Delhi Corona app to check availability of beds in advance so that you don’t need to go from one hospital to another. People are also rushing to private hospitals where there is a shortage of beds. Over the past five years, Delhi government hospitals have improved. I urge people to visit government hospitals as well,” he said. ‘Speed up vaccine drive’ He called for the need to speed up the vaccination drive. “I have spoken to experts who say that getting the vaccine does not mean that you will not get COVID -19. What it protects you from is a severe illness. People still need to wear masks and practice hand washing and social distancing even after getting vaccinated,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said data shows that 65% of patients in Delhi are less than 45 years of age and appealed to the Centre to relax the age restriction for getting vaccinated. “If 65% of patients are less than 45 years of age, how would its spread stop? How would we break its cycle? It can only happen with vaccination,” he said. The Delhi government on Saturday banned all gatherings except for marriage and funerals till April 30. The government also made it mandatory for people travelling from Maharashtra to Delhi by flight to have a negative RT-PCR test report, as per an official order. “All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival related and other gatherings and congregations,” reads the list of prohibited activities as per the order. The number of people who can attend weddings has been reduced to 50 and funerals to 20. Restaurants, bars, cinemas, theatres, multiplexes are allowed with a maximum occupancy of 50% of the total seating capacity, as per the order. The occupancy in buses and metro trains was also capped at 50%. Over 10K cases in 24 hrs The ongoing peak has surpassed the intensity of November 2020, with Delhi recording 10,732 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours.  I have spoken to experts who say that getting the vaccine does not mean that you will not get COVID -19. What it protects you from is a severe illness. People still need to wear masks Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-impose-lockdown-only-if-health-infrastructure-collapses-cm/article34298660.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Capital’s largest private lab delaying COVID test results’||Scores of RT-PCR test results are getting delayed in the city due to a private lab that tests the largest number of samples here, sources said. Also, glitches on a central portal used to enter data are hampering the testing process. Results from the largest lab — SpiceHealth — which currently receives about 25,000 samples a day, is getting delayed, said officials. Samples collected by government-run testing centres are sent to private and government labs for testing Labs are supposed to send results preferably in 24 hours and within a maximum of 48 hours or face action. ‘Delays in March as well’ “There were delays from SpiceHealth even in March, but the samples being sent were less and COVID-19 situation was not this bad. But since the beginning of April, SpiceHealth is giving most reports after 48 hours and many not even after 72 hours. Most districts have complained this,” a Delhi government official said. A complaint sent on Saturday by one of the 11 districts to higher authorities has been raised to the Health Minister’s office. SpiceHealth said in its website that they have been “inundated” with RT-PCR samples to test due to the “sudden spike” in COVID-19. “While we are trying our best to share your reports soon, expect them to be shared within 48 hours,” a message on the website said. The official said samples are sent to about 35 private labs. “Other labs are sending 80% of the results in 24 hours and rest within 48 hours,” the official added. Over 27K samples SpiceHealth had received over 27,400 samples on Friday, said officials. “A sincere request to state authorities to please discuss the issue of delayed reports with Spice Healthcare. They promised six hours. We are not getting reports even in 72 hours [at least for the past one or two weeks]. We don’t get a single report within 24 hours out of around 2,000 samples we send to the lab daily,” a message sent by one of the 11 districts over WhatsApp read. ‘Getting calls from all’ “We get calls from senior citizens, Ministries, MLA offices, VIPs, common citizens that they have not received reports even after 48 hours. We can’t convince them. They just don’t listen and abuse us that we government servants don’t work,” the message further read. The message said if SpiceHealth doesn’t have the capacity, then they should inform the government. “We can send reduced number of samples for some time. But there should not be a delay,” the message said. The official said a week back, SpiceHealth had promised to fix the issue but there has been no progress so far. In May last also, results were getting delayed. Back then Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said “thousands of pending results are coming now”. “From May 7, 2020, reports of all samples collected must be given within 24 hours and not later than 48 hours, in any case… Non-compliance of the orders will be viewed seriously, and action will be taken immediately as per the provisions of the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19, regulations, 2020 and other rules and regulation in this regard,” an official order said. COVID-19 testing centres, in almost all 11 districts, are also facing problems in accessing a central portal in which data is entered for RT-PCR testing. Increased load “This is happening due to the increased load on the portal and the issue has been raised by all 11 districts. The same issue is faced by multiple big labs which upload the results after testing. These glitches are delaying the process of testing,” the official said. After a new sample is collected, details of the person have to be entered in the RT-PCR android app or the web portal. “The issue was more on two to three days last week, but it was better on Saturday. We hope it will get better next week,” the official said. When contacted, a SpiceHealth official refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capitals-largest-private-lab-delaying-covid-test-results/article34298665.ece
12 April 2021||Kota,||Communal violence rocks Rajasthan, curfew imposed||Dozens of vehicles and shops were torched and vandalised by mobs as communal violence broke out on Sunday in Chhabra town of Baran district following the stabbing of two youths, forcing authorities to clamp curfew and suspend internet. Fire tender torched Police used tear gas to disperse the violent crowds but members of two communities, armed with sticks, iron rods and weapons, continued the rampage late in the evening, even setting ablaze a fire tender and damaging public property, including police and government vehicles. “The situation is very tense. Violence by the mobs has been continuing and we are trying to control the situation,” said Superintendent of Police (Baran) Vineet Bansal. There was no immediate official word on any casualties. Additional forces Baran District Collector ordered a curfew in the municipal periphery of Chhabra town from 4 p.m. on Sunday. Internet has been suspended in the district till April 13 4 p.m, officials said. Officials added that additional forces have been called in and senior police officials, including Kota range Deputy Inspector General Ravi Gour have rushed to the area. According to sources, two youths: Kamal Gurjar (32) and Rakesh Dhakad (21), were injured in an attack by 4-5 youths of another community at Dharnawada circle on Saturday evening. The youths were admitted to a hospital. The families of the injured along with Jat and Gujjar community members staged a dharna at Dharnawada circle on Saturday night demanding immediate arrest of the five accused. While the police nabbed three of the accused late Saturday night, the key accused was not arrested.  Protest turns violent The group resumed their protest on Sunday morning and called for closure of shops. The violence erupted when a group was marching through markets asking traders to close shops in Aliganj and Ajaj Nagar, and soon spread to other areas, the sources said. Around 10-12 shops in Dharnawda Circle, Station Road, Ajaj Nagar and Aliganj area were set ablaze and a fire tender was also torched along with a bus, cars and other vehicles in the evening, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/communal-violence-in-rajasthan-authorities-impose-curfew/article34298746.ece
12 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Two children killed in Noida slum fire||Two children were charred to death in a massive fire that engulfed the slums in the Bahlolpur area near Sector 63 of Noida on Sunday afternoon, police said. Harish Chander, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, said the cause of the fire could not be ascertained. “A dozen fire tenders were pressed into service and the fire has been controlled. Fire Services had been asked to find out the cause of the fire and submit its report,” he said. Bodies of two children, aged 7 and 10 were recovered. “They were possibly sleeping at the time of the fire,” said Mr Chander, adding there were no other casualties. The DCP said at least 150 slums had been gutted. “The fire spread quickly because of high-speed winds in the region on Sunday,” he said.  ‘Numbers higher’ Local sources said the number of slums gutted, mostly inhabited by garbage pickers, would be much higher. Expressing his grief, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced a relief of Rs. 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-children-killed-in-noida-slum-fire/article34298470.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||With no prediction of wave peaking, Delhi intensifies measures to stem spread||The last one week saw the sharpest spikes in COVID-19 cases in Delhi, since the beginning of the pandemic. The Delhi government, which has termed the spike as the “fourth wave”, announced a night curfew from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. and shut all schools till further orders. The Delhi government has also banned all gatherings except for marriages and funerals till April 30 and imposed other restrictions too. Both officials and experts say they are unaware when the wave would peak or the exact reasons for the spike. Amid this, there are several cases of people testing positive for the virus for a second time, which is adding to the worry. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 10,774 fresh COVID-19 cases — the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. Importantly, the cases have increased very rapidly in Delhi. Sunday’s number of cases is a 166.4% increase compared to a week ago, when there were 4,033 new cases. It is a whooping 2,526.8% increase compared to 409 new cases on March 11, a month back. Counter measures The government has also increased beds in government and private hospitals and as on Sunday, 46.7% of the total 11,675 beds for COVID-19 treatment were vacant. The Delhi government said that COVID Care Centres (CCC) are being reopened and some have already started functioning. Several CCCs, including the 500-bed one at the Commonwealth Games Village, was shut when the cases reduced after the last spike in November. “Our focus is to increase the preparedness so that we can reduce the number of deaths as much as possible. We are constantly monitoring the situation and increasing the beds for COVID-19 treatment. We are also focusing on testing and on many days, we are testing more than one lakh people, which is very high compared to other States,” a health department official said. But the official said that the government does not have a projection on how much the cases are going to increase. “People not following social distancing measures is one reason for the spike. But we do not know the exact reason for the current spike,” the official said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had a similar opinion. “We are in touch with experts. No one can tell at the point what will be the peak. We are preparing for it and there will be no shortcomings in our preparations,” Mr. Kejriwal told reporters on Saturday when asked about the current condition. Ministers have several times reiterated people to wear masks and follow social distancing measures. Current surge Experts said that we do not have enough data to know whether the current surge is due to different variants of the virus. “In India, at this point, we don’t have epidemiological data to say that current surge is due to mutant strains of the virus. More genome sequencing has to be done, linked to epidemiology and surveillance,” said N.K. Ganguly, former Director General of ICMR. Giridhara R Babu, Professor at Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, also said that they don’t have enough data. “Not enough samples are tested for genome sequencing to know whether the surge is due to new variants of the virus. But I do believe that some new variants are spreading faster in Delhi. Else we cannot explain the surge happening in Delhi. But we don’t have data to establish this at this point,” Dr. Babu said. “Canada, U.S., and U.K. have said that the spike they are facing currently is due to newer variants,” he added. Mr. Ganguly said that most countries are facing a surge, except for a few ones where substantial percentage of the population has been vaccinated. “In India, only 5.1% of the population has been vaccinated, whereas it is 47% in the U.K. and 32% in the U.S. We have to increase the vaccination,” Mr. Ganguly said. When asked about the current spike in Delhi, he said: “A big spike like this will take about three months to show a trend of coming down if we put in all measures in the right place, including vaccinating everyone above 18 years.”  I do believe that some new variants are spreading faster in Delhi. Else we cannot explain the surge happening in Delhi  Giridhara R Babu  Professor, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-no-prediction-of-wave-peaking-govt-intensifies-measures-to-stem-spread/article34298664.ece
12 April 2021||Lucknow,||BJP cancels nomination of Sengar’s wife||The BJP on Sunday said it had cancelled the nomination of Sangeeta Sengar, wife of expelled MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar who was convicted of rape in 2019, as the party candidate in panchayat elections.  Social media criticism The step came after Ms. Sengar’s nomination drew criticism on the social media. Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh said Ms. Sengar’s nomination for the zilla panchayat from Unnao’s ward 22 stood cancelled. “She won’t be the BJP candidate,” he told a television channel. A Delhi court in 2019 sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment for raping a minor girl in Unnao in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-cancels-nomination-of-sengars-wife/article34298465.ece
12 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP, Congress trade charges over HC order||Aam Aadmi Party leader and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday accused the ruling Congress government in Punjab of failing to secure the interest of its people a day after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed the probe by the State in the Kotkapura police firing incident of 2015. The charge sparked a strong denial by Chief Minister Amarinder, who said the court’s official orders had not yet been made public. Two persons were killed in the police firing in Behbal Kalan of Faridkot district in 2015, which followed the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari. Mr. Mann, reacting to the decision of the High Court said the government led by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had failed to strongly present the case. “If the government really wants to bring justice to the victims of this case and punish the accused, then they should bring good lawyers in the court. The Congress is trying to save the conspirator of the Bargari sacrilege case and the Kotkapura case. The whole of Punjab knows who was behind the sacrilege case,” Mr Mann said at a press conference here. Captain Amarinder hit out at AAP and the Shiroamani Akali Dal (SAD) for criticism on the issue. He ridiculed SAD president Sukhbir Badal for jumping the gun on the High Court orders, saying the court is yet to release a copy, and urged the Akali leader to refrain from making merry as the matter was far from being over. “At least wait for the copy of the orders, before claiming victory,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-congress-trade-charges-over-hc-order/article34298475.ece
12 April 2021||Mumbai,||Take uniform decision on Classes X, XII exams, Shiv Sena tells Centre||The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra has appealed to the Centre to take a uniform decision on the board exams of Classes X and XII across the country in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “A unilateral decision by any State would lead to students of that State being at a disadvantage in terms of career and opportunities,” the Sena’s chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said in a letter, dated April 10, addressed to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. “Your intervention would mean national consensus, instead of a unilateral decision by any particular State,” Mr. Sawant said in his letter. The Lok Sabha member from Mumbai South appealed to the Centre to take a uniform decision for the country so that there is no discrimination against students of Classes X and XII of any State in terms of safety measures or opportunities. “We have multiple boards operating in India — CBSE, ICSE, State boards, IB and IGCSE. There is a need for a clear communication from the HRD (Education) Ministry in terms of examinations across the country,” he said. Mr. Sawant said several young Indians are due to appear for their school, college and university exams in April-May. “All these students are in the age-group that has not been allowed to be vaccinated against COVID-19,” he said. The exams are due in a few days, which will put several students and their families, teachers and non-teaching staff at high risk, he said. Many students and teachers are also coming from micro-containment zones, as constantly suggested by the Union Health Ministry, which makes logistics difficult, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/take-uniform-decision-on-classes-x-xii-exams-shiv-sena-tells-centre/article34298646.ece
12 April 2021||New Delhi,||Over 2,500 people booked in Delhi for violating night curfew guidelines||Over 2,500 people were booked for allegedly violating the night curfew imposed by the Delhi government, the police said on Sunday. According to data shared by the police, 222 cases were registered in this regard from Saturday 10 p.m. to Sunday 5 a.m. “A total of 2,523 people were booked under Sections 65 [persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of a police officer] of the Delhi Police Act and 107 [security for keeping the peace in other cases] and 151 [arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences] of the CrPC,” Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. The police issued 520 challans to people for violating COVID-19 norms, he said. The Delhi government on Tuesday had announced a seven-hour night curfew. The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the COVID-19 situation in the city. The DDMA order for curfew from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. will be in force till April 30. However, it exempts people of certain professions from the curfew. “The Delhi Police will strictly enforce it except for the exempted categories mentioned in the order. All concerned should strictly observe the restrictions as given in the DDMA order,” Public Relations Officer of the force Chinmoy Biswal had said. “Fresh movement passes will be issued on demand. Those requiring it and qualifying for it can also visit the Delhi Police website to apply for it. All field functionaries will be available in their jurisdictions to enforce the DDMA order and facilitate the exempted categories,” he had added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-2500-people-booked-in-delhi-for-violating-night-curfew-guidelines/article34298657.ece
12 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha lighthouses hold huge tourism potential||As the Union Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways seeks to develop 65 lighthouses on public-private-partnership mode, Odisha’s five lighthouses present a huge potential for tourism. One of the five lighthouses situated along the Odisha coast was the 180-year-old functional tower which continues to guide ships. The ‘False Point’ island lighthouse is situated off the Kendrapara coast while the other four are situated in the mainland. The Ministry wants to develop them as hubs of tourism under the Sagarmala project. The British-era False Point lighthouse, a 129-ft massive minaret-like structure of red-white bands with a huge embossed star, is visible from quite a distance from the Bay of Bengal. Its location close to massive mangrove vegetation infested with crocodiles makes it an adventurous tourist place on the eastern coast. According I. C. R. Prasad, former electrical engineer and passionate lighthouse researcher, the False Point is the oldest working lighthouse in India. Barely 40 km away, the Paradip lighthouse is another imposing structure. It also holds tourism potential because of its proximity to the port town and Cuttack and Bhubaneswar cities (100 km). It was commissioned in the 1980s. Another century-old one is Gopalpur in Ganjam district. The 150-year-old tower used to assist ships sailing between Rangoon and the coromandal coast ports and is already a tourist place. The Chilika Lake and the Gopalpur beach will be added attractions if it is developed as a place of tourist interest.  Panoramic view The Chandrabhaga lighthouse, 10 km from the world famous Konark temple, offers a breathtaking view of the sea and its height enables tourists get a panoramic view of the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-lighthouses-hold-huge-tourism-potential/article34298474.ece
12 April 2021||Mumbai,||Muslims seek govt. nod to hold Ramzan prayers||A Muslim organisation on Sunday urged the Maharashtra government to allow members of the community to visit mosques for prayers during the month of Ramzan that begins next week. Members of the Marathwada division of Jamiat Ulema-e- Hind (of Arshad Madani faction), met State Health Minister Rajesh Tope to put forward this demand. At present, places of worship in the State are shut due to the spike in COVID-19 cases. One of the office-bearers of the organisation told the minister that in view of the holy month of Ramzan, the State government should provide some relaxations and allow entry of Muslim community members into mosques, up to 50% capacity of these religious places for prayers five times a day. The organisation’s vice-president Maulana Sohel assured the minister that Muslims would follow all COVID-19 safety protocols. The minister assured them that the State government would consider their demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/muslims-seek-govt-nod-to-hold-ramzan-prayers/article34298647.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Urgent need for vaccine universalisation, says Chadha||Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling for an urgent need for “vaccine universalisation and vaccine nationalism” to deal with a shortage of doses being faced across the country. Mr. Chadha, in his letter, said he was writing in his capacity as a representative of young India and an elected legislator. He accused the Centre of indulging in diplomatic adventurism by exporting over 64 million doses to 84 countries and neglecting the Fundamental Rights of its citizens to basic healthcare and protection by vaccination against COVID-19. “Government of India has chosen to export over 64 million doses to 84 countries while Indians are desperately looking for a vaccination centre that is still open. I wish to ask the Government of India as to what its priority is — the people of Delhi or of Dominican Republic? The people of Maharashtra or of Mauritius? The people of Bengal or Bangladesh? Gujarat or Guyana? Odisha or Oman? Uttar Pradesh or United Kingdom? Kerala or Kenya?,” Mr. Chadha asked. He added: “While we do not begrudge other countries humanitarian aid, the same cannot be at the cost of Indian citizens, particularly young India, which has been waiting for its turn ever since the vaccine became available”. He urged that the Government of India adopt “vaccine nationalism” and prioritise vaccinating the entire 135 crore in India before earning trivial international laurels. “Do not let vaccination centre shut while doses are being flown out of the country. It is further alarming to read reports that the Government of India will be exporting nearly 45 million doses to Pakistan in the coming days. On one hand, the Government of India claims that Pakistan has only exported terrorism to India. On the other hand, we are exporting life-saving vaccines to Pakistan,” the leader said. Mr. Chadha also appealed to not regard youngsters as expendable collateral damage in the government’s diplomatic moves. “The fundamental right to health is not the reserve of just the old and the ailing. It is important that the Government of India urgently understands that we need vaccine universalisation,’ Mr. Chadha said.  Government of India has chosen to export over 64 million doses to 84 countries while Indians are desperately looking for a vaccination centre that is still open...  Raghav Chadha AAP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/urgent-need-for-vaccine-universalisation-says-chadha/article34298658.ece
12 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Duo wanted in 12 cheating cases held in APMC market||The APMC police have arrested two men who were wanted in at least 12 cases of cheating in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Raigad and Gujarat. The accused, identified as Kabul Ali Naushad Ali Jafferi (56) and Jahed Ali Javed Ali Jafferi (36), were residents of Ambivali and targeted bank customers. They were nabbed based on a complaint filed by Rajaram Kale, who was cheated of Rs. 10,000 by the duo on the pretext of counting Rs. 50,000 in cash he had withdrawn from a bank. Assistant Police Inspector Sumedh Khopikar said, “They would keep a watch on the bank and wait for someone to withdraw cash. One of the accused would then approach the victim and claim that the bank often issued fake notes and they should be verified. He would then offer to help the victim count the cash. The other accused would join them and validate the claim of the first accused.” The police said that the accused used to wear a T-shirt under their shirt. After leaving the bank’s premises, they would remove the shirt so that they went undetected in the CCTV footage. Mr. Khopikar said, “After we received the complaint, we started investigating the case and found CCTV footage of the accused. We then traced the accused to APMC market, where they were planning to target another bank customer.” The police said the duo had been earlier arrested in 35 different cases and were wanted in at least 12 cases. They have been remanded in the custody of the Bhiwandi police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duo-wanted-in-12-cheating-cases-held-in-apmc-market/article34298648.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||All quiet on the seafront||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/all-quiet-on-the-seafront/article34299001.ece
12 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Schools may call students for guidance’||The District Disaster Management Authority in an order issued on Saturday said students of classes IX-XII may be called to school only for academic guidance, exam support and project work/internal assessment with consent of parents and in adherence to the prescribed standard operating procedures for COVID safety issued by the Directorate of Education. The order by the DDMA, issued by Chief Secretary of Delhi Vijay Dev, comes a day after the Directorate of Education ordered that all academic and examination activities through physical mode for all Classes shall remain suspended with immediate effect till further orders. The Central Board for Secondary Examination has said that it plans to continue with the scheduled Class X and XII board examinations from the first week of May despite calls from various sections to conduct the examination online or postpone it till the COVID-19 situation in the country improves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-may-call-students-for-guidance/article34298661.ece
12 April 2021||jaipur,||Smugglers kill 2 policemen in Rajasthan||Two constables were killed after suspected drug smugglers opened fire when they were stopped at separate checkpoints in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district, police said on Sunday. Based on a tip-off, police teams had set up barricades at different locations to apprehend the smugglers, who were travelling in two jeeps and as many SUVs, on Saturday night. They opened fire on police at checkpoints at the Kotdi and the Raila police station areas. Bhilwara Superintendent of Police Vikas Sharma said, “Two constables were killed in the firing. Police teams have been alerted to search for the accused.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/smugglers-kill-2-policemen-in-rajasthan/article34298466.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown is back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-is-back/article34298472.ece
12 April 2021||April 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi govt to organise conference on reducing air pollution: Gopal Rai||New Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday announced the Delhi government will hold a digital round-table conference on April 12-13 to address the issue of air pollution in the national capital. The Minister said in a statement that theme of the conference will be “Measures to be taken to reduce air pollution in Delhi before winter 2021”. “The work that our government has done in the last six years to fix the environment and improve the environmental condition has made a positive beginning in reducing Delhi's pollution, but it is not enough,” Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-to-organise-conference-on-reducing-air-pollution-gopal-rai/article34298656.ece
