15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE examinations for Class 12 postponed, Class 10 cancelled||Due to the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Class 12 examinations of the CBSE have been postponed while the Class 10 examinations have been cancelled, the Education Ministry said on Wednesday. The decision was taken after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the situation. 15-day notice Both exams were scheduled to be held from May 4 to June 14. With Class 12 results being the basis for admission to higher education institutions, it has been decided to postpone the exams. The CBSE will review the situation on June 1. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations, said the Ministry statement. For Class 10 students, results will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the Board. Any candidate who is not satisfied with the allocated marks will be allowed to write an exam as and when conditions are conducive, said the Ministry. The PM’s review meeting came amid rising demands from students, parents and State governments for the exams to be cancelled or postponed, given that the daily rate of infections is regularly crossing the 1.5-lakh mark. During the meeting, “the Prime Minister reiterated that the well being of students has to be the top priority for the government. He also said the Centre would keep in mind the best interests of the students and ensure that their health is taken care of while their academic interests are not harmed,” said the statement. Schools shut down Schools have been shut down in 11 States due to the second wave of the pandemic. For many classes, schools have not reopened since the initial shut down of March, 2020. At least four State education boards scheduled to hold examinations in April have announced postponement. “Unlike State Boards, the CBSE has an all-India character, and therefore, it is essential to hold exams simultaneously throughout the country,” said the Ministry. However, no guidelines were given for State board exams through the country, as had been demanded by some States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-examinations-for-class-12-postponed-class-10-cancelled/article34321780.ece
15 April 2021||Special Correspondent Pune,||Nearly 59,000 fresh cases in State||With another surge of 58,952 COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra’s active case tally breached the six lakh mark to soar to 6,12,070. As many as 278 deaths (170 of which were reported in the last 48 hours while the rest were from an earlier period) pushed the total death toll to 58,804. The State also reported 39,624 recoveries resulting in a dip in recovery rate to 81.21%. While the total case tally has now reached 35,78,160, the cumulative recoveries stand at 29,05,721. “Of a total 2,28,02,200 laboratory samples tested thus far, 35,78,160 (with the average case positivity rising to 15.86%) have returned positive with over 2.40 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had incrementally declined to 1.64%. Pune district added more than 7,500 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,79,313. As per State Health Department figures, seven deaths were reported taking the toll to 8,636. As per district authorities, the active case tally has crossed the one lakh-mark while the number of fatalties has crossed 10,800. Mumbai reported 9,931 new cases, taking its total case tally to 5,45,195 of whom 86,635 are active. With 54 deaths, the toll in the city has reached 12,147. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 6,500 cases as its case tally reached 3,03,760 of whom 65,368 are active. The district reported 24 deaths to take its toll to 4,385. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported more than 1,300 new cases to take its total tally to 1,02,962 of whom 14,680 were active. Two deaths took the toll to 1,511. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported a surge of more than 3,900 new cases, taking its tally to 2,31,990 of whom 44,880 are active while 24 deaths pushed its toll to 2,505. Dr. Awate said currently, a total of 34,55,206 people across the State were in home quarantine and 28,494 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-59000-fresh-cases-in-state/article34322370.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. yet to decide on SSLC, PU exams||While the Central Board of Secondary Education has cancelled the class X examination across the country owing to the second wave of COVID-19, the State government is yet to decide whether to go ahead with the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and the II PU exams or not. Sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education say that they have mooted a proposal for students who have tested positive to answer the question papers at separate centres. However, this will depend on what course of action the government decides to take. S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, on Wednesday said: “The State government has not decided to cancel the SSLC exam along the lines of the decision made by the Central board,” he said. However, he added that the government was monitoring the COVID-19 situation in the State. “A suitable decision will be made in future considering all parameters.” Officials in the department have more than a month to alter exam schedules. While the II PU examination is scheduled to be held from May 24 to June 16, the SSLC examination is slated to take place between June 21 and July 2. Last year, the SSLC examination was conducted in June-July 2020 during the first wave of COVID-19 infection amidst a slew of precautionary measures. This time around, if the examinations are not cancelled, the Department of Pre-University Education and Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board has decided to take up additional precautionary measures. Students who have COVID-19 will be able to give the examination should they wish to do so. Last year, students who had tested positive for the virus were asked to skip the main examination and write the supplementary one instead. More meetings “For the upcoming 2020-21 exams, there will be one centre in every taluk or Assembly constituency for students with COVID-19. We decided to do this as the number of positive cases is on the rise,” said a source in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. As another precautionary measure, the department is planning to reduce the number of students in a room to 20. “Last year, there were 24 students in a classroom,” sources said. Officials added that more meetings would be held in the future to assess the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-yet-to-decide-on-sslc-pu-exams/article34321928.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Delay in ‘BU code’ generation hits patients in city hard||While cases of patients scouting for hospital beds have increased in the last three days, what is causing more hardship is the inordinate delay by the BBMP in generating Bengaluru Urban (BU) code for patients. Hospitals have been refusing admissions even to patients with severe symptoms without a BU number. Due to this, patients are losing out on precious time. For many of them, the ordeal begins from the time they get swabbed. While test reports take at least three-four days to come, it takes even longer for a BU code and this “waiting period” has become a nightmare. Volunteers from the Emergency Response Team (ERT), a voluntary group, said they have come across several cases wherein hospitals are refusing patients because they do not have a BU code.  Issue at war room BBMP COVID-19 War Room, which is handling the allotment of hospitals to patients, is delaying generating the BU code. After a patient tests positive, a Patient Code (P Code) is generated first based on the positive report uploaded on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. This is followed by a software-generated BU code in the BBMP war room, which has been delayed. Several patients, who have ILI and SARI symptoms and are awaiting COVID-19 report are the worst hit. While they cannot get admission in COVID-19 wards without a positive report, most of the SARI/ ILI beds in dedicated hospitals such as Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases and K.C. General are full. And, while waiting at home without admission when their COVID-19 report comes positive, they are forced to further wait for the BU code. Aimen Muiz, a volunteer with ERT, said the group was flooded with requests for beds on Wednesday. “In most of the cases, BU numbers were not generated. Hospitals that earlier accepted bed allotment based on Specimen Referral Form (SRF) identity numbers are refusing now without a BU number,” she said. Ameen-e-Mudassar, another volunteer from ERT, said the group had attended to 41 requests on Wednesday, which is the highest on a single day since March. There have been allegations that generation of the BU code is deliberately held up because of the increasing caseload. “With numbers surging day by day, there are many waiting for admission in hospitals. If the BU code generation of the new cases is delayed a little, the ones who have a code and need admission can be cleared first,” sources said. Technical hitch However, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who admitted the delay in BU code generation, attributed it to technical glitches on the ICMR portal. “Because of technical issues, the flow of data from ICMR portal to BBMP War Room portal has been hit. This has been sorted out but as the caseload is increasing, there is a huge backlog of cases waiting for a BU code. Our staff are generating the code manually now and the issue should be resolved by Thursday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delay-in-bu-code-generation-hits-patients-in-city-hard/article34322237.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||State reports 18 deaths, 4,157 new cases||With the continuous rise in COVID infections, the number of fatalities is also on the rise in the State. In the past day, 18 persons died due to COVID-19, which was the highest single-day death toll since October. As many as 122 persons died of COVID this month so far. The State has again reported over 4,000 new infections. With the 4,157 new infections, the cumulative tally jumped to 9,37,049 and the toll reached 7,339. The number of recoveries crossed the nine-lakh mark and reached 9,01,327,  as 1,606 patients recovered in the past day. As of Wednesday morning, there were 28,383 active cases in the State. The recovery rate further came down to 96.19% and the death rate was at 0.78%. The number of samples tested per million also crossed 2.90 lakh. So far 1.55 crore samples, including the 35,732 in the past day, were tested in the State. The overall positivity rate was 6.03% and that of the samples tested in the past day was 11.63%. Nellore reported four new deaths while Chittoor and Krishna reported three deaths each in the past day. Visakhapatnam reported two and Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool, Prakasam and Srikakulam reported one death each. East Godavari district reported 617 new infections, the highest among the districts in th e State. It was followed by Srikakulam and Chittoor with 522 and 517 cases respectively. Other districts that reported less than 500 new infections include Guntur (434), Visakhapatnam (417_), Kurnool (386), Anantapur (297), Nellore (276), Prakasam (230), Vizianagaram (154), Krishna (135), Kadapa (112) and West Godavari (60). The active case tally in Chittoor district crossed the 5,000-mark while that of West Godavari remain below 500 at 336. Anantapur's cumulative tally crossed 70,000-mark. Its last 10,000 cases were reported in 188 days. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,27,106), Chittoor (96,173), West Godavari (94,862), Guntur (83,517), Anantapur (70,081), Visakhapatnam (65,993), Nellore (65,802), Prakasam (64,356), Kurnool (63,713), Kadapa (57,571), Krishna (53,531), Srikakulam (49,112) and Vizianagaram (42,337).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-18-deaths-4157-new-infections-in-24-hours/article34322396.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SSC exams as per schedule, says Minister||The Class 10 Board examinations will be held in Andhra Pradesh as per schedule, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh clarified on Wednesday. Speaking to The Hindu , the Minister said that as of now, the State would stick to the exam schedule as ‘the COVID-19 situation is under control’. He said the Intermediate practical examinations were over and the schedule for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination had been released. “Half day schools are on in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols. We are conducting thousands of tests daily on teachers and students and find very marginal number of positive cases,” said the Minister, reiterating that there was no cause for alarm. The Minister’s statement assumes significance in the wake of the Centre’s decision on Wednesday to cancel CBSE Class 10 examinations and postpone Class 12 exams, scheduled to be held from May 4, in view of the spurt in COVID-19 cases across the country. The State has been conducting physical classes for students from Class 1 to Class 10at present. Decision soon However, the Telangana government may follow the CBSE way and cancel the Class 10 examinations this year as well. The exams are supposed to be conducted from May 17 to 28 with major subjects to be completed by May 22 as per the schedule released on February 9. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to take the final decision on cancellation after the Nagarjunasagar by-election, to be held on April 17. The surge in cases and the apprehensions of parents may force the Chief Minister to cancel the exams. Proposal mooted The Karnataka government is yet to decide on whether or not to go ahead with the SSLC and II PU exams. Sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education say that they have mooted a proposal for students who have tested positive to answer the question papers at separate centres. However, this will depend on what course of action the government decides to take. S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said on Wednesday: “The State has not decided to cancel the SSLC exams along the lines of the decision made by the Central board,” he said.  (With inputs from Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-10-exams-as-per-schedule-ap/article34321745.ece
15 April 2021||PATNA,||Hospitals forced to turn away COVID patients in Bihar||With the number of COVID-19 patients increasing manifold, there are long queues of patients outside hospitals in Patna and bodies waiting for their turn outside cremation grounds. A Minister and two senior Indian Administrative Service officers were among the 4,157 new COVID-19 cases reported in the State over 24 hours. Three big government hospitals in the city — Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS-Patna) — are reportedly filled to capacity. AIIMS is arranging for additional beds, said Sanjiv Kumar, nodal officer for COVID-19 at the hospital. At least 70 ambulances carrying COVID patients had to return from the hospital on Tuesday due to non-availability of beds, he said. Beds in private hospitals like Ruban, Paras, Ford and Jagdish too are full. “New patients can be admitted only after the existing patients are discharged,” said Dr. Satyajeet Singh at Ruban hospital. “We have had to turn away several patients as no beds are available. We feel sorry for them, but are helpless,” said the administrative manager of a city hospital. 50 deaths in a week Government hospitals in Patna have a total of 359 beds, while private hospitals have 832 beds for COVID-19 patients. As many as 18,466 people in the State have tested positive in the last seven days and over 50 have died. On Wednesday, Social Welfare Minister Madan Sahni and two senior IAS officers tested positive. On Tuesday, IAS officer Vijay Ranjan died at AIIMS, Patna. The government has deputed IAS officers at three hospitals in Patna for a week to monitor the rush of patients. Health Minister Mangal Pandey and State BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal have been visiting hospitals to monitor the situation. At the city’s Bansh Ghat cremation ground, family members of those who died of complications related to COVID-19 have to wait in a queue for long hours. They allege that the employees are demanding huge amounts for early cremation. “The normal charge for electric cremation is Rs. 300. The government has made cremation of COVID-19 patients free, but they took Rs. 16,000 from me. If this is not extortion, what is?” said Brajraj, son of a COVID-19 victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-forced-to-turn-away-patients-in-bihar/article34322049.ece
15 April 2021||Hyderabad,||KCR may opt for cancellation of SSC exams||Telangana may follow the Central Board of Secondary Examinations (CBSE) and cancel the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations (10th class) this year as well. The exams are supposed to be conducted from May 17 to 28 with major subjects to be completed by May 22 as per the schedule of the government released on February 9. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to take the final decision on cancellation after the Nagarjunasagar by-poll to be held on April 17. The surge in COVID cases and the apprehensions of parents may force the Chief Minister to cancel the exams. About six lakh students are presently enrolled in 10th class. Several parents and students have already appealed to the Chief Minister to cancel the SSC exams. In fact, a student started an online petition for the same a few days ago and it received the support of nearly 24,000 people so far. The government had cancelled the exams last year as well and promoted all students taking their internal assessment marks into consideration. The exams were cancelled after repeated postponements due to challenges in the High Court citing COVID-9 cases. The challengers were questioning the government on the safety measures and the fear factor among teachers. The cancellation proposal has been doing rounds for the last one week among the officials but they shied away from officially sharing it without taking the consent of the Chief Minister. Officials say the surge in COVID cases, particularly in schools and hostels had in fact forced the government to close them last month. A senior official on condition of anonymity said the government was thinking of promoting 10th class students and also those pursuing Intermediate first-year but was committed to conduct 12th class (Intermediate second-year) exams even if they are delayed. This was to ensure that State students don’t lose out at the national level entrance exams and admissions in top institutions where 12th class marks matter. Since the CBSE too had postponed the 12th class exams, the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TS-BIE) will follow the same. Government has time till July to conduct the same and announce the results early. “So the 12th exams in Telangana will also be postponed definitely,” he said. The Government Junior Lecturers Association (GJLA) president, Madhusudhan Reddy agreed that it would be very difficult to proceed with the present schedule.  The surge in COVID cases, particularly in schools and hostels, had in fact forced the government to close them last month. Officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-may-opt-for-cancellation-of-ssc-exams/article34322308.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||State obliged to facilitate access to education, says Supreme Court||Access to professional education is not government largesse, the Supreme Court said in a judgment. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah pronounced the verdict in favour of two students from Ladakh, who were nominated by the Union Territory administration for MBBS studies. They were allocated seats in the prestigious Lady Hardinge and Maulana Azad medical colleges. However, they were not admitted. The students moved the top court for justice, saying their fundamental right to education was at the whims and fancies of the government authorities. “We would like to take this opportunity to underscore the importance of creating an enabling environment to make it possible for students, such as the petitioners, to pursue professional education. While the right to pursue higher (professional) education has not been spelt out as a fundamental right in Part III of the Constitution, it bears emphasis that access to professional education is not a governmental largesse,” Justice Chandrachud wrote in the judgment. The court said the State has an “affirmative obligation to facilitate access to education at all levels”. “This obligation assumes far greater importance for students whose background (by virtue of such characteristics as caste, class, gender, religion, disability and geographical region) imposes formidable obstacles on their path to accessing quality education,” the recent judgment read. Panel’s vision The court referred to the vision envisaged by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. “As an empowerment right, education is the primary vehicle by which economically and socially marginalised adults and children can lift themselves out of poverty and obtain the means to participate fully in their communities,” the court said, referring to one of the Committee’s clauses. The court ordered that the students be admitted within a week. It was government policy last November to allot one seat each at Lady Hardinge and Maulana Azad medical colleges from the Central pool. The court noted that India was a signatory to the United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. “Pursuant to these obligations, which India has undertaken by being a signatory to the covenant, the Union shall ensure proper coordination so that students allocated colleges under the Central pool seats are not put to hardship in enrolling once they have been duly allocated their seats,” the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-obliged-to-facilitate-access-to-education-sc/article34321788.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Over 6 lakh get the jab in State||The State has surpassed the day’s target of administering COVID vaccine to six lakh persons on Wednesday, the last day of the ‘Tika Utsav’. Vaccine doses After nearly running out of vaccine doses for two days, the State received 6.4 lakh doses, including 4.4 lakh Covishield and 2 lakh Covaxin, and a majority of them were used in a single day, as per the figures available on the national CoWIN dashboard as of 9 p.m. In addition to about 2,000 government and private vaccine centres, the State conducted vaccination drive at one Secretariat under every rural and urban PHC limits in the State totalling 3,408 centres. Of them, 3,002 were government-run and 406 were private vaccine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-6-lakh-get-the-jab/article34321785.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,||At 7,819, T.N.’s daily tally reaches all-time high||Tamil Nadu recorded an all-time high of 7,819 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. This is the highest daily case count since the start of the pandemic, eclipsing the 6,993 cases recorded on July 27 last year. Even as fresh cases breached the 7,000-mark for the first time in the State, Chennai marked yet another high as 2,564 people tested positive for the virus in the city. The number of samples tested in 24 hours across the State was 97,668. The State’s tally rose to 9,54,948, while the number of active cases went past 50,000. A total of 54,315 people are currently undergoing treatment in the State, with Chennai accounting for 20,144, followed by 5,089 in Chengalpattu and 4,544 in Coimbatore. Another 25 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 12,970. Chennai recorded seven deaths, while there were three fatalities each in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 23-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on April 12 and died the next day due to bronchopneumonia, respiratory failure and acute pulmonary embolism. Three people in their 40s also succumbed to the infection. Among them was a 42-year-old man from Cuddalore, who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital on April 13 with complaints of cough for five days and breathing difficulty for two days. He died on the same day due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. With 2,564 new cases, Chennai’s tally rose to 2,72,118. The city accounted for 4,344 deaths.  Districts’ tallies There were 772 cases in Chengalpattu, followed by 540 in Coimbatore and 383 in Tiruvallur. Three districts had 200-plus cases — Thoothukudi (244), Tiruppur (225) and Tiruchi (216). Among the 12 districts that recorded 100-plus cases were Madurai (199), Tirunelveli (193), Salem (175), Cuddalore (175) and Thanjavur (158). Among those who tested positive for COVID-19 were 34 returnees. As many as 3,464 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 8,87,663.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-7819-tns-daily-tally-reaches-all-time-high/article34321838.ece
15 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana garments units oppose quota in jobs||After the information technology sector in Gurugram expressed strong reservations about the new law guaranteeing 75% jobs in private sector to the local population, the garments industry, employing close to 10 lakh people in the State, has also given a thumbs down to the legislation and demanded exemption from it. A survey by the Garments Exporters and Manufacturers Association (GEMA) among its members has revealed that more than 82% may not consider Haryana for expansion in case the new law is not repealed, or the industry is not exempted from its provisions. An equal number believes that they would not be able to source adequate skilled strength from Haryana only and none of the major employers, who generate employment of more than 3,000 people, believe that they would be able to source people only from the State. The survey also disclosed that a big majority has less than 20% employees based in Haryana. GEMA general secretary Animesh Saxena said the industry body also sent a representation to Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday, requesting exemption from the provisions of the new law due to high skill and precision requirements. Skill requirement In a press statement, GEMA claimed that the website of Haryana Skill Development Mission has only 4,508 trained persons available across all the 33 job roles of apparel sector like tailors, cutters and supervisors and not all of them may be willing or be fully suitable for the actual roles. They may not even fulfil the domicile criterion of the law. “Industrial Training Institutes in Haryana did not offer much training courses in apparel industry trades historically... This indicates that perhaps some vocations in Haryana may not be preferred. Forcing the population to adopt a different practice would more be a wishful thinking than a practical solution,” said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-garments-units-oppose-quota-in-jobs/article34322044.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||With 17,282 cases, Delhi breaks daily record again||Delhi witnessed a record number of new COVID-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day with 17,282 infections being reported over 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The total number of cases stood at 7,67,438. Also, 104 deaths were reported over 24 hours, pushing the toll to 11,540. A total of 1,08,534 tests were conducted in a day, the bulletin stated. Of the total cases, 7,05,162 people have recovered and there are 50,736 active cases at present. The test positivity rate jumped to 15.92%, the highest in months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-17282-cases-delhi-breaks-daily-record-again/article34322296.ece
15 April 2021||Kolkata,||Govt. will probe deaths in Sitalkuchi: Mamata||Four days after five people were killed in two separate incidents of violence on polling day in Sitalkuchi in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday visited the Cooch Behar district and met the families of the deceased. She promised that the government will investigate the killings. “I assure that justice will be delivered. Whoever has done it will not be spared. Election is on, but the State government will conduct all necessary investigation,” the CM said, after meeting the family members of those killed, adding that the State would extend all help to the families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-govt-to-probe-deaths-in-sitalkuchi/article34321790.ece
15 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,||Drunk man shoots pregnant daughter||A pregnant woman was shot dead by her father, who was allegedly inebriated, in Denkanikottai on Wednesday. The incident occurred when the victim, Venkatalakshmi (21), who was three months pregnant, and her husband Srinivas were visiting her parents in Karadikal village for Ugadi. Police said Venkatalakshmi’s father Arunachalam (50), who was in a drunken state, got into a brawl with his wife Madevi and picked up his illegally possessed country-made gun to shoot her. Venkatalakshmi got shot when she intervened to stop her father. Thally police have registered a case and arrested Arunachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drunk-man-shoots-pregnant-daughter/article34321906.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||SSC Board exams as per schedule in A.P.||The SSC (Class 10) Board examinations would be held in Andhra Pradesh as per schedule, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh clarified on Wednesday. Speaking toThe Hindu, the Minister said as of now, the State would stick to the exam schedule as “the COVID situation is under control”.Page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssc-board-exams-as-per-schedule-in-ap/article34321839.ece
15 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan, H.P. put off State Board exams||After the CBSE announced cancellation of its Class 10 examinations, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday decided to postpone the State Secondary Education Board’s examinations for Classes 10 and 12. The Himachal Pradesh govern-ment, too, postponed the ongoing State Board exams for Classes 10 and 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-hp-put-off-state-board-exams/article34321789.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||CICSE reviewing situation, will decide soon||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Wednesday said it is reviewing the COVID-19 situation and will soon take a decision on conducting the Class 10 and 12 board exams. The Class 10 exams are scheduled to begin from May 5 while the Class 12 exams began on April 8.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cicse-reviewing-situation-will-decide-soon/article34321791.ece
15 April 2021||pune,||Allow purchase of vaccines independently: Raj Thackeray||Amid Maharashtra’s steadily deteriorating pandemic situation, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has demanded that the Centre must permit the State to purchase vaccines independently. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing grave concern over surging cases and fatalities, Mr. Thackeray urged the Centre to allow private agencies to purchase vaccines and permit the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) to sell vaccines freely in Maharashtra but with due regulation. “Allow other institutions like the Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation and Hindustan Antibiotics to manufacture the vaccine to ensure sufficient doses required in the State,” said the MNS president, detailing a list of five demands in his letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/allow-purchase-of-vaccines-independently-raj-thackeray/article34322373.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers say Centre making false promises||Protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Wednesday said the Centre’s comments on resuming talks were “false promises” and despite assu-rances the government had not invited them for dialogue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-say-centre-making-false-promises/article34322295.ece
15 April 2021||Lucknow,||Yogi, Akhilesh test positive for COVID-19||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said they had tested positive for COVID-19. “I am under self-isolation...,” Mr. Adityanath tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yogi-akhilesh-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34322047.ece
15 April 2021||Dehradun,||Kumbh: lakhs ignore virus concern to take holy dip||Throwing caution to the wind amid rising COVID-19 cases, over 13.5 lakh people, including sadhus from 13 akhadas, congregated on the ghats of Haridwar on Wednes-day to take a dip in the Ganga during the Kumbh mela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kumbh-lakhs-ignore-virus-concern-to-take-holy-dip/article34322048.ece
15 April 2021||Kolkata,||Campaign ends in Bengal for fifth phase of polls||Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal, Aariz Aftab, on Wednesday wrote to all recognised national political parties to participate in a meeting on April 16 on matters related to election campaign during the COVID-19 outbreak, even as campaign for the fifth phase of polls on April 17 ended on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaign-ends-in-bengal-for-fifth-phase-of-polls/article34321964.ece
15 April 2021||BELAGAVI,||Yediyurappa hits campaign mode despite high fever||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday attended a rally and a road show despite running high fever. When he stepped in the VIP lounge of the airport in Belagavi, the thermal scanner recorded a temperature of 99 centigrade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yediyurappa-hits-campaign-mode-despite-high-fever/article34321926.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||With 17,282 cases, Delhi breaks daily record again||Delhi witnessed a record number of new COVID-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day with 17,282 infections being reported over 24 hours. The total number of cases in the city stood at 7,67,438.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-17282-cases-delhi-breaks-daily-record-again/article34322046.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Crematoria, graveyard staff rue lack of pay||With COVID-19 death toll mounting, the work of staff at crematoria and graveyards has doubled. But hopes of being paid remain just that. They have alleged that most of them haven’t been paid for a year or longer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crematoria-graveyard-staff-rue-lack-of-pay/article34322239.ece
15 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Odd semester degree exams to resume today||Mangalore University will resume on Thursday its undergraduate odd semester examinations which had been suspended from April 8 to April 12 due to the strike by the employees of State road transport corporations. The examinations had begun on April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odd-semester-degree-exams-to-resume-today/article34322348.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia committed to S-400 deal: envoy||India and Russia are “committed” to completing their contract for the S-400 missile system, due to be delivered to India at the end of the year, Russian Ambassador to India Nikolai Kudashev confirmed on Wednesday. He said both countries opposed U.S. sanctions on the issue. The public comments made by both Mr. Kudashev and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, however, made it clear that there are deep differences over America’s Indo-Pacific strategy. “Together with India we do not recognise bilateral sanctions as they are illegal tools of unfair competition, pressure and blackmail. This was clearly stated by the two Foreign Ministers in their exchange,” Mr. Kudashev said in reply to a question from The Hindu at an interaction about Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov’s meeting with Mr. Jaishankar last week. “With regard to S-400, both sides are committed to the agreed timelines and obligations … this contract is being successfully fulfilled,” he said.  The Hindu had reported on Wednesday that the S-400 contract is on track for a delivery of the systems in November, despite America’s repeated threat that the $2.5-billion deal could attract sanctions under its CAATSA law. Washington has already sanctioned China over its purchase of the S-400, and on April 7, sanctions against Turkish defence institutions and certain officials also went into effect over a similar purchase. Last month, U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said he had spoken to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh about the deal, adding that sanctions would be determined once the systems were delivered. Stressing that there was a “meeting of minds on a majority of issues”, Mr. Kudashev pointed to differences on approaches to the Indo-Pacific strategy where India is a part of the Quad with Australia, Japan and the U.S. “We want to call the attention of our Indian partners and friends to the dangers emerging from the Western Indo-Pacific strategy aimed at a revival of the Cold War era thinking and Cold War era structures,” he said in a reference to the U.S.-Soviet rivalry and the establishment of the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance between the U.S. and Western Europe to counter Russia. However, speaking at the MEA’s annual Raisina Dialogue conference a few hours later, Mr. Jaishankar contested the comparison to Cold War terminology, saying the Indo-Pacific represented a more historical, seamless geographical entity that ranged from Africa to the U.S. coast. No veto: Jaishankar “I would argue that in a way, the Indo-Pacific is a return to history. It reflects the more contemporary world. It is actually overcoming the Cold War, not reinforcing it,” Mr. Jaishankar said at a panel that included Australian and French Foreign Ministers Marise Payne and Jean Yves Le Drian. Mr. Jaishankar also said no other nation could have a “veto” over India’s partnerships, and called terms such as Asian NATO a “mind game” being played by other countries. “That kind of NATO mentality has never been in India, if it has been in Asia, that would be other countries, not mine.” Speaking to the media, Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin also addressed speculation over a strain in India-Russia ties during Mr. Lavrov’s visit, particularly over the Russian Foreign Minister’s next stop in Islamabad where he discussed supplying Pakistan with military equipment for counter-terrorism, as well as over Afghanistan’s future. Mr. Babushkin said fighting terrorism was part of a “common agenda”, and as members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which Russia, India and Pakistan are, cooperation on a number of areas, including regional security and countering threats, had been discussed. He said India and Russia both agreed on an “Aghan-owned Afghan-led” solution for the conflict, and that India should be part of the regional mechanisms to discuss this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-committed-to-s-400-deal-envoy/article34321706.ece
15 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP wants to ruin Bengal’s culture: Rahul||Describing the BJP’s promise of a sonar Bangla (golden Bengal) as a “mirage”, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday that the BJP was out to destroy the culture of West Bengal. “Wherever the BJP goes, Narendra Modi goes, the RSS goes, they start spreading hatred and start dividing the people,” Mr. Gandhi said at a public meeting in Darjeeling district of the State. Mr. Gandhi, who started his poll campaign in West Bengal three days before the fifth phase of the election, said the Congress’s fight against the BJP was at an ideological level and the party would never back down from the fight. The Congress was part of the Samyukta Morcha, where it has entered into an alliance with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front for the Assembly election. The Congress is contesting 92 of the 294 Assembly seats, most of which will go to the polls from the fifth to the eighth phases. “There is a big danger before you. The day BJP is able to establish its ideology in West Bengal, the State will be on fire ... The ideology of the RSS and the BJP is a danger for the State of West Bengal,” the Congress leader said. Mr. Gandhi alleged that the BJP wanted to destroy West Bengal’s culture and heritage and divide it. “In Assam, they are doing the same thing; in Tamil Nadu, they are trying to do the same thing with their alliance partner AIADMK,” he said. Mr. Gandhi also targeted Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and accused her of allowing corruption in the State. Criticising the “cut money” culture in West Bengal, Mr. Gandhi said, “Lakhs of people from the State have to venture out in search of jobs, neither Modi is giving jobs nor Mamata ji . This is the only State where you have to pay cut money in advance to get jobs.” Mr. Gandhi also came down heavily on the Trinamool’s poll slogan “Khela Hobe” (game will be played), and said the party should address infrastructure gaps in the State instead of raising such slogans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-wants-to-ruin-bengals-culture-rahul/article34321720.ece
15 April 2021||Chennai,||Nearly 2 lakh new cases, 990 deaths reported||India registered 1,78,084 new COVID-19 cases as of 9.15 p.m. on Wednesday. As many as 820 deaths were also recorded on the day. The figures do not include cases and deaths from A&N Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Ladakh, Punjab and Sikkim. The data is sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. Over 14.11 lakh tests were conducted on Tuesday. This is the third time the number of daily tests is crossing the 14-lakh mark in India. The country has so far reported a total of 1,40,49,598 cases and 1,72,935 deaths. Maharashtra reported 58,952 infections (accounting for nearly 33% of the new cases) on Wednesday, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 20,439 new infections and Delhi with 17,282 new cases. Maharashtra also recorded the highest number of casualties (278) on Wednesday. Delhi followed with 104 new deaths, while Gujarat registered 73 new casualties. Only 26.46 lakh doses were administered between 7 a.m. on Tuesday and 7 a.m. on Wednesday. Which is about 13 lakh doses lower than what was recorded in the previous 24-hours. This is also the lowest single-day doses administered in April. The previous low was the 20.63 lakh doses administered as of 7 a.m. on March 31. Hospitals full In Bihar, there were reports of hospitals being forced to turn away patients due to the surge in cases. There were long queues of patients outside hospitals in Patna. Three big government hospitals in Patna — Patna Medical College and Hospitals (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospitals (NMCH) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) — are reportedly filled to capacity. AIIMS, Patna, is arranging for additional beds, said Sanjiv Kumar, nodal officer for COVID-19 at the hospital. At least 70 ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients had to return from the hospital on Tuesday due to non-availability of beds, he said.  (With inputs from Amarnath Tewary in Patna)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/178-lakh-fresh-cases-820-deaths-reported/article34321735.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rate of vaccination inadequate||The current levels of vaccination are far from helping States see any respite from the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, shows an analysis of vaccination data from States. As of Wednesday, India had administered 111 million doses of vaccine and covered about 7% of the population with one dose. There is not a single State in India where COVID-19 cases are not increasing, but some States show a slight slackening in the pace of increase. As of April 12, 12 States and Union Territories had vaccinated over 10% of their population. Ladakh, with a population of 2.96 lakh, led with 22.48% of the population getting one dose. Confirmed daily cases have gone from 30 on April 1 to 102 on April 12. Among States with a population of over 1 crore, Chhattisgarh has vaccinated about 14% of its population, but confirmed daily cases have nearly quadrupled to about 12,200 since April 1. Kerala, with a population of 3.5 crore, has vaccinated 13% of the population but has seen cases go from around 2,100 per day to 5,600. Maharashtra, which accounts for nearly half of the new confirmed cases every day in India, has seen active cases drop from 22,112 on April 8 to about 17,250 on April 13. So far, 7.8% of the State’s population has been vaccinated among its population of 12.2 crore. Bihar, which roughly has the same population of about 12 crore, has vaccinated only 3.6%. Confirmed daily cases there have risen exponentially, from about 200 per day on April 1 to about 2,800 every day now. Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous State, has also vaccinated about 3.6% of its population, like Bihar, and saw daily cases jump from about 1,000 on April 1 to nearly 18,000 as of Wednesday. No threshold number There is not yet a number to indicate a threshold at which vaccinations could contribute to a decreasing caseload. This is complicated by the fact that so far, vaccines have been shown to be far more effective at preventing critical illness and mortality rather than preventing infection. In the United States, the infection rates have generally flattened or declined in seven States where vaccinations have covered at least 35% of the population, according to the Bloomberg vaccine tracker. Seychelles, the United Arab Emirates, Israel and the Maldives are four places which have covered over 40% of their population with one dose and where cases have declined or flattened, according to the same tracker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rate-of-vaccination-inadequate/article34321730.ece
15 April 2021||FURFURA SHARIF,||‘I am addressing not only Muslim concerns but of all the poor and dispossessed’||Tucked away in a narrow lane is the large compound associated with the Furfura Sharif, a mazaar to remember Peer Saheb, a medieval mystic whose descendant Peerzada Abbasuddin Siddique is seeking to make an impact in the West Bengal Assembly election. Mr. Siddique, in his early 30s, referred to as bhaijaan by his followers, burst into the scene when he floated a political outfit, the Indian Secular Front (ISF), and clinched a seat-sharing agreement with the Congress and the Left Front and got 30 seats as his share of the 294-seat pie. His emergence, needless to say, has sparked not just speculation on how his support base will affect any consolidation of minority votes behind the Trinamool Congress, led by Mamata Banerjee, but also what it means as an option in terms of future political formations addressing the Muslim community. “I am not addressing only the concerns of the Muslims but of all the poor and the dispossessed who are being cheated by current political formations,” he tells The Hindu . “I was open to an alliance with whoever wanted to address the same issues and give me the seats I wanted. The Trinamool didn’t want to ally. The Congress-Left Front did and agreed to my terms.” His support base extends to at least five districts, North and South Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and part of East Midnapore, making up a sizeable chunk of seats. A forceful speaker, he vehemently denies that he would be making it easy for the BJP to enter Nabanna , or the State Secretariat, as he may break minority consolidation, in one of the most polarised elections West Bengal has ever seen. “Whoever says this is Jaahil [uncivilised]. In 2019, when the BJP won 18 seats in the Lok Sabha, where was I in the scene,” he asks. His biggest peeve with Ms. Banerjee is what he says were her actions in ending bhaichara (brotherhood). “The administration stalled Durga Visarjan because of Muharram. Who demanded this? It was said imams would get Rs. 2,500 but it wasn’t revealed that it came from Waqf property. When the ground shifted you [Trinamool] said you would give money to temple priests too. We only wanted what was ours by right and guaranteed by the Constitution. The biggest loss because of all this kind of politics has been that the brotherhood and amity between communities has got affected,” he said. “Mamata Banerjee herself has ushered in the BJP in the State. She was Railway Minister in the Vajpayee government and the BJP only got strengthened during her term as Chief Minister.” He exudes confidence about his party’s prospects, though the jury is still out on whether his support base will be enough to carry him to some political relevance. As of now, with most of the areas where his candidates are in the fray done with, Mr. Siddique is concentrating on areas where the Congress-Left Front-ISF alliance candidates are in the fray, with Furfura Sharif at the centre of the buzz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-am-addressing-not-only-muslim-concerns-but-of-all-the-poor-and-dispossessed/article34321718.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Ban Modi and Shah from campaigning in Bengal’||A delegation of Trinamool Congress leaders met the Election Commission in Delhi on Wednesday and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah be banned from campaigning for the remaining phases of the Assembly election in West Bengal since their “communal” speeches have violated the model code of conduct and the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The party also registered a strong protest over the Election Commission’s decision to ban West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her comments about Central forces following the death of four persons in firing by the CISF in Sitalkuchi. “Such an act ismala fide, suffers from non-application of mind and is a violation of her fundamental rights,” the party said in a memorandum submitted to the poll body in Delhi. ‘Partisan behaviour’ “ECI was formed under the Constitution of India to be an independent body that would monitor and conduct general elections in India. Neutrality is sine qua non in discharge of its functions but during this Assembly election, it is apparent that the ECI is acting in a partisan manner, absolutely in favour of the BJP and/or on its instructions, that is pre-announced by the BJP,” the memorandum said. The memorandum also highlighted instances where, according to the Trinamool, Mr. Shah and Mr. Modi violated the model code and the Representation of People Act. The Trinamool said at a rally on April 12 in Kalyani, Prime Minister Narendra Modi singled out the “Matua” and the “Namasudra” communities. The party also accused Mr. Shah of invoking false narratives of caste discrimination when he accused the Trinamool of not “shedding tears” for the death of a youth from the Rajbongshi community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-modi-and-shah-from-campaigning-in-bengal/article34321721.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Tika Utsav’ draws moderate response; 11.4 mn doses given||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s exhortation to Indians to commemorate ‘Tika Utsav’ by encouraging COVID-19 vaccination has elicited a middling response with only 11.4 million vaccines administered from April 11 to 14, data from the CoWin website show. Concurrent with a slew of festivals that mark these days, the drive aimed to accelerate vaccinations. When compared over previous blocks of four days all through this month, there were three blocks when inoculations crossed 13 million. The lowest was from March 18-21 that saw 9.5 million vaccinations. The CoWin website indicates daily vaccination number for the previous 30 days. Beyond that the numbers are available only on a weekly basis. There are dips in vaccinations, especially during the weekend, and previous months show that vaccinations tend to pick up during the middle of the week. April 1 was an important landmark in India’s vaccination programme with anyone over 45 eligible to get the dose. According to Census 2001, there are about 14 crore Indians between 45 and 64 years. While on April 5, India posted a record — 4.5 million inoculations — the daily numbers have since recorded a decline with vaccinations hovering around 3-3.5 million every day. However, several States since then have complained of a shortage of vaccines even as the number of coronavirus cases rose to a record high, spiking demand for the vaccine. The Centre has consistently denied a shortage, underscoring that while the supplies “were limited,” stocks of States were being replenished every four days. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the States needed to plan better. There were 1.67 crore vaccines with States on April 13 and nearly 2 crore vaccines were in supply until April end. On Tuesday, the Centre accorded emergency approval to the Sputnik V vaccine though there is nothing known about how much it will cost, or if it will be procured by the government and sold at subsidised rates and by what date are they expected to be available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tika-utsav-draws-moderate-response-114-mn-doses-given/article34321728.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM calls off meeting with French FM||As COVID-19 cases continued to surge, French Foreign Minister Jean Yves Le Drian’s scheduled meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to be cancelled as part of an effort to deal with the crisis, which could cast a cloud on other incoming and outgoing visits planned. The new protocol could mean a general scaling back of the PM’s meetings with visiting dignitaries, including Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid who arrived on a two-day visit on Wednesday and the upcoming visit of U.K. Prime Minister on April 26, and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga, who is due shortly after that. Officials said U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has now shortened his visit and limited his travels to Delhi. Mr. Johnson had cancelled his plans to visit India in January due to the pandemic surge in the U.K. at the time. “We’ve been in close contact with the Indian government about the PM’s upcoming visit in the light of the COVID situation in India. As a result of these discussions, the Prime Minister has made the decision to reduce the length of the visit,” Mr. Johnson’s spokesperson told reporters in London, adding that the British PM’s programme would be focused on government meetings and interaction with Indian business leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also due to travel to Portugal for the E.U.-India summit on May 8, and visit France on the same trip, which was one of the reasons Mr. Drian’s call on the PM had been considered important. On Monday, a press release issued by the French Embassy had said Mr. Drian would meet Mr. Modi after his bilateral consultations with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Tuesday. However, the meeting did not materialise on Tuesday or Wednesday, after which Mr. Drian was due to leave for meetings in Bengaluru. An official aware of the PM’s schedule told The Hindu that all such meetings over the next few days have been called off as Mr. Modi has to “focus on COVID-related meetings”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-off-meeting-with-french-fm/article34321708.ece
15 April 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal CEO calls meeting over COVID-19||Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal, Aariz Aftab, on Wednesday wrote to all recognised national political parties to participate in a meeting on April 16 on matters related to election campaigning during the COVID-19 outbreak. The State, which is in the middle of election frenzy, has witnessed an alarming spike in the number of infections and deaths. In the past 24 hours, the State witnessed 5,892 new cases and 24 deaths. Despite the alarming rise in cases, political rallies by senior leaders of the BJP and the Trinamool Congress are being held every day, where crowds are seen violating all safety protocols. Plea in HC In the letter sent to party representatives, the CEO also referred to a writ petition filed before the Calcutta High Court on the same issue. Hearing the petition, the High Court on Tuesday directed the CEO and District Magistrates to ensure strict implementation of COVID-19 protocol. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee had asked the administration to take action against persons violating COVID-19 protocols, whether involved in elections or not. The CPI(M) has announced on social media that the party has decided to refrain from organising big gatherings during the remaining phases of the Assembly election. “Instead, emphasis will be laid on door-to-door campaign and on social media-based propaganda,” the party said. Meanwhile, the campaign for the fifth phase of the Assembly election ended on Wednesday, 72 hours before 45 seats will go to polls on April 17. Sixteen Assembly seats in North 24 Parganas, eight each in Purba Bardhaman and Nadia, seven in Jalpaiguri, five in Darjeeling and one in Kalimpong district will go to polls in the fifth phase. On the last day of campaigning, BJP and Trinamool supporters exchanged blows at the Baranagar constituency in the northern fringes of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-ceo-calls-meeting-over-covid-19/article34321723.ece
15 April 2021||Pune,||Raj: Allow independent purchase of vaccines||Amid Maharashtra’s steadily deteriorating pandemic situation, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has demanded that the Centre permit the State to purchase vaccines independently. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing grave concern over surging cases and fatalities, Mr. Thackeray urged the Centre to allow private agencies to purchase vaccines and permit the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) to sell vaccines freely in Maharashtra but with due regulation. “Allow other institutions like the Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation and Hindustan Antibiotics to manufacture the vaccine to ensure sufficient doses required in the State,” said the MNS president, detailing a list of five demands in his letter. Saying further lockdowns were neither a viable option nor sustainable, he said if vaccines continued to be in short supply, the State would be left with no alternative but to impose one. “Therefore, 100% vaccination is an important strategy in the fight.” He said the State needed to achieve 100% coverage at the earliest, with inoculation of all age groups. He said the pandemic had manifested itself in a different manner in each State and hence, it was essential to have a customised policy to deal with the situation. The MNS chief said the State had the highest number of active cases and fatalities in the country and that it had been hit hardest during the second wave as well. Mr. Thackeray’s appeal to the Prime Minister comes a day after his cousin, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who heads the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government, imposed lockdown-like restrictions till May 1. The State has been reporting average daily case spikes of over 55,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raj-allow-independent-purchase-of-vaccines/article34322375.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Remdesivir makers ramp up production||A surge in demand, amid a steep increase in COVID-19 positive cases, as well as reports of the drug being in short supply is making pharma companies ramp up production of anti-viral Remdesivir drug. “We are ramping up production and are also bringing to market a liquid product that is faster to make and supply,” said Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, one of the few companies in Hyderabad making Remdesivir. The Hetero group is one of the largest producers of Remdesivir in the country and according to sources, it has also ramped up production. Mylan is another company that makes the drug, while there are a few other firms in Hyderabad that produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient (APIs) of the drug. Sources said the increase in COVID-19 cases in the country has again turned spotlight on Remdesivir, whose demand had started slowing down about three months ago. But with the second wave of COVID-19, it changed fast giving little time for the company to ramp up production. The Centre also recently banned export of Remdesivir as well as its APIs in the face of the rising domestic demand as also reports of a shortage leading to unscrupulous elements selling the vials at prices many times over the prescribed rates. According to sources, the situation with regard to Remdesivir was pretty much so long as it was being supplied directly to the hospitals, but with easing of the norms and the rise in the number of people testing positive, things began to deteriorate. In response to the export ban, Hetero said, as one of the largest manufacturers of Remdesivir in the country, “our primary focus has always been to fulfil our country’s requirements. As per the current government’s directive on export restrictions, Hetero has minimum impact. We are working to enhance deliveries”. Dr. Reddy’s, which markets Remdesivir under the Redyx brand, has also announced a reduction in the MRP by 50% “so that price is not a barrier to access and a much larger number of patients can access it”. The company said it has a dedicated website (https://www.readytofightcovid.in/) updated in real-time with city-wise availability of Redyx at stockists and hospitals. It has also up a dedicated patient helpline, 1800-266-7080. “We expect the market situation to ease in the next few weeks,” the drugmaker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remdesivir-makers-ramp-up-production/article34322312.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI questions Anil Deshmukh for 7 hours||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday recorded the statement of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with the preliminary inquiry into the corruption allegations against him. “The statement of Mr. Deshmukh was recorded for about seven hours. The probe team may contact him again if necessary,” an official said. On Sunday, the CBI had examined two personal assistants of Mr. Deshmukh, as their names had come up during the ongoing probe. The agency has also recorded the statements of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil, suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze and a Deputy Commissioner of Police. The preliminary inquiry is being carried out on the Bombay High Court’s directive. The statement of Jayshree Patil, a complainant in the matter, has also been taken on record. It was alleged that some police officers had been told to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-questions-anil-deshmukh-for-7-hours/article34321700.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Quad navies enjoy high degree of interoperability’||The Quad navies of India, the U.S., Japan and Australia “already” enjoy a “high degree of interoperability” and have the capability and capacity to come together in an “almost plug and play mechanism” if the opportunity arises, Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Wednesday. He stated that it would not be surprising to see a Chinese naval expansion in the Indian Ocean region. “We have seen regular Chinese naval presence in the Indian Ocean region for over a decade now. If the Chinese look west from where they are, their energy, markets and resources are located to their west. So, it won’t be surprising that soon they would be coming into the Indian Ocean, as there is a saying that the flag follows the trade,” Adm. Singh said at the ongoing Raisina Dialogue, to a question on the rapid expansion of the Chinese Navy. The Chinese Navy has seen massive expansion in recent years, with rapid addition of frontline warships. It has two aircraft carriers and a more capable one is under construction. In 2017, China opened its first overseas base at Djibouti in the Horn of Africa. Talking of the Quad and possible military cooperation, Adm. Singh said the Quad was “evolving organically”, referring to the vaccine cooperation announced recently, among others. “As far as the military part is concerned, navies of Australia, Japan, U.S. and India already enjoy a high degree of interoperability. If an opportunity arises, we have the capability and capacity to come together in an almost plug and play mechanism,” he said. Stating that as India emerges a more confident nation on the global stage, the Indian Navy was ready to do its bit to contribute to the Indo-Pacific’s security and stability, Adm. Singh stressed the idea of “collective maritime competence” where each nation brings something to the table and can learn from each other and harness individual capabilities. As for the wider Indian Ocean region, Adm. Singh said the Navy’s aim was to be the “preferred security partner”, be credible and forward-leaning in engagements and first responder in the region.  ‘Powerful signal’ Speaking on the churn in the Indo-Pacific, Commander of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Admiral Phil Davidson said the Quad had gained momentum and called it the “diamond of democracies in the region”. He said one should think about the Quad in the broadest possible terms and realise its potential to create global economic opportunities, including diversification of supply chains, and address common interests such as cybersecurity concerns and space cooperation and other advanced technologies in future. “This coming together in this multilateral form sends a very powerful signal in support of the rules-based order, reflects our common values and mutual trust,” he said. The alternative, he said, was a stark contrast to a free and open region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-navies-enjoy-high-degree-of-interoperability/article34321702.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||CBSE exams for Class 12 postponed||The Prime Minister’s review meeting came amid rising demands from students, parents and the State governments for the exams to be cancelled or postponed, given that the daily rate of infections is regularly crossing the 1.5-lakh mark. ‘Students top priority’ During the meeting, “the Prime Minister reiterated that the well being of students has to be the top priority for the government. He also said the Centre would keep in mind the best interests of the students and ensure that their health is taken care of while their academic interests are not harmed,” the statement said. Schools have been shut down in 11 States due to the second wave of the pandemic. For many classes, schools have not reopened since the initial shut down in March 2020. At least four State education boards scheduled to hold examinations in April have announced postponement. “Unlike State Boards, the CBSE has an all-India character, and therefore, it is essential to hold exams simultaneously throughout the country,” the Ministry said. However, no guidelines were given for the State board exams across the country, as had been demanded by some States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exams-for-class-12-postponed/article34321711.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||State obliged to facilitate access to education: SC||“This obligation assumes far greater importance for students whose background (by virtue of such characteristics as caste, class, gender, religion, disability and geographical region) imposes formidable obstacles on their path to accessing quality education,” the recent judgment read. “We would like to take this opportunity to underscore the importance of creating an enabling environment to make it possible for students, such as the petitioners, to pursue professional education. While the right to pursue higher (professional) education has not been spelt out as a fundamental right in Part III of the Constitution, it bears emphasis that access to professional education is not a governmental largesse,” Justice Chandrachud wrote in the judgment authored for the Bench. Panel’s vision The court referred to the vision envisaged by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. “As an empowerment right, education is the primary vehicle by which economically and socially marginalised adults and children can lift themselves out of poverty and obtain the means to participate fully in their communities,” the court said, referring to one of the Committee’s clauses. The court ordered that the students be admitted within a week. It was government policy last November to allot one seat each at Lady Hardinge and Maulana Azad medical colleges from the Central pool. The court noted that India was a signatory to the United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. “Pursuant to these obligations, which India has undertaken by being a signatory to the covenant, the Union shall ensure proper coordination so that students allocated colleges under the Central pool seats are not put to hardship in enrolling once they have been duly allocated their seats,” the court noted. “Financial hardship should not prevent the students from getting admission in terms of the allocation which has been made in their favour legitimately under the Central pool seats,” it added. Nodal officer The top court further recommended the appointment of a nodal officer to ensure that students duly nominated under the Central pool seats were admitted in their chosen course of study. “Such an institutional framework will ensure that students are not left in the lurch due to lack of help in securing their legitimate admission to the appropriate course,” the court reasoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-obliged-to-facilitate-access-to-education-sc/article34321712.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal govt. to probe deaths in Sitalkuchi||“I assure you that justice will be delivered. Whoever has done it will not be spared. Election is on, but the State government will conduct all necessary investigation,” she said after meeting the families, adding that the State would extend all help to them. “I cannot say this say now, but after the election I will do whatever required to help the families,” Ms. Banerjee said. Five people were killed in Sitalkuchi on the polling day, including four at booth number 126 at Jor Patki gram panchayat in the Assembly constituency, when Central Industrial Security Force personnel opened fire. The CISF and the district officials said the forces opened fire in self-defence. Ms. Banerjee, who spoke to the families dealing with the loss, said she wanted to visit the area and meet the families at the earliest. “I wanted to come here the very next day , but I was not allowed for 72 hours,” she said. After the incident, the Election Commission of India barred political leaders from visiting Sitalkuchi for 72 hours. On Tuesday, it barred Ms. Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours. Later in the day, while addressing a public meeting at Dabgram-Fulbari in Jalpaiguri district, Ms. Banerjee claimed that the BJP would not get more than 70 seats. “Prime Minister Modi has said that the BJP has already won 100 out of 135 seats where elections have been held. I can say that after the elections are over, BJP will not get even 70 out of the total of 294 seats,” she said. ‘No NRC in State’ Ms. Banerjee accused the BJP of making contradictory statements on several issues, including the National Register of Citizens. She said Union Home Minister Amit Shah had claimed while campaigning in Darjeeling that there would be no NRC, whereas they had struck off names of 14 lakh people in Assam. “As I have said earlier, there will be no NRC in Bengal. Our government will never allow NRC,” Ms. Banerjee said. The Chief Minister also slammed the Union government for the spike in COVID-19 infections across the State. “They had one year, both Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, but they did not do anything,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said she wrote to the Centre twice on distributing vaccines to all in the State, but the Centre did not agree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-govt-to-probe-deaths-in-sitalkuchi/article34321713.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Imported Sputnik V to be available this quarter||A day after India accorded emergency use authorisation to Sputnik V, the marketing partner for the Russian COVID-19 vaccine, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, said the imported product will be available in the country by this quarter. It will start this quarter, via the import route, and the availability will be ramped up next quarter once the ‘Made in India’ Sputnik V comes on stream. Discussions with the government and other stakeholders on pricing are under way, the Hyderabad-based pharma major’s senior leadership said on Wednesday. The contract with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which has partnered with Dr. Reddy’s for clinical trials and distribution, is 250 million vaccine units (125 million people doses). This number is expandable, CEO of API and Services Business Deepak Sapra said. Separately, the RDIF has entered into production pacts with six vaccine makers in the country, he said. About 60%-70% of the global volumes of Sputnik V will be made in India. Most of it will be used in the country, he said, adding that Sputnik is being made in Russia and a few other countries. In a presentation during the interaction, in which chairman Satish Reddy and co-chairman and managing director G.V. Prasad participated, Mr. Sapra said the vaccine had storage requirement of minus 18-22 degrees Celsius and a shelf life of six months. Dr. Reddy’s has lined up the cold chain and made logistics arrangements to ensure delivery up to the last mile throughout the country. It will be collaborating with the government and leverage some of the infrastructure of the immunisation programmes. The vaccine will be imported in a frozen form. Additional stability data is also being generated on the 2-8 degrees Celsius temperature range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/imported-sputnik-v-to-be-available-this-quarter/article34322230.ece
15 April 2021||Pune,||Several samples show mutation, says Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said mutations of the novel coronavirus had been found in a number of samples and the administration was working on a war footing to make oxygen available at medical facilities across the State. “Several samples have revealed mutations of the virus. The rate of infection is much higher than it was last year, with many among the younger generation now getting infected. Reining in the contagion will be even more challenging this year and all restrictions announced by the government must be strictly enforced as a result,” said the Chief Minister, following a video conference with all Divisional Commissioners, Collectors and Municipal and Police Commissioners. Oxygen use He urged all doctors at the district level to adhere to the norms laid out by the State task force on the changed treatment modalities in tackling the fresh surge, especially the rational use of oxygen. Health Minister Rajesh Tope earlier said Maharashtra had approached neighbouring States for medical oxygen supply but they had expressed their inability due to high domestic demand. “We have approached all neighbouring states like Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to supply medical oxygen, for medical purpose, but owing to their own rising demand, they have expressed their inability to supply oxygen. Hence, Maharashtra needs to reduce wastage and work on fixing its leakages,” Mr. Tope said. Doctors in the State task force had expressed concern over the availability and usage of oxygen at the meeting with the Chief Minister on April 12. They have laid down a set of rules for rational usage which include stopping of high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) machines until further notice as the HFNO machines consumed a very large quantity of oxygen, sometimes up to 80 litres per minute. The task force recommended that those patients who may need HFNO should be managed on non-invasive ventilation (NIV).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-samples-show-mutation-says-uddhav/article34321731.ece
15 April 2021||KURNOOL,||Jewellery worth Rs. 1.04 cr. seized in Kurnool||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel on Wednesday confiscated gold and diamond jewellery valued at Rs. 1.04 crore from two persons travelling from Hyderabad to Madurai by a private bus at the Panchalingala check-post near the inter-State border. SEB Additional SP Gauthami Sali said the accused were carrying the ornaments without any documents pertaining to the source of money, place of purchase, or waybill for the destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jewellery-worth-rs-104-cr-seized-in-kurnool/article34322377.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Siva the Supreme Lord||Saivism holds that Siva is the Supreme Lord spoken of as Brahman in the Upanishads and one who confers liberation on those desirous of it. A jivatma struggling in samsara is sure to experience great joy when he understands the value of Siva Upasana and its untold benefits, even as a poor man’s heart is gladdened when he stumbles upon a treasure, pointed out Srimati R. Mathangi in a discourse. The concept of Pasu, Pati and Pasa is central to Saivism. Pati refers to Siva the Paramatma. Pasu is the soul in the embodied jiva who is thus a blend of the gross, comprising the body-mind complex, and the spiritual, the chaitanya roopa of the atma which is the indwelling self. Pasa is the rope or fetters and refers to the three taints known as malams which adhere to the soul. The three malams are known as anava, karma, and maya. The jiva cannot escape from the bond of anava malam, primordial ignorance. Nor is it possible to evade facing the effect of one’s actions good and bad. The third malam is known as the Maya malam. This is the impurity arising from attachment to the world and is caused by birth. Being thus bound, the soul is unable to enjoy the bliss of Siva Ananda. In samsara, the awareness of atma is restricted; but it attains fullness in the mukti state. Ignorance is caused by the sorrow of birth and jnana can remove this. This is gained by Vedanta knowledge that points out Siva as the goal to be attained. He is the creator of the entire prapancham including the Trimurtis. The prapancham is His sarira. He controls the jivas who are the Pasu and He is not affected by Pasa or Pasu. The sadana advised is worship and meditation on Siva who alone can cut the bonds attached to the immortal soul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/siva-the-supreme-lord/article34321724.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former CEC Krishnamurty passes away||Former Chief Election Commissioner G.V.G. Krishnamurty passed away on Wednesday due to age-related ailments, the Election Commission of India said in a statement. He was 86. The former CEC is survived by his wife, son and daughter. His last rites were performed at the Lodhi Road crematorium here, the Commission said. ‘Strengthening laws’ Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra mourned the loss of “an illustrious former member of the ECI family” and recalled the contribution of Mr. Krishnamurty during his tenure from October 1, 1993 to September 30, 1996, the statement said. “His contributions particularly in strengthening laws and procedures of conducting elections will be long remembered by the Commission,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-cec-krishnamurty-passes-away/article34321699.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. must listen to Rahul, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “negligent, callous and indifferent” about handling the COVID-19 pandemic at a time when the country is fighting the second wave. The party also urged the government to drop an “adversarial” stance and listen to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who had been warning the government to take corrective measures even before the pandemic hit India. Mr. Gandhi wrote to the Prime Minister last week calling for an “immediate moratorium on vaccine export and fast track approval of other vaccines”. The government, on Tuesday, agreed to fast track the approval of vaccines developed outside India. Reacting to the news, Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter, “First they ignore you then they laugh at you then they fight you, then you win.” Congress general secretary, Communications, Randeep Surjewala said when Mr. Gandhi first wrote the letter, instead of replying, the BJP “unleashed” Cabinet Ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Smriti Irani to hurl baseless allegations at Mr. Gandhi. “The same government, then, within 48 hours, accepts the suggestions made by Congress President Rahul Gandhi,” Mr. Surjewala said. The party urged the government to drop their adversarial stance. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is negligent, callous and indifferent when it comes to handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. He has left the people to fend for themselves. Even in his own parliamentary constituency, the vaccine centre has been locked out because of shortage of shots,” Mr. Surjewala added. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on Sunday written to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal urging him to postpone the CBSE exams for Classes 10 and 12. The government announced on Wednesday that Class 10 exams had been deferred. In response, Ms. Vadra said on Twitter, “Glad the government has finally cancelled the 10th standard exams. However, a final decision MUST be taken for the 12th grade too. Keeping students under undue pressure until June makes no sense. It’s unfair. I urge the government to decide now.” U.P. situation Meanwhile, amid the rapidly deteriorating situation in Uttar Pradesh, where reports of bodies piling up at crematoriums and sharp shortage of beds in hospitals have emerged, Ms. Vadra held an emergency meeting with the party’s State unit. She told party leaders at the meeting that the situation in the State was scary and the government’s negligence shocking. Private laboratories are not allowed to conduct COVID-19 tests, while government laboratories are taking up to seven days to provide the results. To get admitted to hospitals, one needs approval from the Chief Medical Officer, which is not easy to come by. “This is a double whammy for people, who have to fight both COVID-19 and the misadministration of the government”, she said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drop-adversarial-stance-on-pandemic-cong-tells-centre/article34321704.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCSC starts online portal for complaints||Complaints of atrocities against Scheduled Castes can now be registered with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) through its online portal launched on Wednesday, said NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla. The portal,ncsc.negd.in, will allow users to track the progress of their complaints, which had been a problem for complainants who submitted their grievances by post or by hand, Mr. Sampla added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncsc-starts-online-portal-for-complaints/article34321716.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. launches digital media platform||The Congress on Wednesday launched its digital media platform ‘INC TV’ on You Tube on the birth anniversary of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar. The channel will begin airing on April 24 to coincide with Panchayati Raj Day, an initiative of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The channel, currently, will be aired only in Hindi and English and will broadcast for eight hours. The party already has a YouTube channel where it broadcasts its press conferences and videos of public meetings addressed by its leaders. The new digital platform will put out content which, the party feels, mainstream television channels ignore. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders have repeatedly attacked the media for being pliant and biased in favour of the BJP government.  Addressing a press conference on the occasion of the launch, party general secretary Randeep Surjewala said INC TV would be expanded gradually. “Today, subjugation and suppression of dissent and opinion is near total in this country. The INC TV digital platform is for dissemenation of views and opinion which may be acceptable to us and some which may not be. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is of the opinion that various shades of opinion must be placed on the table to deliberate upon,” he said.  Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and All India Congress Committee general secretary Mallikarjun Kharge was present at the launch. He said even Ambedkar believed that journalism had become a trade in India and it was the BJP that was proving him right today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-launches-digital-media-platform/article34321722.ece
15 April 2021||Mumbai,||HC denies nod for prayers at Juma Masjid||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday refused to grant permission to the Juma Masjid of Bombay Trust to hold namaz five times a day during Ramzan at its mosque. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht was hearing a petition filed by the trust, registered under the Bombay Public Trust and Wakf Act. The plea sought a direction to allow Muslims to offer prayers five times a day at the mosque from April 14 till the end of Ramzan, adhering to social distancing and standard operating procedures in force. Advocate Mohiuddin Vaid, appearing for the trust, said the mosque was spread over one acre and at a time, 7,000 people could offer namaz, which showed that it was quite spacious, and all the standard operating procedures meant to break the chain of COVID-19 could be easily followed and adhered to under the supervision of the police as might be required. The court said, “In our view, the restrictions imposed by the State government are due to the COVID-19 circumstances. Considering the prevailing situation and ground reality in Maharashtra, we cannot permit the petitioner to perform prayers at the mosque.” The court also said the situation was very serious and the safety of citizens was more important. The Bench noted, “The right to celebrate or follow a religious practice is important, but what is more paramount is public order and the safety of citizens.” The court added that the government’s order of restrictions was in public interest and for the safety of all residents of Maharashtra. In the past, several courts across the country had refused permission to many religious congregations due to the pandemic. State counsel Jyoti Chavan opposed the plea and said, “We cannot make an exception to any religion, especially in this 15-day period. We cannot take a risk at this stage and all citizens should cooperate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-denies-nod-for-prayers-at-juma-masjid/article34321733.ece
15 April 2021||Lucknow,||Yogi, Akhilesh test positive for COVID-19||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said they had tested positive for COVID-19. “I am under self-isolation and following the advice of doctors. [I am] carrying out all work virtually,” Mr. Adityanath said on Twitter. Mr. Adityanath recently campaigned in the West Bengal elections. Several officials in his team had tested positive on Tuesday. Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav also took to the social media site to announce that he had tested positive. He said he had self-isolated and was receiving treatment at home. He requested those who came in contact with him to get tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yogi-akhilesh-test-positive-for-covid-19/article34321737.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Statements on Centre open for dialogue is nothing but empty promises: farmers||Protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Wednesday said that the Centre’s comments on resuming talks were “false promises” and despite assurances, the government had not invited the unions for dialogue. Several farmers, who have been at the border for nearly five months now, said despite 11 meetings with Union Ministers, they had failed to convince farmers on why the three laws were beneficial to them. Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Moga, said, “We had a very clear proposal that all the three laws need to be repealed completely. The government conducted 11 meetings, yet they could not explain or impress upon us as to why the laws will be beneficial to us and why we should accept the laws. Statements that they are open for a dialogue is nothing but empty promises.” “Ministers also keep mentioning about the pandemic. But on the other hand, they are allowing the Kumbh Mela to take place. Is this not double standards? Will the virus come to only Delhi and affect the farmers?” Mr. Singh asked. Stating that the government had to make the first move and invite the unions for a dialogue, the farmers reiterated their stand that they would not vacate the protest sites till the laws were repealed. Amardeep Singh, a farmer from Patiala district, said, “Sitting over here in this heat is not easy for us. We are facing difficulties as well but that does not mean that we will abandon the protest. The government needs to approach us for the next round of talks.” Maninder Singh, another farmer from Patiala, said: “When the union leaders went for a discussion, our stand was clear and we wanted a complete repeal of the laws. Our demands have not changed over the past few months ... By talking of a discussion but not really inviting the leaders for talks, they are only giving false assurances.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/statements-on-centre-open-for-dialogue-is-nothing-but-empty-promises-farmers/article34321715.ece
15 April 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Lightning kills man, son||P. Senthurpandi (58) and his son, Rajesh (27), were electrocuted at Sukkalanathapuram under Pandalgudi police station limits near here on Wednesday. The police said they had gone for grazing goats at Arunachalapuram when it started raining. The victims took refuge under a tree. Even as they were having lunch under a tree, lightning struck and both of them were electrocuted. Their bodies have been brought to the Government Hospital here. Pandalgudi police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lightning-kills-man-son/article34321886.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State equipped to meet rising oxygen demands, say officials||The number of patients requiring oxygen has increased with a rapid surge in COVID-19 cases. With government hospitals facing a rise in day-to-day oxygen consumption, the State, after ramping up its oxygen capacity over the last year, is all set to meet the growing demand, say officials. Tamil Nadu has ramped up the oxygen capacity in government hospitals under the Directorate of Medical Education and the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services over the last year. From 352 KL at the beginning of the pandemic, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has augmented oxygen capacity to 716.57 KL presently, with the addition of another 63 KL in progress, according to official data. According to officials in the Health Department, presently, one-third of the patients admitted to government medical college hospitals require oxygen at any given point in time. In line with this, the State’s per day oxygen requirement has now increased. “It is around 170-180 KL now, as compared to the normal use of 40 KL. At the peak of the first surge, we were using 240 KL-250 KL,” an official said. Continuous prep Since last year, the TNMSC has been continuously augmenting the State’s oxygen capacity by installing liquid oxygen tanks in government institutions. So far, it has spent around Rs. 30 crore for the same. “The total capacity has been ramped up to 1,167 KL — the second highest in the country. So, even if consumption goes higher than the first surge, we are confident of meeting it,” he said. The frequency of supply for tanks varied, he said, adding, “On average, the supply is once in three days since capacities have been expanded.” R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said the State, presently, had surplus oxygen. “We are planning ahead based on projections. We have liquid oxygen tanks, oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrator equipment in all government medical institutions,” he said. In addition to over 700 KL in liquid oxygen tanks in government medical college hospitals, there are nearly 14,000 oxygen cylinders, he added. “The supply is adequate as of now. However, we come up with projections at the start of every month as a preparedness measure. Right now, we have 1,162 metric tonnes of oxygen, while the projected need for the end of the month is 859 metric tonnes. The projection takes into account a number of factors that includes rise in cases at the same rate, doubling factor and increase in bed occupancy,” Mr. Babu added.  The State’s per day oxygen requirement is around 170-180 KL now, as compared to the normal use of 40 KL. At the peak of the first surge, we were using 240-250 KL Official Health Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-equipped-to-meet-rising-oxygen-demands-say-officials/article34321867.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two systems trigger rain in some districts||Two fresh weather systems will trigger thunderstorms with moderate rainfall in interior and coastal districts of the State and Puducherry on Thursday. Wet weather is expected to continue over the State till April 18. Many places in and around Chennai got relief from sultry weather on Wednesday as sudden showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, lashed parts of the city, including Ambattur, Kolathur, Anna Nagar and Perungalathur. Some areas were waterlogged for sometime. The weather stations did not record much rainfall during the day. Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the same weather trend may continue over Chennai till Friday as light to moderate rain is expected in the city and its neighbourhood. Days may be relatively cooler as maximum temperature is predicted to be around 33 degrees Celsius for two days. On Thursday, thunderstorms and rain will hit many places in interior and coastal districts and Puducherry with gusty winds blowing at speeds of 30 to 40 kmph. Rainfall would cover fewer areas from Friday and shift to the Western Ghats districts and south and interior Tamil Nadu. The Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Krishnagiri and Tirupattur districts have chances of heavy rain on Thursday, and spells of isolated heavy rain would continue till April 17. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, said the trough that was moving towards the Arabian Sea had become less marked. A cyclonic circulation over the Comorin area and its neighbourhood and another system over north interior Karnataka with its trough line extending till north Tamil Nadu triggered thunderstorms over the State. In the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday, several interior places and Western Ghats districts received moderate to heavy rain. Kothagiri in the Nilgiris district received the highest amount of 11 cm rainfall followed by 8 cm in Edappadi in Salem district. “Rainfall will gradually decrease after April 16. Unlike monsoon rain, thunderstorms may not bring uniform rainfall covering most places. In Chennai, some areas received a sharp spell of rain while others did not record much rain,” he said. As northwesterly winds are expected to set in around April 19 or 20, the IMD forecasts a slight increase in temperature level, particularly in north Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-systems-trigger-rain-in-some-districts/article34321905.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corpn. to step up vaccination drive in a big way||Only 9 lakh of the 22 lakh residents aged over 45 have received the COVID-19 vaccination, said Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Wednesday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said residents over 45 years should come forward to get vaccinated to create a firewall of protection against COVID-19. “If residents come forward to get vaccinated, we will be able to administer the vaccines to more than 10 lakh people aged over 45 years in 15 to 20 days. This will reduce the number of cases,” Mr. Prakash said. Pointing to the number of COVID-19 vaccinations crossing the the 10-lakh mark in the city on Tuesday, he said over 1.5 lakh residents had already received the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. “The number of persons vaccinated in the city is more than the population of cities such as Tiruchi. This is a milestone in the fight against COVID-19. We have adequate stock for 15 days. Over 450 centres have been set up to administer the vaccines in Chennai,” Mr. Prakash said. While the Corporation Community Health Centres have been administering Covaxin, the Urban Primary Health Centres have been administering Covishield to prevent confusion in the administration of second doses. The bed capacity in COVID-19 Care Centres is estimated at 12,500, twice the capacity of the peak occupancy of 6,000 last year, the Corporation Commissioner said. Frontline infections As many as 230 out of the 17,000 active cases in the city are frontline workers, he added. The civic body will open COVID-19 testing centres at 12 locations in the city this week. “We will start operations on Friday,” Mr. Prakash said. The centres include the Tiruvottiyur Urban Community Health Centre. This centre will be managed by the Stanley Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-step-up-vaccination-drive-in-a-big-way/article34322257.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demand for gold goes up marginally in Chennai||The wedding season and fluctuations in gold price seem to have increased the demand for gold marginally in the city, post the Assembly election. In a bid to help consumers and jewellers check the price trends and the current rate of gold, the Jewellers and Diamond Traders’ Association launched a mobile application recently. On Wednesday, one gram of 22 carat gold was sold for Rs. 4,415. Variation in price in the international market was one of the reasons for the volatility. Jewellers noted that the demand had gone up by 10%-20% after the election. However, many were also showcasing additional stock for sales as there was a dip in supply from other places such as Kolkata, Mumbai and Jaipur owing to the pandemic.  Online sales Though online sales had improved slightly, many customers preferred to visit shops for wedding purchases, jewellers added. Jayantilal Challani, president, Jewellers and Diamond Traders’ Association, Madras, said business was better in tier-2 towns when compared to Chennai. Many customers who want to make small investments choose gold now. “Only 50% of the customers are allowed in most shops as part of COVID-19 protocols. Several shops have started engaging staff members for work in batches. Many jewellers are managing with available stock as the situation is yet to stabilise. Supply of handmade jewellery from other places has dropped by about 40%,” he said. Recalling that the gold price had peaked at Rs. 5,380 in August, Mr. Challani said a mobile application called MJDTA, which had several features and information on gold rates and price trends, would help customers and jewellers learn about the fluctuations in price trend and choose the right time to buy ornaments. The association has also put up information for jewellers, including details regarding financial services and guidelines to open jewellery stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-gold-goes-up-marginally-in-city/article34322261.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sets April 25 deadline to vaccinate all aged over 45||The Tamil Nadu government has directed health officials to ensure that all those aged 45 and above get vaccinated against COVID-19 by April 25, as part of the ongoing vaccination festival. In an order sent to the Deputy Directors of Health Services (DDHS) of all districts, the city medical officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation and others, the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, T.S. Selvavinayagam, said a decision was taken to conduct the vaccination festival from April 11 to cover all beneficiaries aged above 45. “All DDHS are hereby instructed to ensure the coverage of beneficiaries aged over 45 in your districts immediately, and complete their vaccination before April 25, while ensuring minimum wastage of vaccines ... Failure to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries in time, particularly when cases are rising again, will attract disciplinary action,” he said.  Pointing out that Tamil Nadu had the poorest performance at 10% vaccination for those aged over 45, he said the list of beneficiaries as per the Population Health Register was being sent to all cities/districts to facilitate the drive. Asking DDHS of all districts to prepare a 14-day action plan to achieve the vaccination target, Dr. Selvavinayagam called for the mapping of beneficiaries aged 45 and above to the nearest vaccination centres after ensuring the availability of doses at all cold chain points. Mr. Selvavinayagam asked health officials to vaccinate all those aged over 45 attending the outpatient units. All vehicles attached to the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) of the National Health Mission should be equipped with sufficient vaccines and manpower, as per the Central government’s guidelines, and linked to the primary health centres in all districts to ensure 100% coverage of beneficiaries, he said. When asked about the progress made on the intensified vaccination drive, Dr. Selvavinayagam told The Hindu that the objective was to persuade the beneficiaries by creating awareness that the vaccine is the only available tool to beat the pandemic. “We can’t force the people to get the shot...we can only request them. Adequate manpower and infrastructure are in place to successfully achieve the target. The supply of vaccines will be ensured and at the same time, effective steps have been taken to make sure that vaccines don’t go waste,” he said. Manpower shortage Meanwhile, sources in government hospitals said there was a shortage of manpower to manage COVID-19 patients, since the sudden onset of the second wave had caught healthcare systems unawares. “Third-year postgraduate students have gone on study leave since their examinations are fast approaching. We are managing with first- and second-year postgraduates. On an average, there are 500 COVID-19 patients in each of the four major government hospitals in Chennai. One batch of doctors/paramedical staff deployed on duty in COVID-19 wards have to be quarantined for at least a week before they are sent to normal wards again... we are finding it difficult to manage with the available manpower since other specialities like operations in emergency, intensive medical care units, surgeries, cardiology, maternity, etc. have to be sustained,” a senior health official said. While technicians and paramedical staff recruited during the first wave have been posted in their native districts, the vacancies created by their transfers have not been filled, a senior doctor, who preferred not to be quoted, said, adding that many doctors had opted out of COVID-19 duties, citing co-morbidities.  On average, there are 500 COVID-19 patients in each of the four major government hospitals in Chennai Senior health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sets-april-25-deadline-to-vaccinate-all-aged-over-45/article34321875.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro trains of Phases I and II will function independently||When the phase II project of the Metro Rail begins operation, trains running on phase I will not run in phase II and vice versa. While the phase I project is fully operational, covering 45 km, the phase II project, whose construction will start this year, will cover most of the areas in the city, totalling up to a distance of 118.9 km. According to the officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), both the phase I and phase II projects will function independently and trains running in one phase cannot be run on the other. While phase I has four-coach trains, phase II will have three- and six-coach trains. “Because the projects have different signalling systems, the trains operating in phase I cannot work in phase II. It will have no impact on the passengers. Some stations like Alandur, St. Thomas Mount, Vadapalani, Thousand Lights and CMBT, which will be present in both projects, will not be in the same building and will be located very close to each other. So, if a commuter wants to switch between phase I and phase II, they have switch stations. We will make sure the switching is seamless,” an official said. In the phase I project, distance-to-go signalling system was used whereas in phase II, the communications-based train control signalling system would be used, officials said. The latter is considered to be more precise and Metros in Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai were now opting to deploy the system, they added. The phase II project is likely to start in another few months, and the first stretch will be operational in another five years, if the deadlines are met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-trains-of-phases-i-and-ii-will-function-independently/article34322263.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Focus of Class 12 students will shift to entrance exams’||CBSE school students of Class 12 will now have to wait for at least one-and-a-half months, until the start of June when the CBSE review meet will happen, to find out when they can take their board exams which have been postponed. The CBSE announced the postponement of the Class 12 exams on Wednesday and said that a decision on the same would be taken after a review on June 1, owing to the increasing COVID-19 cases across the country. “Students, who have gone through online classes from the start of the year, were now taking up the last rounds of revision exams before their board exams began in May. They were well-prepared and confident about the exams and since they now have some more extra time, the focus will shift to preparing for competitive and entrance exams,” said Ashok Shankar, general secretary, CBSE Schools Management Association. For Class 12 and Class 10 students, it has been an uncertain year as they only got back to school after a gap of 10 months in January. P.G. Subramanian, principal. Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram, said it was going to be challenging for teachers and schools to keep students motivated over the next month as they were all mentally ready and prepared to take up the exams from May 4. For Class 10 students, the board said they will prepare a criteria based on which the results can be announced since their board exams have been cancelled. “While students have been given the option to take up the exam if they are not satisfied with the results announced based on their performance through the year, the board should consider awarding students of Class 10 grades instead of marks this year,” said C. Satish, director, Paavai group of institutions. Students of Class 12 are continuing to attend classes in several schools across the State as schools have been shut only for Classes 9 to 11. It now remains to be seen if in the wake of the COVID-19 cases increasing in many districts, a decision will be taken to stop physical classes for them as well. For State board students, the Class 10 board exams have already been cancelled and Class 12 students are scheduled to begin their exams from May 5. Following the CBSE's announcement to postpone their Class 12 board exams, a section of Teachers’ Associations have appealed to the State government to postpone the board examinations for Class 12 students of the State board, which are scheduled to begin from May 5 as well. The School Teacher's Federation of India(STFI) said the government should consider the health and safety of the students and postpone the exams. The Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation, too, has called for postponing the board exams. It said in a statement that schools should also stop physical classes at the moment since many teachers above the age of 50 were at a risk given the rising number of cases, since they are travelling to school via public transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-of-class-12-students-will-shift-to-entrance-exams/article34322267.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Estimates ready for culverts beneath railway tracks||The Highways Department has drawn up an estimate of Rs. 40 crore for the construction of cross culverts to carry floodwater beneath railway tracks at five locations in Chennai. Two of them are in Vepery and the floodwater would be taken to the Buckingham Canal while three would be on GST Road near the Dargah, the Vetri Theatre point in Chromepet and near the Pallavaram flyover, explained an official source. The proposal, under which the highways would construct lead off drains and the railways would build the box culverts under the tracks, has been sent to the State government for approval. The works have been necessitated because the existing 1 m x 1 m culverts beneath the tracks are unable to carry the increased flow of rainwater, leading to stagnation of water on the road at these points. “These culverts carry only about 60% of their capacity during rain due to silt and utility lines running through them occupying space,” another official said. More carrying capacity The proposed culverts would be larger in order to carry higher volumes of water. The floodwater from the GST Road would be emptied into the Pallavaram Periya Eri. A resident of Pallavaram, M. Jayaraman, said though the idea was good, it would only end up bringing silt and dirt into the lake. “Perhaps the government can consider setting up mini stormwater treatment plants at the points where such water is let into waterbodies, which in many cases are drinking water sources,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/estimates-ready-for-culverts-beneath-railway-tracks/article34322264.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur-Sarabanga lift irrigation project can proceed, says NGT||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has allowed the Tamil Nadu government to proceed with the Mettur-Sarabanga lift irrigation project and has dismissed an application filed by a former DMK MP, seeking a stay on the project. He claimed that prior environmental clearance was not obtained before work for the project commenced. Former DMK MP A.K.S. Vijayan from Nagapattinam moved the tribunal, alleging irregularity in the construction of the project to divert surplus floodwater from the Mettur dam to the Sarabanga river by lift irrigation, and said the project was envisaged in total disregard of riparian rights of the delta farmers. Irrigation area A joint committee formed by the NGT to undertake a field visit and file a report submitted that the proposed irrigation area under the project was 4,238 acres of land, which was less than 2,000 hectares and as per the amended 2018 EIA Notification, the project fell under the category of minor irrigation systems that are expressly exempted from the requirement of environmental clearance. Another contention raised by the applicant was that since the project involved the interests of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala, clearance from the Central government was required. On this, the tribunal said the water received from Karnataka was only being regulated and that water from the Mettur dam was not being shared by any two States and was being utilised only for the benefit of Tamil Nadu. Hence, there was no necessity for obtaining permission from any other authorities. Dismissing the application, the bench also directed the local bodies concerned to ensure that there is no discharge of untreated sewage or effluents into the river that would pollute the river water in the project area. The bench also directed the Public Works Department and the Irrigation Department to ensure that the right of the existing riparian owners to get the required water during the lean season is not be affected, as far as possible, while preserving and conserving the surplus flood water expected to come from Mettur dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-sarabanga-lift-irrigation-project-can-proceed-says-ngt/article34321865.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway staff given 72 hours to take jabs||Close on the heels of the Integral Coach Factory here asking its employees to either take the vaccination or go on leave, the Thiruvananthapuram Division of the Southern Railway has asked its commercial staff to get vaccinated within 72 hours and produce the certificate to join duty. In a note issued on April 8, commercial clerks, ticket collectors, enquiry-cum-reservation-clerks and others aged 45 and above were asked to take COVID-19 vaccination within 72 hours. With effect from April 12, supervisors were told only to permit staff for duty after they produce vaccination certificates.  “Staff who have not taken vaccination till April 11 shall go on their own leave till they get vaccinated,” the senior divisional commercial manager, Thiruvananthapuram division, said in the note. When contacted, Southern Railway chief public relations officer B. Guhanesan said the advisory was issued only in the larger interest of the employees and the safety of the passengers. No staff was forced to take the vaccines, he said. The chief spokesperson said as on April 13, 22,212 healthcare workers, security personnel and other railway employees/dependents were given the first dose of vaccines in Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchi, Salem, Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram divisions and the Southern Railway headquarters. All-India Railwaymen’s Federation president N. Kannaiah said the decision to take COVID-19 vaccines was purely voluntary, and not by compulsion, for the employees. Going by the Government of India guidelines, the Railways administration should only be creating awareness and persuading the staff to take the vaccines and not forcing them, Mr. Kannaiah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-staff-given-72-hours-to-take-jabs/article34321868.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco told to find alternative for consumption assessment||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Ombudsman has asked Tangedco to suggest an appropriate method to calculate electricity bills in case it is unable to make assessments of consumption due to factors like continuous holidays and non-availability of staff. It asked the power utility to suggest appropriate changes to the supply code through its review panel. In case an assessment cannot be made on a particular day due to factors beyond its control, Tangedco could suggest the number of days that can be taken into account for calculation of consumption charges, and an amendment to the supply code so that the consumer and the utility don’t suffer losses, it noted. Petitioner’s case The order was passed on a petition filed by Poongavanam from Villupuram, who said that during the assessment period in March 2020, her electricity consumption was recorded as 15,950 units. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, in May 2020, the usage was assessed based on the previous month’s consumption (PMC). In July 2020, the assessment recorded was 16,970 units, and the two-month consumption was assessed at 1,020 units (510 units a month). Based on the applicable slab, the bill came to Rs. 1,846 for 510 units. For two months, she was asked to pay Rs. 3,012, after deducting the Rs. 680 paid during the PMC calculation month. Ms. Poongavanam pointed out that for July, the assessment was made on July 10 instead of July 7 and hence, three days had been added while calculating the consumption charges. As a result, she said, instead of assessing the consumption from March 7, 2020, to July 7, 2020, for 122 days, the calculation was made for 125 days. Because of this, her consumption went above 500 units and she was not able to get government subsidy. Had the assessment been made on July 7, the consumption would have come to 498 units, and she could have availed herself of the subsidy, the petitioner said. Claiming that she paid an additional Rs. 1,272, Ms. Poongavanam sought a refund of the amount, besides compensation as per the rules for Tangedco not responding to her request to reduce the tariff within 10 days. In its reply, Tangedco said the consumption charges were calculated on a two-month billing cycle as per the prescribed rates, and there was no provision to calculate the charges on a proportionate basis. S. Devarajan, the Electricity Ombudsman, noted that the grievance faced by the customer in an extraordinary situation, like COVID-19, had also been caused during normal circumstances to others, and said Tangedco had to suggest suitable amendments to the supply code to address such grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-told-to-find-alternative-for-consumption-assessment/article34321873.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 41 lakh vaccinated so far in State||Another 73,633 people, including 40,866 aged between 45 and 59 and 26,799 senior citizens, were vaccinated in the State on Wednesday, taking the total coverage to 41,72,963. Covishield was administered to 1,984 healthcare workers, 2,960 frontline staff, 35,929 people aged 45-59 and 23,594 senior citizens. The remaining 420 healthcare workers, 604 frontline staff, 4,937 people aged 45-59 and 3,205 senior citizens received Covaxin. Vaccination was held in 4,306 sessions, according to a daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The Health Department has intensified efforts to enhance vaccination coverage for eligible groups. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public and Preventive Medicine, said, “There is a need to reach the maximum eligible persons in the shortest time possible.” Vaccination is one of the epidemiological tools in disease control, he added. He said vehicles for information, education and communication had been dispatched across the State to create awareness of vaccination among the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-41-lakh-vaccinated-so-far-in-state/article34322272.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call to come up with a State education policy||Emphasising the need for the State government to evolve a State education policy which will address the educational needs of the people, the State Platform for Common School System Tamil Nadu (SPCSS-TN) adopted a resolution on the same at its convention held on Wednesday. Apart from addressing the State’s educational needs, the evolution of a State education policy would provide equitable access for people from school-level to university, the convention said. As part of the resolutions, the convention demanded that the Tamil Nadu government should reject the National Education Policy 2020, as it aims at weakening State-funded institutions and make students more vulnerable to market forces. The convention also recommended that the Tamil Nadu government constitute an education commission, which would work on the State Education Policy, and they further appealed to the Chief Minister, who would soon head the new government, that the first signature should be for the same. The convention’s resolutions also called for the Tamil Nadu government to initiate the process to bring education back to the State list from the concurrent list. Prof L. Jawahar Nesan, former Vice-Chancellor, Adhavan Deetchanya, writer and advocate P.B. Suresh Babu presented papers at the convention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evolve-policy-on-education-for-state-govt-told/article34322268.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating senior citizens||A 45-year-old former staffer of a leading bank has been arrested by personnel from the Pulianthope police station for allegedly cheating several senior citizens by promising high returns on their investments. His target were those who had retired from service. Police identified the accused as D. Arikumar, of Chetpet. He was working as a business development manager at the bank until 2018 and handled fixed deposits. He was relieved from service due to retrenchment. He was arrested by the police with the help of the cyber crime cell at Pulianthope, following a complaint from Chandramathi Asirwatham, a senior citizen who allegedly lost Rs. 5 lakh to the fraudster. Deputy Commissioner of Police S. Rajesh Kannan said, “After a thorough investigation with help from the cyber crime cell, we traced the accused. Our investigation revealed that he collected the data of persons who had fixed deposits with his former employer.” His modus operandi was to target retired senior citizens who lived alone. He approached them under the pretext of seeking investment in a finance firm and promised them a high rate of interest on their investment. He collected Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh from each and indulged in share trading and other investments. The accused allegedly swindled over Rs. 5 crore. Mr. Rajesh Kannan said, “Our preliminary investigation revealed that he had cheated several senior citizens in a similar fashion.” The case was transferred to the Central Crime Branch for investigation. The police seized Rs. 1.4 crore investments in equity shares, 50 sovereigns of gold jewellery, a two-wheeler and two cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-cheating-senior-citizens/article34322259.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police fine 2.25 lakh people in T.N.||Over 2.25 lakh cases were booked against people who failed to wear masks across the State since April 8, said the police. After polling concluded in the State, the police, along with other authorities, have been enforcing safety protocols, particularly mask wearing. All wings of the police force are conducting awareness programmes and a drive against violators of COVID-19 norms, by booking cases and imposing fines from April 8. Intense drive As of Tuesday, 2,25,680 cases were booked against people who were found not wearing masks in public places. Of these, 4,874 cases were booked in Chennai. On Tuesday alone, 46,333 cases were booked across the State, said the police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-police-book-over-225-lakh-people-for-not-wearing-masks/article34321903.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-constable held for land grab attempt||A former head constable was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attempting to grab a plot of land belonging to an 86-year-old woman in Anna Nagar. Police identified the accused as J. David Anandraj, 56, of Mel Ayanambakkam, who was a head constable attached to the Elephant Gate police station and had not reported to work since 2018. They said he went to victim Sridevi Unnithan’s house on Sixth Avenue, Anna Nagar, in an autorickshaw with two others. He was wearing a police inspector’s uniform and claimed that he had come to arrest her since she had encroached upon a 23-cent land in Ayanambakkam. Ms. Sridevi’s grandson Sailesh, who was home at the time, nabbed David Anandraj, while his accomplices fled. He was then handed over to the police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-constable-held-for-land-grab-attempt/article34322258.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for murdering woman in Pulianthope||Personnel form the Basin Bridge police station on Wednesday nabbed four persons, including two juveniles, who were allegedly involved in the murder of a 32-year-old woman in Pulianthope on Monday. The police identified the victim as Supriya of Gurusamy Nagar. She was a vegetable vendor. She was estranged from her husband Ruban and lived with her mother Pushpa. At 8 p.m. on Monday, Ruban’s brothers Sudhakar, Ramkumar and Prem Kumar reached Supriya’s house and invited her to talk things over with her husband. At a secluded place, they indiscriminately attacked her with machetes, the police said. She collapsed and the trio fled from the spot. She was rushed to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), where she succumbed to injuries. Motive behind crime Preliminary investigation revealed that Ruban’s elder brother Ramesh had been murdered a few months ago and his siblings suspected that Supriya was behind the murder. They hatched a plan to eliminate her and extract revenge, the police said. The police arrested Ruban, 32, one of his brothers, and two more juveniles, who are their relatives, for their involvement in Supriya’s murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-murdering-woman-in-pulianthope/article34322278.ece
15 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK chief demands vaccines for all||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday made a strong case for COVID-19 vaccination for all, instead of covering just those aged over 45. He said vaccines for all were necessary as the infection was spreading like a forest fire. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said he was pained by the BJP-led Central government’s decision to cover only a particular section of the population for vaccination, when the second wave of COVID-19 was severely affecting the country. He said in Tamil Nadu alone, the number of those who had been infected by COVID-19 (active) had increased to 49,985, and on Tuesday alone, 6,984 persons had tested positive for the infection. “The disease is spreading fast in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Tiruvallur, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi,” he said. The BJP government is responsible for the second wave because it has exported 5.48 crore vaccines when the country is badly in need of them, he said. “The government has launched vaccine utsav only to divert the people’s attention from its failure,” Mr. Stalin said. Pointing out that only 40.21 lakh people had been vaccinated, he wondered whether it would be adequate to arrest the spread of the virus.  The DMK president urged the Centre to come out with a policy of vaccination for all and supply adequate doses to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-chief-demands-vaccines-for-all/article34321869.ece
15 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs to draw govt.’s attention to rising raw material prices||Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore are looking at measures to draw the government’s attention to increasing raw material prices. “MSMEs are getting good orders. But we are unable to meet the orders because of the frequent increase in prices of raw materials. We have represented this to the government several times. Now, we are looking at ways of joining hands with MSME associations across the State and across the country too, so that we can represent jointly,” said an MSME unit owner here. Copper price C. Sivakumar, president of the Coimbatore and Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs’ Association, said the price of copper was Rs. 493 a kg in January-February last year and rose to Rs. 730 a couple of days ago. On Tuesday, it was Rs. 750 a kg. In the case of mild steel, it was Rs. 49 a kg in January 2020, Rs. 65 in April this year and Rs. 67 on Tuesday. Aluminium cost Rs. 140 a kg a year ago and was Rs. 175 a kg on Tuesday. “If we quote a price to a buyer based on that day’s raw material costs, we are unable to deliver at the same rate because the raw material price increases. Big companies are reducing job works to smaller units and are not agreeing to frequent revision in the prices they pay to the job working units. There are several micro and small units that buy raw materials from retail traders and do small components. They are unable to manage because the retail prices of raw materials are higher,” he said. Prices used to go up in the past too. But it was neither so frequent nor so high. Many companies that imported small components from China are turning to Indian suppliers. So, there are enquiries across engineering sectors. But the MSMEs are unable to cater to the demand because of raw material prices. The government should intervene to stabilise the prices, Mr. Sivakumar said. As many as seven industrial association heads met here on Monday and plan to have continuous meetings. They plan to join hands with industrial associations across the country and take up the issue at the national level to draw the attention of the government. It is not just price hikes, but also problems in raw material availability that are hitting the MSMEs hard. The MSMEs have to bargain with multi-national companies and corporate companies to get a price revision for the components supplied. This situation has to be addressed and the government should take steps to control the prices, said another MSME unit owner here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-to-draw-govts-attention-to-rising-raw-material-prices/article34321899.ece
15 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Good response to vaccination camps at industries in Coimbatore||As many as 5,920 people have been vaccinated in Coimbatore district in the last few days at the special camps held for industry workers. This focused effort to cover the industry workers and staff aged 45 and above will continue in the district till April 26. District Industries Centre (DIC) General Manager B. Karthigaivasan told The Hindu that as part of the efforts to control the spread of COVID-19, industry associations, the DIC, Health Department and the civic body are organising vaccination camps. A camp is on at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex from Sunday (April 11) and will conclude on Thursday (April 15). Camps were held at individual units that employed more than 150 workers each. Some units are sending the workers to the nearby Primary Health Centres for vaccination. Till Tuesday, a total of 5,120 workers and staff were vaccinated across the district. While 2,271 were from 135 MSME units, the rest were from 18 large industries. On Wednesday, 800 people were vaccinated at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex. Mr. Karthigaivasan said a camp would be organised at CM Kalyana Mandapam jointly with Coimbatore and Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association. The DIC was also co-ordinating with the jewellers in Coimbatore and coir unit owners in Pollachi. Workers and staff members aged 45 and above should bring their Aadhaar card to the camps for registration and get vaccinated. The associations help in registration. “We had informed the Health Department that about 35,000 workers in the district should get vaccinated and we were told that the vaccine would be available for all of them,” he said. As for textile units, most of the large units are vaccinating the workers at their dispensaries or clinics. Initially, there were reports of vaccine shortage in some areas in the State. Now, that has been addressed, said an industry source. According to the Southern India Mills Association, 8,051 workers from 20 of its member mills in different districts in the State were vaccinated till Wednesday. And, the drive continued. The smaller mills were also getting the workers vaccinated against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-vaccination-camps-at-industries-in-coimbatore/article34322283.ece
15 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||National Fire Service Day observed||Laying of wreath at the memorial column, awareness programmes and a cycle rally by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel marked the observance of the National Fire Services Day in Coimbatore on Wednesday. G. Sathiyanarayan, Deputy Director of Fire and Rescue Services (Headquarters), in-charge of Joint Director (Western Region), laid a wreath at the memorial column at Coimbatore south fire station in the morning. District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh, Assistant DFOs P. Alagarsamy, M. Balakrishnan, K. Murugan, Coimbatore south station officer S. Velusamy and fire brigades paid respects at the memorial column. Fire brigades visited shops, fuel stations, etc, and distributed notices to create awareness on fire safety. The National Fire Services Day is observed to pay homage to 66 firemen and officers of the Mumbai Fire Brigade who lost their lives while fighting a major fire on the ship, Fort Stikine , in 1944. The ship was loaded with cotton bales, ammunition, oil drums, besides other materials. ‘Maintenance of fire safety equipment is key to mitigate fire hazards’ is this year’s theme. A 12-member team of fire brigades led by Mr. Jegadheesh and Mr. Alagarsamy took out a 110 km cycle rally in Coimbatore district to create awareness on fire safety and highlight this year’s theme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-fire-service-day-observed/article34322290.ece
15 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||540 new cases in Coimbatore district||A total of 540 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said the district had 4,544 active cases as on Wednesday, and 521 persons recovered from the disease. According to the department, three COVID-19 patients from the district died on Monday and Tuesday. A 55-year-old woman and a 70-year-old woman died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Monday. A 59-year-old man died of the infection at the CMCH on Tuesday. The district’s death toll stood at 703 on Wednesday. In a sharp spike in the daily caseload, Tiruppur district reported 225 new cases on Wednesday that raised the overall tally of cases to 21,197. The daily caseload previously crossed the 200-mark in September 2020, as per the data with the Health Department. The number of active cases in the district as on Wednesday was 1,457 patients, the highest in nearly six months. The Health Department reported the death of a 55-year-old woman, which took the district’s toll so far to 231. As many as 19,509 patients have recovered since the beginning of the pandemic and 89 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Wednesday. In the Nilgiris, 38 persons tested positive on Wednesday. The latest infections took the tally in the district so far to 9,026 and 248 persons are undergoing treatment. So far, 51 persons have died of the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/540-new-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article34322292.ece
15 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Proposal to bifurcate four police stations||A proposal to bifurcate four police stations in the city -- Saravanampatti, Peelamedu, Singanallur and Podanur -- will be ready soon, according to City Police Commissioner S. Davidson Devasirvatham. The move is being made in view of these stations having a vast jurisdiction, compared to the other 11 law and order/crime police stations in the city, Mr. Devasirvatham said. “Bifurcation will reduce the jurisdiction and the policing will become more focused,” he told The Hindu.  The establishing of new police stations through this process will also increase the strength of the force. At present, the city police has 2,600 personnel. Mr. Devasirvatham said the current strength was inadequate for a city like Coimbatore where communal tension occurred often, besides law and order issues and crimes. The four police stations proposed to be bifurcated had deserted areas that were less frequented by the force. Crimes such as robbery, chain snatching, attempt to murder and murder were being reported from these places, including the areas falling between Poonga Nagar near airport and SIHS Colony. The proposal was likely to seek a police station at Kalapatty. Mr. Devasirvatham, an officer of the rank of Additional Director General of Police, replaced Sumit Sharan as the Commissioner on March 25 based on orders from the Election Commission of India, and many view the appointment as a temporary posting made for the smooth conduct of the Assembly election. However, the top official reviewed various aspects of policing in Coimbatore city and felt that the bifurcation of the four police stations was necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-to-bifurcate-four-police-stations/article34322279.ece
15 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TEA welcomes RBI’s Interest Equalisation Scheme||The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association has welcomed the decision of the Reserve Bank of India to extend the Interest Equalisation Scheme for pre and post shipment Rupee export credit, till June 30. Welcoming the retrospective effect given for the Scheme from April 1, the Tiruppur Exporters’ Association president Raja M. Shanmugham said the government should extend the scheme for one more year, taking into account various adverse factors that have hit the industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-welcomes-rbis-interest-equalisation-scheme/article34322280.ece
15 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bid to steal cash from ATM||An unidentified person made a vain attempt to steal cash from an ATM of the City Union Bank on Annur-Mettupalayam Road on Wednesday. Police said the man, who came to the ATM centre around 3.15 a.m., could not open the machine. He then damaged a cheque deposit box which was at the counter. The police have collected visuals of the man from the surveillance camera. Assault attempt A Hindu Makkal Katchi worker lodged a compliant with the Madukkarai police stating that three persons attempted to attack him late on Monday. M. Balakrishnan alias Sachin from Marichetti Street at K.G. Chavadi, who runs a salon at Kuniamuthur, said that the three men came on two motorcycles and tried to attack him while he was returning home after work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-steal-cash-from-atm/article34322293.ece
15 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC’s J&K trip package||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) announced a tourism package from Coimbatore to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in May. In a press release, the IRCTC said that the trip will be from May 20 to 25 and will cover destinations such as Srinagar, Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonmarg. The package price begins at Rs. 41,835 and will cover expenses including airfare between Coimbatore and Srinagar, food and accommodation, according to the release. Those interested shall contact IRCTC, Coimbatore at 82879 31965 and 90031 40655 for bookings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctcs-jk-trip-package/article34322281.ece
15 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online debate session tomorrow||Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International will organise an online debate session on April 16 (Friday) at 6 .30 p.m. on ‘Younger generation are more tolerant than older generation’, a release said. The session will be held via video-conferencing platform Zoom and the participants may log in using the Zoom ID 870 8197 2333. Those interested may contact 99946 06591 or 95004 02317 via WhatsApp for the password, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-debate-session-tomorrow/article34322287.ece
15 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Devotees thronging temples for Tamil New Year screened||A large number of devotees thronged Sri Sabanayagar Temple, popularly known as Sri Natarajar Temple in Chidambaram, on the occasion of Tamil New Year on Wednesday. In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the district, the committee of Pothu Dikshithars, the hereditary custodians-cum-archakas of the temple, made it mandatory for the devotees to wear masks. Devotees also underwent thermal scanning before being allowed into the temple premises. They started arriving at the temple from 7 a.m. Barricades were erected and devotees were asked to maintain physical distancing while in the queue to enter the temple. Devotees visited Sri Padaleeswarar temple in Cuddalore and Sri Devanathaswamy temple in Thiruvanthipuram and offered prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-thronging-temples-for-tamil-new-year-screened/article34322409.ece
15 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Bodies mixed up at GH in Cuddalore; inquiry ordered||In a goof-up at the Cuddalore Government General Hospital, the bodies of a 55-year-old man who died due to COVID-19 and a 51-year-old man who tested negative were mixed up and handed over to the relatives. While one of the deceased was a Muslim from Bhuvanagiri near Chidambaram, the other was a Hindu from Panruti in the district. The lapse came to light when the family from Panruti that received the body was preparing to conduct the last rites. According to a Health Department official, Arumugam of Panruti was admitted to the GH with symptoms of fever a week ago.  Zaheer of Bhuvanagiri, who was admitted in the COVID-19 ward at the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital (RMMCH), was referred to the Cuddalore GH after his condition became critical. While Zaheer succumbed to the disease on Wednesday, Arumugam tested negative for the infection. The official claimed that the lapse occurred after one of the families wrongly identified the body. While conducting the last rites, Mr. Arumugam’s family noticed that it was not him and raised an alarm. Already buried They alerted the hospital authorities and found that Arumugam’s body had already been buried as per Muslim customs. A Health Department official said that the body of Arumugam was exhumed and the bodies were handed over to the respective families. “A detailed enquiry has been ordered under the supervision of the Medical Superintendent. The Department will initiate stringent action based on the findings of the inquiry,” the official also added.  A detailed enquiry has been ordered under the supervision of the hospital’s Medical Superintendent. The Department will initiate stringent action based on the findings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-mixed-up-at-cuddalore-government-hospital-inquiry-ordered/article34321840.ece
15 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||2 policemen suspended||Superintendent of Police of Cuddalore district M. Sree Abhinav on Wednesday suspended two policemen on charges of allowing a bullock cart laden with sand to pass, without registering a case for pecuniary benefit. Police sources said that constable Muthu Ramadass, attached to the Kattumannarkoil police station, and constable Vinodh, attached to the Puthur station, posted on duty to Kattumannarkoil, waved down a bullock cart laden with sand on Tuesday. No case filed Both constables reportedly negotiated with the bullock cart owner and allowed the vehicle to get away with the sand without registering a case. The two police personnel were suspended by the Superintendent of Police following an enquiry on the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-policemen-suspended/article34321852.ece
15 April 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Congress MP no more||N. Abdul Khader, 89, former Congress MP, passed away at his residence in Sithayankottai near here on Wednesday. Khader also served as TNCC general secretary and as vice-president. He also served as the DCC president Dindigul. Last rites According to his family members, the last rites will be performed on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-congress-mp-no-more/article34321881.ece
15 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale price of tomato drops to Rs. 5 a kg in Erode||With the heavy arrival of tomatoes from Talavadi and Andhra Pradesh, the price of the vegetable has dropped to Rs. 5 a kg at the Nethaji Wholesale Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market here on Wednesday. The market that functions on the V.O.C. Park premises receives tomatoes from Talavadi in boxes and sells it to retailers across the district. About 3,800 boxes, each weighing 15 kg, arrives in the market and is sold for Rs. 280 to Rs. 350 a box. Since tomatoes are cultivated widely in Talavadi Hills, the arrival had increased in the past 10 to 15 days bringing down the price of the vegetable sharply, said Mani Anand, a wholesaler. He said the arrival of tomatoes from Andhra Pradesh had further pushed the price down as a box is sold anywhere between Rs. 50 and Rs. 80 on Wednesday. “It cannot be stored for more than three days and hence is sold at Rs. 5 a kg here,” he said. The 90-day crop is cultivated in November and December every year and harvesting is done from March to April during which the wholesale price at times falls to Rs. 2 a kg. “Only if it rains heavily, the tomatoes rot in the plant pushing the price up,” said another trader. Traders fear that with increase in arrival of tomatoes to the market, the price may go down further. “Arrival usually drops in May after which prices would go up,” they added. The retail price of tomato varies from Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 a kg across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-price-of-tomato-drops-to-rs-5-a-kg-in-erode/article34321920.ece
15 April 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Salem district sees 175 new cases, two deaths||Salem district on Wednesday reported 175 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s tally to 34,941. Ninety-five persons were discharged after recovering from the disease and 1,116 persons are under treatment. The death of two persons due to COVID-19 raised the district’s toll to 473. Erode district reported 153 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 16,293. While 74 persons were discharged, 707 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 81 cases and the district’s tally rose to 12,740. While 25 persons were discharged, 498 are under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 156 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 9,846. The district has 773 active cases and 47 persons were discharged after recovery. The 91 fresh cases reported in Dharmapuri on Wednesday took the district’s tally to 7,289 . The district as of date has 470 active cases. Nine persons were discharged after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-sees-175-new-cases-two-deaths/article34321913.ece
15 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng temples for Tamil New Year, Vishu||COVID-19 restrictions failed to dampen the spirit of devotees who thronged temples on the occasion of Tamil New Year and Vishu here on Wednesday. Right from the morning, devotees were seen waiting in queues to offer prayers at major temples in the city. The devotees wore masks and underwent thermal scanning before being allowed into the temple premises.  However, puja items such as coconuts and garlands were not accepted in most temples and notices were pasted on the walls to create awareness among the devotees. Devotees were told to maintain physical distancing while in the queue and asked not to gather on the temple premises. In Salem, ‘Vishu Kani’ darshan was cancelled at the Sri Ayyappa Ashramam due to COVID-19 restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-temples-for-tamil-new-year-vishu/article34321918.ece
15 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Case against four persons for harassing two children||Erode Taluk police have registered a case against four persons on charges of harassing two children. A 15-year-old boy and his six-year-old brother, along with their grandparents, lodged a complaint with Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai alleging that they faced harassment from their father Ramalingam, his new wife Indumathi, their mother Ranjitha and her partner Sasi alias Dhanalakshmi while all the six were living in the same house. Subsequently, Ramalingam and Indumathi left the house and started living separately. Following this, Ranjitha and Sasi forced the boys to do housework and they also overheard the women discuss human sacrifice of the two. The boys escaped from there and reached their grandparents’ house on February 23. The children also said that they were threatened by the women. The complaint lodged by the boys’ grandmother B. Bakkiam (60) of Punjai Puliyampatti was forwarded to the police station. After inquiries, a case was registered under Sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 342 (wrongful confinement), 294(b) (uttering obscene words in a public place), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 336 (endangering the human life), 508 (inducing person to believe that he will be rendered an object of the divine displeasure), 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 75 (cruelty to children) of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2005, against Sasi, Ranjitha, Indumathi and Ramalingam. The accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-four-persons-for-harassing-two-children/article34321911.ece
15 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for grandmother’s murder||A 40-year-old man was arrested by the Arachalur Police on charges of murdering his grandmother at Avalapoondurai here on Tuesday. According to police, M. Poovizhi Selvan of Bharathi Street in Avalpoondurai went to his in-laws’ house in Coimbatore on Tuesday to meet his wife and daughter. He reportedly demanded money from his father-in-law to consume alcohol and was sent out of the house. He reached Avalpoondurai and demanded money from his mother. She too went out of the house. Irked, he hacked his 95-year-old grandmother Kalliammal to death while she was sleeping. Neighbours alerted the police and the body was sent to the Government Hospital in Perundurai for autopsy. A case was registered and Poovizhi Selvan was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-grandmothers-murder/article34321916.ece
15 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers trained in onion production technology||The Department of Horticulture organised a training programme on ‘Onion production technology’ for the farmers in Ramapailur village in Sathyamangalam block. Assistant Director of Horticulture Priya and Horticulture specialist Pachayappan explained the farmers on various technologies available for onion production. A farm school was established and farmers were trained in using yellow sticky traps to kill aphids and white-flies. Students of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, who are at present undergoing a village stay programme, also took part in the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-trained-in-onion-production-technology/article34321908.ece
15 April 2021||Haliya,TAMIL NADU||‘Podu lands issue to begin with Sagar’||Telangana Rashtra Samithi supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said resolution of Podu land issue in the State would start with Nagarjunasagar, which had a sizeable tribal population, as starting point. In addition to the recently sanctioned college at Haliya, another degree college would be sanctioned to the Assembly constituency. Ownership of irrigation lands to residents in Nandikonda would be certified and to ensure perennial irrigation to the ayacut, river Godavari interlinking would be taken up, besides the proposed lift irrigation schemes. For Muslims in the constituency, a new shaadikhana (function hall) would be constructed and repairs to existing mosques undertaken. Those were the promises Mr. Rao made at his second and last public meetings in Haliya, as voters of the Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency were going to vote on April 17, and sought votes for Nomula Bhagat, son of deceased legislator Nomula Narasimhaiah. Mr. Rao repeated his word at least thrice that senior leader M.C. Kotireddy would be made a Member of Legislative Council and Kadari Anjaiah, who joined TRS from the BJP a fortnight ago, would have a good future. “Water from Nellikal (recently sanctioned lift irrigation scheme) will jump courses, likewise votes to Bhagat. I support district Minister Jagadish Reddy’s offer to resign if Nellikal is not completed within one and a half years.” Launching an attack on Congress leaders for “orphaning Telangana” in united Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Rao urged voters of the constituency to evaluate development achieved in Telangana. “The difference between Congress governments and the seven-year TRS government is – Dharani portal, Mission Bhagiratha, 24-hour electricity, Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, Kalyana Lakshmi, and 10 times more pension, per capita consumption of electricity and per capita income,” he said, requesting voters not to turn a blind eye to the TRS. Mr. Rao said Congress’ Jana Reddy was “only boasting about 30-year and 60-year leadership,” but the very constituency still lacked a degree college. The Chief Minister said there had been a conspiracy to get his meeting cancelled, as he had reiterated the promise that he would not seek votes in the next Assembly elections, if the sanctioned lift irrigation schemes were not completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/podu-lands-issue-to-begin-with-sagar/article34321738.ece
15 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Palm jaggery prices fall as the season comes to a close||It is another season ending for palm jaggery producers and, yet defying market logic, the prices have dropped leaving them at the mercy of the prices pitched by the traders. At Mathur and Pochampalli, two of the biggest palm jaggery producing pockets in the district, the palm jaggery producers are looking at low prices offered by the traders in contrast to the prices offered at the start of the season in January. Maadesh climbs anywhere up to 100 trees a day, starting long before dawn and ending just past noon. “When the season started, we sold palm jaggery for Rs. 160 a kg. Today, it has come down to Rs. 120 to Rs. 130 a kg,” Maadesh says. The palm sap season lasts till April. Palm jaggery production hinges on the family labour of the men who scale the trees they have taken on lease from the landowners. With low margins, they depend on the prices offered by the traders during the production season. After the arduous, and often risky climb, the palm sap is collected in earthen pot tied several hours in advance. The sap is then brought down, boiled to concentration and the reduced caramelised syrup is cooled and crystallised into semicircular cakes of palm jaggery. A tree yields anywhere between 7 litres to 10 litres and on a good day, producers can collect anywhere up to 150 litres. It takes 40 litres to yield 10 kg to 12 kg of palm jaggery. Palm jaggery production is a tedious process and yet is bereft of any support from the government, says Maadesh. The palm jaggery production continued even during COVID-19 lockdown, because uncollected sap would destroy the tree, he says. Asked about the low prices offered to producers, Govindan, a trader who sells palm jaggery to buyers from Tiruchengode, claims the margin is low for the traders themselves. “The jaggery from Pochampally is sold to Tiruchengode, and from there it is sold to Chennai, Madurai and other places. We are unable to find buyers directly from these places, because they don’t buy directly from us.” Hence, with the number of middlemen along the supply chain, the bottom-end producers like Maadesh get the bare minimum price for their produce. Traders offer an advance to the producers often locking them down to the prices, leaving no space for bargaining of prices for producers like Maadesh.  Palm jaggery production is a tedious process and yet is bereft of any support from the government .  MaadeshPalm jaggery producer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palm-jaggery-prices-fall-as-the-season-comes-to-a-close/article34321923.ece
15 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested under POCSO ACT||A 19-year-old youth was arrested under the POCSO Act for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl in Dharmapuri. The accused was allegedly stalking the girl forcing her to enter into a relationship with him. On the day of the crime, the accused intercepted the girl and allegedly sexually assaulted her. Based on the complaint of the girl’s parents, the accused was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-arrested-under-pocso-act/article34321921.ece
15 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three-day COVID-19 vaccination camp being held by Corporation||A three-day COVID-19 vaccination camp conducted by Madurai Corporation in coordination with Pazhamudircholai Thiruvarul Murugan Baktha Sabai Trust commenced on Wednesday in the Sethupathi Higher Secondary School, here. Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that compared to last year the spread of COVID-19 in the second wave was rapid. Vaccination was must to safeguard ourselves, he said and urged everyone to get vaccinated. He said that all primary health care centres, urban primary health centres and government hospitals were providing vaccination free of cost. The camp in Sethupathi school will be held from April 14 to April 16, for three days, he said. Get vaccinated and urge friends and family members also to get vaccinated, the Corporation Commissioner said and added that it had no side effects. Even after getting vaccinated, one should strictly adhere to the COVID-19 safety precautions by wearing the face masks and maintaining physical distance, he said, in a press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-day-covid-19-vaccination-camp-being-held-by-corporation/article34321892.ece
15 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Follow reservation to fill teaching and non-teaching posts: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to consider the plea of a petitioner who sought a direction to the government to ensure that 18% reservation for the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates was followed in filling vacancies in the government-aided private schools not being a minority school. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by S.M.A. Pon Gandhimathi Nathan of Thoothukudi district. He said that these schools should reserve 18% of vacancies in the teaching and non teaching posts as per the Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools (Regulation) Rules. However, most of the schools were not following the reservation, he said. He said that he sought information through the RTI Act in this regard and found out that two schools in Thoothukudi district had not followed reservation. He sent a representation to the authorities concerned to ensure that reservation was followed as per the rules in the two schools in Thoothukudi district. But, the representation was not considered, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi directed the State to consider the representation and pass appropriate orders within eight weeks. The High Court disposed of the public interest litigation petition with the direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-follow-reservation-to-fill-teaching-and-non-teaching-posts/article34321847.ece
15 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||VCK men chase away BJP cadre||Tension prevailed at Tallakulam here for a brief while when Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi cadres chased away Bharatiya Janata Party cadres, who had come to garland the statue of Dr. Ambedkar on the occasion of the leader’s 130th birth anniversary on Wednesday. VCK cadre gathered in large numbers since morning as their leader, Thol. Thirumavalavan, was scheduled to garland the statue around 11 a.m. When a group of BJP cadres, led by the party’s district functionary Maha. Suseendran, turned up at the venue with party flags, the VCK cadre objected to it. They raised slogans that sanatana forces did not have the right to garland the statue. Sensing trouble, the police asked the BJP cadres to move away from the scene. Even as the police were at one end of the area, the VCK cadres rushed towards Mr. Suseendran and his supporters and chased them away. The police said the BJP cadres were assaulted with plastic pipes used as flag poles and attacked with stones as they were fleeing. Additional forces were deployed before Mr. Thirumavalavan arrived at the spot. After garlanding the statue, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the sanatana forces were coming to garland the statue in the guise of a democratic force. Dr. Ambedkar had fought in thought and action against sanatana forces till his last breath, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-men-chase-away-bjp-cadre/article34321894.ece
15 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Martyrs’ Day observed||All Fire and Rescue stations in southern districts observed Martyrs Day in remembrance of firemen who made supreme sacrifice during the call of their duty, on Wednesday. This day is observed on April 14 in memory of 66 firemen who were killed while fighting a major fire in a ship berthed in Victoria Harbour in Mumbai. At the Madurai Fire Office, Southern Region, Deputy Director N. Vijayakumar and District Fire Officer S. Vinod paid their respects by placing wreaths at a temporary memorial. A statement said that one week would be observed with a theme: Maintenance of fire safety equipments is key to mitigate fire hazards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firemen-observe-martyrs-day/article34321888.ece
15 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||WA||Water level in Periyar dam was 126.30 feet (permissible level 142 ft) with an inflow of 100 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs. The water level in Vaigai dam was 63.55 ft (max level 71 ft) with an inflow of 51 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 6287 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Wednesday, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wa/article34321896.ece
15 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||12 arrested for sexually assaulting 14-year-old girl||Personnel attached to the Tiruchengode all-women police station arrested 12 persons for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl near Kumarapalayam here. According to the police, the victim’s mother is a daily wager and her father is bed-ridden. The victim was staying at her sister’s house and was studying in Class 6. Later, she discontinued studies and started working as a helper in a house. On February 19, she fell ill and told her sister that she had been sexually assaulted by several people over the last four months. Despite knowing that her husband had committed the crime, the victim’s sister took up the issue with the district child protection officer, Ranjitha Priya, who conducted inquiries and found that 12 persons, including the victim’s brother-in-law, his friends, the house owner and his friends had committed the crime. Inquiries revealed that the victim had alerted her mother initially, but she failed to act and was involved in a katta panchayat with her son-in-law. After conducting inquiries for over one-and-a-half-months, the DCPO lodged a complaint with the police, and a case was registered against 12 persons. While 11 persons were arrested on Tuesday, the house owner was arrested on Wednesday. All the 12 accused were taken to the hospital where their swabs were lifted. Later, they were produced in the court and lodged in prison. The victim was moved to a protection home in the district. Since the victim’s mother failed to act, she was also arrested on Wednesday.  Despite knowing that her husband had committed the crime, the victim’s sister took up the issue with the district child protection officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-14-year-old-girl-near-kumarapalayam/article34321910.ece
15 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G garlands Ambedkar’s statue on his 130th birth anniversary||Led by Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Union Territory on Wednesday celebrated the 130th birth anniversary of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar. Ms. Soundararajan garlanded the statue of Ambedkar in front of the Assembly. She waited for a few minutes near the venue as some Dalit outfits were garlanding the statue when she arrived on the Assembly premises. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam and former Minister M. Kandasamy were among those who garlanded the statue. Due to COVID-19 restrictions in place, the usual processions before garlanding the statue were avoided. Political parties also organised separate functions to commemorate the birth anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar. The anniversary celebrations at Pondicherry University were hosted by the Special Reservation Cell of the University. Gurmeet Singh, Vice- Chancellor of Pondicherry University, garlanded the statue of Dr. Ambedkar on the campus and paid floral tributes to the portrait inside the University building. P.G. Arul, liaison officer, Special Reservation Cell, Superintendent of Police C. Maran, N. Giridharan, Assistant Registrar (Administration), Sankaramoorthy, Executive Engineer, Deans, professors, department heads, faculty and staff also paid floral tributes to the portrait of the architect of the Indian Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-garlands-ambedkars-statue-on-his-130th-birth-anniversary/article34322413.ece
15 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tally in UT crosses 3,000||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 698 with two more deaths reported on Wednesday even as new cases pushed the caseload past the 3,000 mark. The Union Territory recorded 476 new cases against 242 recoveries on Wednesday. The pattern of second wave cases is across the U.T. although the bulk of the new patients are in Puducherry and Karaikal. While one death was reported in Puducherry, one more fatality was in Karaikal. With this, the region-wise toll was 560 in Puducherry, 82 in Karaikal, 45 in Yanam and 11 in Mahe. Of the new cases, which were confirmed from 4,376 tests, Puducherry accounted for 333 followed by Karaikal (104), Yanam (32) and Mahe (seven). The test positivity rate was 10.87%, case fatality rate 1.54% and recovery rate, which has been on a steady decline over the past couple of weeks, down to 91.79%. The number of active cases stood at 3,032. Of these, 616 were in hospitals and 2,416 patients in home isolation. The region-wise distribution of hospital and home isolation cases was Puducherry (485 and 1,699), Karaikal (65 and 561), Yanam (51 and 79) and Mahe (15 and 77). The bed occupancy statistics in Puducherry was 296 in IGMCRI and 189 in Jipmer. Of an estimated 7.12 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department to date, over 6.5 lakh returned negative.  Meanwhile, the number of persons administered the COVID-19 vaccine aggregated to 1,21,936 with the immunisation of 14,278 members of the public, 468 healthcare workers and 208 frontline staff on Wednesday. Those immunised so far in the Union Territory include 75,657 members of the public, 29,427 healthcare workers and 16,852 frontline personnel. Cuddalore tally Cuddalore district reported two deaths and 175 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 26,977. Two men, aged 42 and 59 years died of the disease, taking the toll to 296. The district saw 25,660 recoveries and 723 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 97 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 16,125. Kallakurichi district reported 32 positive cases, taking the overall count to 11,244.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tally-in-ut-crosses-3000/article34321862.ece
15 April 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||DMK councillor hacked to death||A. Annamalai Eswaran, 45, DMK councillor of Rajapalayam Union, was hacked to death at Krishnapuram under Seithur Rural police station limits on Wednesday. The police said that Eswaran, who was representing Ward 13 of the union, was going to Karaiyadi Vinayagar temple on the occasion of Tamil New Year, was waylaid by a gang and hacked to death. Eswaran was an accused in the murder of V. Tamaraikkani (27) last year after Tamaraikkani made fun of Eswaran’s son, A. Ganesh Kumar, during a kabbadi match. In order to take revenge on Tamaraikkani’s murder, his friends, V. Kulainthaivel Kumar (27), M. Jagatheeswaran (27) and J. Mathiazhagu Raja (26), assaulted the councillor with deadly weapons. Later, they surrendered before the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-councillor-hacked-to-death/article34321885.ece
15 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Subdued Vishu celebrations in Kerala||Kerala celebrated Vishu under the lengthening shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic on Wednesday, also the second day of the Ramzan fast. Malayalees observed Vishu in a relatively sombre fashion for the second consecutive year. Most people remained indoors. Festivities were restricted to the homes, socialising mostly over the telephone. Families and friends caught up with each other largely on Internet-based video call and conference platforms. Crowded Iftar parties and packed Vishu feasts that marked celebrations in the pre-COVID-19 years seemed a distant memory, though shoppers had thronged markets on Vishu eve on Tuesday. Kerala Governor Arif Muhammad Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Opposition Leader Ramesh Chennithala greeted the people on the occasion of Vishu and Ramzan. Mosques organised prayers, with the faithful wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Places of worship checked body temperatures before allowing devotees inside. The administration has warned supermarkets against holding mega events that attract large crowds. It ordered malls, theatres and auditoriums with centralised air conditioning to strictly restrict occupancy and ensure total adherence to COVID-19 protocol, including thermal scanning of visitors at the entrance. The government has limited open-air and indoor gatherings to not more than 200 and 100 persons, respectively. It has banned communal feasting. However, organisers could give guests parcelled meals. Municipal authorities issued notice to hotels requesting them to limit indoor dining to less than half the seating capacity. Customers should remain socially distanced and restaurants must down shutters at 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subdued-vishu-celebrations-in-kerala/article34321747.ece
15 April 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to sell cereals||Farmers growing rain-fed crops have opened an outlet in the ‘Uzhavar Sandhai’ here to sell directly to the public cereals and grams and value-added products. With the guidance of Department of Agriculture and Agro Business and Agricultural Marketing, the outlet started selling cereals and grams to the public from Wednesday. Farmers’ Confederation secretary Mallusamy and Personal Assistant to Collector (Agriculture) S. Palani Velayutham inaugurated the outlet. “The new facility, which will sell all cereals and grams and the value-added products, is a boon to the residents, where they cannot get these products,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-sell-cereals/article34322431.ece
15 April 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fever clinics conducted at 100 places||As the influx of new COVID-19 cases is on the rise in the district, Collector K. Senthil Raj has ordered conduct of fever clinics across the district. He said the fever clinics that were conducted on 89 places on Tuesday to identify patients suffering from abnormal body temperature and with COVID-19 symptoms, were organised at 100 places including nine places within the Thoothukudi Corporation limits on Wednesday. Though it was a holiday in view of Tamil New Year, officials and doctors participated in these camps to screen the public. Moreover, door-to-door screening is going on to identify the COVID-19 cases. Those who are found to be suffering from abnormal body temperature during these visits would be shifted to the hospital, he said. While appealing to the public above the age of 45 to get vaccinated, he said those who have comorbidities like blood pressure, heart or kidney ailments, cancer etc. should be extremely careful by following the COVID-19 protocols. Those who have to visit the public places, markets and other places should compulsorily wear masks and maintain physical distancing. He said the owners of restaurants, industrial units, markets, shopping malls, supermarkets etc. should make immediate arrangements for vaccinating their workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fever-clinics-conducted-at-100-places/article34322433.ece
15 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||More people come under vaccination cover||With the Health Department organising sector-specific camps in different parts of the district, vaccination coverage is going up steadily. The average daily coverage of COVID-19 vaccination was hovering around just 3,000 till a week ago. It has gone up to about 5,000 over the last few days. A total of 6,576 persons were vaccinated on Monday. The count was 6,209 on Tuesday. On account of Tamil New Year Day on Wednesday, the vaccination centres in the district witnessed fewer persons than the previous day. A total of 2,390 persons got vaccinated on Wednesday. As of Wednesday, 1,50,534 persons were vaccinated in the district. To bring all working class people under the COVID-19 vaccination coverage, health officials conducted work place camps at various places. Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation office at Mannarpuram, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation at Dheeran Nagar and Thuraiyur, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd and BHEL in Tiruverumbur, BHEL Private factories including Dalmia Cement Factory were also covered. S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director, Health Services, said that the number of persons visiting the vaccination centres to get vaccinated was going up gradually . It was expected to increase further in the days to come. He said the district had 30,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. It would last for five days. Over 1,000 doses of Covishield from Cuddalore had been diverted to Tiruchi district. It would reach Tiruchi on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-people-come-under-vaccination-cover/article34321857.ece
15 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two practical exam begins at 195 centres in Tiruchi tomorrow||The School Education Department will be conducting Plus Two practical exams at 195 centres across the educational districts of Tiruchi, Musiri, Lalgudi and Manapparai in two phases later this month. On Monday, Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan convened a meeting of school heads and handed over sealed bundles of question papers for the practical exams. The first phase of exams will be from April 16 to 20 and the second phase from April 20 to 23. The sealed bundles will be opened on the day of exam by the invigilators, Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan said. Students from 257 higher secondary schools - government, government-aided and self-financed - will take up the exam at the 195 centres in compliance with COVID safety protocols. The practical exams will be conducted batch-wise covering 25 students at a time. The marks of the students will be uploaded online on April 24, Mr. Arivazhagan said. Only Plus Two students are being permitted to come to schools and the department has been keeping a constant watch to rule out presence of students of other levels in the schools. “A month back, the department acted on specific complaints and conducted surprise checks in a couple of schools. Other than Plus Two students, the rest of them in other levels were sent home,” the CEO said. Since then, private schools have been finding it tough to conduct offline classes for other levels on the sly as there are informers from within, due to the competition amongst institutions in geographical clusters, the CEO said. As for CBSE schools, students of levels X and XII are being permitted to attend offline classes till the completion of practical exams which got off to a start on March 1. The CBSE has permitted schools to conduct the practical exam / project/ internal assessments till June 11, by themselves for regular students without the need for any external examiner. The CBSE has allowed schools to conduct the practical exam in three shifts. The theory exam for Plus Two set to begin on May 4 gets to a close on June 14. As per the time table, the public exam for class X CBSE students will begin on May 4 and end on June 7.  The sealed bundles of question papers will be opened on the day of exam by invigilators R. Arivazhagan Chief Educational Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plus-two-practical-exam-begins-at-195-centres-in-tiruchi-tomorrow/article34321848.ece
15 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Bathing in groups in river banned||Collector V. Vishnu has banned bathing in groups in the Tamirabharani in the wake of sharp rise in the influx of fresh COVID-19 cases in the district. In a statement, Mr. Vishnu said people should avoid taking bath in the Tamirabharani in groups as the number of new COVID-19 cases getting admitted to the hospitals is increasing everyday. So, various preventive measure are being taken to control the outbreak. In this line, taking bath in the Tamirabharani in groups has been banned as it would facilitate the spread of the viral infection. Sensing the gravity of the situation, the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital has taken steps to vaccinate 1,000 persons a day in its multi-specialty complex. The Nainarkulam retail vegetable market in Tirunelveli Town remains closed following rise in new cases in Tirunelveli. Since the State government has ordered closure of vegetable markets, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan ordered closure of 60 shops in the Nainarkulam retail vegetable market. On instructions from Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, N. Manivannan, ‘kabasurakudineer’ is being given to the public coming to the District Police Office to submit petitions. As the SP has instructed his subordinates to conduct vehicle check across the district to fine those who do not wear masks, police are conducting vehicle check at all important junctions. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, V.R. Srinivasan, flagged off the COVID-19 vaccination awareness vehicle, being taken out by the Department of Field Publicity to various parts of the district from the Perumalpuram Police Station on Wednesday. Inspector of Police, Perumalpuram, Padhmanaban, and Sanitary Inspector Sankaranarayanan were present. Field Publicity Officer Juney Jacob said the campaign vehicle would cover Tirunelveli Corporation areas with focus on ‘hotspot areas’ and visit other parts to highlight the need for early vaccination. “Awareness pamphlets detailing the dos and don’ts to get shielded from the viral infection are being distributed to the public,” she said. Though special prayers were conducted in Sri Papanasa Swamy Temple in connection with Tamil New Year celebrations as per the tradition, devotees were not allowed to take bath in the Tamirbharani flowing in front of the shrine. Led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambasamudram Sub-Division L. Francis, police had made elaborate security arrangements in and around the temple. When a huge crowd gathered during the opening of a mobile phone showroom in Vannarpet on Wednesday, photos showing the crowd standing inside and in front of the showroom were forwarded to the Corporation officials, who sealed the showroom a couple of hours after the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bathing-in-groups-in-tamirabharani-banned/article34321845.ece
15 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Labourer held||The Nanguneri All Women Police have arrested a labourer for allegedly sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl. The police said the victim, along with her parents, had gone to a temple festival near Moolaikkaraipatti on Monday night. Labourer Sudalaimani, 30, of Achchampaadu near Moolaikkaraipatti, who had come to the temple festival, took the girl to the nearby forest area and sexually abused her. After the girl told her parents, they filed a complaint with Nanguneri All Women Police, who arrested Sudalaimani on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labourer-held-for-sexually-abusing-girl/article34321889.ece
15 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 85,000 get vaccinated in Tiruppur district||Over 85,000 persons were administered vaccine for COVID-19 in Tiruppur district as of Wednesday. A senior Health Department official said that over 5,000 beneficiaries are being administered the vaccine in the district and this would be increased to 7,500 per day within a week. The Health Department that operates 15 mobile vaccination units have been visiting various industries in the district since April 9 and have vaccinated around 10,000 employees working in industries so far, the official said. As the district reports over 150 new cases per day, the administration has set up four COVID-19 care centres with a total capacity of 450 beds at Avinashi, Dharapuram, Udumalpet and Tiruppur Corporation limits. As nearly 30% of the district’s daily caseload is being reported from Corporation limits, a few more care centres would be set up soon within the city, according to the official. Tiruppur district has 15 containment zones as of Wednesday, out of which four are in Corporation limits. On Wednesday, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the special vaccination camps held at the Tiruppur Corporation headquarters and at the T.S.K. Urban Primary Health Centre on Avinashi Road. Speaking to reporters, he requested the public to not believe in rumours and to get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-85000-get-vaccinated-in-tiruppur-district/article34322285.ece
15 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Killed in accident||A 35-year-old man riding a two-wheeler was killed when he came under the wheels of a speeding truck near Perumanallur in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Balakrishnan. He died on the way to the hospital. The truck driver fled from the spot, the police said. The Perumanallur police registered a case and efforts are on to nab the truck driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/killed-in-accident/article34322286.ece
15 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Restore grave of renowned architect: NDC||The Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC) has called on the government to restore the grave of Henry Irwin, a renowned British architect who designed the Chennai Central Railway Station, the Connemara Public Library and the Madras High Court, among other iconic buildings across India. The grave of Irwin, in the St. Thomas Church in Udhagamandalam, lies neglected, overgrown with weeds and at risk from the elements. Dharmalingam Venugopal, honorary director of the NDC, said that Irwin, who died in 1922 at the age of 81, was one of the “greatest of the British architects of India”. “The iconic buildings that he created include the Chennai Central station , the Egmore station, the Southern Railway headquarters, the Madras High Court and the Law Collage, the Connemara Library, the Museum Theatre and Art Gallery, the Victoria Memorial Hall and Bank of Madras,” Mr. Venugopal said. Mysore Palace Irwin also designed the Viceregal Lodge in Shimla (now the Indian Institute of Advanced Study), the Mysore Palace and the American College in Madurai. Irwin’s grave was among a number of nearly 100-year-old graves of important personages from the colonial era that were discovered recently by Mr. Venugopal, who is also credited with discovering the grave of John Sullivan, the founder of modern Nilgiris as well as that of McIvor, the creator of the Ooty Botanical Garden. “It is tragic that while several monuments across the country that Henry Irwin created continue to enthral generations of citizens, his grave lies in obscurity and neglect in a corner of Ooty,” said Mr. Venugopal. The NDC said that Irwin settled in Udhagamandalam after retirement, and that he was an avid punter who loved horse racing. Irwin and his wife are buried in the same church in Udhagamandalam.  It is tragic that while several monuments that Henry Irwin created continue to enthral generations, his grave lies in obscurity Dharmalingam Venugopal Honorary director, NDC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-grave-of-renowned-architect-ndc/article34321901.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi-Pudukottai electrified broad gauge track likely to be ready in June||Work on overhead electrification project on Tiruchi-Pudukottai broad gauge section is expected to get completed in June. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) is executing the project on Tiruchi- Pudukottai-Karaikudi-Manamadurai-Virudhunagar broad gauge section following sanction from Railway Board, New Delhi. According to a senior railway official, electric poles have been installed on the nearly 60 km Tiruchi-Pudukottai BG stretch and wiring works are under way. CORE has awarded the project to Larsen and Toubro, which is carrying out the overhead electrification works. The project is proceeding swiftly despite the pandemic and is expected to be completed in June. CORE is simultaneously carrying out overhead electrification works from Pudukottai to Karaikudi with the foundation done and installation of electric masts under way. The work is likely to get completed by August. The project is also proceeding on Karaikudi-Manamadurai-Virudhunagar stretches, the senior official added. CORE has completed electrification projects on Tiruchi-Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Nagore-Nagapattinam- Karaikal broad gauge section and the track has become operational. It has also completed projects on the 10-km Mannargudi-Nidamangalam and Cuddalore Port-Vriddhachalam (55 km) broad gauge stretches. Both sections were inspected by the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Bengaluru, last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-pudukottai-electrified-broad-gauge-track-likely-to-be-ready-in-june/article34321851.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NABARD-funded watershed projects to regenerate 8,000 hectares of land||Eight watershed projects in the district with NABARD grant assistance will together regenerate about 8,000 hectares of land covering 55 villages and benefit more than 10,800 farmers. While four watershed projects at Kilikudi, Alangudi, Avvaiyarpatti and Amburapatti villages with grant assistance of Rs. 1.52 crore have been completed, two other watershed projects at Mambatti and Odukkur villages and a couple of climate proofing watershed projects with grant assistance of Rs. 86.85 lakh are ongoing. All projects together would regenerate about 8,000 hectares of land benefitting farmers. NABARD had promoted four farmer producer companies (FPCs) in the district with more than 4,000 small and marginal farmers from 172 villages with a grant support of Rs. 38.68 lakh. Two more FPCs have been sanctioned with grant assistance of Rs. 17.98 lakh for fishermen of Manamelkudi and dairy farmers of Kunnandarkoil block in February and March. Six FPCs for cashew farmers in Gandarvakottai, vegetable growers in Ponnamaravathi and paddy cultivators in Manamelkudi, Avudaiyarkoil, Tirumayam and Mimisal have been sanctioned with total grant support of Rs. 1.5 crore. According to a press release issued by NABARD District Development Manager, Pudukottai, S. Jayashree, NABARD sponsored a mobile van with ATM to Pudukottai District Central Cooperative Bank with grant assistance of Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 12.60 lakh for purchase of hand-held micro ATMs to the same bank last fiscal. It also conducted capacity building and training programmes for Pudukottai District Central Cooperative Bank and Tamil Nadu Grama Bank. It refinanced Rs. 179.13 crore to Pudukottai District Central Cooperative Bank under short-term, long-term and COVID-19 special liquidity refinance in 2020-21. NABARD partners with Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihood Mission and banks to implement digitisation of self-help groups through its E- Shakti programme. Data in respect of 8,528 SHGs of Pudukottai has been boarded to E-Shakti platform so far. During 2020-21 financial year, it supported skill development training of 30 SHG women in manufacture of coir products at Ponnamaravati with grant assistance of Rs. 1 lakh. It sanctioned financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.58 lakh to Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Kudimiyanmalai, for conducting training programmes for farmers on oyster mushroom production technology and grain amaranthus cultivation and value addition. During 2020-21, NABARD sanctioned Rs. 3.41 lakh for training 90 SHG women in Annavasal and Viralimalai blocks on indigenous rice cultivation methods and practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nabard-funded-watershed-projects-to-regenerate-8000-hectares-of-land/article34321842.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||VCK seeks CBI probe into Arakkonam murders||VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday sought a CBI probe into the recent murders of two Dalit youths in Arakkonam. Addressing the media in Madurai, Mr. Thirumavalavan reiterated his allegation that caste discrimination and political reasons were behind the murders. Contending that the biggest danger looming large over the nation was the “sanatana political ideology”, he said, “The sanatana forces are trying to impose one nation, one culture on the country.” Alleging that the BJP was targeting Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, he said it was time the entire nation was saved from sanatana forces. Earlier, addressing party cadre after garlanding the statue of B.R. Ambedkar here, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the Canadian province of British Columbia had declared the birth anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar as Equality Day. “This proves that Dr. Ambedkar is seen as a symbol of equality and democracy.” Dr. Ambedkar’s concern for equality among the human race was reflected not only in his thoughts but also in his actions. The narrative of the campaign for the Assembly election, which was against the AIADMK, was turned against the BJP by the VCK, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-seeks-cbi-probe-into-arakkonam-murders/article34321877.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruvarur, green outfit to develop nandavanams in temples||Green Needa, a voluntary organisation of Needamangalam engaged in promotion of tree sapling plantation and roof-top garden among residents, has decided to develop nandavanams in temples in Tiruvarur district, according to its coordinator M.Rajavelu. The organisers approached the administrators of Santhanaramaswamy Temple at Needamangalam and sought their permission to allow them to raise a garden inside the temple a few months ago and succeeded. While the administrators were happy that the garden would fulfil the temple’s requirement of flowers and other leaves needed for daily rituals, Green Needa members were elated that their aim to achieve 100% survival rate of saplings planted by them would be achieved since they were raised in a protected environment, Mr. Rajavelu said. Further, a philanthropist had come forward to bear the cost involved in regular watering of the saplings by installing a drip irrigation facility linked to a water supply source in temple precincts. A group of regular visitors to the temple were roped in for maintenance of the garden once a week since March. Encouraged by the growth of saplings planted at the temple, the organisation expressed its desire to set up nandavanams in about a dozen temples in the district and was likely to get permission from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department. Meanwhile, Green Thanjavur Movement, which recently inked a memorandum of understanding with Tamil University in Thanjavur for developing greenery in about six acres of land on the latter’s premises, said it wished to promote sapling donation programme among patients returning home from hospitals after major surgery or successful treatments of ailments or after delivery. Admitting that the cost involved in putting up tree guards and maintaining them till the sapling reached the required height to survive from cattle menace in public places and on roads had shot up in recent years, GTM president Radhika Michael said that earlier it used to cost around Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 per tree guard. Now, the cost had shot up to Rs. 750 or Rs. 800 per unit, and saving them from the clutches of anti-social elements had also become a problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruvarur-green-outfit-to-develop-nandavanams-in-temples/article34321849.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||763 new cases, two deaths in delta||As many as 763 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Wednesday. The virus also claimed two more lives in the region. Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts continued to register a sharp increase in cases with each passing day. Tiruchi district accounted for 216 cases followed by 158 cases in Thanjavur. The day’s count was 157 in Nagapattinam district, according to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department. Tiruvarur district recorded 108 cases, 51 in Karur and 49 in Pudukottai. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded 22 and two cases. A 56-year-old male from Tiruvarur, who was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi with symptoms of COVID-19, died on Tuesday. He had complaints of fever, cough, myalgia for five days before being admitted to the hospital. Another patient, who died of COVID-19 related implications on Tuesday, was a 74-year-old male from Nagapattinam. He was admitted to Government Periyar Hospital in Mayiladuthurai on April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/763-new-cases-two-deaths-in-delta/article34321855.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Devotees visit temples||Adhering to safety protocols, devotees visited various temples on Tamil New Year Day and offered prayers on Wednesday. Officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable and Endowments Department said devotees wore masks while entering the shrines in view of rise in COVID-19 cases and defaulters were advised to put them on. Several devotees offered worship at Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, Samayapuram Arulmigu Mariamman Temple, Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple, Akilandeswari Jambukeswarar Temple, Tiruvanaikoil, and Vekkaliamman Temple at Woraiyur in Tiruchi, among others. Devotees were subjected to thermal screening at Samayapuram Mariamman Temple and hand sanitisers were sprayed on their hands as per safety protocols, said a temple official. The turnout was moderate in various temples here, said HR & CE officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-visit-temples/article34321859.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Civil engineering dept. stares at closure in colleges in Tiruchi region||A number of engineering colleges in the Tiruchi region may be bracing to close their civil engineering departments from 2020-21 due to a sharp drop in admissions over the last few years. The slowdown in construction activities due to the sluggish pace of economic development, accentuated by a weakened MSME sector, is stated to be the cause for the same. “It is not that the job prospects for other branches are any better. The faculty profile in civil engineering departments in several colleges has been dismal,” a teacher of a self-financed engineering college said, requesting anonymity. “Managements seem to see the easy way out by adding more sections in other departments because it is easier to find faculty.” A civil engineering graduate would rather find better paying jobs in consultancy firms in the construction sector rather than complete post-graduation only to land teaching jobs for a salary as meagre as Rs. 15,000 a month, the teacher added. At least 10 out of some 70 engineering colleges in the Tiruchi region, encompassing Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Tiruvarur districts, may dispense with the civil engineering discipline, it is learnt. Tiruchi district accounts for the highest number of affiliated colleges of Anna University — 32 — followed by 12 each in Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts, six in Nagapattinam, five in Cuddalore, four in Ariyalur and three in Tiruvarur district. “The situation has come to such a pass because policy makers did not take into account the demand-supply factor while permitting new engineering colleges. Of what use are swanky infrastructure in private colleges in the absence of quality faculty and good placements. Only those societies with a clear sense of purpose ought to have been given permission for running the colleges,” said former director of the National Institute of Technology M. Chidambaram. “The Union Education Ministry ought to take note of certain manipulative practices of deemed-to-be universities that accentuate unemployment and unemployability. For instance, the carte-blanche given to these universities to have any number of seats across disciplines without factoring in the job market scenario must be stopped forthwith,” he said.  The situation has come to such a pass because policy makers did not take into account the demand-supply factor while permitting new engineering colleges M. Chidambaram Former director of National Institute of Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civil-engineering-dept-stares-at-closure-in-colleges-in-tiruchi-region/article34321860.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special camp at SIDCO||A special camp will be held at the office of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers' Welfare Association from April 15 to 17. Workers and unit owners at the estate, nearby industrial units and other industrial estates can take part. “So far, 1,350 people from our member units have registered. The camp will start at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday. We have appealed to the Health Department to hold camps at the units at the estate that have more than 150 workers each. There are requests for vaccination from the public in the nearby areas too,” said P. Nallathambi, president of the Association. The estate houses 275 units employing nearly 5,000 workers. “We (the Association) have told the units that it is mandatory for all workers aged 45 and above to be vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camp-at-sidco/article34322294.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil New Year darshan||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-new-year-darshan/article34321879.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Status report||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/status-report/article34322277.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Srirangam candidate fears for life||V. Annalakshmi, 38, a candidate of Srirangam Assembly constituency and daughter of a slain activist, on Wednesday lodged a complaint with police expressing fears for her safety. The complaint came after a banner featuring her father and her slain brother was disfigured by unknown persons at Muthalaipattti near Kulithalai. According to sources, she put up a hoarding soliciting votes in a field near the spot where her father Veeramalai and brother Nallathambi were hacked to death by a gang in July 2019 for filing a contempt of court petition as part of their fight against encroachers on Muthalaipatti Eri. It was alleged that a few villagers were unhappy over the presence of pictures of Veeramalai and Nallathambi on the banner near a village temple and defaced the board. Bid to silence her? Fearing that it was yet another attempt to silence her, Ms. Annalakshmi, who is pursuing a case pending before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to retrieve about 200 acres of Muthalaipatti Eri from encroachers, filed a complaint at Kulithalai police station seeking action against the trouble mongers. She said she was facing extreme pressure from those who had encroached the Muthalaipatti Eri. They could not stomach even the presence of pictures of her father and brother who fought for retrieval of the water body from encroachers. “I continue to receive threat even after the murder of my father and my brother for pursuing the case. My house was damaged on 31.12.19 in the presence of the police. The flex board is damaged today. I foresee it is a direct threat on my life,” said Ms. Annalakshmi. The candidate supports her younger sister and mother with a modest income from a small piece of agricultural land at Muthalaipatti. Backed by Makkal Pathai, Ms. Annalakshmi contested the election on the Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-candidate-fears-for-her-life/article34321841.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Adequate stock of fertilizer in Thanjavur’||Adequate stock of fertilizers are available to meet the requirement of farmers who have taken up summer paddy and early kuruvai crop in the district, the Agriculture Department has said. About 9,000 tonnes of urea, 1,700 tonnes of DAP, 4,000 tonnes of potash and about 4,800 tonnes of complex fertilizers are available with private dealers and primary agricultural cooperative societies in the district. The available stocks of fertilizers can be bought at old rates, an official release from the department said. Fresh stocks of fertilizers with revised rates have been moved only to Budalur taluk by fertilizer companies. About 3,000 tonnes of DAP is expected to arrive shortly. Hence, while purchasing fertilizers, farmers are advised to check the price printed on the bags and pay accordingly. If the price printed on the bags is found defaced or if they are charged more than the rate printed on the bags, they can inform agricultural officers in their taluks or the assistant director of agriculture (quality control). All fertilizer dealers should sell subsidised fertilizers only through point of sale devices by providing Aadhaar numbers of the farmer/buyer. The stock position should be properly notified on a notice board. Dealers found selling fertilizer without proper documents will be liable to face stern action including cancellation of licences under the Fertilizer Control Act 1985, the department has cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-stock-of-fertilizer-in-thanjavur/article34321843.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tough drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-drive/article34321756.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s tally touches an all-time high||Among the deceased was a 23-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on April 12 and died the next day due to bronchopneumonia, respiratory failure and acute pulmonary embolism. Three people in their 40s also succumbed to the infection. Among them was a 42-year-old man from Cuddalore, who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital on April 13 with complaints of cough for five days and breathing difficulty for two days. He died on the same day due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. With 2,564 new cases, Chennai’s tally rose to 2,72,118. The city accounted for 4,344 deaths. Districts’ tallies There were 772 cases in Chengalpattu, followed by 540 in Coimbatore and 383 in Tiruvallur. Three districts had 200-plus cases — Thoothukudi (244), Tiruppur (225) and Tiruchi (216). Among the 12 districts that recorded 100-plus cases were Madurai (199), Tirunelveli (193), Salem (175), Cuddalore (175) and Thanjavur (158). Among those who tested positive for COVID-19 were 34 returnees. This included nine persons each from Maharashtra and West Bengal. As many as 3,464 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 8,87,663.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-tally-touches-an-all-time-high/article34322275.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar, 3.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34322288.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Costume Design and Fashion, World Art Day, online art competitions, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34321907.ece
15 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Despite running high fever, CM campaigns for Mangala Angadi||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday attended a rally and a roadshow in Belagavi district despite running high fever. When he stepped in the VIP lounge of the Sambra airport in Belagavi on Wednesday, the thermal scanner recorded a temperature of 99 centigrade. The scanner beeped and the Chief Minister smiled at the para medical staff who recorded his body temperature. He said, as if to himself, that he was not feeling well “since morning”. He told journalists waiting outside that he had come to campaign for Mangala Angadi, BJP nominee, as he felt that it was his responsibility to do so. He said that he would not respond to Satish Jarkiholi who had said that the fear of losing had forced the BJP local leadership to invite the Chief Minister three times to Belagavi for campaign rallies. “As the Chief Minister, I feel that I have the responsibility of campaigning for my party candidates. That is what I will say,’’ he said. He spent an hour in Belagavi getting feedback from local leaders about campaigning. He left for Mudalgi where he addressed a party rally. He asked his party cadre not to talk about the Opposition but to highlight the achievements of his government and the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. He appealed to people’s sentiments when he said that they should support Mangala Angadi considering her as their mother and sister. He asked them to show their gratitude to Suresh Angadi by voting for Mangala Angadi. “If you vote for her, it will help further strengthen the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,’’ he said. He later held a roadshow in Gokak where he rode in an open vehicle and waved to supporters who had lined up along the streets. Balachandra Jarkiholi, BJP MLA and younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, joined the Chief Minister at the rally and the road show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-running-high-fever-cm-campaigns-for-mangala-angadi/article34321930.ece
15 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Jarkiholi skips campaign rally||Despite an open invitation by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the BJP MLA for Gokak Ramesh Jarkiholi did not attend a campaignrally for Mangala Angadi, the party nominee for the Belagavi Lok Sabha byelection. The leader, who stepped down as Minister after facing sexual abuse allegations, is said to be recuperating from COVID-19. He did not attend BJP rallies at Mudalagi and Gokak held on Wednesday, while his brother Balachandra Jarkiholi, MLA and KMF chairman, attended both. Mr. Yediyurappa had told journalists in Belagavi earlier in the day that he would talk to Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi and ask him to attend the campaign rallies. Addressed a gathering at Mudalagi, Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi said that their fight was against the Congress and not its candidate. His elder brother Satish Jarkiholi is the Congress nominee, but Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi did not name him. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi had admitted himself to the Gokak taluk hospital last week after he reportedly tested positive once he came back from Kolhapur in Maharashtra. He was discharged on the third day and sent home to take rest. On Monday, Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi had said that Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi would enter the campaign once his doctors declared him fit. However, in circles close to the family it is said that Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi would not venture to campaign for the BJP as he had no stakes in it. “Why would he campaign after suffering so much?” said a follower, insisting that he was the victim of a “conspiracy”. For the first time since the Jarkiholi brothers entered politics in the 1990s, none of the brothers is in power. “In his entire public life of over 30 years, this is the first time that Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi has not attended a campaign rally of his own party’s candidate. That is because he has suffered pain and insults over the CD episode. It is question for the party leadership to ponder over,” said Bhimshi Bharamannavar, BJP leader from Gokak who is a close confidant of the Jarkiholi family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-skips-campaign-rally/article34322001.ece
15 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Multiple factors at play in ‘sympathy seat’||Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll was initially thought of as a “single-factor” election where “sympathy” will play an overwhelming role. The situation, however, has turned out to be far more complex as the polling day is nearing. BJP’s choice of Mangala Angadi, wife of the former Union Minister Suresh Angadi whose death necessitated the bypoll, was obviously in anticipation of sympathy votes. So much so most BJP local leaders referred to Belagavi as “sympathy seat”. Other factors However, as campaign has progressed, other factors are cropping up. Caste affiliations of the candidates, the extent of active campaigning for the BJP candidate by Ramesh Jarikiholi (accused in the sex CD scandal) and his brothers, and the Shiv Sena supporting the local MES candidate and Maratha leader Shubham Shelke are all expected to have a bearing on voter behaviour. In the initial days, most BJP leaders spoke extensively about the contributions of the late Minister and how electing his wife would be continuing the legacy. Ms. Angadi, in her first speech, described her late husband as “a COVID warrior who died on duty”. In more than one rally, she broke down while speaking of him. However, this has been changing slowly. On the last day for withdrawal of nominations, it became clear that Ms. Angadi is the only prominent Lingayat candidate and Satish Jarkiholi of the Congress an important non-Lingayat leader. It is expected that “upper” caste voters and some communities who are ideologically inclined to the BJP would rally around Ms. Angadi. On his two visits to the city, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has held meetings with leaders of Lingayats, Marathas, Jains, Vaishyas, weavers, goldsmiths, Kurubas, and Koli Kabbaligas. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi, who belongs to the Valmiki community and is an elder sibling of Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi, has tried to build a persona as a leader of AHINDA (minorities, backward classes, and SC/ST communities). He founded the NGO Manava Bandhutva Vedike that has worked among them. It has branches in most taluks has done extensive work against blind beliefs. Brothers’ campaign Meanwhile, Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi has announced that the brothers would campaign for the BJP. But it is not clear whether this will pull the Jarkiholi family vote away from Mr. Satish Jarkiholi. The impact of the CD scandal on the election also remains an “X factor”. Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader, has addressed a rally in support of Mr. Shelke. This may cut into some portion of the Maratha vote that has gone to the BJP in previous elections. There is no ground data on the population of various communities, though political parties believe that Marathas, Lingayats, Jains, and Valmikis are more densely populated in Belagavi district than elsewhere in the State. Other issues with some significance are the influence Ms. Angadi holds over women voters, disappointment among the BJP cadre about its top leadership supporting dynastic politics despite opposing it in the Congress, the rising fuel prices, and the new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/multiple-factors-at-play-in-sympathy-seat/article34321999.ece
15 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shiv Sena extends support to MES candidate in Belagavi||“Shiv Sena will campaign for the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti candidate Shubham Shelke in the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll,” Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said in Belagavi on Wednesday. “The victory of Shubham Shelke is clear. He will win by a huge margin,’’ he told journalists. He said: “The honour of the Marathi speaker would protect the MES party and its candidate. It will help us gain an edge. We have not fielded our own candidate as we wanted to support the MES.’’ He accused the Karnataka government of committing atrocities on linguistic minorities — Marathi speakers. He said that the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had failed on all grounds. He accused the government of mismanaging COVID-19. “It has restricted free flow of vaccines to the States. It has a monopoly over the supply of drugs and vaccines. Instead of supplying enough vaccines to States that need them, it is accusing us of politicising the issue,” he said. He said that the people were tired of the BJP and they would teach it a fitting lesson at the right time. “The Belagavi bypolls would be a pointer towards it,’’ he said. Later, in the evening, he addressed a campaign meeting in favour of Mr. Shelke, also a Maratha leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shiv-sena-extends-support-to-mes-candidate-in-belagavi/article34321932.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports highest single-day rise||Karnataka on Wednesday reported the highest ever single day spike with 11,265 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 10,94,912. Of these, 8,155 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. Last year during the first outbreak, the State had reported the highest single day spike of 10,947 cases on October 7. Bengaluru Urban too has breached its last year’s record of 5,121 cases reported on October 8.With 38 deaths, the toll rose to 13,046. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 4,364 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,96,367. Of the remaining 85,480 active patients, 506 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 9.94%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.33%. Testing As many as 1,32,242 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,05,630 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,30,41,564.   The State has vaccinated 61,76,171 people so far. This includes 5,73,903 healthcare workers and 2,52,818 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 3,58,039 healthcare workers and 1,03,817 frontline workers have taken the second dose. As many as 28,35,318 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1 when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 19,21,008 persons above 45 years have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-highest-single-day-rise/article34321946.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Strike has seen bus crew being attacked, 60 buses damaged||The indefinite strike by employees of the road transport corporations (RTCs), which entered the eighth day on Wednesday, has seen many incidents of bus crew being attacked allegedly by their own colleagues or family members of workers across Karnataka.Apart from instances of assault, angry protesters have pelted stones and damaged more than 60 buses, including luxury air-conditioned buses. As many as 35 buses in the Karnataka Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) fleet have been pelted with stones so far. Ensure security: CM Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has directed the Home Department to ensure that security is provided to all buses, and if possible, deploy one constable in each bus. After videos of drivers went viral on social media, the RTCs also started taking stern action against people involved in the attacks. BMTC managing director C. Shikha said, “In Bengaluru, there were two cases of attacks on our drivers. One of the drivers at Peenay depot was assaulted by five women, including an employee of the corporation. Those who instigated the attack have been arrested, and the woman employee has been dismissed from service.” Since the start of the strike on April 7, the police have filed more than 10 FIRs based on complaints lodged by the bus crew of the KSRTC. “It is sad that some ofthe employees are involved in damaging their own buses. They are not only causing loss to the corporations but also risking the lives of passengers. Recently, in Bagepalli, a Hyderabad-bound AC bus was damaged and a passenger was injured,” said a KSRTC official, adding that in most cases windshields were broken. A driver of a KSRTC bus said, “A few days ago, while I was driving to Mysuru, around 15 to 20 people stopped the bus at Kengeri. To embarrass me, they garlanded and touched my feet. It was done to ridicule me. Luckily, they did not damagethe bus, and allowed me to go. I am from a poor background and have my own financial commitments. If I take part in the strike. I will end up losing my salary, which I need to pay my bills.” The RTCs have suffered revenue loss of Rs. 152 crore from April 7 to 14 owing to the ongoing strike. Those employees who have not returned to work said they would continue to strike on Thursday. The Karnataka State Road Transport Employees’ League said the strike would continue till their demands were met. President of the league R. Chandrashekar, while condemning the violence, said, “In the coming days, we will hold candlelight marches and protests outside MLAs’ houses. The government has not called us for any talks and our strike will continue till our demands are met.” Protesting employees want salaries as per the the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. He said, “We do not support any kind of violence. We have given clear instructions to all those employees associated with us not to pelt stones at buses. All our associates are participating in the strike peacefully.” Booked for protest Meanwhile, the Bengaluru police booked honorary president of the league Kodihalli Chandrashekar and 15 others under the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act and unlawful assembly for staging a protest at Mysore Bank circle here on Monday morning. According to the police, the protest distributed traffic movement during peak commuting hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strike-has-seen-bus-crew-being-attacked-60-buses-damaged/article34322006.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,500 MBBS students yet to get KMC registration||Over 70 days after graduating, around 3,500 MBBS students of 2015 batch, who had got a medical seat through CET, are yet to receive their Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) registration without which they cannot practice. This is because medical colleges have withheld their original documents (marks cards) that they had submitted at the time of admission. Without the original documents, the graduating candidates cannot apply for KMC registration. Upset with this, the candidates started a Twitter and Instagram campaign #doctorsdeniedlicence; #weneedKMCregistration on Tuesday, which is gaining good traction. Medical colleges say they acted on instructions from the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) asking them to withhold the students’ documents till there is clarity on mandatory rural service. In a letter dated February 15, P.G. Girish, director of Medical Education, wrote to the dean and directors of government and private medical colleges in Karnataka asking them not to release the original documents collected from students at the time of admission, until further instructions from the DME. Referring to the Karnataka Compulsory Service by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012, which mandates one compulsory government service, the letter stated: “The legislation mandates that all candidates should take up compulsory training service after having completed medical courses covering undergraduate, post-graduate degree/diploma and super speciality courses in various disciplines, failing which penalty ranging Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh is to be paid by the defaulting candidates. As a step in the direction of enforcing the legislation, colleges have been asked to withhold the original documents.” Demanding that their documents be released, the students, who have come together under the banner of Karnataka Association of House Surgeons (KAHS), are planning to meet Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Thursday. On judgment Surya B.N., a graduate from Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences and an executive committee member of KAHS, said the issue of compulsory rural service is before the High Court and it will take time till a judgment is passed. “We are ready to abide by the court’s judgment when it comes. We want our rightful KMC registration now so that we can start practising. We cannot afford to be a burden on our parents even after graduating,” he said. Another graduate from Belagavi Government Medical College, said although nearly 7,000 medical students worked tirelessly without a break during the first COVID-19 outbreak, they are forced to sit home without work during the second wave. “We put in our best in the last five-and-a-half years to complete the course and now, we are yet to be registered,” he said. Mr. Girish said there was confusion about rural service due to different court judgments. “A meeting has been convened on Thursday by Mr. Sudhakar to discuss this with officials and get the confusion cleared,” he said, adding that a final decision will be taken thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3500-mbbs-students-yet-to-get-kmc-registration/article34321951.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks govt.’s response on plea against ‘leak’ of information on probe||The High Court of Karnataka has asked the State government to respond to a plea to not “leak” information collected during the course of investigation in any case to the press, the public or the media and take action against officers responsible in cases of “leak” of information. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on a PIL petition filed H. Naghabhushan Rao, a retired officer of Grameena Bank and president of the All Karnataka Grameena Bank Employees’ Federation. Pointing out various instances of reports telecast in Kannada new television channels disclosing details of cases under investigation, the petitioner has contended that it is necessary to ensure absolute secrecy about investigation to maintain its sanctity and adjudication of justice. “The case diary is confidential and available on direction by the court only for its perusal. Even the accused has no right to see the case diary. Definitely this is not material which can be discussed on prime time TV programmes,” the petitioner claimed while pointing out that in majority of the cases, the media will be reporting the stage of the investigation, the evidence collected, and sometimes even the electronic evidence are leaked to media houses. It is necessary to have guidelines to the police to keep secrecy in the matter of investigation, it was argued on behalf of the petitioner. Obscenity in news The petitioner has also alleged that nowadays contents such as blurred sex video tapes, and obscene photographs along with graphics are shown while telecasting news reports on television channels without any censor and this amounts to airing of ‘A’ rated movies in the form of news. Repeated telecast of such obscene videos/photographs in the guise of dissemination of news/information cannot be watched along with children, and telecast of such contents as part of news adversely impacts public health and morality, the petitioner has claimed while seeking directions to the Centre and State governments to frame appropriate guidelines/rules to prevent TV channels from telecasting obscene contents as part of news reports. “Under the Cinematography Act such contents are censored by the censor board. But in the case of the electronic media, which has far-reaching viewership, there is no such mechanism to control the contents,” it has been contended in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-seeks-govts-response-on-plea-against-leak-of-information-on-probe/article34321944.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. convenes all-party meeting on April 18 on pandemic||In the midst of a surge in COVID-19 cases, the State government has convened an all-party meeting on April 18 to discuss strategies to combat the spread of the virus. However, the decision has been slammed by the Opposition which has argued that it is too late and without adequate preparation. “We will take decisions based on the suggestions given by the Opposition leaders,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told reporters here on Wednesday. “Except for lockdown, we want to take all strict measures to curb the COVID-19 spread. If need be, night curfew could be extended to two or three more districts,” he added. Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy hit out at the government. “When the State government ignored the early warning on the second wave and is not ready with the necessary infrastructure, what is the use of holding a meeting?” Mr. Kumaraswamy asked. “We would not have reached this position if both the Centre and State had not ignored the early warning,” he said on Twitter. He said, “Our support to the government’s effort to handle the COVID-19 pandemic will always remain. However, it is deplorable that the governments ignored warnings and remained irresponsible.” The governments should at least stock up enough medicines, otherwise what is the use of convening meetings? he asked. Mr. Shivakumar told reporters that the government had taken decisions on its own whims and fancies. “It has convened a meeting when the situation has gone out of hand.” He accused the government of not honouring its promises made last year when COVID-19 hit the State. “Measures were announced to sustain the livelihoods of people only for a month. Even that was not fully done.” On the possibility of a lockdown, Mr. Shivakumar said, “I feel people are struggling and there is no need for a lockdown. Enough precautions should be taken now. It is a question of saving both life and livelihood.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-convenes-all-party-meeting-on-april-18-on-pandemic/article34321997.ece
15 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Books invited for award||The Kuvempu Bhasha Bharati Pradhikara (KBBP) has invited books from translators and publishers for the Best Translated Book Award 2020. According to a release, books published between January 1 and December 31, 2020, are eligible. First-time published books (four copies) that have been translated from Kannada to any Indian language or from any Indian language to Kannada can be sent to the Registrar, Kuvempu Bhasha Bharati Pradhikara, Kalagrama, Jnana Bharathi, Bengaluru 560056 by April 30, 2021. For details, call 080-23183311/3312 or visitwww. kuvempubhashabharathi. org/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/books-invited-for-award/article34322003.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines for Ramzan||State government has issued a set of COVID-19 related guidelines for the month of Ramzan amidst a rise in cases in Karnataka. Large gatherings will be prohibited, wearing of masks will be compulsory and mosques in containment zones will remain closed till the zone is denotified, according to the guidelines. The government has also advised people above 60, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years to stay at home. The notification has emphasised the need to maintain social distance at all times. It has advised against physical contact while greeting each other. It has also recommended announcement of Dos and Don’ts through loudspeakers before prayers and forming of queues with social distancing to enter any premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-for-ramzan/article34322248.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||French Minister’s visit||Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs of France, will be in the city on Thursday as part of his official visit to India to promote France as an attractive destination for investment and bolster Indo-French space, scientific, and technological cooperation. According to a release, he will visit the campus of Bangalore Life Sciences Cluster (BLiSc), which comprises the National Centre for Biological Sciences, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms, and the Institute of STEM Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine and hold discussions with representatives of BLiSc. Later, he will visit ISRO’s Human Space Flight Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/french-ministers-visit/article34322004.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ambedkar’s contributions recalled||“Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s thoughts played a major role in building new India and he gave three categories of mantras to the exploited class — ‘educate, agitate, organise’, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. After garlanding the portrait of Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary at an event organised by the Department of SocialWelfare in front of the Vidhana Soudha, the Chief Minister said Ambedkar devoted his entire life to the protection of the downtrodden and fighting for social equality, according to a release. He dreamed of equality by building modern India beyond the system of caste and by upholding women’s equality, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambedkars-contributions-recalled/article34322002.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Remdesivir: HDK’s charge||Flagging shortage of Remdesivir (an important drug used to treat COVID-19), across the country, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday alleged that it is being sold in the black market and there are instances of fake medicine too in the market. “There is no guarantee for those infected that they will get this medicine. The Centre, which earlier allowed the export of Remdesivir, has now banned exports following criticism and shortage,” he said. He added, “On the one hand the government has failed in not stocking up enough quantities of Remdesivir and on the other has shown inefficiency by unable to curb its sale in the black market or the fake ones in the market. Both the Centre and State have slipped on COVID-19 management.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remdesivir-hdks-charge/article34321942.ece
15 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Creative ability programme||Visvesvaraya museum is organising an online creative ability programme from April 26 to 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/creative-ability-programme/article34322249.ece
15 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two women attacked with machete||A person allegedly hit his cousins with a machete as they refused to marry his younger brother, at Dodda Kunchevu village in Holenarsipur taluk on Monday. Yogitha, 22, and her sister Pushpita, 16, who suffered injuries, have been admitted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The sisters recently lost their father. Their aunt Akkamma wanted one of them to marry her second son. She went to the girls’ place with her mother Kalamma and elder son Nagaraj to discuss the marriage proposal on Monday. Yogitha, who has completed B.Ed., said she had no plans to get married soon, and wanted to work and support her younger sister study further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-women-attacked-with-machete/article34321994.ece
15 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi-Dharwad celebrates Ambedkar’s birth anniversary||The 130th birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, considered the father of the Constitution, was celebrated through various programmes by government agencies, various public and private organisations. In both Hubballi and Dharwad, statues of Ambedkar almost got buried under a load of garlands as politicians, individuals, office-bearers of organisations and officials took turns to garland them and pay respects to the late leader who gave the country its Constitution. Meanwhile, members of Dalit organisations also took out motorcycle rallies waving blue flags to mark the occasion. In an event organised by various Dalit organisations, scores of Home Guards who served as COVID-19 warriors were honoured by Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti and others near the Ambedkar statue. In the function held in Dharwad, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil emphasised the need to follow the path laid down by B.R. Ambedkar and said that the late leader’s life and contributions had inspired many generations. Earlier, he along with Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela and others paid floral tributes to a portrait of Ambedkar. On the occasion, a handbook on schemes for members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes brought out by Social Welfare Department was released. Meritorious students were honoured on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-dharwad-celebrates-ambedkars-birth-anniversary/article34321941.ece
15 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Defeat BJP in bypolls: Hiremath||The president of Samaj Parviartana Samudaya and anti-graft crusader S.R. Hiremath has urged the electorate of Belagavi Lok Sabha Constituency and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies to defeat the BJP in the bypolls in reply to the anti-farmer and anti-people policies of the party. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday, Mr. Hiremath said that despite the widespread protests, the BJP-led Union government was going ahead with the implementation of the anti-farmer and anti-constitutional policies. He said that thousands of farmers were staging agitation for the last 90 days at borders of New Delhi seeking repeal of the contentious farm laws. However, the Union government had been apathetic towards the demands of the farmers and was bent on handing over the farm sector to the corporate houses, which was detrimental to Indian farmers, he said. The other demand of the protesting farmers was the strict implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report which recommended minimum support price to all farm produce, including fruits and vegetables, he said.  Mr. Hiremath said that in a democracy, the best weapon for citizens was elections and people should make use of it to teach a lesson to the BJP in the byelections in the three constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/defeat-bjp-in-bypolls-hiremath/article34321949.ece
15 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||FIR against Vijay Kulkarni||Following the road accident in Dharwad on Monday in which two persons were killed and four injured, the Dharwad Traffic Police have filed an FIR against Vijay Kulkarni, brother of the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni. The FIR was filed after Mr. Vijay Kulkarni appeared before the Traffic Police late on Monday night and admitted before them that he was driving the SUV which rammed six pedestrians. Two were killed and four were injured when the SUV rammed the pedestrians near KVG Bank head office on Dharwad-Belagavi Road. In a section of the media, it was also reported that Mr. Kulkarni got off the vehicle and boarded another vehicle, after the accident. Appearing before the police, Mr. Vijay Kulkarni said that accident occurred when he tried to avoid a motorcycle that came from the opposite direction. Denying media reports, Mr. Kulkarni clarified that he had immediately alerted the police and also called for ambulance soon after the accident. He said that he left the place only after the injured were shifted to the hospital. Refuting reports that he was in a state of inebriation when the accident occurred, Mr. Kulkarni said that he had undergone medical examination to prove that he was not under the influence of alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-against-vijay-kulkarni/article34321938.ece
15 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||RRBs seek implementation of 11th bipartite settlement||The Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) have urged the Union government to implement the 11th bipartite settlement and eighth joint note of the officers’ wage revision in RRBs in toto. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday, General Secretary of Akhila Karnataka RRB Employees’ Federation V.K. Bannigol said that the terms of award of National Industrial Tribunal had been upheld by the Supreme Court. He said the employees were entitled to get complete bipartite wage revision settlement. Not implemented Mr. Bannigol said that although the 11th bipartite settlement was finalised in November, 2020, it had not been implemented till date even after four months of the settlement. He pointed out that although the Centre had issued a circular on wage revision on April 1, it was on directions of the Supreme Court.  Wage arrears The federation had urged the Centre to disburse 41 month wage arrears in one instalment along with other allowances to the staff on a par with nationalised and commercial banks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rrbs-seek-implementation-of-11th-bipartite-settlement/article34321950.ece
15 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Revenue and Pension Adalat on Saturday||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil will hold a Revenue and Pension Adalat at Vanahalli village in Dharwad taluk on April 17, a release said. Apart from it, Mr. Patil will address grievances of residents at Kavalgeri, Chandanmatti, Kankur, Talwai and Vanahalli villages, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-and-pension-adalat-on-saturday/article34321939.ece
15 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Tributes paid to Ambedkar||The 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar was celebrated with Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna paying floral tributes to his statue here on Wednesday. Ms. Jyothsna, addressing the gathering, said, “the Constitution was the only religious book; Indian Constitution is the only religious text we follow.” Dr. Ambedkar believed that the Constitution is not just a written text but it can be an effective tool to ensure social justice and equality to all sections of society. Recalling the struggle of Dr. Ambedkar for the uplift of the deprived sections and to abolish untouchability from society Ms. Jyothsna said that the leader’s vision of equal opportunities for the oppressed and the marginalised in all fields would reflect that his contribution was not limited to just one community. Sanghanad Banthe of Siddarth Vihar Trust was present. Police Commissioner N. Satish Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police Kishore Babu, Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dileesh Sasi and City Corporation Commissioner Snehal S. Lokhande were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tributes-paid-to-ambedkar/article34321934.ece
15 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||One survivor says more may have been saved||One of the two survivors of the fishing boat tragedy, 37-year-old Velumurugan from Tamil Nadu said here on Wednesday that he cannot say exactly whether the mechanised fishing boat Rabah hit the merchant ship carrying the Singapore flag mv APL Le Havre or the ship hit the boat in the sea near Mangaluru in the early hours of Tuesday. Speaking to media persons, he said that the weather was rough and it was raining when the accident took place. The boat had sailed out from Beypore, Kozhikode, at about 10 p.m. on April 11. “As there was no catch we went deep into the sea to spread the net. The crew of the boat went to sleep one by one after spreading the net. Only the red, green and white lights were on. Alexander Syrang (whose body has been recovered) was piloting the boat,” he said and added that he (Velumurugan) went to sleep near the piloting place. “I woke up when there was huge sound. I saw in front of my eyes a dark rock like object. I thought we have hit a huge rock and Syrang was trying to turn the boat but the boat capsized immediately,” the survivor said and added that he held on to one portion of the boat. After some time, a ship approached the place and rescued him and another survivor Sunil Das from West Bengal by throwing a rope at them. Velumurugan said that if the personnel in the ship had made some more efforts, more lives could have been saved as some were under the boat. “I was in shock and for a moment did not realise what was happening,” he said. However, the other survivor Sunil Das maintained that it was the merchant ship that hit the fishing boat. Meanwhile, owner of the boat Mamentakathu Jaffar of Beypore reached Mangaluru to file a case and also join the relief operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-survivor-says-more-may-have-been-saved/article34322354.ece
15 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity odd semester degree exams to resume today||Mangalore University will resume on Thursday its undergraduate odd semester examinations which had been suspended from April 8 to April 12 due to the strike by the employees of State road transport corporations. The examinations had begun on April 1. Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma, who is also in-charge Registrar (administration) of the university, has in a statement said: “The university has decided to go ahead with the undergraduate examinations. The schedule as fixed originally will continue.” “We request students to take it seriously as the academic year is getting lost, which may affect the coming semester also. With public support as in the case of SSLC and PU students, we appeal the enlightened public to support in whatever manner they can so as to help our young student friends to write the examinations,” he said. Mr. Dharma told The Hindu that as per the original schedule, the examinations were to be completed by April 28. Now, it will have to be stretched up to May 6 as the examinations postponed will have to be conducted after April 28. The timetable will be announced soon. He said that the university is planning to conduct special examination for those students who could not attend the examinations due to COVID-19 and transport strike. Hence, if students in areas served exclusively by KSRTC are not able to attend the examinations from Thursday onwards, they need not be apprehensive. The university is requesting the general public to help such students who cannot reach the examination centres due to the transport strike to help them reach the centres to ensure that they did not miss their papers.  ‘As per the original schedule, the examinations were to be completed by April 28 and now, they will have to be stretched up to May 6 as the papers that were postponed will have to be conducted after April 28’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-odd-semester-degree-exams-to-resume-today/article34322357.ece
15 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teen suffers severe burns while taking selfie atop railway wagon||A 16-year-old boy received severe burns from electric shocks when he reportedly attempted to take a selfie atop a stabled goods train of LPG tankers at Jokatte Railway Station on Wednesday afternoon. The Jokatte-Panambur section of railway line has been electrified and the overhead electric (OHE) lines remain charged. The boy apparently received a shock from the OHE line. Railway sources identified the boy as Mohammed Dishan, son of Mohammed Iqbal, a resident of HPCL Colony, Jokatte, who was admitted to a private hospital with 50% burns. The goods train was waiting for signal clearance to move towards MRPL Siding to load LPG after arriving at Jokatte on Tuesday night. According to the Station Master’s report, he went on the platform after hearing some commotion at around 2.50 p.m. to see three boys climbing down the ladder of one of the LPG wagons stabled on Road 4. Upon inquiry, the boys said Dishan received the electric shock from the OHE while taking a selfie atop of the wagon. He was lying near the track and was shifted to hospital with the help of locals. RPF Inspector and Sub Inspector and other staff visited the station as well as the hospital. Jurisdictional Bajpe Police too visited the spot. Exercise caution The Railways has always cautioned public not to venture close to OHE lines wherever Railway lines were electrified lest they become victims of electric shock. The Palakkad Division’s spokesperson in a communiqué again urged the public in the light of Wednesday’s mishap not to come in contact directly or indirectly with electrical cables and connected equipment. Overhead electric lines and associated equipment carry voltage as high as 25,000 volts, he said, adding that caution boards were put at several places. The chances of suffering electric shock were very high from these cables, he said, adding that it was dangerous to use unfolded umbrellas beneath the OHE lines during rains or lightning. People should not climb on electric poles, locomotives, coaches and wagons as they go closer to OHE lines. Youngsters often become prey to electrocution while taking photos. Objects should not be thrown at electric lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teen-suffers-severe-burns-while-taking-selfie-atop-railway-wagon/article34322362.ece
15 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police book two KSRTC staff for obstructing driver, conductor||The Byndoor Police in Udupi district have registered a case under the provisions of IPC, ESMA and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act against two employees of KSRTC for obstructing a driver of a bus from discharging his duty and causing damage to the vehicle. A communiqué from Udupi District Police said that driver Raghavendra (31), a resident of Byndoor, was on his way from Kundapur to Bhatkal on Tuesday afternoon along with conductor Ashok. When the bus reached Shiroor, accused Nagesh and Surendra, who came on a motorcycle, questioned him why he was on duty while other employees were on strike. They are said to have abused Raghavendra and damaged the windshield of the bus with a stone before fleeing. Based on Raghavendra’s complaint, Byndoor Police have registered cases under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, provisions of Essential Services Maintenance Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act against the accused. The police have launched a search for the accused, the communique said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-book-two-ksrtc-staff-for-obstructing-driver-conductor/article34322350.ece
15 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Airport: Cong. warns of stir if ‘Adani’ name is not removed||Ivan D’Souza, former MLC and All India Congress Committee Secretary, on Wednesday threatened to launch ‘Save Airport’ movement if the Centre did not drop the name ‘Adani’ from Mangaluru International Airport. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. D’Souza said the Airports Authority of India should take immediate steps to get the name removed as it was illegal. He alleged that upon the MIA being taken over by Adani Group under PPP, its progress has come down, facilities were being cut down and airlines have reduced operations. In this background, the Save Airport movement becomes imperative, he said. He said no airlines were keen on introducing new flights from Mangaluru thereby defeating the very purpose of establishing the airport. The management appears keen on extorting passengers even as the AAI has turned blind eye towards violation of agreement terms, he alleged. The former MLC demanded to know from AAI for what reasons it has failed to introduce flights from Mangaluru to Goa, Kozhikode, Kochi, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Bidar and other destinations. Though Go Air had come forward to introduce services to Mumbai and other places, that has not realised for reasons best known to authorities. If flights were introduced to Bengaluru at 11.30 p.m. and to Delhi at 11 p.m., how could one expect passenger patronage to such services, Mr. D’Souza mused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-cong-warns-of-stir-if-adani-name-is-not-removed/article34322360.ece
15 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two minors booked||The Surathkal Police booked two minor boys on Monday for allegedly throwing stones at a window of a masjid in Santosh Colony of Idya in their limits on April 4. The police said that clues from CCTV cameras installed in the area led to the two boys. The police seized the two-wheeler used by the boys. The police produced them before the Juvenile Justice Board. Murder A 47-year-old worker was found dead near the railway track in the Baikampady Industrial Estate on Monday. The Panambur Police said that the worker was murdered. The police gave the name of the victim as Yellappa from Bagalkot district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-minors-booked/article34322349.ece
15 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hospital says there is shortage of ICU beds||Kasturba Hospital in Manipal, Udupi district, said on Wednesday that it is facing acute shortage of ICU beds and hence, ambulance service providers, other hospitals, nursing homes and attenders of patients should check with the hospital before shifting patients to Manipal. Medical Superintendent of the hospital Avinash Shetty said in a release: “Due to increase in the overall ICU cases in the hospital at present, there is an acute shortage of ICU beds and ventilators at the hospital. Hence, we request to call mobile number 9686692603 before shifting patients who need ICU and ventilator services.” “Taking confirmation by calling up the hospital is necessary to avoid inconvenience to patients. All are requested to cooperate,” Dr. Shetty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-says-there-is-shortage-of-icu-beds/article34322351.ece
15 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||St. Antony’s Church marks centenary year||St. Antony’s Church, Sasthan in Udupi district, marked its centenary celebration on Wednesday with a thanksgiving mass and felicitation programme. The mass was concelebrated by Gerald Isaac Lobo, Bishop of Udupi, with Peter Paul Saldanha, Bishop of Mangaluru, and others. Mr. Saldanha said, “Jubilee means year of freedom. It is not just an outside celebration it involves internal purity also. We need to live the faith which was sowed years ago,” he said and also released the prayer book published in memory of centenary celebration. Mr. Lobo released a hymn book on the occasion. Soon after the mass, a felicitation programme was organized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/st-antonys-church-marks-centenary-year/article34322364.ece
15 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Won’t back any project that lacks people’s support: Somashekar||District-in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar on Wednesday said that he will not pursue or give his consent for any project that does not have the support or the concurrence of the people of Mysuru. He was reacting to the proposed heli-tourism project which has ignited a major controversy as it entails felling of over 150 trees to pave way for the helipad opposite the Lalitha Mahal Palace hotel. NGOs have already launched an online petition which has garnered over 70,000 signatures while Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, who belongs to the ruling BJP, dubbed it as a publicity stunt devoid of a vision or revenue model. Media information Mr. Somashekar, who was in the city to participate in Dr.B.R.Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations, said the project was not brought to his notice or discussed with him. He has learnt of the project and the ongoing campaign against it only through the media. The Mminister said the Forest Department has called for a public hearing on the issue of tree felling and any decision will be in concurrence with the view of the people elicited during the hearing. The public hearing will be held at Aranya Bhavan from 11 a.m. on April 23. No separate rules On the surge in COVID-19 cases in Mysuru, Mr. Somashekar said the protocols applicable to other cities and districts are also applicable to Mysuru and there are no separate rules for the city. The district administration and the Mysuru City Corporation are coordinating to bring the pandemic under control, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wont-back-any-project-that-lacks-peoples-support-somashekar/article34321989.ece
15 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Fatalities continue in Mysuru district||Fatalities have continued to mount in Mysuru district despite the district administration telling hospitals to strictly comply with the treatment protocols. Five deaths have been reported on Wednesday, taking the toll to 1,093, which is second highest in the State after Bengaluru. All five are SARI patients and were suffering from breathlessness. All the deceased were aged above 55 years and a couple of them had no co-morbidities, according to the health bulletin. Three deaths had been reported in private hospitals while two in the designated COVID-19 hospital. In the last six days, COVID-19 has claimed the lives of 23 persons in Mysuru, causing unease among the health authorities. After Tuesday’s biggest spike of the year, the number of positive cases on Wednesday stood at 356, taking the active cases’ tally to 2,385. A whopping 492 cases on Tuesday shocked the health authorities despite claims about efforts being made to contain the spread. The cases are showing an upward trend irrespective of the night curfew. Swab tests Mysuruis carrying out nearly 6,000 swab tests daily. As many as 232 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. The COVID-19 tally is inching to cross the 60,000-mark with continuous spike in infections in the second wave. The cumulative positive cases’ tally stood at 59,421 on Wednesday and the total number of patients discharged so far stands at 55,943. Meanwhile, the vaccination coverage in Mysuru district crossed the 4 lakh-mark on Wednesday. As many as 4,06,534 persons had been vaccinated in the district with more number of eligible populations thronging the vaccine sites for the shots. A total of 1,94,248 persons above 60 years of age had taken the jab until Wednesday. Mysuru’s ICU beds are also filling up fast as 31 patients are currently being treated in the COVID-19 intensive care units (ICUs). Bed availability About 100 beds are available in ICUs of the government-run hospitals as well as in private hospitals in Mysuru. According to the Health Department, 31 beds have been occupied so far and about 69 beds are remaining. Going by the current trend of infection growth and the number of deaths reported so far in April, more ICU beds may also get occupied in the coming days in case patients develop complications. All put together, around 500 beds in K.R. Hospital and 200 beds in district hospital have centralised oxygen supply. Only 20 ventilators are available for COVID-19 patients in government hospitals and 20 new ventilators had been sought as part of scaling up infrastructure for COVID-19 management. “We can create more ICU beds but we are severely short staffed since such wards need more caretakers. Unless we get the staff, we cannot enhance the ICU beds,” a senior health official said. The number of patients in ICUs in other districts: Mandya (14), Kodagu (6), Chamarajnagar (5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fatalities-continue-in-mysuru-district/article34321987.ece
15 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MLA Ramdas tests positive for COVID-19||Krishnaraja MLA and former Minister S.A. Ramdas has tested positive for COVID-19. The BJP leader took to Twitter to confirm that he has been contracted with the infection on Wednesday afternoon. Earlier in the day, Mr. Ramdas had taken part in Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Jayanthi programme at Town Hall in which several elected representatives and senior officials had participated. Tweet In a tweet, Mr Ramdas said: “I have tested positive for COVID-19 this afternoon. I’m fine and under treatment in a private healthcare centre. Need not worry. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get tested for the virus.” Mr. Ramdas, who shared the dais with Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and others in the birth anniversary event, said his health condition became unstable on Wednesday afternoon and consequently he underwent the COVID-19 test. The report confirmed the infection, he said.  He had also attended the programme of garlanding the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on the Town Hall premises along with many dignitaries. In addition to Mr. Somashekar, L. Nagendra, MLA; former MP Shivanna; Karnataka Safai Karmachari Commission Chairman Kote Shivanna; Dharmasena, MLC; and others had come in contact with Mr. Ramdas at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-ramdas-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34321990.ece
15 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Activists set for another battle on road widening||Environmentalists and social activists of Mysuru – who are agitating over the proposed felling of nearly 150 trees to pave way for a helipad – are set to confront the authorities again as there is another proposal to fell 50 trees for road widening. The proposed road widening is in Vijayanagar and the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has already identified the trees with a marker, which has upset the local community. Social activists have flayed the MUDA and said that any such movewithout permission from the Forest Department was in violation of the law. Another online campaign on the lines of the online petition through change.org which elicited over 70,000 signatures against the heli-tourism project, is now being contemplated to bring pressure on the MUDA to prevent tree felling. Bhamy V. Shenoy, a social activist, said even as Mysuru was dealing with a major environmental crisis of losing hundreds of trees to make space for an helipad that is not needed near the Lalitha Mahal Palace hotel, people are facing another such hazard. India, as a signatory to Paris agreement, is committed to increase forest coverage to 33 per cent of the landmass and cannot afford to cut even one tree. Dr. Shenoy argued that though it was not possible to put any value to a tree’s benefit to mankind, one has to do quantify it and engage in cost-benefit analysis to prove that it does not benefit anyone to fell trees for road widening. Questioning the need for widening the street of a layout which was recently developed, activists are bracing for another round of fight with the authorities in their bid to save the trees. Incidentally, the MUDA in its budget for 2021-22 has earmarked funds to improve the green cover of the city. Activists have pointed out that it was an exercise in contradiction. On the one hand the MUDA wants to plant more trees, and on the other hand it wants to fell the existing and fully grown trees which will neutralise any benefit of tree planting, said the activists. The Forest Department on its part has no funds for urban greenery this year due to resource constraints faced by the State government because of the pandemic. Hence any tree felled cannot be replaced and the decision of MUDA has come in for criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-set-for-another-battle-on-road-widening/article34321991.ece
15 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘More Army recruitment rallies needed in Kodagu’||Describing the 37 Coorg Medium Regiment as a matter of ‘pride for Karnataka’, ex-Sergeant of Indian Air Force Mandetira Subramani, who is also the president of VeKare Ex-Servicemen's Trust (VKET), has emphasised the need to post a few more willing young officers, junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and jawans among Coorgs to the regiment and make it more meaningful. Representation needed Even though the regiment uses the insignia of Coorg i.e Odi Kathi and Peeche Kathi, and displays the insignia in sports track suits, besides celebrating the two major festivals Puttari and Kaipodh, it is surprising to note that there is no significant representation of Coorg officers, jawans and JCOs in the regiment as of now, said Mr. Subramani while addressing the recent 9th annual general body meeting of T. Shettigeri Ex-Servicemen Association, Kodagu. He urged the president of the association Kattera Vishwanath to approach the Chief of Army Staff and request him to post a few willing young officers, JCOs and jawans among Coorgs already serving the army in different artillery regiments to the regiment. Youth training He also said the Army recruitment rallies should be held in Kodagu more frequently. He urged the members of the association to motivate and train the youth in Kodagu to join the Indian Army as officers or as combatant soldiers depending on their educational qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-army-recruitment-rallies-needed-in-kodagu/article34321995.ece
15 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Passes away||Carolyn Parpia, 91, wife of late H.A.B. Parpia, former Director of Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru, passed away on Wednesday. She was the founder principal of CFTRI School and is survived by four children. Carolyn Parpia died of old age-related causes at her daughter’s residence in Rome and last rites will take place on Thursday, according to family sources in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passes-away/article34321988.ece
15 April 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||MLA tests positive for COVID-19||Narasimha Naik (Rajugowda), MLA and Chairman of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board, has tested positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru. Releasing a video clip, Mr. Naik confirmed the news and appealed to his followers and party workers not to worry as he is doing well. While sending his wishes to mark the 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar, Mr. Naik said that his followers should not get anxious over his health. “I have been exhibiting minor symptoms of COVID-19 and getting treatment here. Those who came in contact with me in the last four-five days should get tested if they see any symptoms,” he added. Mr. Naik, who is the key campaigner for BJP candidate Pratapgouda Patil in the Maski Assembly constituency where bypolls are scheduled for Saturday, participated in many programmes, including the one where Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa addressed a gathering, in Maski and Mudgal recently. It may be recalled that Mr. Pratapgouda Patil has also tested positive and is under home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34321948.ece
15 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Simple Ambedkar birth fete in two districts||The 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar was celebrated in both Yadgir and Raichur districts on Wednesday in a simple manner owing to COVID-19 situation. Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya and Deputy Commissioner of Raichur R. Venkatesh Kumar garlanded the statues of Babasaheb Ambedkar at Ambedkar Circle in Yadgir and in Raichur, respectively. The Deputy Commissioners recalled the efforts by Dr. Ambedkar in bringing out the Constitution that provides equal rights to citizens of the country irrespective of their caste and religion. The birth anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar was celebrated by various organisations, communities, pro-Kannada groups and the Bharatiya Janata Party in the districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-ambedkar-birth-fete-in-two-districts/article34321936.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Crematoria, graveyard staff rue lack of pay||As the second wave of COVID-19 continues, recognition has dimmed for a section of frontline workers who play a crucial role in these tragic times: staff at the crematoria and graveyards. With the death toll mounting, their work has doubled. But hopes of being paid remain just that. They have alleged that most of them haven’t been paid for a year or longer, a grouse that prompted them and organisations supporting them to confront the Chief Minister near Vidhana Soudha on Wednesday. Ironically, around 148 gravediggers and electric crematorium assistants had, last year, pledged one month’s salary, adding up to Rs. 20.72 lakh, to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. “That was probably the last month many of them got paid,” alleged A. Suresh, secretary, Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsh Samiti. Ravi N., a worker at the Sumanahalli crematorium and general secretary of the Rudrabhoomi Naukarara Ghataka, said five crematoria were taking in bodies of patients who succumbed to COVID-19. “Workers in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone haven’t been paid for three months. In the south zone, it’s been as long as 10 months, in the West nine months and in Dasarahalli and Yelahanka, 15 months. The government keeps making false assurances,” he said. It was only in 2018, after a long struggle, that the BBMP started paying them Rs. 14,000 per month. According to workers, this was less than the Rs. 17,000 that the BBMP had initially announced in 2017. Many alleged that when they finally got paid, it was only around Rs. 10,500, which has also stopped. No PPE kits Safety is the other big concern. It was only after nearly a month since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the city that all the electric crematoriums in the city were supplied with four Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) suits to protect those assisting the final rites of COVID-19 victims from contracting the infection. “When the pandemic began, they gave us PPE kits. Now, there's nothing. Bodies are increasing gradually. Last year, for three months, we didn’t go home. Now it's coming back to the same plight as there’s a night curfew and it’s too late to go back home. “We are performing the last rights for up to 25 bodies. Even the sanitisers to be kept at the crematorium are not enough, and we end up getting abused by people. We are pained due to the lack of recognition,” said Mr. Ravi. Mr. Suresh raised the need for workers to be vaccinated. “Frontline workers have been vaccinated, but no such thought has gone in for these workers, who handle COVID-19 fatalities day in and day out,” he said. P. Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP told The Hindu that ‘technical issues’ was the reason for non-payment of salaries for a few months. “The Commissioner called for a meeting and the issues have been sorted out. They will receive their salaries in 24 hours,” he said on Wednesday evening.  Workers in R.R. Nagar zone haven’t been paid for three months. In the south zone, it’s been as long as 10 months, in the West nine months, and in Dasarahalli and Yelahanka, 15 months Ravi N., general secretary, Rudrabhoomi Naukarara Ghataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crematoria-graveyard-staff-rue-lack-of-pay/article34322252.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||J.P. Nagar double murder solved||The Puttenahalli police on Wednesday solved the April 7 murder of a 75-year-old woman and her guest in her house in J.P. Nagar following the arrest of a 32-year-old habitual offender. The bodies of Mamatha Basu and her son’s friend Debrath Behara were found by the domestic help. According to the police, the accused, Manjunath, hails from Konanakunte. He met Behara at a bar. Behara bought a cigarette from a shop outside the bar and tried to pay for it online. “When the transaction failed to go through, Manjunath stepped in and paid Rs. 12 for the cigarette. Later, he following Behara with the intention of snatching his mobile phone,” said a police officer. However, before he could get an opportunity to strike, Behara reached Mamatha’s house and rang the bell. When Mamatha opened the door, Manjunath noticed that she was wearing a lot of gold. “He decided to steal their valuables. He left the area and stole a motorcycle. He went back to the house around midnight armed with a knife and rang the bell. When Behara opened the door, Manjunath pushed him inside and stabbed him repeatedly,” said a senior police officer. He then went to Mamatha’s bedroom and slit her throat. He stole her gold chain, a pair of bangles, bracelets and rings, four mobile phones, two laptops and the CCTV camera. However, his image was captured on a CCTV camera in a neighbouring house, which helped the police identify him. “Manjunath is a habitual offender named in nine criminal cases,” the police officer added. Early Wednesday morning, the Puttenahalli police were alerted that Manjunath was hiding near a private school in Aditya Nagar, J.P. Nagar. They surrounded the premises. “Constable Sadiq spotted Manjunath and tried to nab him, but the accused attacked him with a dagger in a bid to escape. Inspector Kishore Kumar opened fire and shot at his legs,” said a police official. The injured countable and the accused were taken to a hospital. The police are waiting for Manjunath to recover to question him and recover the valuables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jp-nagar-double-murder-solved/article34322247.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Officials to fast track library construction; MUDA to chip in||Even as the authorities set in motion the process of constructing a full-fledged library in Rajiv Nagar in Mysuru, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, handed over copies of Ramayana, Mahabharatha, Bible and Quran to Syed Ishaq. Mr. Somashekar also gave Rs. 25,000 to Mr. Ishaq, who had collected an estimated 11,000 books, mostly in Kannada, for the library he had set up in Rajiv Nagar before it was burnt in a fire last Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ishaq said constructing a library was equivalent to building 100 places of worship.Building a library will help shape several educated people, he said. “One may be cheated by people, but never by books”, he remarked. A host of BJP leaders including Pratap Simha, MP; L. Nagendra, MLA; and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman H.V. Rajeev were present. MUDA Commissioner D.B. Natesh, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag and Deputy Director of City Central Library Manjunath B. issued have issued a joint statement to take forward the decision on constructing a full-fledged building at the same spot in Rajiv Nagar, where the library was burnt down. The authorities are planning to start work on constructing the library on World Book Day on April 23. The land on which the burnt library was situated belonged to MUDA and the MUDA Commissioner has promised to take steps to transfer the land for the construction of the library in 2-3 days’ time, the joint statement said. As soon as the issue relating to land is cleared, the Deputy Director of City Central Library will have officials from Nirmithi Kendra conduct a spot inspection and prepare an estimate and plan in a week’s time. The officials are working towards laying the foundation stone for the library building on April 23, and complete the construction in four to six months, Mr. Manjunath said. Construction will be carried out from the funds donated by individuals and organisations. In 2-3 days’ time, the Deputy Director of City Central Library will open an exclusive bank account for collecting funds and make the details public. In case the donations fall short for construction of the library, the MCC will bear the shortfall. A hall in the proposed library will be named after Syed Ishaq, where he can keep the books he has collected and look after them, the statement said. Special invitee Mr. Syed Ishaq will be a special invitee to a meeting of the City Central Library Authority scheduled to be held on MCC premises on April 16 to endorse the decisions taken by the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-to-fast-track-library-construction-muda-to-chip-in/article34321993.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Co-worker held for murder||A sketch of a partially burnt body prepared by the Talaghattapura police helped crack a murder case, and led to the arrest of four men and one juvenile. The prime accused was the victim’s co-worker, who was hoping to get his job and steal his car, as he needed the money to pay off his loans, said the police. On March 28, the police recovered a body from a drain in Turahalli forest. Identification of the victim was not easy as it had been partially burnt, said Harish Pandey, DCP (South), who led the investigation. The police identified the victim as Rajkumar A.R., 33, who worked as a personal assistant in a real estate firm in Talaghattapura. “We got his mobile number and analysed call record details before zeroing in on Naganna, 29, a tipper vehicle driver and colleague of Rajkumar,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/co-worker-held-for-murder/article34322246.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mixed reaction to cancellation of class 10 CBSE examinations||The decision by the Central government to postpone the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations in light of the surge in COVID-19 cases has received a mixed response from students, parents, teachers and principals. While some have hailed the government’s decision to not put children at risk, others pointed out the need for some form of assessment. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said, “Conducting the examinations would unnecessarily put many students at risk. We have conducted three pre-board examinations in the school. It will not be a problem to assess students based on their performance in these examinations and the assessments conducted earlier in the year.” She added that earlier CBSE had two types of examinations – school-based and board-based, and it would be easy for teachers to assess students at the school level. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management of Delhi Public Group of Schools, said that the decision to cancel the examinations was not a good move. “CBSE examinations should not be used to score political points. Students need some form of assessment before they get admitted to the next grade,” he said. Students, too, are worried about how they will be graded. Avani Abhijit, a class ten student, said, “I was initially very happy to learn that the examinations were cancelled. But after I gave it some thought, I am worried about how my scores will be calculated.” Students who want to enrol in pre-university college for the 2021-22 academic year are worried that their pre-board scores may not be adequate to make it to the merit list of these colleges. A student in south Bengaluru said, “I have not done well in my pre-boards, but I was preparing well for the board examinations. Cancelling the examinations would put students like me at a disadvantage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mixed-reaction-to-cancellation-of-class-10-cbse-examinations/article34322245.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cool ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cool-ride/article34322243.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||4 held for targeting bus passengers||The Upparpet police have arrested four members of a gang for allegedly preying on passengers at bus stands, and stealing their bags and valuables. The accused – Chandra Gowda, 45, and his wife Manjula, 32, from Tumakuru, and their associates Adul Nasir, 51, and Prashanth, 50 – are habitual offenders, said a police officer. According to the police, on March 16, they stole a bag containing gold and silver jewellery worth Rs. 1.4 lakh from an engineer while she was boarding a bus. While investigating the case, the police rounded up known habitual offenders for questioning. “One of them gave information on Nasir and his associates. We tracked them down, and recovered gold jewellery worth Rs. 4.6 lakh from them,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-held-for-targeting-bus-passengers/article34322244.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New uniforms||On Ambedkar Jayanti, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike announced new uniforms and safety kits for pourakarmikas and solid waste management workers, which will be sourced from the Karnataka State Coir Development Corporation, as well as brooms from the Coir Board. The civic body also announced an increase in the bonus amount for pourakarmikas on its rolls from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000, and Rs. 10 lakh payment for dependants as well as compassionate appointment in case of death while in service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-uniforms/article34322250.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Getting ready for monsoon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/getting-ready-for-monsoon/article34322359.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Delay in ‘BU code’ generation in city||However, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who admitted the delay in BU code generation, attributed it to technical glitches on the ICMR portal. “Because of technical issues, the flow of data from ICMR portal to BBMP War Room portal has been hit. This has been sorted out but as the caseload is increasing, there is a huge backlog of cases waiting for a BU code. Our staff are generating the code manually now and the issue should be resolved by Thursday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-bu-code-generation-in-city/article34322251.ece
15 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 students of KGBV contract COVID-19||Six students of the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya at Roddam in the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. All of them did not have any significant symptoms and were advised home quarantine for seven days. Anantapur district on Wednesday reported 297 positive cases and one death after testing 2,842 samples on Tuesday. This is the highest number of positive cases reported in the district in this calendar year. In this second wave, the majority of the cases have been coming from the urban areas of the district. Anantapur reported 90 new positive cases, Hindupur 38, Dharmavaram 37, Uravakonda 19, Kadiri 18 and remaining all mandals registered in single digit on Wednesday. Daily tally The COVID-19 vaccination was done on a mission mode and all the 35,000 doses that had come to the district on Tuesday got exhausted on Wednesday evening and according to the figures given by the control room here: 36,570 doses were given by 6 p.m. In the Kurnool district close to 33,000 doses were given by 6 p.m. Kurnool reported 386 fresh COVID cases on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-kgbv-students-test-positive-for-covid/article34322379.ece
15 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arch opened at flyover on Anantapur outskirts||The entrance to Anantapur from Rudrampeta on the National Highway No.44 got a new facade with Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah and Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy on Wednesday formally opening an arch, built at the beginning of the Ramnagar Flyover(renamed as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Flyover). With the help of the MP, Mayor, Corporators, and District Collector, the city would be turned into ‘Sundara Ananthapuram’, he said. MP Talari Rangaiah appreciated the quality of work on the arch, built in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arch-opened-at-flyover/article34322378.ece
15 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth trampled to death by elephant||A lone elephant on the prowl in the villages abutting the Koundiya wildlife sanctuary trampled a 28-year-old youth to death while he was returning home, at Dalitwada of Kaluvapalle village in Palamaner mandal on Tuesay night. Forest Range Officer (Palamaner) S. Srinivasulu said the youth was carrying a white bag while negotiating a stretch close to the forest. The lone elephant which had been haunting the villages in Palamaner mandal chased him for a distance, before trampling him to death. “During investigation it came to light that the white coloured bag the victim was carrying turned to be his nemesis. Had he abandoned the bag, he could have escaped the rage of the jumbo. Several victims of jumbo attacks in the region were known to be wearing white clothes. Elephants lose their temper on seeing white objects,” Mr. Srinivasulu claimed. The official said the forest authorities had announced Rs. 5 lakh as immediate ex gratia to the family of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/article34321739.ece
15 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of seven--year-old boy||Mystery shrouded the death of a seven-year-old boy, whose body was recovered from a cornfield on the outskirts of Cheegalapalle village of Kuppam mandal on Thursday. Venkatachalapati reportedly joined a group of youth to visit temples around the village on Wednesday evening. As the boy did not return even by midnight, his parents launched search in the surroundings. On the road passing through the outskirts, marks of blood were noticed. Further search in the early hours of Thursday led to detection of the body in a cornfield. The police took up investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-death-of-7-year-old-boy/article34322380.ece
15 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 50,000 persons take jab as part of ‘Tika Utsav’ in Chittoor||Chittoor district medical and health officials launched the one-day ‘Tika Utsav’(vaccination festival) at 102 primary health centres and 18 urban centres all over the district on Wednesday, targeting those above 45 years of age. A senior official of the COVID Task Force said that more than 50,000 persons were administered the vaccine. Of the 60,000 doses that the district had for the programme, a target of 95% was achieved by evening, and the remaining would be completed on Thursday, he said. Meanwhile, APIIC chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja donated 100 pulse oximeters, worth about Rs. 2.5 lakh, to the triage centres at the government hospitals in Nagari. She also donated gloves, facemasks and sanitizers for distribution to medical and paramedical staff of the primary and community health centres. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju and Municipal Commissioner (Puttur) K. Venkatrami Reddy received the items at her residence in Chennai where she is recuperating after a couple of surgical procedures. Speaking to mediapersons, Dr. Ravi Raju said that the MLA took the initiative in view of the spike in COVID cases all over Chittoor district. Appeal to voluntary organisations Appealing to other corporate groups and voluntary organisations to follow suit, he said: “As cases are rising exponentially, we will be in need of essential equipments as patients who are advised to isolate at home are supplied with the pulse oximeters. After the isolation protocol is over, the equipment should be returned to the triage centres.” The Deputy DMHO also highlighted the need for meals to be distributed to the patients visiting the triage centres in Nagari, Tirupati, Piler, Madanapalle, Chittoor, Palamaner and Kuppam as most of them have to depend on restaurants, increasing the risk of spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-50000-persons-take-jab-as-part-of-tika-utsav-in-chittoor/article34322381.ece
15 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fight your own battles, police officer tells youth||Fight your own battles and never expect someone to take up cudgels on behalf of you, Additional Direction General P.V. Sunil Kumar of the AP-CID told students and faculty of Acharya Nagarjuna University during a programme held on the campus to celebrate the 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar. “We have a long way to go in our journey. Dr. Ambedkar showed that political power holds the key for achieving our goals. Never expect someone to do good to you but make an all-out effort to achieve your goals,” said Mr. Sunil Kumar. While paying tributes to Dr. Ambedkar, Mr. Sunil Kumar said a fight is still going on for getting Dalit Panchayats, a concept of self-rule of village panchayats by Dalits themselves. He also suggested that Ambedkar Knowledge Centres be set up at colonies besides the statues of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar so that children and adults could read books and know more about Dr. Ambedkar. ANU Vice-Chancellor Rajasekhar Patteti said that Dr. Ambedkar was unmatched in his contributions to all spheres of political, social and economic activity and was deeply influenced by Greek philosophers who propagated justice as a virtue. The years spent in the company of the finest philosophers and political thinkers of the 20th century influenced Dr. Ambedkar so much that he decided to come back and devote his life to the uplift of the downtrodden, he said. The series of volumes of speeches and writings of Dr. Ambedkar had several original ideas which could offer solutions to modern-day problems confronting Indian economy and society. ANU College of Engineering principal E. Sreenivasa Reddy presided over the meeting. Rector P. Varaprasad Murthy, Registrar K. Rosaiah and Professor of Ambedkar Chair Y. Ashok Kumar also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-your-own-battles-police-officer-tells-youth/article34321796.ece
15 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pays rich tributes to Dr. Ambedkar||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday paid glowing tributes to Dr. B.R Ambedkar on the latter’s 130th birth anniversary celebrations at his Camp Office. Mr. Jagan said Dr. Ambedkar had laid the path for development of modern India and paved the way for a universal brotherhood. Among the many distinguished contributions of Dr. Ambedkar included the world’s largest Constitution. The Government of India had awarded him Bharat Ratna for his contributions. Minister for Social Welfare P. Viswaroop, Minister for Home M. Sucharita, Secretary, Social Welfare, K. Sunitha, and Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy were present on the occasion. YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders paid floral tributes to Dr. B.R Ambedkar on the occasion of his 130th birth anniversary, on Wednesday. Taking part in the celebrations at the party’s central office on Wednesday, Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said Dr. Ambedkar was a great leader who made tireless efforts to achieve equality in society. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been working to fulfill the vision of Dr. Ambedkar, and has succeeded to a large extent in the 20 months of his governance. “The Chief Minister has laid due emphasis on the empowerment of women and giving adequate political representation to Dalits,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. MP Nandigam Suresh said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was working hard for the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. MLA Merugu Nagarjuna, YSRCP general secretary Lella Appi Reddy and A.P. State Skill Development Corporation chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-pays-rich-tributes-to-dr-ambedkar/article34322447.ece
15 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID vaccine will shield us from further infections’||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Wednesday said that the COVID-19 vaccine would act as a shield against further infections, and asked people to come forward voluntarily to take the vaccine. Mr. Yadav toured many parts of the district as part of Tika Utsav. The Collector visited vaccine centres at Salapadu village in Chebrolu mandal, Karalapadu in Piduguralla and Bapatla Municipal School and interacted with the staff. “We have provided vaccines at 197 village/ward secretariats and set a target of vaccinating 500 people a day. The vaccine drive would continue and everybody above the age of 45 should get vaccinated. We have provided arrangements for vaccine, observation room for AEFI and registration desks at designated vaccine centres,” he said. Earlier, the Collector garlanded a portrait of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at Chebrolu. He spoke with a 95-year-old man and sought his feedback on the arrangements. The Collector also visited the Bapatla municipal school and inspected the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-vaccine-will-shield-us-from-further-infections/article34322441.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare staff seniority lists, TS HC tells Inter Board||The Telangana High Court has directed the Andhra Pradesh Board of Intermediate Education to prepare the final seniority lists of employees of all categories as on June 2, 2014, within two months for allocation of employees between the Intermediate boards of AP and Telangana. A bench of justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Vinod Kumar pronounced this verdict in a writ petition filed by three employees seeking division of employees of the BIE of erstwhile AP between Intermediate boards of AP and Telangana. The judgment said the two boards, based on seniority lists, should discuss with each other and agree on the modalities for allocation of employees. Division of employees must be done within a month of finalisation of the modalities. The bench clarified limitation period of one year prescribed under Section 82 of AP ReorganisationAct for finalising modalities for distribution of employees was not mandatory. It also held that failure to complete apportionment of assets and liabilities of the entities of IX and X Schedules would have no bearing on distribution of employees. The bench observed that the BIE of the combined state of AP stood on the same footing as AP State Residential Educational Institutions Society of the undivided state of AP. The principles of the society apply to the BIE of undivided AP. The bench observed that Section 82 of AP Reorganisation Act required the corporate bodies themselves to decide upon the modalities for distribution of employees between the two States. Each of the corporate bodies can act independently and on its own fix up norms for distribution of employees. The writ petition was filed by three employees of superintendent rank. They contended that they belonged to Telangana, being born and educated in Hyderabad. But the BIE of Telangana issued proceedings on December 24, 2014, drafting their names for allocation to the BIE of AP. They claimed that they were promoted to the cadre of superintendents before separate Telangana was created. But the BIE of Telangana in its proceedings issued on December 15, 2015, included several juniors to them as superintendents while excluding them. They gave representations that they be allocated to BIE of Telangana by virtue of their local status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-intermediate-board-should-prepare-staff-seniority-lists-hc/article34322336.ece
15 April 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-stop solution for airline passengers||GMR led airports in Hyderabad and Delhi have introduced a one-stop online solution for passengers for seamless travel, starting from home till their respective destinations, covering the entire gamut of airport transit through ‘HOI’ app which can be downloaded from playstore or shop.hoi.in.  Last year, RGIA had partnered with HOI to adopt contactless food ordering service through a mobile app, web app and digital self order kiosks covering 10,000 products from across 80 popular outlets and brands including categories such as duty-free, retail, food and beverage, lounges, parking, cabs etc. Passengers can also add their upcoming travel details to HOI manually or by scanning the travel document to track upcoming flights and real-time alerts about gate changes and weather forecast at the destination. They can also explore and book commute options to and from the airport. The app’s intuitive trip recommendation feature helps passengers plan their trip smartly based on traffic, time to check in, time for security check (immigration for international travellers) and distance to the boarding gate, said an official spokesman on Wednesday. Once at the airport, ‘Indoor Navigation with Voice Guidance’  helps them find their way to their boarding gate and also helps find the favourite brand to shop, dine or search for facilities such as washrooms, baby care room etc., and en route their gates using digital terminal maps. HOI notifies passengers about loading of baggage into the aircraft and about any gate change for a particular flight. The auto check-in feature allows them to proceed directly for security screening, thereby saving them a lot of time, once they reach the airport. Cabs can be pre-booked and contactless food can be ordered to be delivered to the gates. Apart from these, the app offers ‘One-touch Wi-Fi’  to seamlessly access airport internet, pre-book parking space, save boarding pass  and display it on the phone wherever necessary, he explained, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-stop-solution-for-airline-passengers/article34322325.ece
15 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. stands by victims of atrocities, says Collector||East Godavari district authorities led by District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday expressed disappointment over the atrocities being reported against Scheduled Castes and Tribes during the 130th birthday celebrations of B.R. Ambedkar here. “The government is with the victims of the atrocities and comes to their rescue for their well-being. We will not let the accused run away after committing atrocities against the Scheduled Castes and Tribes,” Mr. Muralidhar said while addressing the gathering of public representatives, officials and locals during the celebrations. “The scheduled castes and tribes are being given top priority while distributing the benefits of the Navaratnalu welfare schemes instituted by the State government,” Mr. Muralidhar added. Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha Viswanath, offering a floral tribute to a statue of Dr. Ambedkar, appealed to people to draw inspiration from his life. “He believed in the maxim ‘Knowledge is power and education guarantees self-reliance’,” the MP said. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi and Revenue officials participated in the celebrations in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-stands-by-victims-of-atrocities-says-collector/article34322418.ece
15 April 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ushering in Ugadi by hurling cow dung||Festivals are replete with various traditions and rituals, but the unique ways they are celebrated in different regions make them more interesting. Ugadi, the the New Year as per the lunar calendar followed in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and neighbouring Karnataka, is no exception. More than the pomp and gaiety, peculiar traditions hold sway during the celebrations in certain pockets of Kurnool district. At Aspari, the southwestern end of the district bordering Karnataka, people celebrate Ugadi in a unique way. At Kairuppala village in the Aspari mandal, the people usher in the New Year with ‘Pidakala Samaram’ as part of which they fight by hurling cow dung cakes on each other. On Wednesday evening, the entire village got divided into two camps and hurled the cow dung cakes at each other while the procession of Lord Veerabhadra Swamy was taken out in the village streets. Beyond caste and religion Folklore has it that Veerabhadra Swamy, a Lingayat, wanted to marry Kalika Devi, a Dalit woman, but a fight ensued and the issue was amicably settled by the village headmen and the marriage was solemnised. The tradition, however, continues even now. The village elders sit perform the marriage of Veerabhadra Swamy and Kalika Devi, but not before the fight in which cow dung cakes are hurled. According to police SI Giri Babu, around 100 people got injured in the ritual, but none from either side complained. “All the villagers sat together to solemnise the marriage of the Lord. Lingayats, Reddys, and Muslims represented Veerbhadra Swamy while Yadava, Dalits, Kuruma communities represented Kalika Devi,” he said. Donkeys, the harbingers of peace Celebrations at Kalluru in Kurnool city had its own speciality. Every year, donkeys from across the city are made to go round the Chowdeswari temple in a 3-feet-deep slush created for the purpose. On Wednesday, many people converged at the temple to witness this ritual. The animals made three rounds of the temple. Then they were are given a bath, decorated and worshiped. Belief has it that donkeys walking in the mud brings peace to the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ushering-in-ugadi-by-hurling-cow-dung/article34322400.ece
15 April 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy joins search for nine missing fishermen||The Indian Navy on Wednesday deployed its surface and air assets for the search and rescue of nine missing fishermen of a Kerala-registered mechanised fishing boat which with 14 crew on board capsized off the Mangaluru coast in the early hours of Tuesday. Three fishermen died, while two crew members were rescued after the boat Rabah suffered a collision with a merchant ship carrying the Singapore flag mv APL Le Havre at about 2 a.m. about 43 nautical miles west off Mangaluru coast. A press release said that Indian Naval Ships Tillanchang and Kalpeni along with naval aircraft from Goa were deployed in the area to augment search and rescue efforts of Indian Coast Guard vessels. To assist in the rescue efforts, INS Subhadra, a patrol vessel, sailed out from Karwar with a diving team embarked. Two specialist diving teams undertook snagline search in the area in an effort to locate the fishing craft that had sunk, it said. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police, Karnataka Coastal Security Police, Udupi, Chethan R. said that two of the three bodies were handed over to their relatives on Wednesday. The two survivors were also handed over to the owner of the boat Mamentakathu Jaffar of Beypore in Kozhikode. The bodies of Dasan Channappa and Alexander Syrang were taken to Tamil Nadu after post-mortem. The body of Manikyadas from West Bengal will be handed over to the concerned after a COVID-19 test on Thursday. It will be flown to West Bengal. The Coastal Security Police have registered a case under Sections 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) and 280 (navigating a vessel in rash and negligent manner), Mr. Chethan added. Of the fishermen on board, seven each were from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The two survivors are Sunil Das (34) of West Bengal and Velumurugan (37) of Kalirajapuram, Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-joins-search-operation-for-9-missing-fishermen/article34321741.ece
15 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu exhorts Dalits to assert their rights||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday exhorted the Dalits to fearlessly fight against any ‘infringement’ of their fundamental rights. Paying floral tributes to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on the occasion of his 130th birth anniversary, at Chillakur near Gudur in Nellore District, Mr. Naidu said the attacks on Dalits were on the rise in the State under the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) regime. “It is very unfortunate that false cases are being foisted against the Dalits who question the State government in a bid to silence them. The fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution are under threat in the State,” said Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-exhorts-dalits-to-assert-their-rights/article34322401.ece
15 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders vow to continue fight against inequalities in society||Leaders of all political hues paid glowing tributes to Constitution architect B.R. Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary in Prakasam district on Wednesday. Leading the activists in paying floral tributes at the statue of the Dalit icon near Prakasam Bhavan, District Collector P. Bhaskar said Ambedkarism was always relevant to combat inequalities of all kinds in the society. The activists, including Madiga Reservation Porata Samiti leader U. Brahmaiah Madiga, vowed to contribute their mite to end inequalities, a cause dear to Dr. Ambedkar. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Sripathi Prakasam underscored the need for extending the benefits of reservation to the private sector. The quota regime enshrined in the Constitution had been infringed upon in the wake of the large-scale privatisation of public sector units by the Narendra Modi government, he said. At the TTD’s Mahati auditorium in Tirupati, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy hailed him as a towering personality and his ideology as globally acclaimed, having relevance even a century. BJP State president Somu Veerraju, co in-charge Sunil Deodhar and by-election candidate K. Ratnaprabha also garlanded the statue. Kadapa At Yogi Vemana University, Registrar D. Vijayaraghava Prasad garlanded his statue and recalled major events from Dr. Ambedkar’s life that proved to be a turning point for the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leaders-vow-to-continue-fight-against-inequalities-in-society/article34322383.ece
15 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motorised boats anchored as fishing holiday begins||As the 61-day closed season comes into effect from Thursday, fishermen anchored their mechanised and motorised boats in the 69 landing centres across the ten coastal mandals in Prakasam district. Fishing operations using mechanised and motorised boats in the Bay of Bengal off the 106 km Prakasam coast have been banned till June 14 to conserve fish and other marine resources during the breeding season. The ban is enforced annually so that fishermen could have a good catch during the monsoon season, Fisheries Joint Director A.Chandrasekhar Reddy told The Hindu on Sunday, while overseeing the process of anchoring of boats at Kothapatnam. Officials are gearing up for a massive enumeration exercise, taken up to identify families for providing financial compensation, on April 19 in the coastal mandals of Ongole, Kothapatnam, Chirala, Vetapalem, Chinnaganjam, Nagulapapadu, Tangutur, Singarayakonda, Ulavapadu, and Gudluru. Meanwhile, the assessment by a private weather services firm of the monsoon 2021 to be ‘normal’ on Tuesday brought cheers to fishermen. Owners of motorised and mechanised boats as also fishermen operating traditional crafts should appear in person on coming Monday for enumeration. As many as 12,229 fishermen were provided Rs. 10,000 last year. Even those that use country-crafts were provided the aid though they could go for fishing during the ban period, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motorised-boats-anchored-as-fishing-holiday-begins/article34322385.ece
15 April 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive picks up in South Coastal Andhra||There was no let-up in fresh cases in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as 506 persons, 276 in Nellore and 230 in Prakasam, tested positive for the disease on Wednesday taking the coronavirus case count to over 1.3 lakh in the two districts. With four new deaths, the toll rose to 529 in SPSR District and one death in Prakasam pushed up the toll to 590. Hospitals treating COVID-19 patients overflowed with patients as the number of fresh cases outnumbered the number of recovered persons by over 250. As many as 248 patients returned home on recovery in a span of 24 hours. ‘Tika Utsav’, which was lacklustre in the first three days due to depletion of vaccine stocks, got a shot in the arm on Wednesday thanks to replenishment of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines by the Centre to combat the pandemic. The village and ward secretariats were a beehive of activity as health professionals worked overtime to make up for the loss of time and complete the massive exercise on the last day of the vaccination festival and the targeted beneficiaries started trickling in. More than 42,000 persons were vaccinated in SPSR Nellore district and over 40,000 persons in Prakasam district on a single day when the number of active cases rapidly rose to 3,723 in the region. “We will vaccinate another 10,000 persons by Wednesday,” Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer(DMHO) P. Ratnavalli said while overseeing the drive across 214 session sites set up across the district for the massive exercise. “We will vaccinate all the 45,000 persons planned for today'', said Nellore DMHO S.Rajyalakshmi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-picks-up-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34322390.ece
15 April 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tika Utsav evokes good response on the last day, 50,000 take jab||Though the first three days of the four-day Tika Utsav failed to take off, it ended on a good note with about 50,000 taking the jab on the last day, here on Wednesday. Huge rush was seen at COVID Vaccine Centres, across the city, including at Swarna Bharathi Auditorium. However, a few senior citizens, especially those who had gone for the second dose, were disappointed, as the one that they were administered for the first was not available, wherever they had gone. “Initially, I was given Covishield, and my second dose is due, but after visiting two centres at Swarna Bharathi and Chinnawaltair, I was turned down, as Covishield was not available. For a friend of mine, it was the same case, but it was Covaxin,” said former Physical Director of Andhra University P.R. Narayanswami. On Tuesday, the district received about 40,000 Covishield doses and on Wednesday morning it was further supplemented by another 15,000 doses of Covaxin. The vaccines were immediately distributed to all the 160 Ward Secretariats, which have been converted as COVID Vaccine Centres, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand.According to the District Collector, the aim is to exhaust the 55,000 vaccines in the next two days and the focus is on 45 plus age group and left out frontline workers from GVMC, Revenue and Panchayat Raj. Keeping in mind the increase in cases, the district administration has notified about 15 private hospitals to serve as category-B hospitals. Mr. Vinay Chand said that all the private hospitals have been told to admit COVID patients with Aarogyasri card and keep the charges as prescribed in GO MS 77 and 78. “If we get a report of hospitals fleecing people unduly or not admitting patients with Aarogyasri cards, action will be initiated,” he warned. 417 new cases, 2 deaths District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that as of now only 5% of the cases need hospital treatment and the remaining 15% are mild to moderate cases and 80% are asymptomatic, and both can be treated under home isolation. Meanwhile, cases have been increasing with every passing day. From 414 cases on Tuesday, the number increased to 417 on Wednesday taking the total tally to 66,505, The district also recorded two deaths, in the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 562. Meanwhile, the number of discharges has gone up to 62,726, with 249 discharges on Wednesday and the active cases have gone up to 3,217.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tika-utsav-evokes-good-response-on-the-last-day-50000-take-jab/article34322459.ece
15 April 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to remove aid for pvt. colleges sees mixed response||The staff and management of various private colleges in the district that receives grant-in-aid from the State government, share a mixed opinion on the proposed rollback of the aid by the government. The State government, through a GO dated April 6, has proposed the withdrawal of grant-in-aid to private colleges and also suggested the voluntary takeover of the colleges willing to be taken over. An eight-member committee also has been formed to study various aspects such as legal, feasibility, faculty-student ratio in such private colleges, student enrolment and also impact-assessment if the government were to withdraw the aid. The report is to be tabled shortly. But in the meantime, the staff and management of some of aided private colleges have voiced their concern and say that removing the aid or transferring the aided teachers and non-teaching staff to government colleges will not do good for the colleges, which have stood as a middle-option between the government colleges and the high-charging corporate or fully private colleges, for decades. Prior to 1976, the teachers in private colleges were at the mercy of the management running the colleges. But after the introduction of UGC scales in 1976 and the Andhra Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Grant-in-aid (Regulation) Act, 1988, things changed and bright and capable teachers were attracted towards the higher education sector. But the joy was short-lived as the A.P. Government in 2004 issued GO Ms 35 banning the filling up of vacant aided positions in all colleges. And since then it has been hanging as a Damocles sword on the management and the staff, said Academic Consultant and Former Director, PG Studies, St. Joseph’s College for Women, Suguna Kannan. “No aided private college can pay the UGC scales without the aid component. But it should be borne in mind that aided teachers have brought reputation to the colleges, as we could afford to get the best brains, thanks to the aid. Now if they are transferred from here to other government colleges, the credibility of having good teachers will drop,” said the correspondent of a reputed aided private college. The government should take a call based on the strength and reputation of the colleges, he added. Though the government has proposed a takeover, many reputed colleges in the district such as the 160-year-old Mrs. AVN College and Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College, have said an outright ‘No’ and expressed willingness to continue on their own. “The government can take back the aided staff and we have informed the same to the few aided staff that we have and they have agreed. But we have said a ‘No’ for takeover. It is a challenge, as on one we have to continue to employ good teachers at higher scales and on the other we cannot increase the fee structure exorbitantly, as other private or corporate colleges, as ours is run by a society and we mean to do service, without any profit motive,” said secretary and correspondent of Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College G. Madhu Kumar.  The government should take a call based on the strength and reputation of the colleges, says a correspondent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-remove-aid-for-pvt-colleges-sees-mixed-response/article34322451.ece
15 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activity curbs dampen Kerala’s tourist season||Kerala’s curbs to contain the second wave of the pandemic have hit hotels, restaurants, travel trade, event management companies, private bus operators and the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). The travel trade, waiting to regain footfall in the summer, was the worst hit by the restrictions in place till April 30. “The limiting of stay of tourists to seven days and insisting on RT-PCR from over a dozen States for returnees has played spoilsport. Capping dining at 50% of seating and till 9 p.m. is a setback”, said former president of Association of Tourism Trade Organisations, India (ATTOI), Anish Kumar P.K. The directive to close shops and restaurants by 9 p.m. and to encourage home delivery drew criticism. The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) said: “It [the spread] was caused due to the flouting of the COVID-19 guidelines during elections by politicians”. Kerala on Wednesday added 8,778 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 13.45%. Cumulative cases were 11,89,175. Karnataka, with 10,94,912 cases and 13,046 deaths in all, will discuss future strategy at an all-party meeting on April 18. The Congress and JD(S) said the meeting came “too late and without adequate preparation.” Telangana had a drop in cases on Tuesday with fewer tests on Plavanama Ugadi. Eight patients died on Tuesday, the highest daily fatality figure after October 17. The total for cases was 3,34,738, and total deaths 1,780. In Andhra Pradesh, 18 persons died, the highest single-day toll since October. The State reported 4,157 cases on Wednesday, the tally being 9,37,049 in all and the toll 7,339. Tamil Nadu recorded an all-time high of 7,819 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. This is the highest daily case count since the start of the pandemic, eclipsing the 6,993 cases recorded on July 27 last year.  The State’s tally rose to 9,54,948, while the number of active cases went past 50,000. Another 25 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 12,970  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activity-curbs-dampen-keralas-tourist-season/article34321750.ece
15 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special pujas mark Matsya Jayanthi||Fervour marked Matsya Jayanthi celebrations at Vasantha mandapam on Wednesday. Special pujas were performed to the idol of Matsyavathara Murthy while Vedic scholars hailing from Sri Venkateswara Veda Vignana Peetam recited the Matsya Gayathri, Matsya Astottara and Matsya Maha mantra. Mohana Rangacharyulu from Vignana peetam said the Matsyavathara was the first avatar among the Dasavatharas of Lord Vishnu. He dealt at length on the significance of the incarnation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-pujas-mark-matsya-jayanthi/article34322386.ece
15 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top leaders of YSRCP attend public meeting in Srikalahasti||The YSRCP deputed a chunk of its top brass to Srikalahasti for the mega public meeting organised to canvass for the byelection to the Tirupati (SC) parliamentary constituency on Wednesday. The meeting was originally scheduled to be organised at Renigunta, in which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was slated to take part. However, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had decided not to be part of the major event in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases in Chittoor district, especially around Tirupati. However, the district party leadership took up the meeting on a prestigious note and held a mega public meeting led by MLA B. Madhusudhan Reddy. The who’s who of the party, viz. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, MPs P.V. Midhun Reddy (Rajampet) and Gorantla Madhav (Hindupur), Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, and Kurasala Kannababu, party State spokesperson Ambati Rambabu, among others, occupied the stage, giving a boost to the party cadre. All of them canvassed for M. Gurumoorthy, and appealed to the people to recall the ‘Navaratnas’ sanctioned while casting their vote. The leaders spared no effort in targeting TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and general secretary N. Lokesh for raising non-serious family issues to malign Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, instead of speaking on development. The leaders expressed displeasure over the rival party raising the Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case. Good Samaritan act Earlier, Mr. Gurumoorthy and Mr. Gorantla Madhav reached out to the accident victims on the way to Srikalahasti. They found two persons injured as a two-wheeler rammed into a car. They assisted the locals in shifting them to the hospital, where one of them died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-leaders-of-ysrcp-attend-public-meeting-in-srikalahasti/article34322403.ece
15 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu flays Jagan for ‘overall failure’||Former Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of having failed on all fronts and succeeded only in undoing all the good deeds done in the past. Addressing a public meeting along with party candidate Panabaka Lakshmi in Satyavedu Assembly segment, forming part of the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha parliamentary constituency, here on Wednesday, he slammed the State government for ‘overall failure’ in meeting the aspirations of the people by perpetuating the ongoing policies. Taking potshots at the spate of development projects hanging fire in the constituency, he insisted that he had fought against the central government for the continuation of Mannavaram project, launch of Dugarajapatnam port and electronic manufacturing cluster. “But the present regime is only exhibiting subservience and is bending over backwards to please the Centre, owing to its own criminal track record,” he said. Meanwhile, party general secretary Nara Lokesh visited Alipiri, the foot of Tirumala hills, to swear in the name of Lord Venkateswara that he or his family members had no role in the murder of former MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy and dared Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to do the same, if he was really innocent. Reacting to the development, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu told a media conference cautioned Mr. Lokesh against trying to project himself ‘as tall as’ Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-flays-jagan-for-overall-failure/article34322388.ece
15 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati bypoll: political parties eyeing support of social groups||As the campaign for the byelection to the Tirupati (SC) parliamentary constituency reaches its pinnacle, political parties are trying to reach out to the social groups in an apparent bid to get the votes en bloc. As every political group has the invisible backing of one major forward caste or the other, the focus now is on appealing to the OBC and SC voters. Having identified 56 Backward Classes and formed welfare corporations for them, the ruling YSRCP feels it is in an advantageous position with respect to getting the OBC votes. The chairpersons nominated to the corporations are working overnight to turn the support of their respective communities in favour of the ruling party. The TDP, which claimed to be the saviour of OBCs till the 2019 elections, is hopeful of winning back their support. With the Jana Sena Party hoping to get the Balija votes into its kitty, the BJP is projecting how a leader of the OBC category could become the Prime Minister under the BJP rule. The parties are resorting to serious ‘hair-splitting’ on the caste composition. Satyavedu, Gudur and Sullurpet have a huge population of Scheduled Castes. Among the OBCs, Yadavs have the highest vote share in the Tirupati Assembly segment, while Mudiraj in Satyavedu, Palle Reddy in Srikalahasti, Padmasali (weavers) in Venkatagiri, fishermen in Gudur and Sarvepalli are known to be the deciding factors. Similarly, the Dudekula Muslim community, tagged under BC-E category, is widely spread across Srikalahasti, Venkatagiri and Gudur segments. Every party is holding a closed-door meeting in hotels with the major communities to seek their support. The BJP is keen on wiping its ‘anti-Muslim’ tag by reaching out to the community by explaining the achievements of the Centre. Similar meetings were held with north Indian communities such as Jains and Kumawats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-bypoll-political-parties-eyeing-support-of-social-groups/article34322393.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15,200 instances of forest fires reported in five months in State||Forest fires are on the rise in Andhra Pradesh. According to the data, more than 15,200 such instances have been reported in the last five months. During the corresponding period the previous year, as many as 9,800 forest fires had occurred, affecting 6,200 hectares of forest land. In March alone this year, 11,895 forest fires had been reported, destroying vegetation in 6,347 hectares of forest land. Most of these had occurred in the Nallamala forest falling under Kadapa and Kurnool districts. While more reasons than one are cited for the spurt in forest fires in the State, the one that surprises is good rains! According to information, good rains lead to growth of wild grass and bushes, which provide a perfect condition for eruption of fire later. “Of the total forest fires that have been reported in the last five months, more than 3,000 have been reported in the forests of Kadapa and Kurnool districts. In the Visakha Agency area, about 2,000 hectares of forest cover has been destroyed. The Forest Department officials have acted swiftly in dousing the fires,” says Prateep Kumar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests. Points of origin “Forest personnel are pressed into service based on satellite information that pinpoints the exact point of origin of the fire in forests. An officer of the rank of District Forest Officer (DFO) monitors the operation. We could control the spread of forest fires and save wildlife,” says Mr. Prateep Kumar. Satellite data The satellite-based monitoring of forest fires is one of the support activity from the National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC). Satellite data are processed at the NRSC in near real-time and information is made available to the users (FSI and forest departments) within 30 minutes, he says. “Since 2019, data from the Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (SNPP) satellite are also being disseminated. The MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer) covers 1 km X 1 km of area while the SNPP covers 375 m X 375 m area. So, we will get more number of alerts,” explains K. Gopinatha, Additional PCCF (Vigilance).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15200-instances-of-forest-fires-in-ap/article34321743.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire Service Week commences||The Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department launched ‘Fire Service Week’ here on Wednesday on the occasion of National Fire Service Day. Fire Services staff led by directors K. Jayaram Naik and P.V. Ramana paid homage to the 10 martyrs from Delhi, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kashmir, who lost their lives while saving lives in fire mishaps in the past year, at the Commemoration Parade organised at the Fire department State headquarters here. Officers also took out a rally on M.G. Road marking the beginning of Fire Service Week, which is aimed at creating awareness among the people on kitchen safety, electrical safety and others. During the week, the Department planned to take up various activities involving the public. On Thursday, all the fire safety and rescue equipment will be exhibited and demonstrated at public places. Later on Friday, inspection of residential areas to demonstrate LPG and electrical safety measures would be conducted under all the fire station limits. Fire prevention lectures, drills in educational institutions, industries, fuel stations, hospitals and other places would be organised later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-service-week-commences/article34321793.ece
15 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambedkar’s contributions hailed on birth anniversary||The 130th birth anniversary celebrations of Dr. B R Ambedkar were organised in a grand manner at Thummalapalli Kshetrayya Kala Kshetram here on Wednesday. Addressing the gathering, Special Chief Secretary to the Government (GPM & AR) K. Praveen Kumar said that Dr. Ambedkar was a great leader and a visionary who was instrumental in bringing about reforms for the underprivileged and the working class. “Dr. Ambedkar brought down the working time for workers in the country from 14 hours a day to eight hours. He was instrumental in enacting the Employees State Insurance (ESI) which helps workers with medical care,” he said. “The powers and role of the Election Commission were dealt with in detail. India witnessed many elections but there were never any controversies. Unlike in India, we have seen what happened in the United States recently during the change of power,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambedkars-contributions-hailed-on-birth-anniversary/article34321799.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCLA for curbs on gatherings||The A,P. Civil Liberties Association (APCLA) urged the Principal Secretary (health) to impose curbs on public gatherings, particularly at parks and other places of recreation, to control the spread of the second wave of COVID-19 and to issue guidelines for closed spaces that are prone to the spread of the disease. In a letter to the Principal Secretary, APCLA general secretary P. Suresh Kumar said Collectors and SPs were instructed to control crowding at public spaces but no specific guidelines were issued. As a result, people were gathering in large numbers for various functions.Large gatherings of such a nature posed a danger of a rapid spread of COVID-19, he pointed out. Mr. Suresh Kumar suggested to the Principal Secretary to increase the RTPCR tests to know the extent of prevalence of COVID-19. As the patients were showing symptoms unheard of earlier and with many others being asymptomatic, the number of tests should be increased, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apcla-for-curbs-on-gatherings/article34322406.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power consumption peaks in State||Power consumption in the State reached an all-time high of 233.98 MU on April 2, and the average consumption for nine days in April 2021 stood at 224 MU against 189 MU during the corresponding period the previous year. With the rise in consumption, the power utilities are taking measures to provide 24x7 uninterrupted supply and meet the growing demand, while being alert to the spread of COVID-19. Priority areas The government has directed that priority be given to supplying power to the domestic and agriculture sectors, and health and other essential services, according to official sources. The power utilities have since prepared an action plan following consultations held by Energy Secretary N. Srikant with various stakeholders. Instructions have been issued to the CMDs of distribution companies (Discoms) and field engineers to continuously monitor the supply to the agriculture, domestic and industrial sectors. The demand grew significantly in March 2021 when compared to previous years. The demand in March 2021 was 6,605 MU against 4,817 MU in 2015-16. Similarly, the peak demand was 7,391 MW in March 2015-16, which crossed 11,193 MW in 2020-21. The demand is expected to cross 64,000 MU this year. The power utilities, which had been implementing high-level cost optimisation measures, could saved around Rs. 1,023 crore in power purchases up to December 2020. This was appreciated by the Union Ministry of Power. Efforts are being made to adopt global best practices in the sector to achieve better results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-consumption-peaks-in-state/article34322407.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jail-themed restaurant opened in city||Actor Nikhil Siddharth inaugurated a jail themed restaurant named ‘Gismat Mandi’ in the city on Wednesday near Benz Circle. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nikhil said the restaurant with Arabic cuisine brings in new flavours to the city. Gismat Mandi organisers Gauthami and Mahesh Kakani said they had branches in Guntur, Vizag and Nellore and more would be opened in Eluru and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jail-themed-restaurant-opened-in-city/article34322443.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM sees role for Governors in checking virus spread||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan participated in a review meeting on COVID-19 convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chaired by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, with all the Governors and Lt. Governors through video-conference on Wednesday. Addressing the Governors and Lt. Governors, Mr. Modi said the fight against COVID-19 was at a crucial stage and the situation was quite serious. He stressed the need to bring down the positivity rate to less than 5% and speeding up the vaccination programme. Mr. Modi said the Governors could play an important role by involving the Red Cross volunteers, ex-Servicemen, NCC, NSS, NGOs and youth associations in creating awareness among the people on COVID appropriate behaviour, and curb the spread of the virus. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu expressed regret that over 50% people were not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-stresses-need-for-speeding-up-vaccination/article34322405.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tributes to a ‘great son of India’||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid rich tributes to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on the occasion of his 130th birth anniversary at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. The Governor, offering floral tributes to a portrait of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, called him a great son of India who fought for the rights of Dalits and the emancipation of downtrodden sections of society. He said Dr. Ambedkar was an economist, jurist, politician and social reformer who fought relentlessly against social discrimination towards Dalits and raised his voice against the injustice, discrimination and inequality faced by the Dalit community. “Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was the chief architect of the Constitution with rule of law as the most essential part of the Constitution,” he said. The Indian Constitution is considered the best in the world as it guarantees freedom of speech, expression, equality before law, and equal protection of law to all citizens, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tributes-to-a-great-son-of-india/article34321794.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID officials inspect GGH||Sleuths of the Crime Investigation Department inspected the Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, on Wednesday in the light of an ongoing investigation into the case of misappropriation of government funds by a Bengaluru-based private company. As per information, as part of the investigation, CID had been inspecting medical device management across hospitals in the State. Officials went through the medical device maintenance records and other documents. A large number of teams of the CID have been inspecting hospitals across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-officials-inspect-ggh/article34322445.ece
15 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP pays tributes to Ambedkar||YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders paid floral tributes to Dr. B.R Ambedkar on the occasion of his 130th birth anniversary, on Wednesday. Taking part in the celebrations at the party’s central office on Wednesday, Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said Dr. Ambedkar made tireless efforts to achieve equality in society. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been working to fulfill the vision of Dr. Ambedkar, and has succeeded to a large extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-pays-tributes-to-ambedkar/article34321797.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to emulate Ambedkar||Garlanding of statues, awareness rallies, meetings and calls to emulate the path shown by him marked the 130th birth anniversary celebrations of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar by various organisations in the city on Wednesday. District Collector V. Vinay Chand garlanded the portrait at the conference hall and MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and other senior leaders of YSR Congress Party, garlanded the statue at the party office. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava paid floral tributes to the Father of the Constitution at DRM office. ADRM ( infra) Akshay Saxena and other branch officers also paid tributes. The speakers said that Ambedkar was remembered for his triumphant struggle against age-old social customs and discrimination against Dalits, women and labour classes. In 1990, Ambedkar was conferred with the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian award. Floral tributes were paid to Ambedkar at the sub-divisional offices and stations of Waltair Division. Naval Science & Technological Laboratory (NSTL) Director O.R. Nandagopan garlanded the portraits of Lord Buddha and B.R. Ambedkar at the Mohapatra Manasi Auditorium on the premises of NSTL. Regional Manager of New India Assurance Company Ltd., Visakhapatnam, C. Armstrong Freedy and Deputy Superintendent of Police (CID) N. Kalidas participated as guests of honour on the occasion. Mr. Nandagopan explained how Indian Constitution was helping India’s uplift in social, economic and political spheres. The validity of the Indian Constitution was limitless and social equality can be achieved by providing opportunities to all. Scientist-G and Chairman Works Committee Manu Korulla called upon the gathering to emulate the path shown by Ambekar. Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar recalled the contribution of Ambedkar for the uplift of society and in framing the Constitution of India at a meeting organised at the college. G. Arjuna, former Superintendent of KGH, who participated as the chief guest, analysed various philosophies of Ambedkar. K. Indira, Deputy Superintendent of KGH, faculty and students participated in the programme. Meanwhile, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy and CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao have alleged that the BJP government was depriving the common people of their rights by making amendments to the Constitution, framed by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. They were addressing the gathering after garlanding the statue of Ambedkar at LIC Junction here. CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham, CPI district leader A. Vimala, city secretary M. Pydiraju, assistant secretary SK. Rahaman and CPI(M) leader R.K.S.V/ Kumar were among those who participated in the programme. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy garlanded the statue of Ambedkar at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Law College and paid tributes. Rector K. Samata and Registrar V. Krishna Mohan were present. GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna garlanded a bust of Ambedkar at the GITAM School of Law. AP State ST Commission Chairman Kumbha Ravi Babu and DCI MD and CEO G.Y.V. Victor paid tributes to Ambedkar at a programme organised by the DCI. DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao, SP B. Krishna Rao, DSPs K. Praveen Kumar, S. Appala Naidu, P. Srinivasa Rao and R.P.L. Santhi Kumar paid tributes to Ambedkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-emulate-ambedkar/article34322421.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entry and exit rules revised at city railway station||The entry and exit at Visakhapatnam Railway Station has been revised from Wednesday (April 14) in view of increasing number of COVID-19 cases. The objective of the move is to avoid overcrowding on railway platforms and to contain the spread of the pandemic. All passengers going to board the trains have to report at Gnanapuram entry (platform no.8 side) at Gate no.4. And after thermal scanning, they were permitted into the station. Vehicles coming to drop passengers should enter through the arch at Gnanapuram-end and exit through the arch at Convent Junction-end. PF no.1 is only for exit (the passengers arriving in Visakhapatnam will be sent through PF no.1) from Gate no.1. The vehicles coming to pickup the passengers will have to do so at the exit arch near RTC bus stop.  Vendors hit On Wednesday morning, PF-1 wore a deserted look with only a few passengers on the benches. The vendors operating various parlours and food joints were seen soliciting customers. A parlour organiser says, “This has been the situation for the past two weeks with most of the trains being taken on PF-3, PF-4 and PF-5. Passengers, especially women and senior citizens are facing difficulties in going up and down the Foot-Over-Bridge (FOB) with their luggage. The escalators are not working most of the time and with only travelling passengers allowed into the station, it is becoming all the more difficult for them.” “The average income for our stall, which is around Rs. 5,000 a day has dropped to Rs. 1,200 yesterday and now with PF-1 being used only for exit of passengers, we may have to close the shop,” he said. Similarly, the entry and exit points at all the stations over the division have been earmarked and passengers should strictly adhere to the norms. The passengers have to carry their own food and linen during the journey as there would be no supply of blankets, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/entry-and-exit-rules-revised-at-city-railway-station/article34322455.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Katti Padma Rao to receive Lok Nayak Foundation award today||Noted Dalit poet and scholar Katti Padma Rao will receive the Lok Nayak Foundation Sahitya Puraskaram for 2020 at the awards function to be held at Kalabharathi Auditorium here on Thursday. Addressing a media conference in this regard on Wednesday, Lok Nayak Foundation chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad, briefed about the activities of the foundation since its establishment 17 years ago. The foundation had been honouring eminent writers at award functions, instituted in memory of the late N.T. Rama Rao and the late Harivansha Rai Bacchan, being held in the city from 2005 without a break. Mr. Padma Rao was chosen for the award in recognition of his contribution towards the uplift of the oppressed sections. He has been working for the welfare of the downtrodden for the past seven decades and awakened them through his works. Mr. Lakshmi Prasad said that the award, normally given on January 18 every year, to coincide with the death anniversary of N.T. Rama Rao and Harivansh Rai Bachchan, has been postponed to April 15, in view of COVID-19 situation this year. Arunodaya Samskrutika Samakhya of Hyderabad would present folk songs at the function. Malati Chandur, Boyi Bhimanna, Janamaddi Hanumat Sastry, Ravuri Bharadwaja, Subbanna Satavadhani, Olga, Gollapudi Maruthi Rao, Meegada Ramalinga Swamy, Kalipatnam Rama Rao, Garikapati Narasimha Rao and Vanguri Chitten Raju were among those who were honoured with the award earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/katti-padma-rao-to-receive-lok-nayak-foundation-award-today/article34322419.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Startup begins doorstep diesel delivery in city for bulk consumers||City-based fuel startup Satyamamba Filling Station started the facility of doorstep diesel delivery through their mobile petrol pumps, here on Tuesday. This startup is run by Rajeshwara Prasad, who has been operating a petrol pump station from 1969, which was started by his grandfather. To innovate further, he has acquired a double-dispensing mobile fuel pump and plans to go around the city to meet the bulk needs of customers at their doorstep. According to him, he has already been delivering diesel to pharma companies, stone crushers, schools and colleges. “Earlier, customers would come to my pump station for their bulk requirement, including for their generator sets in apartment complexes. Now, with a call, we can deliver at the site,” he said. Doorstep diesel delivery is approved by the government and is a new-age concept of effective distribution . It can benefit the agricultural sector, hospitals, housing societies, heavy machinery facilities, mobile towers, and others, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/startup-begins-doorstep-diesel-delivery-in-city-for-bulk-consumers/article34322448.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA PO inspects vaccination programme||Integrated Tribal Development Agency(ITDA) Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula toured Paderu mandal in the Agency area of the district on Wednesday. He inspected the COVID-19 vaccination programme being conducted at Iradapalli and Rayagedda Schools. He interacted with the tribal people, who got themselves vaccinated and told them there was no cause for worry. He advised them to take fever tablets, if required, and advised them not to skip the second dose of the vaccine.  Show-cause notice Later, he interacted with the students on the implementation of menu. He issued show-cause notice to the Principal of Rallagedda School for going to Visakhapatnam city without prior approval and for the delays in the completion of ‘Mana Badi – Nadu Nedu’ programmes and other schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/itda-po-inspects-vaccination-programme/article34322450.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire week celebrations begin in the district||The National Fire Week celebrations began here on Wednesday at the district fire office. Going with this year’s theme ‘Maintenance of fire equipment is the key to mitigate fire hazards’ the firemen spread out their various equipment for public display. “During the week, we interact with the public and try to create awareness on different fire hazards and how to mitigate them,” said District Fire Officer B. Ram Prakash. Earlier, a two-minute silence was observed for all the firemen who were martyred last year, in the line of duty. “The week would conclude with a seminar on April 20 and in the meanwhile, we will be visiting various hospitals, apartment complexes and industries to create awareness on maintenance and use of fire equipment,” said Mr. Ram Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-week-celebrations-begin-in-visakhapatnam/article34322417.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division operates first mango special||The first mango special train of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) for this season commenced its journey from Vizianagaram, carrying 200 tonnes of mangoes in 11,600 boxes to New Adarsh Nagar railway station in New Delhi, on Wednesday. The parcel special express trains are being operated from Vizianagaram, the nodal point for transport of mangoes from north Andhra Pradesh, to New Delhi. In the last financial year, Waltair Division had transported 4,350 tonnes of mangoes in 20 trains, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. More mango specials will be operated by Waltair Division, based on the demand from mango traders. Despite the pandemic situation, Waltair Division is making all efforts to continue the supply chain of essential commodities, Mr. Tripathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-operates-first-mango-special/article34322422.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm likely||A cyclonic circulation lies over the Comorin area and its neighbourhood at 1.5 km above the mean sea level. The trough lies in the Westerlies, from the Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim to South Chhattisgarh across Jharkhand and interior Odisha, at 1.5 km above mean sea level and has become less marked, according to a release from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Thunderstorm, with lightning, is very likely to occur at isolated places over north coastal A.P. and Yanam till April 19 and over south coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema on April 15 and 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thunderstorm-likely/article34322444.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pre-owned book expo from today||A ‘books by weight’ exhibition of pre-owned books is being held at Lions Club of Visakhapatnam at Ramnagar here from April 15 to 18. The expo will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all the four days. The books are priced at Rs. 100 a kg for regular fiction, Rs. 300 a kg for children’s premium books, Rs. 400 a kg for children’s board books, sound books, etc; and Rs. 300 a kg for premium non-fiction and coffee table books on various subjects.More details can be had on the mobile no. 98210 26234.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pre-owned-book-expo-from-today/article34322456.ece
15 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book released||Prolific writer and former bureaucrat Uday Balakrishnan’s book ‘India on my Mind’ was released on Tuesday, by former Secretary to Government of India E.A.S. Sarma and his wife Rani Sarma at their residence, in the presence of former Rector of Andhra University and Director of Centre for Policy Studies A. Prasanna Kumar. The book was published by the Centre for Policy Studies, as part of its silver jubilee celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-released/article34322457.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents protest ‘delay’ in education scholarship||The parents of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students pursuing higher education in foreign countries beat themselves with footwear in front of the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar statue here on Wednesday as a mark of protest against the delay in the release of scholarships. The State government has not released the scholarships promised under the Jagananna Vidya Deevena scheme for the past two years, they said. Minutes after MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy and Collector Gandham Chandrudu garlanded the statue on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar , the parents staged the protest. Supported by the Jai Bheem Dalit organisation, the parents of several students from Anantapur district raised slogans against the State government alleging that it had reneged on the promise to partially fund the higher studies of their wards in foreign countries and this had had put the students in a tight spot. “My daughters are studying in the same university in the United Kingdom as the Chief Minister’s child. We have not received the Rs. 10 lakh assistance promised, which was increased to Rs. 15 lakh later,” said Anand, a parent.  About 2,500 students who are studying abroad had applied for the scholarship and 560 students have been waiting for the amount to be released and among them, 43 are from Anantapur district, said the reperesentatives of the Jai Bheem Dalit organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-protest-delay-in-education-scholarship/article34322398.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lighting up the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lighting-up-the-sky/article34322453.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-service/article34321801.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scenic beauty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scenic-beauty/article34322392.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases fall as testing dips on Ugadi||Amid a consistent surge in coronavirus cases in Telangana, a slump in the daily caseload was recorded on Tuesday with comparatively fewer tests being conducted on the day as the State observed the auspicious occasion of Plavanama Ugadi. A total of 72,364 samples were put to test and 2,157 were detected with the coronavirus. On the previous day, Monday, 1,13,007 samples had been examined, leading to the detection of 3,052 positive cases. From April 10 to 13, daily cases have stayed below the 3,000-mark when less than 1 lakh tests were performed. Eight COVID patients died on Tuesday, which is the highest fatality figure for a day after October 17 last year. The death toll now stands at 1,780. The new 2,157 cases included 361 from Greater Hyderabad region, 245 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 206 from Rangareddy, 187 from Nizamabad and 107 from Jagtial. The lowest of four cases were detected in Mulugu while Mahabubabad recorded eight infections. So far, over 1.12 crore samples have been tested and the State’s overall tally is 3,34,738. Of the total, 25,459 were active cases while 3,07,499 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-fall-as-testing-dips-on-ugadi/article34322315.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC stops updating COVID information on its website||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has stopped updating the details of COVID-19 infection on its website even as cases are spiralling by the day in the city. The data displayed on the website have remained unchanged for several days, though the Health bulletins have kept updating the numbers all the while. The authorities had begun to update the case details on the website after receiving a rap from the High Court last year, when COVID-19 infections were rampant. The High Court had pulled up the State government accusing it of deliberately hiding information, and issued orders for detailed daily reports and display of the numbers on the civic body’s website. GHMC had complied with the orders, but while municipal corporations elsewhere displayed the numbers containment zone wise, GHMC chose to merely mention each case separately along with the location, not bothering to collate the data circle wise or zone wise. Now, even this exercise has stopped. As per the Health department’s report, a total of 2,960 cases have been recorded in GHMC purview during the one week ending April 13. During the first wave of COVID-19 last year, GHMC had played a key role in maintaining containment zones, disinfecting localities, and tracking the contacts of COVID patients to get them tested and hospitalised. This time round, however, the alacrity is markedly missing. COVID-19 call centre set up at GHMC headquarters has not been very active, and on holidays, it is seen almost empty. Though officials are maintaining that required measures are being taken wherever COVID clusters have been discovered, reports from ground speak differently. “Our apartment complex has three known positive cases. Some others have isolated themselves, though they are not forthcoming to share the information. Authorities must be having their address and other details, as Aadhaar ID is being collected with each test. So far, no GHMC official or personnel has visited our complex,” says a resident from Musheerabad, pleading anonymity. Officials, however, say that they are regularly in receipt of information about fresh cases from the Health department, and disinfection procedures are being carried out in the surrounding areas. “Instead of jetting machines like earlier, we are using knapsack sprayers to sanitise specific surfaces people are likely to come in contact with. Unlike earlier, when about 40 to 50 homes were covered, we are sanitising four to five households around the infected area, because we are better informed now about how the disease spreads,” an official informed. About 17 to 18 disinfection teams have been formed per zone, depending on the number of cases, he said. Though no official/written orders have come, field level GHMC officials are said to have received oral instructions from Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar to mark containment zones wherever a cluster of cases have surfaced. The Commissioner, however, was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-stops-updating-covid-information-on-its-website/article34322328.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR seeks support of Jadcherla voters||Telangana Rashtra Samiti working president and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has sought the cooperation of people to the ruling party to enable it to sustain and increase the pace of the welfare and development programmes launched by the government. After Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation, which he visited on Monday, the Minister utilised the public meeting at Jadcherla on Wednesday to seek the support of voters to the party candidates in the ensuing elections to the municipality. Mr. Rama Rao’s appeal to voters comes amidst indications that the State Election Commission is likely to announce schedule for elections to Khammam and Warangal Municipal Corporations and five other municipalities, including Jadcherla, soon. The SEC already issued notification for preparation of voters’ lists in these municipal bodies and work for identification of the polling stations had commenced. In this background, Mr. Rama Rao laid foundation stone for several developmental works in the newly created municipality on Wednesday. He inaugurated the Mission Bhagiratha Water Tank at Kaverammapeta, Nallacheruvu Mini Tank Bund and Gangapur Road from Kaverammapeta among others. He inspected double bedroom houses being constructed in Kaverammapeta and laid foundation stone for several development works taken up at the Housing Board Colony at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. The Minister outlined several initiatives launched by the TRS government since it took over the reins, as also the welfare programmes like enhancement of old age pensions, opening up of residential schools for different sections and payment of huge amounts as fee reimbursement to students. Over 40 lakh people are now getting Aasara pensions while the government is committed to construct houses for all the eligible poor, he said. Mr. Rama Rao admitted that some developmental works are still spending in spite of the efforts made by the government. This is partly because of the financial crisis faced by the State on account of COVID-19. All the pending works would be completed during the current year as the situation had improved now, he said. “We can take up works with more vigour if you cooperate with us at the time of our exams (elections). Elect TRS nominees for all the 27 councillors’ posts,” he said. Minister V. Srinivas Goud, former Minister C. Lakshma Reddy and other senior leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-seeks-support-of-jadcherla-voters/article34322339.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Entire family can get infected in a few hours, cautions DPH||Telangana might end up in a Maharashtra-like situation if the prevailing COVID-19 situation is not taken care of, warned Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. The senior official said if one contracts COVID-19, his/her entire family might get infected within a few hours or a couple of days at the most. Dr Srinivasa Rao released a video message in which he spoke about the current situation, what the immediate future holds for the State if precautions are not taken and what people need to do to save their family members. He advised people to act responsibly and follow all safety precautions such as wearing masks even while at home as those who move outside can contract COVID-19 and later spread it to their children, parents or other family members, leading to tragic possibilities such as hospitalisation or, worse, death. Stating that cases have spread rapidly in the State in the past four weeks, he added that the situation may remain so for the next four to six weeks. “People are struggling to find beds in hospitals. In the coming days, regardless of the measures the government takes, there might be scarcity of beds if cases continue to rise,” he said in the video message. He said the government not imposing a lockdown or a curfew in the State in no way means that the situation is not grave. “The governmnet is not taking such measures so that livelihoods and the State’s economy do not take a beating,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entire-family-can-get-infected-in-a-few-hours-cautions-dph/article34322316.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Don’t send patients in end stage to Gandhi Hospital’||COVID-19 patients with little to no chance of survival were being sent from private and corporate hospitals to the State-run Gandhi Hospital, remarked Health Minister Eatala Rajender even as he warned the managements against resorting to such steps. A similar situation where patients with little hope of survival were sent to the government hospital from private facilities had earlier been noted during swine flu outbreak. Under such circumstance, the death of a patient gets registered at the government hospital and not at the private facility. The end-stage COVID patients could not survive even 24 hours after reaching Gandhi Hospital, said Mr Rajender, who held a meeting with senior officials of the Health department on Wednesday to discuss the prevailing pandemic situation and the arrangements to be made if the caseload were to increase further. Taking stock The Health Minister later visited Nature Cure Hospital, Telangana Institute of Medical Science at Gachibowli and Gandhi Hospital to take stock of the situation. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that 14,000 beds in private medical colleges will be put to use to deal with the spike in cases. Besides, hospitals with more than 20 beds will also be utilised as doctors there have an understanding of COVID. Mr Rajender pointed out that those who resort to protests during these times were not human. Healthcare staff in government hospitals have been requesting better facilities such as PPE kits.  14,000 beds in private medical colleges will be put to use to deal with the spike in cases. Besides, hospitals with more than 20 beds will also be utilised. Eatala Rajender, Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-send-patients-in-end-stage-to-gandhi-hospital/article34322318.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Remdesivir shortage hits corporate hospitals too||Acute shortage of Remdesivir, a drug used in COVID-19 treatment, has hit private hospitals in Hyderabad. Major corporate hospitals too are experiencing the shortage. Heads of corporate hospitals are reaching out to their colleagues in other States and even counterparts in other facilities to arrange for doses. Such is the shortage that people are pleading for it on social media platforms. Telangana Chemists and Druggists Association members said they had the stock and sold it till the first week of April. However, officials from the State Drug Control Administration said the supply is sent directly to hospitals, and will not be sold at medical stores. “This is done to avoid black marketing of the medicine. And private hospitals should not prescribe it to patients in home isolation. If it is done, existing doses will be consumed leading to shortage for critical patients who really need the medicine,” senior officials of the association said. Instances of patients in home isolation being prescribed Remdesivir has come to notice of officials. Earlier, it was thought that the shortage is limited only to nursing homes. Rahul Meddakar, COO of CARE Hospitals here, said they too are facing the shortage. CEO of Aster Prime Hospital, Devanand T. has reached out to other corporate hospitals asking if they have doses of the medicines to spare. With no luck there, he is trying to get it from the hospital branches in other States through courier service. President of the Chemists Association, Ch Janaradhan Rao has requested that cost of the drug to be brought under ‘price control’ since the price varies from Rs. 900 to over Rs. 4,000 depending on the manufacturer. “The price control will help patients get the medicine at affordable rates in these times,” Mr Janardhan said. Supply to last 10 days Senior officials of the Health department said they have 10,000 doses of Remdesivir and another 10,000 were expected on Wednesday. K. Chandrasekhar Reddy, managing director of Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation, said 35,000 doses will be available on Thursday. “We will get two lakh doses after 10 days. It is being used only for critical patients. So it has to be judiciously used. Besides, we might get fresh stock in 7-10 days. So government hospitals might not have dearth of the medicine,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/remdesivir-shortage-hits-corporate-hospitals-too/article34322319.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown, flooding forced students to drop out: survey||A survey of 7,200 households from over 20 urban slums, which faced a double whammy of being affected by the COVID induced lockdown and flooding in the city last year, indicates that several young students had to drop out of school to augment their family income. The survey was conducted by the NGO, Helping Hand Foundation. Since a large number of people living in urban slums depend on daily wages to support themselves, the lockdown and the flooding led to many students between ages 10 and 17 years to work on daily wages, the survey indicates. A vast majority of the households that were surveyed (95%) live in rented accommodation. Several of these members work as artisans and craftsmen, and were involved in embroidery work, zari, and zardozi. Others were employed in mechanic shops. Approximately 30% of the surveyed households saw members forced to take up daily wage jobs on account of a loss of income. A lot of these people are unable to find employment even now. This trend was seen in areas such as Shaheen Nagar, Salala, and Barkas. The loss of income due to the pandemic and flooding also forced women to work as domestic helps in relatively affluent areas, the survey notes. The survey reiterated that during the flooding, many had lost important documents of identification like Aadhaar cards, one of the most important documents that need to be produced at the time of applying or availing welfare schemes, birth certificates and educational certificates. Another 100 families, which were part of the survey, are forced to survive on goodwill and charity. Some of the respondents of the survey also stated that they are unable to access healthcare facilities as they stay away from Urban Primary Health Centres, Area Hospitals or Basthi Dawakhanas. The areas covered under the survey include Rajiv Gandhi Colony, Saif Colony, Habib Colony, Wadi-e-Saliheen, and Amreen Colony, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-flood-forced-dropouts/article34322335.ece
15 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR insulting Ambedkar: Jeevan||Congress leaders have alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao continues to deliberately ‘insult’ B.R. Ambedkar by not paying homage to him even on his birth anniversary. At separate press conferences and events, the Congress leaders reminded that the power he enjoyed now was due to the vision of Ambedkar who incorporated the right for creation of smaller states in the Constitution. Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy at a press conference in Hyderabad said Telanaga was a reality because Ambedkar foresaw suppression of regional aspirations by authoritative groups and ensured Constitution guaranteed creation of smaller states. Telangana was achieved with those aspirations but its beneficiary KCR doesn’t have the respect for the national leader. Mr. Reddy said even after five years of promise by KCR that a 125-foot statue of Ambedkar would be constructed in the heart of the city nothing had been done. The interest KCR showed in the construction of Pragati Bhavan and Secretariat was not shown in Ambedkar’s statue. This was nothing but the disrespect KCR had for Ambedkar and the Constitution. Governance in Telangana was against what the Constitution promised and the way people were being suppressed indicated it. Mr. Reddy said private teachers were leading a miserable life with schools closed for more than a year but the government was totally insensitive to their plight. After much pressure the CM had announced Rs. 2,000 support but that would no way suffice, he said and demanded enhancement of that support to Rs. 5,000. At a press conference in Kannekal in Nagarjunasagar constituency, AICC secretary Sampath Kumar said dalits were cheated by KCR in his seven-year rule as none of the promises he made was fulfilled. “Even Ambedkar was not spared as his 125-foot statue promise had not been honoured even after seven years,” he said Instead of providing three acres of land to Dalit families as promised KCR was snatching the lands and land rights given to calits by Congress governments headed by Indira Gandhi and P. V. Narasimha Rao, he said. Dalits’ lands were being forcibly taken away for construction of mortuaries and function halls in the villages, he alleged. The way dalit leaders of the Congress were arrested by the police abusing and physically assaulting them showed the respect the TRS had for dalits. And this behaviour of police on dalit leaders on Ambedkar’s birth anniversary showcased the government’s attitude towards dalits, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-insulting-ambedkar-jeevan/article34322343.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drug trade margin cap flagged to PM||Expressing concern over the huge difference of margin and sale price between the retailer and MRP on life-saving drugs like Remdesivir, founder President of the Nizamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry P.R.Somani has urged the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a letter, Mr. Somani urged the Centre to fix a ceiling on trade margin cap on life-saving drugs. He was referring to severe shortage of Remdesivir and how hospitals and pharmacies were exploiting needy patients. He pointed out that all manufacturers are selling Remdesivir injection to retailers between Rs. 595 and Rs. 1,000 but the MRP printed is up to Rs. 5,400 and hospitals/pharmacies are selling at that high a rate. He lamented that in this pandemic situation when the entire country was struggling, people were being made to pay exorbitant prices for medicines. He sought the Centre’s intervention to put a trade margin cap of 30% on life-saving drug for coronavirus. He said if trade margin cap was implemented, the cost would be less than Rs. 1,000 instead of Rs. 5,000 and above. Mr. Somani said the plea for trade margin rationalisation of medicines was pending with the Prime Minister’s office and hoped that an early decision is taken.  Manufacturers are selling Remdesivir injection to retailers between Rs. 595 and Rs. 1,000 but hospitals/pharmacies are selling at MRP of Rs. 5,400. P.R. Somani, President, Nizamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drug-trade-margin-cap-flagged-to-pm/article34322322.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR and Jana are old friends: Vijayshanti||Former Member of Parliament and BJP leader Vijayshanti on Wednesday accused the TRS and Congress of being in cahoots with each other and even went to the extent of calling Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and senior Congressman K. Jana Reddy as “old friends”. “TRS and Congress are enacting a drama in public to fool people and continue to loot Telangana. Mr. Rao has done many things for Mr. Reddy in the city and outside. We will present evidence to this effect at the right time. Many people like me had to leave the Congress because some senior Congress leaders had struck deals with the TRS which led to a dozen MLAs defecting,” she charged at a press conference. The matinee idol observed that the Chief Minister’s public meeting did not have anything new as the latter had repeated his “old lies.” “What development has the State seen in the last six years? Every section of the society is suffering due to wrong administration. Mr. Rao cannot keep on claiming that his indefinite fast has led to the State formation, when everyone knows how the fast was carried out,” she said. The BJP leader accused the TRS government of conniving with sand and land mafia plus turning a blind eye to largescale encroachment of water bodies. “It was quite evident that people were coerced into attending the CM’s public meeting as the threat of stopping the welfare schemes was put out. I could sense a fear in Mr. Rao’s eyes because of the political alternative emerging on the horizon. How long will they win elections using money power and liquor,” she questioned. “Who stopped Mr. Rao from meeting people? Did he ever come out and console people any time? Did they put him in the CM’s chair to sit in his farmhouse. He does not have time to even garland Dr. Ambedkar statue on his birthday,” asked Ms. Vijayashanti. The Scheduled Tribes are not being allowed to cultivate designated forest lands in Haliya and other places, while the Scheduled Castes were not given the assured three acres land, there are no jobs for the unemployed and they got a bigger shock with the retirement age raised to 61, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-and-jana-are-old-friends-vijayshanti/article34322345.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination uncertainty at private hospitals||The COVID-19 vaccination programme in private hospitals continues to be under strain. Officials of the State Health department said that they are supplying stock that is enough for people who have booked a slot for the second dose at the hospitals. A few corporate hospitals have stopped walk-in registration for first dose which was allowed until a few weeks ago. Health officials said there is, however, adequate supply at government vaccination centres. Assured, but delayed With availability of doses becoming unpredictable, managements of a few corporate hospitals are calling up registered beneficiaries, saying that their jab is assured but could be delayed. “We are asking only 50% of the registered beneficiaries to turn up so that the jab is ensured. We get to know the number of doses we would receive only in the mornings,” said a corporate hospital staff. “As the vaccine doses are short in supply, only second doses are being supplied to corporate hospitals for people who have already registered through COWIN website,” said an official from the Health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-uncertainty-at-private-hospitals/article34322320.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors hope for curbs on political rallies||The medical fraternity in Telangana, which is once again in the thick of COVID-19 patient care, is flummoxed over political parties going ahead with public gatherings and rallies despite coronavirus infections increasing at an alarming rate. They have urged party heads not to hold campaigning or any public programme as it could lead to a further spurt in cases. All major parties, including the ruling TRS, holding campaigning programmes for by-elections to Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency has come under sharp criticism by the medical fraternity. Shortage of beds in major corporate hospitals, high charges for treatment, and other factors were cited as reasons to take all possible precautions to avoid any programme that calls for mass gatherings. The request has come from doctors who have been attending COVID patients with varying severity. “Everyone, including political parties, should take all precautions to avoid further spread,” said a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-hope-for-curbs-on-political-rallies/article34322321.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Housing venture for Pharma City starts||Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy on Wednesday launched the works of the housing venture for Pharma City at Mucherla. The government proposed to allot 121 sq yds for every acre surrendered by farmers for Pharma City. Out of 14,000 acres acquired for the project, about 600 acres will be reallotted to farmers as house sites in the venture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/housing-venture-for-pharma-city/article34322326.ece
15 April 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 inter-state ganja peddlers arrested||The Rachakonda police on Wednesday arrested two inter-state ganja smugglers, and recovered two quintals of the contraband, a lorry, and other items worth Rs. 40.5 lakh. The arrests were made during a joint operation of the sleuths of LB Nagar Zone Special Operations Team and Hayathnagar Police. The accused have been identified as Devendar Singh (45), a resident of Krishna Nagar in Rajasthan, and P Ravindra Kumar Pandith (40), a resident of Sahapovu in Uttar Pradesh. Two other accused Yadav and Hari are absconding. Police said that Devendar, Ravindra and Yadav are friends. Yadav was allegedly involved in drug trafficking and transported ganja from Araku to Agra. In due course of his trafficking, he allegedly came in contact with Hari, who is a drug peddler. The accused then roped in Devendar and Ravindra to transport the contraband from Araku, and used vehicles to travel between northern and southern states, police said. The accused, with the consent of the driver or owner of the vehicle used to get a special compartment made behind the driver’s seat where the ganja would allegedly be stored, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-inter-state-ganja-peddlers-arrested/article34322334.ece
15 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sharmila to take up fast||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, will take up a day long fast at Indira Park on Thursday demanding job notifications for unemployed youth. Though Ms. Sharmila had applied for a three-day fast, the police gave her permission for only one day from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. She had announced her intention to take up the protest to highlight the problem of unemployment in the State at her recent public meeting in Khammam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sharmila-to-take-up-fast/article34322341.ece
15 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP activists block convoy||Minister K. T. Rama Rao faced yet another obstruction by BJP activists. The venue this time was Achampet in the erstwhile united Mahabubnagar district. The Minister was heading to the venue of a public meeting that he was to address in municipal polls bound Achampet when BJP activists who were waiting for his arrival rushed on to the road and blocked his convoy. They staged a dharna on the road demanding that the govt. issue notifications for recruitment to vacant posts in the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-activists-block-convoy/article34322342.ece
15 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Floating musical fountain to adorn Lakaram lake||Adding a sparkle of light to the scenic Lakaram lake, a floating musical fountain was inaugurated at the historic lake abutting the 2.6 km circular shaped tank bund here on Wednesday night. The musical fountain consisting of 73 nozzles, a sound system, control room with panels and other components was set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.75 crore. The new facility was set up as part of the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC)’s plan to turn the Lakaram lake and its surroundings into a major recreation centre. A 220-metre-long suspension foot bridge is under construction across the Lakaram lake under the aegis of the Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation (TSTDC). The musical fountain was inaugurated by Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar coinciding with the 130th birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Dr. B R Ambedkar here on Wednesday night. TSTDC Managing Director B. Manohar, Collector R.V. Karnan and others were present. The inauguration of the new facility coincided with the two-day Lakaram lake festival organised by the Tourism Department in connection with Ugadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/floating-musical-fountain-to-adorn-lakaram-lake/article34322331.ece
15 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||14-feet tall bronze statue of Ambedkar unveiled||Unveiling of giant statues of Bharat Ratna Dr B R Ambedkar in Khammam and Madhira towns, among a host of charitable activities in different parts of the erstwhile composite Khammam district marked the 130th birth anniversary celebrations of the principal architect of the Indian Constitution on Wednesday. A 14-feet-tall imposing bronze statue of Dr Ambedkar was unveiled by Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar at the ZP Centre, now renamed as Ambedkar Centre, in Khammam. The giant new statue of Dr Ambedkar was installed, replacing the old one, as a mark of tribute to the visionary leader, eminent jurist, scholar, economist and social reformer. The Minister along with Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, Collector R V Karnan, Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier and others paid floral tributes to the newly unveiled statue of Dr Ambedkar. Later, Mr Ajay distributed two customised three-wheelers, three wheelchairs, a couple of walking sticks and hearing aids to several physically challenged persons at a programme organised by the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare at Ambedkar Bhavan in the town. In Madhira town, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and the Madhira MLA Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka unveiled a giant bronze statue of Dr Ambedkar at Ambedkar Circle. Zilla Parishad chairperson L Kamal Raju, Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, the Madhira municipal chairperson M Latha and others attended the statue inauguration ceremony. A poor feeding programme was organised under the aegis of the School Teachers' Federation (STF) at the shelter home for destitute persons run by the Annam Seva Foundation in Khammam. Meanwhile, the Kula Vivaksha Vyatireka Porata Sangham (KVPS) celebrated Dr Ambedkar jayanthi by garlanding his statues near the ZP office, old bus stand centre, Ramanagutta and Kaikondaigudem in Khammam. Speaking at a meeting held in this connection at the old bus stand centre, KVPS district secretary N Manohar said Dr Ambedkar steadfastly fought against the evil of caste system, discrimination and inequalities. The ideals of the Father of the Indian Constitution serve as guiding light to build an egalitarian society and ensure social justice for all, he said. The need of the hour is to save the Constitution from the “communal and divisive” forces, which are bent upon “weakening” the constitutional provisions, Mr Manohar said, calling upon people to make the ongoing “Phule-Ambedkar Sandesh Yatra”, a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-feet-tall-bronze-statue-of-ambedkar-unveiled/article34322428.ece
15 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Old tamarind trees axed; evokes ire||Miscreants allegedly cut down several old tamarind trees at Chimmapudi village in Raghunadhapalem mandal in the past few days. This evoked wide condemnation from several villagers as well as natural lovers. The forest officials concerned could not be reached for comments. CPI (M) mandal secretary S. Naveen Reddy alleged that the large-scale cutting of dozens of these trees exposed the serious threat posed to the environment. He said that a section of the villagers planted new saplings under the aegis of green crusader Padma Shri Vanajeevi Ramaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/old-tamarind-trees-axed/article34322332.ece
15 April 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Jana’s voice much-needed in Assembly: Congress||All India Congress Committee in-charge for Telangana and Member of Parliament from Virudhunagar, Manickam Tagore on Wednesday said Congress victory in Nagarjunasagar by poll is more necessary than ever “to stop Telangana moving towards an autocratic rule.” “Jana Reddy, the senior-most Congressman in Telangana, a pillar of strength, and the voice of Telangana, should be present in the Assembly. His voice is needed,” he said. Addressing press persons in Nalgonda town, along with Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, he said the Congress party perceives the bypoll as an opportunity “to strengthen the real voice of the Opposition and not merely winning an MLA seat.” He alleged that the ruling TRS party is spending money and distributing liquor to win the election - but expressed confidence that voters would exercise the right choice on April 17. ‘Accepting defeat’ Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Venkat Reddy said the Chief Minister addressing a public meeting in Haliya for the second time, despite the situation of COVID-19 second wave, is like accepting defeat. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy, recalling the Chief Minister’s ‘Thanksgiving meet’ in February in which he described a group of protesters “dogs like you”, said the incident was hurtful of tribals. And citing recent episodes, he said Dalit sarpanches in Nagarjunasagar constituency were also subjected to excesses. He reiterated his suggestions to the Election Commission of India, to remove non-locals from the constituency and provide central police force bandobust during elections and at checkposts. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy also described the Chief Minister’s public meet in Haliya, in the wake of COVID-19 situation, as “irresponsible, most unfortunate and prioritising politics over public health.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/janas-voice-much-needed-in-assembly-congress/article34322338.ece
15 April 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||‘Parties should follow COVID protocol’||District Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said the police department is cracking the whip to make people follow anti-COVID-19 measures, and people representatives and political parties engaged in final phase of campaigning in Nagarjunasagar bypoll are no exception. He was addressing mediapersons along with District Collector Prashant J Patil in Haliya, prior to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parties-should-follow-covid-protocol/article34322429.ece
15 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Paddy procurement to commence today||Though initially the government has announced that it would not procure paddy, it has changed its stand and decided to procure paddy in the present season. The decision was taken to avoid inconvenience to the farming community. With paddy harvesting season to commence in the next few weeks, the district administration is making all efforts for paddy procurement. As per the instructions by the government, paddy procurement centres (PPC) will be functioning from April 15 across the State and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has been monitoring the establishment of these centres. Paddy was produced on about 81,500 acres in the district. It was stated that 143 PPCs would be established in the district. While 80 centres would be established by Indira Kranthi Patham (IKP), primary agriculture societies (PACs) would establish 53 centres followed by seven by District Cooperative Marketing Society (DMCS) and three by Agriculture Marketing Society. Paddy production was expected to be around 1.78 lakh metric tonnes out of which 1.6 lakh metric tonnes would be procured through the PPCs. While 40 lakh gunny bags were required to store the paddy already 30 lakh bags were kept ready and remaining would arrive shortly. “We are making all arrangements for paddy procurement. Mandal level officers were already appointed and responsibilities were entrusted,” said an officer involved in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-procurement-to-commence-today/article34322425.ece
15 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Pattana Pragati Nivedika released||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is getting ready for Siddipet municipal elections for which notification is expected in the next few days. Before that, the ruling party has prepared a document listing out the development activities in 27 pages. The document mentioned how Finance Minister Harish Rao worked hard for the welfare of the district headquarters town. The document listed the construction of Ranganaiksagar, beautification of Komaticheruvu, several awards for Siddipet for achieving excellence, greenery as part of Haritha Haram, 1,000 bed hospital with corporate facilities, establishment of government medical college, KCR kit, wellness centres, dialysis facility for kidney patients, LV Prasad Eye Hospital, making Siddipet a separate district, Siddipet Urban Development Authority (SUDA), Vipanchi Town Hall, hanging bridge, adventure games, boating facility at Komaticheruvu, kindness wall, treatment of plastic waste, steel banks, and shelter house for orphans. The Pattana Pragati Nivedika was released by Mr. Harish Rao and Welfare Minister K. Eshwar in Siddipet on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pattana-pragati-nivedika-released/article34322324.ece
15 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Finance Minister Harish Rao said that the problem of owning a house was solved for 472 beneficiaries in the town. Addressing a gathering, he said that with the government issuing patta certificates, people will have total rights on houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34322329.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||With 17,282 cases, Delhi breaks daily record again||Delhi witnessed a record number of new COVID-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day with 17,282 cases being reported in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The total number of cases stood at 7,67,438. Also, 104 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths so far to 11,540. A total of 1,08,534 tests were done in a day, the bulletin also stated. Of the total cases, 7,05,162 people have recovered and there are 50,736 active cases here at present. High positivity rate The positivity of COVID-19 cases, which is the percentage of people testing positive out of total tests done, jumped to 15.92%, which is the highest in months. Of the total 12,667 beds for COVID-19 treatment, 66.1% were occupied. A total of 68,422 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city in the last 24 hours, as per the bulletin. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that there was no shortage of ventilator beds and that 95% of COVID care centres are vacant. However, according to a government website, only 155 (13.11%) of the 1,182 ventilators were free and 68 of 94 hospitals did not have any vacant ventilators, at 7 p.m. on Wednesday. Also, out of the 122 hospitals with ICU beds, 73 hospitals did not have any vacant ICU beds. Of the total 3,411 ICU beds in these hospitals, only 427 ICU beds were free. The highest number of ventilators were available at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (65), Lok Nayak Hospital (17), and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (10). “Initially, when COVID-19 was encountered, ventilators were considered as a primary health tool. But the truth is that a ventilator is the last resort. There are many levels before that, namely medication, home isolation, administering oxygen, Bi-pap, etc. There are a number of ventilator beds and if there’s a patient occupying it, then it is shown as engaged in the app. But there is no shortage of ventilators,” Mr. Jain said. The Minister said that despite the steady increase in cases, the fatality rate has substantially reduced. “In November 2020 it was between 2-3%, but has now dropped down to less than 0.5%,” he said. Mr. Jain also inspected Lok Nayak Hospital. “It has been instructed that sufficient ICU beds should be available for COVID-19 patients. I also met the family members of the patients admitted. CM Arvind Kejriwal is directly monitoring the situation of beds and facilities available for patients in Delhi government hospitals,” he said. Tablet shortage Kailash Gupta, President of All India Chemist and Distributors Federation, said that there is a shortage of Fabiflu tablets, which is used in COVID-19 treatment. "Last year there was a high demand for Fabiflu and as cases decreased the demand also decreased and companies reduced production. Now there is a sudden demand for the medicine and the supply could not cope up with it," Mr. Gupta said. He said that stocks of the tablet have started coming and they expect the situation to be stable in a week's time. Gahlot tests positive Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday, meanwhile, said he has tested positive for COVID-19, and advised those who came in contact with him to take necessary precautions. The Minister was administered the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine on Wednesday last. “I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I have home isolated myself. All those who came in contact with me recently please take necessary precautions,” Mr. Gahlot tweeted. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Environment Minister Gopal Rai and Health minister Satyendar Jain were earlier infected with the virus. The Chief Minister will discuss the coronavirus situation in the city with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal during a meeting Thursday, the CM's office, meanwhile, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/with-17282-cases-delhi-breaks-daily-record-again/article34322017.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. will seek priority vaccination for journalists||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government would write to the Centre seeking priority COVID-19 vaccination for journalists. The Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA), a group of doctors from leading government hospitals from across the country, also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting that journalists from both television and print media be vaccinated given their front-line worker status. “Journalists are reporting from most adverse situations. They shud be treated as frontline workers and shud be allowed vaccination on priority. Delhi govt is writing to centre in this regard [sic.],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. FAIMA, terming lack of priority vaccination for journalists a “major issue”, stated that they were putting their health and lives at risk while covering both the COVID-19 pandemic and matters “critical” to both the public and democracy per se on a daily basis. “Journalists cannot work from home, and have put their health and lives at risk on a daily basis to cover both the COVID-19 pandemic and other matters of public concern, including matters critical to the health and safety of the public and critical to our democracy,” FAIMA stated. “While others have the option to walk away from large crowds, or to avoid members of the public that don’t follow ICMR health guidelines, these journalists repeatedly put their own safety at risk to document what is occurring and inform their communities, large and small,” it also stated. Doctors had, the Association stated, seen journalists become infected, hospitalised and succumbing to COVID-19 since the pandemic struck. So, they said, they requested both the Centre and the State governments to treat journalists as front-line workers and prioritise their vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-will-seek-priority-vaccination-for-journalists/article34322025.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 60 infected jail inmates under treatment||Over 60 inmates and 11 employees in the three prison complexes of Delhi are presently undergoing treatment for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. “A total of 190 inmates have tested positive for COVID-19 so far,” Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. According to data shared by the officials, the number of active COVID-19 cases in Delhi prisons till Wednesday stands at 78, including 11 jail employees. “Of the 190 positive cases, 121 inmates have recovered and two have died, leaving 67 active cases. A total of 304 prison employees contracted the infection so far. Of them, 293 have recovered and 11 are still under treatment,” Mr. Goel said. The 11 employees who have been infected with the novel coronavirus, include a jail superintendent of Mandoli Jail and two doctors at Tihar jail, he said. The first case of COVID-19 was reported in Rohini jail on May 13 last year. Two COVID-19-positive inmates of Mandoli jail died on June 15 and July 4, respectively. Both were senior citizens. The officials had said ever since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, the Prisons Department remained vigilant and instructed its employees to not only maintain hygiene and social distancing, but also spread awareness about the infection among inmates in the three jail complexes. A total of 1,184 convicts and around 5,500 undertrials were released last year under the department’s decongestion drive amid the pandemic outbreak. Undertrials surrendering Of the convicts, 1,072 have surrendered and 112 are yet to surrender. The jail officials said 2,200 undertrial prisoners have surrendered and 3,300 are yet to surrender. “We have shared lists of convicts and undertrial prisoners who have not surrendered with the Delhi police. Meanwhile, some undertrial prisoners are still surrendering and some might have obtained regular bails from the courts, which is being ascertained,” jail sources said. Earlier, the prison officials had said the situation could be more difficult to manage when the inmates, who were granted parole during the pandemic outbreak last year, would return. There are a total of 18,900 inmates in the Delhi prisons, comprising Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. However, the intake capacity is just 10,026 inmates, the officials had said. The number of prisoners will pass the 20,000-mark as more inmates will come after their emergency parole ends, they had said. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 vaccination process in the jails is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-60-infected-jail-inmates-under-treatment/article34322023.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||High Court rejects plea to postpone gurdwara management panel polls||The Delhi High Court has rejected a plea to postpone the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections, scheduled for April 25, due to the spike in COVID-19 cases. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Amit Bansal said “the respondent Delhi government as well as the Central government is already taking all steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19, without however restricting day-to-day life any more than necessary.” It said once it is shown that guidelines for ensuring that the holding of election do not lead to spread of the virus any more than it is already taking place, the court would not interfere. Enforcing guidelines “We are confident that not only will Delhi government enforce guidelines already issued to prevent spread of virus during the election, but also a body as the DSGMC will take all possible steps to ensure that the conduct of elections is not a source of spread of COVID-19,” the Bench said. The petition sought postponement of elections on the grounds that there is an unprecedented spike in COVID-19 cases in the Capital with doctors stating that if the cases continue to rise at the same rate, Delhi will have 15,000 cases per day and the situation is grim as there is no adherence to the norms. Non-compliance They have stated that during the election meetings held by various parties and their candidates, it was seen that neither the candidates nor the voters attending such gatherings were complying by the COVID-19 norms on wearing masks and social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-rejects-plea-to-postpone-gurdwara-management-panel-polls/article34322013.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Hotels linked to hospitals for COVID-19 treatment||The Delhi government on Wednesday linked hotels, banquet halls, and other buildings with hospitals, which will add 3,269 beds for COVID-19 treatment, as per official orders. The government had taken a similar step last year when the city was witnessing another surge in cases. The number of beds for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi government-run hospitals was also increased by 718, as per another order. Also, 28 ICU beds with ventilators and 187 ICU beds without ventilators were added. Banquet halls and other buildings were linked with five Delhi government hospitals, which will add a total of 875 beds. Hotels and banquet halls were linked with 23 private hospitals, converting them into “extended COVID hospitals”. This will add 2,394 beds for COVID-19 treatment in two phases.  The Delhi government on Wednesday also revised an earlier order — which had declared 14 private hospitals as dedicated COVID-19 facilities — and allowed these hospitals to also treat non-COVID-19 patients. On Monday, all 4,337 beds in these 14 hospitals were reserved for COVID-19 treatment, but on Wednesday it was reduced to 3,553, as per an official order. These hospitals have also been allowed to temporarily increase their capacity by 35% and additional beds can be used for non-COVID-19 treatment, the order said. The government revised Monday's order after the hospitals made representations to the Health Minister. Many of the 14 hospitals were requesting the government to allow non-COVID emergency treatment. “These 14 hospitals are super speciality hospitals who cater to a large number of non-COVID patients. The government should convert more secondary care hospitals and nursing homes into dedicated COVID facilities, instead of super speciality hospitals,” Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India) had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hotels-linked-to-hospitals-for-covid-19-treatment/article34322024.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 30 policemen in hospital or isolation||As the city continues to witness a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Delhi police have also seen a spike in infections in the force. A total of 8,048 personnel have tested positive since the pandemic began.   The recovery rate, however, is impressive, as 7,706 personnel have recovered and resumed their duty. “We have lost 36 men in the fight against COVID-19. The policemen who died were carrying out their responsibilities during the fight to contain the pandemic,” said a senior police officer.   The officer added that around 36 personnel are either undergoing treatment at hospital or are under home quarantine.    On Tuesday night, the Delhi Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava took a tour across Delhi to review enforcement of curfew      He checked markets, religious places, busy road pickets and movement of essential vehicles. He also interacted with field functionaries and advised them to maintain personal safety while enforcing COVID-19 protocol, the officials said.        Till Wednesday, a total of 2,044 cases have been registered under the IPC, in addition to preventive action against 18,329 people for defying night curfew orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-30-policemen-in-hospital-or-isolation/article34322027.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Around 500 fall sick after eating ‘spoiled’ buckwheat||Over 500 people, who had eaten food prepared with buckwheat (kuttu) flour, fell ill in different parts of east Delhi, officials said on Wednesday. Prima facie it appears to be a case of food adulteration or sale of spoiled flour, they added. A case has been registered against the owner of a general store in Kalyanpuri in connection with the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said. Bunty, 31, a resident of Trilokpuri and proprietor of a store has been arrested. Around 526 people were reportedly admitted to hospitals. They complained of uneasiness, stomach ache and vomiting after they ate the food made with kuttu flour to break their Navratri fast on Tuesday, a senior East Delhi district official said. “All of them except four-five people have been discharged,” he said. Reports of people falling ill were received from Kalyanpuri and Trilokpuri. A family of six was also hospitalised in Mehrauli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/around-500-fall-sick-after-eating-spoiled-buckwheat/article34322302.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Where are the sanitising machines, BJP asks AAP govt.||The BJP on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking as to where a batch of Japanese sanitising machines, flagged off last year, had “gone off” to. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said he had written to Mr. Kejriwal to draw his attention towards the “10 missing Japanese sanitising machines”, which the Delhi government had “claimed to have bought” for sanitising Delhi last year on April 14. “Last year Deputy CM Manish Sisodia and MLA Raghav Chadha had displayed the Japanese Sanitizing Machines and claimed they will do mass sanitizing in Delhi,” Mr. Kapoor wrote. “Today, COVID-19 spread is at its peak and people are thinking where those Japanese machines are. Their purchase and publicity now smacks of a scam,” he also stated. Mr. Kapoor sought to urge Mr. Kejriwal to order a mass sanitisation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-writes-to-kejriwal-on-sanitising-machines/article34322014.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Chadha writes to Haryana CM on water supply||Vice-Chairman of Delhi Jal Board, Raghav Chadha, on Wednesday wrote to the Haryana Chief Minister on “significant” reduction in raw water supplied by the State to Delhi and “frequent” high levels of ammonia in water. “The crisis being faced adversely impact the drinking water supply of major areas of the NCT of Delhi, including Diplomatic Missions/Embassies, President House, Hon’ble Supreme Court, Hon’ble High Court, along with hospitals treating Covid-19 patients of Delhi & neighboring States. I implore you to, and I am sure you will. extend your cooperation on humanitarian grounds keeping in mind the unprecedented emergency of Covid-19,” he said in the letter. Mr. Chadha said that the levels of ammonia rose to 8.4 parts per million on Wednesday and along with it, short supply of raw water has caused a major impact on drinking water supply in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chadha-writes-to-haryana-cm-on-water-supply/article34322018.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Fire in Paschim Puri slum||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-in-paschim-puri-slum/article34322301.ece
15 April 2021||Mumbai,||Vaccinate all Dharavi residents above 18 years, says Shewale||Shiv Sena MP Rahul Shewale has written to Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, urging the Centre to permit the vaccination of all residents above 18 years in Dharavi, one of the largest slums in Asia, amid rising COVID-19 cases in Mumbai. Mr. Shewale said, “Most residents of Dharavi work in the unorganised sector as nurses, ward boys, conservancy workers, and delivery boys. Most of them can’t get vaccinated as they are below 45 years.” The MP also urged the Centre to pay more attention to Dharavi owing to its population density. Mr. Shewale said over 80% of the population is above 18 years and like the now famous Dharavi model of curbing COVID-19, its model of vaccination will soon be feted across the world. Last year, when the first wave hit Dharavi, the slum emerged as an example of effectively controlling the virus. Owing to the joint efforts of the Centre, State and local body, the number of cases was reduced to zero. “Till yesterday, 5,734 cases were found in Dharavi. More than 1,600 cases were found since March 1, 2021, of which over 1,000 cases are active. Labourers are returning to their villages owing to the shutting down of small factories,” the MP wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccinate-all-dharavi-residents-above-18-years-says-shewale/article34321976.ece
15 April 2021||Mumbai,||Shoma Sen files plea in HC to quash sanction to prosecute under UAPA||Shoma Sen, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, has filed a plea in the Bombay High Court to quash the sanction to prosecute her under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Ms. Sen, who was arrested on June 6, 2018, by the Pune police, is lodged at Byculla jail. She served as the head of the English department at Nagpur University and taught for 38 years. Ms. Sen’s petition also seeks her release on bail as the prosecution’s case is based on fraudulent evidence, which was allegedly fabricated and planted to implicate her. The plea mentions the petition filed before the HC by her co-accused, Rona Wilson, who is lodged at Taloja Central Jail. Mr. Wilson’s plea relies on a report by a U.S.-based digital forensic analyst, who debunked all the electronic evidence gathered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The petition said, “There has been a grave misconduct by the prosecution in failing to conduct even the most basic checks on the reliability and authenticity of the electronic evidence. This is evident from multiple independent examinations of cloned copies of the electronic evidence provided to defence by the prosecution after a delay of more than one year. They reveal the existence of malware through which incriminating documents were planted on the devices of the accused.” Ms. Sen said not only did the prosecution and the Forensic Sciences Laboratory in Pune fail to adequately examine the evidence to establish its authenticity and reliability, but the FSL report also did not respond to the direct question from the investigating officer if there was any indication of the evidence being tampered with. Referring to the chargesheet filed by the NIA, Ms. Sen pointed out that there was no evidence to prove the prosecution’s claim that the accused who are a part of several groups are frontal organisations of the Communist Party of India (Maoist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shoma-sen-files-plea-in-hc-to-quash-sanction-to-prosecute-under-uapa/article34321981.ece
15 April 2021||MUMBAI,||FASTag does not violate right to free movement: Centre||The Union government recently told the Bombay High Court that making FASTag (electronic toll collection system) mandatory for all vehicles plying on the national highways does not breach a citizen’s fundamental right to freedom of movement in any way. The government made its stand clear in an affidavit filed on April 6 in a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the decision to make FASTag mandatory at toll plazas on all national highways. It says FASTag was made compulsory to ensure seamless traffic movement and cut travel time short. All decisions had been taken in accordance with the Central Motor Vehicles (CMV) Rules. In cases where it was not possible to fit vehicles with the tag for any reason, they were permitted to still ply on the extreme left of the FASTag lanes. “FASTag was not made mandatory overnight and incentives, including a 10 to 25 per cent cashback, were given to users from 2016 to 2020. We amended the CMV Rules in 2017 to make FASTag mandatory for all vehicles sold after December 1, 2017. In November 2020, the CMV rules were further amended to make FASTag compulsory for all vehicles on toll plazas along all national highways, beginning January 1, 2021.” The Centre went on to say that the double user fees or penalties imposed on vehicles without FASTag on national highways were in accordance with the National Highway Fee (determination of rates and collection) Rules, 2008. It said the Reserve Bank of India had announced the enhancement of national electronic toll collection and would allow easy payment options, including Unified Payments Interface.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fastag-does-not-violate-right-to-free-movement-centre/article34321982.ece
15 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Now, NMMC to decide 80% admissions in pvt. hospitals||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) will regulate 80% of admissions at all private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients through its nodal officers, said civic body chief Abhijit Bangar in a notification issued on Wednesday. An NMMC official said, “Each private hospital has its own waiting list. Sometimes beds are given to patients who do not need hospitalisation. NMMC will decide who should be given admission on priority.” As per the order, hospitals will have to display on their billboards that their managements have control over just 20% of beds. “Asymptomatic patients or those without comorbidities shouldn’t be admitted in private hospitals to ensure prompt availability of beds to the needy. The discharge policy and rates charged should be as per the guidelines issued by the Central government,” Mr. Bangar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/now-nmmc-to-decide-80-admissions-in-pvt-hospitals/article34321977.ece
15 April 2021||Pune,||COVID-19 relief package for poor an eyewash: Fadnavis||Despite preambles not to indulge in politics over the pandemic, Maharashtra’s politicos seem to be doing exactly that at every turn. On Wednesday, former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, alleged that the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was ‘repackaging’ the Centre’s ongoing schemes for the COVID-19-afflicted and passing them as its own measures. Speaking in Nagpur, Mr. Fadnavis said the relief measures announced by Mr. Thackeray to help the underprivileged tide over the 15-day lockdown was mere “eyewash”. He said, “The fresh curbs announced by the State government are going to hit several people extremely hard. But the government has not made any provision for the poorest sections. At least 88 lakh people in the State are not covered in the Food Security Act because of a faulty survey conducted in 2011. But the Chief Minister has not announced any assistance for these people.” Mr. Thackeray had announced a package of Rs. 5,476 crore for street vendors, registered construction workers and licensed autorickshaw drivers as part of his relief measures in the ‘Break the Chain’ campaign. Mr. Fadnavis said the package was inherently discriminatory in nature as the CM had announced financial assistance to registered hawkers only. “This will only benefit hawkers in Mumbai and Thane, as only these cities have registered street vendors. What about those outside these cities?” asked Mr. Fadnavis, claiming that the State government was divorced from ground reality. The BJP leader’s censure drew an angry response from State Congress chief Nana Patole, who urged Mr. Fadnavis to secure funds that belonged to Maharashtra and allegedly lying with the Centre if he indeed had any influence with the BJP-ruled government there. “Maharashtra has legitimate funds to the tune of Rs. 90,000 crore which are still stuck in limbo with the Central government. If Mr. Fadnavis has any influence with the Centre, then let him secure these funds for Maharashtra,” he said. Mr. Patole admitted that the relief package had indeed left out some sections, but welcomed the measure as a whole.  At least 88 lakh people in the State are not covered in the Food Security Act because of a faulty survey conducted in 2011 Devendra Fadnavis Leader of Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-relief-package-for-poor-an-eyewash-fadnavis/article34321979.ece
15 April 2021||Islamabad/Lahore,||Pak. to ban radical Islamist party||Pakistan on Wednesday decided to ban a radical Islamist party under the Terrorism Act after its supporters clashed with the law enforcement agencies for the third consecutive day, leaving seven persons dead and over 300 policemen injured. Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told the media that the Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) was being banned under the Rule 11-B of Anti-Terrorism Act of 1997. “I have approved a proposal sent by the government of Punjab to ban the TLP,” he said. “We have also warned those who are funding the TLP.” Mr. Ahmed said that at least two police officials were killed and 340 others injured in clashes with the protesters during the last two days. The announcement came hours after the Pakistani Rangers cleared the major thoroughfares of the country following sporadic clashes with TLP supporters in some towns and cities. The TLP had launched the country-wide protest on Monday after the arrest of its chief Saad Hussain Rizvi ahead of April 20 deadline the Islamists had given to the Imran Khan government demanding expulsion of the French Ambassador over the French government's support for Charlie Hebdo magazine to republish cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed — a move deemed blasphemous by many. Rizvi’s arrest The TLP, which bagged 2.5 million votes in the 2018 general elections, blocked the roads across the country following the arrest of Saad Rizvi, son of Khadim Hussain Rizvi who died a few months ago. The Minister said that all motorways and highways had been cleared and the main choking point in major cities had also been cleared for traffic. Over 800 Indian Sikhs, who arrived in Lahore via Wagah border on Monday to attend Vaisakhi festival in Gurdwara Panja Sahib Hassanabdal, Rawalpindi, finally reached their destination on Wednesday morning, after being escorted by police. The law enforcement agencies claim to have arrested over 2,000 TLP workers. There are reports of seven death, including two policemen. TLP claimed that 12 of its workers have been killed. A spokesperson for the Punjab police said that two policemen were killed and over 300 suffered injuries in the province||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-to-ban-radical-islamist-party/article34321694.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Hope India reviews stand on pacts’||Singapore’s Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan said he hoped India would ‘reassess’ its stand on regional trading agreements such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) pact that India withdrew from in 2019. India had “a crucial role” to play in helping the region build an inclusive architecture at a time of increasing global instability, he said, on Wednesday at the Raisina Dialogue, held virtually this year and hosted by the Observer Research Foundation in partnership with India’s Ministry of External Affairs. On the trade deal, Mr. Balakrishnan said he was “making a plea” for India to revisit its stand. Regional trade pacts “I hope India will reassess regional trade pacts like RCEP and even the CPTPP [Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership] ,” he said. “These trade pacts will give Indian companies a platform to showcase their strengths across even larger markets.” The RCEP came into force in November 2020 without India and is the world’s largest trading agreement, covering the 10 ASEAN nations, China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand. The CPTPP, successor of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) which the U.S. withdrew from, includes Singapore, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam from ASEAN, along with Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Canada, Mexico, Chile and Peru. India withdrew from the RCEP largely because of concerns it would open it up to Chinese goods amid an already wide trade imbalance with China, and the failure of the agreement to adequately open up to services. Mr. Balakrishnan said Singapore hoped India could play a role to help build a regional architecture that was ‘open’ and ‘inclusive’. ASEAN centrality Rising U.S.-China tensions were “deeply worrying” for the region with the pandemic resulting in “heightened tension” which had “implications for us all”, with a contest over emerging technologies, divergence on human rights and ensions related to defence and cyber security issues. “The U.S.-China relationship is a lynchpin for regional and global stability,” he said. “In Southeast Asia, it is all the more crucial to maintain ASEAN centrality and unity amid geopolitical competition.” On Myanmar, what ASEAN wanted was to stop the violence and then have direct dialogue between the military leadership and Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD). Saying that the sanctions route needed to be carefully considered as COVID-19 had already inflicted a grievous blow on Myanmar’s economy, he said “the worst thing we could do” is to “add the burden on to ordinary citizens”. “Not only ASEAN but immediate neighbours, like India and China, have strategic interests at stake and they can play a constructive role behind the scenes,” he said. The Singapore Foreign Minister praised India’s strong support to global vaccine cooperation, at a time when the pandemic had “turbocharged protectionism and nationalism all over the world, significantly disrupted trade flows and supply chains, and sharpened the tendency for policymakers to turn inwards”. Efforts were on by Singapore, he said, for mutual recognition of health certificates with other countries, with interoperability across borders to gradually facilitate a resumption of travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hope-india-reviews-stand-on-pacts/article34321710.ece
15 April 2021||Tehran,||60% enrichment in response to Israel’s terrorism, says Iran||Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday the decision to boost uranium enrichment to 60% was a response to arch-foe Israel’s “nuclear terrorism” against its Natanz facility. Tehran starting up advanced centrifuges and producing more highly refined uranium “is a response to your malice,” Mr. Rouhani said in a message aimed at the Jewish state. “What you did was nuclear terrorism,” he said, referring to a blast early on Sunday that knocked out electricity at its main nuclear facility in central Iran. “What we do is legal.” Tehran’s announcement of stepped-up enrichment has cast a shadow over talks in Vienna aimed at salvaging the 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers. The European parties to the accord — Britain, France and Germany — on Wednesday expressed “grave concern” over Iran’s enrichment move. Iran’s regional rival Saudi Arabia also expressed concern and called on Tehran to “avoid escalation”. ‘No alternative’ The Natanz attack unleashed a “dangerous spiral,” Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif wrote on Twitter. He warned U.S. President Joe Biden that the situation can only be contained by lifting sanctions Trump imposed on Iran since 2018. “No alternative. Not much time,” he added. Israel has neither confirmed nor denied involvement but public radio reports in the country said it was a sabotage operation by the Mossad spy agency, citing intelligence sources. Iran’s envoy to the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency, Kazem Gharibabadi, wrote on Twitter that preparatory steps to allow enrichment to higher purity had started. The step will bring Iran closer to the 90% purity threshold for military use and shorten its potential “breakout time” to build an atomic bomb — a goal the Islamic republic denies it is seeking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/60-enrichment-in-response-to-israels-terrorism-says-iran/article34321693.ece
15 April 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka bans IS, 10 other extremist groups||Sri Lanka on Wednesday banned 11 radical Islamist groups, including the Islamic State group and al-Qaeda, a week ahead of the second anniversary of the Easter Sunday suicide bombings which killed 279 people. Anyone linked to the groups — the other nine of which are local religious and social organisations — faces up to 20 years in jail, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa said in a gazette notification. Ahead of the anniversary, the country’s Roman Catholics had threatened to take to the streets over what they say is the government’s failure to act against those responsible for the attacks. Some of the groups banned on Wednesday had previously been linked to the lead bomber. IS links The seven Sri Lankans, who attacked three churches and three hotels in April 2019, had pledged allegiance to the IS leader at the time, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. However, investigators said they had found no evidence of direct links to IS. Two local groups said to be directly linked to the attacks were banned in 2019, but a presidential investigation into the bombings wanted similar Islamic groups outlawed too. All seven bombers died and no other suspects have been charged. The head of the Roman Catholic church in Sri Lanka, Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith, has demanded swift action not just against those responsible, but against the politicians and officials who failed to stop them. The probe found that then President Maithripala Sirisena and his intelligence leaders were warned by India about the attacks 17 days before they were staged. The U.S. has filed cases against three Sri Lankans. Five U.S. nationals were among 45 foreigners killed in the blasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-bans-isis-10-other-extremist-groups/article34321697.ece
15 April 2021||New York,||Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff is dead||Bernie Madoff, the infamous architect of an epic securities swindle that burned thousands of investors, outfoxed regulators and earned him a 150-year prison term, died in a federal prison early Wednesday. He was 82. Madoff’s death at the Federal Medical Center in Butner, North Carolina, was confirmed by his lawyer and the Bureau of Prisons. His death was due to natural causes, a person familiar with the matter told The Associated Press. For decades, Madoff enjoyed an image as a self-made financial guru whose Midas touch defied market fluctuations. A former chairman of the Nasdaq stock market, he attracted a devoted legion of investment clients — from Florida retirees to celebrities such as famed film director Steven Spielberg. But his investment advisory business was exposed in 2008 as a Ponzi scheme that wiped out people’s fortunes and ruined charities and foundations. He became so hated he had to wear a bulletproof vest to court. The fraud was believed to be the largest in Wall Street’s history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ponzi-schemer-bernie-madoff-is-dead/article34321690.ece
15 April 2021||BROOKLYN CENTER,||Officer who shot dead Black motorist resigns||A white police officer who fatally shot a Black man during a traffic stop in a Minneapolis suburb resigned Tuesday, as did the city’s police chief — moves that the Mayor said he hoped would help heal the community and lead to reconciliation after two nights of protests and unrest. But police and protesters faced off once again after nightfall on Tuesday, with hundreds of protesters gathering again at Brooklyn Center’s heavily guarded police headquarters, now ringed by concrete barriers and a tall metal fence, and where police in riot gear and National Guard soldiers stood watch. “Murderapolis” was scrawled with black spray paint on a concrete barrier. “Whose street? Our street!” the crowd chanted under a light snowfall. About 90 minutes before the curfew deadline, state police announced over a loudspeaker that the gathering had been declared unlawful and ordered the crowds to disperse. That quickly set off confrontations, with protesters launching fireworks toward the station and throwing objects at police, who launched gas grenades, and forced back the crowd. The resignations from Officer Kim Potter and Police Chief Tim Gannon came two days after the death of 20-year-old Daunte Wright in Brooklyn Center. Potter, a 26-year veteran, had been on administrative leave following Sunday’s shooting, which happened as the area was already on edge over the trial of an officer charged in George Floyd’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/officer-who-shot-dead-black-motorist-resigns/article34321691.ece
15 April 2021||Minneapolis,||Manslaughter charge on officer who shot Black man||The police officer who shot dead Black 20-year-old Daunte Wright in a Minneapolis suburb after appearing to mistake her gun for her Taser was arrested on Wednesday and will face manslaughter charges. Minneapolis has been roiled by nights of violent protests after Kim Potter, who is white, opened fire on Wright in his car on Sunday. Racial tensions were already high in the U.S. midwestern city as it hosts the trial of the white policeman charged with murdering George Floyd, whose death touched off a national reckoning over racial injustice. Ms. Potter, a 26-year police veteran who resigned after Wright’s death, faces a maximum of 10 years in jail if convicted of second-degree manslaughter. She was taken into custody at the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension in the neighboring city of St. Paul. “While we appreciate that the district attorney is pursuing justice for Daunte, no conviction can give the Wright family their loved one back,” said the Wrights’ family lawyer Ben Crump after the arrest. “This was no accident. This was an intentional, deliberate, and unlawful use of force. “We will keep fighting for justice for Daunte, for his family, and for all marginalized people of color. And we will not stop until there is meaningful policing and justice reform.” Protesters faced off with police for a third night on Tuesday, with more than 60 people arrested, law enforcement officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/manslaughter-charge-on-officer-who-shot-black-man/article34322228.ece
15 April 2021||Kabul,||Capable of defending our people: Ghani||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Wednesday said his forces were “fully capable” of defending Afghanistan, as he revealed he had spoken with his U.S. counterpart Joe Biden about the withdrawal of American soldiers. “The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan respects the U.S. decision and we will work with our U.S. partners to ensure a smooth transition,” Mr. Ghani tweeted. “Afghanistan’s proud security and defense forces are fully capable of defending its people and country, which they have been doing all along, and for which the Afghan nation will forever remain grateful.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/capable-of-defending-our-people-ghani/article34322227.ece
15 April 2021||Moscow,||No clots from Sputnik V, says Russian firm||The developer of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine said on Wednesday its jab did not cause blood clots, a potential side effect that has disrupted rollouts in several Western countries. Like the Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca vaccines, Russia’s Sputnik V jab uses adapted strains of the adenovirus that causes the common cold. On Wednesday, the state-run Gamaleya research institute, which developed Sputnik V vaccine, said there was no risk of blot clots from its jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-clots-from-sputnik-v-says-russian-firm/article34321695.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Why less may be more for India and China||“Lower the expectations” might not seem a very ambitious prescription for the immediate future of India’s troubled relations with China. It may, however, be just the right tonic to guide the way forward, as both countries seek a new equilibrium after a major rupture in relations following the border crisis. That was the consensus shared by the two sides at a Track-II dialogue held in early April, possibly the first of its kind to be held after the border crisis. This brought together former ambassadors and military officials from both sides, organised by the Ananta Aspen Centre in New Delhi and the China Reform Forum in Beijing, which is affiliated to the Central Party School. Hampered by expectations The chequered history of India-China relations is rife with examples of how misplaced expectations have burdened the relationship, often only leading to recurring disappointment. In the 1950s, relations veered from being led by idealised notions of restoring some pan-Asian, civilisational partnership — one that, in truth, never really existed through centuries of historical exchanges — to confrontation and ultimately war in 1962. For an example of more recent vintage, the holding of two “informal summits” in Wuhan in 2018 and in Mamallapuram near Chennai the following year, which were certainly valuable exercises in getting the leaders of both countries to engage with each other directly and in leading to two years of largely undisturbed peace on the borders, was seen as marking the start of another new promising era in ties, only to turn out to be another false dawn. Rather than once again veer from high expectation to familiar disappointment, perhaps the search for a new equilibrium with China should instead be driven by modest goals, led by conversations driven by hard talk and self-interest, rather than lofty goals of partnership. At the core At the recent dialogue, the shared view was that key to arriving at this new, more realistic state of relations will be managing three issues — the boundary question, trade, and the increasing impact of third-party and multilateral engagements on the two-way relationship. On all three fronts, setting the sights on limited goals may end up paying rich dividends. Consider the boundary dispute. Ten months after the clash at Galwan Valley, which marked the worst violence on the border since 1967, both sides are nowhere near full de-escalation. Initial optimism of a quick end to the crisis, following disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake, the most thorny of the disputes in eastern Ladakh, has now given way to an apparent stalemate. The readouts from both sides after the eleventh round of talks between Corps Commanders on April 9 suggested as much, with no joint statement – for the first time since the sixth round in September – and no mention from the Chinese side of early disengagement. At the Track-II dialogue, Chinese speakers, unsurprisingly, offered no clarity on what prompted the People’s Liberation Army’s mass mobilisation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last summer and the hammer blow dealt to agreements that ensured decades of a carefully managed peace. Was the deployment tactical — an attempt to push back India from the LAC by stealth that subsequently backfired — or a strategic message? We are still none the wiser. What the crisis did make clear is there is certainly no appetite in China at the moment for a final settlement of the boundary question. That is also the view of most Chinese experts, who suggest it is to be left for the next generation, which means a prolonged period of continued uncertainty on the borders. The absence of a permanent peace does not, however, mean both countries are necessarily destined for conflict. What they do need, in the view of military planners of both sides, is small steps to restore a shattered trust. If China has made clear there is little likelihood of clarifying the LAC — a process that has been stalled for 19 years — one possible way forward is to, at least, clarify the most sensitive spots, and arrive at understandings, such as coordinated patrolling either by time or area. These are small steps that have, in the past, helped cool down the temperatures. The view on trade On the trade front, the view in Delhi has shifted remarkably from what was, in the first few years of the Narendra Modi government, an all-out courtship of China Inc. — as hard as it is to imagine now, Chinese billionaires from Alibaba’s Jack Ma to Wanda’s Wang Jianlin all received audiences with the Prime Minister on their India visits — to talk now of “decoupling”. If the idea of roping in China as a major economic partner now seems premature in light of the many unresolved political problems, so is talk of a complete disengagement on trade. One only need look at the trade figures for a year that saw the biggest border crisis in decades. Trade reached $87.6 billion and China was India’s largest trading partner, with India importing $66.7 billion worth of machinery and medical equipment, among other goods, and exporting a record $20 billion to China, mostly ores to fill the appetite of China’s rebounding economy. Or, for that matter, at the prompt restoration of Chinese mobile phone company Vivo as the sponsor of India’s biggest cricket tournament after a suspension last year, even if the border crisis is nowhere near resolution. Jettisoning all activity with China is neither realistic nor prudent. Instead, what is needed is a clear-headed, all-of-government approach that decides where both sides can cooperate — infrastructure that has no security implications is an obvious area, as is clean energy given China’s capacities on solar and wind, to name but two — and other areas where Delhi may find it needs to tread with caution, such as the roll-out of 5G. On 5G, too, the problem is often reductively framed as a China one, when what is needed is a policy framework that is not aimed at merely one country but protects India’s interests without handing over the keys to the kingdom to any outside player. Finally, both sides need to have a clear conversation on how third parties and external engagement are an increasing factor. The Track-II dialogue made it clear how China is viewing relations with India through the prism of its relations with the United States that are its abiding priority. Beijing has increasingly hit out at what President Xi Jinping called “small circles” when he spoke to Davos, which has now become shorthand for U.S.-involved groupings including the Quad. India has its own grouses with China-involved “small circles” of which there are many, from the numerous small groupings in South Asia that China has convened over the past year, to certain multilateral efforts on Afghanistan that India has been kept out of. Focus on shared platforms Rather than view every element of such engagements as a threat, that both sides would be better served having a conversation about what the red lines are was a shared view at the dialogue. Moreover, as relations stabilise, India and China could start injecting more energy into their own shared platforms such as BRICS, which, for instance, could come up with its own vaccine initiatives as the Quad has done. They could also revive their bilateral cooperation in Afghanistan, which began and ended after the Wuhan summit with a modest joint training programme for diplomats while more ambitious infrastructure projects that had once been imagined never took off. As both sides chart a course forward after last year’s rupture in ties, they may find a conversation that is driven by hard talk and finding shared interests, even if modest ones, more rewarding than bearing misplaced expectations. As India and China go back to the drawing board, less may indeed be more. ananth.krishnan@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-less-may-be-more-for-india-and-china/article34321675.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Institutions, caste and the vital cog of trust||Trust impacts income and growth through markets and public institutions. There is a positive relationship between trust and the development of financial markets. Operation of these markets is contingent on trustworthiness of debtors, as legal methods of recovery of dues are fraught with delays and heavy expenses. Turning to labour markets, higher trust manifests in ‘higher levels of cooperative relations between labour and management and higher levels of unionisation. In fact, firms that have unions representing their employees are better able to adapt to new management methods, and show better productivity. Evidence suggests a strong positive correlation between trust and the quality of the legal system. There is a similar correlation between trust and the quality of governance’.  Here, our focus is on whether trust in institutions such as state government, judiciary and police varies by caste. We rely on the India Human Development Survey 2015 (IHDS). Key term is confidence A unique feature of the 2005 and 2012 rounds of the IHDS is that they ask a question on trust. Trust in public institutions is measured in terms of levels of confidence: a great deal of confidence, only some confidence and hardly any confidence. Caste hierarchy reflects socio-economic status. Brahmins are at the top, followed by High Castes, Other Backward Classes/OBCs, and then the deprived including Scheduled Castes/SCs and Scheduled Tribes/STs. The residual category of Others is mixed but akin to High Castes. Hence, General combines Brahmins, High Castes and Others, while other castes are as stated. Although affirmative action (e.g., quotas for SCs, STs and OBCs in education and public sector employment) has benefited these groups, segments of SCs and STs are still among the most deprived and vulnerable to poverty. A vast majority of households surveyed lacked confidence in State governments in 2012. There is a sharp reversal in the case of the judiciary. A large majority reported a great deal of confidence, a moderate proportion had only some confidence and an extremely small proportion had hardly any confidence. Yet another contrast emerged in the case of the police. A low proportion had a great deal of confidence in it, a majority had only some confidence and a more than moderate proportion had hardly any confidence. Thus among these institutions, the most trusted was the judiciary, followed by State governments and then police. To avoid circularity, trust in institutions is for 2012 and the caste hierarchy is for 2005. In the composite caste category, General, the highest proportion (under half) had only some confidence, under 30% had a great deal of confidence while about a quarter had hardly any confidence. A high proportion of OBCs also reported a great deal of confidence, a much higher proportion displayed a great deal of confidence and a much lower proportion had hardly any confidence. In sharp contrast, among SCs, the highest proportion (under 45%) displayed a great deal of confidence, a smaller proportion had only some confidence, and a much smaller proportion with hardly any confidence. STs, however, display a pattern not dissimilar to OBCs. Quota as a reason An important issue is why do SCs display so much confidence in State governments? One reason is quotas. Another is a conjecture. While those higher-up in the socio-economic hierarchy are likely to have other options (stemming from relative affluence), SCs are largely reliant on state munificence. STs, in contrast, while also dependent on quotas, are so isolated that they have limited experience of social safety nets. In striking contrast to trust in State governments, trust in the judiciary is highly pervasive with a slight variation across castes. For each caste, a large majority displayed a great deal of confidence, with nearly three-fourths of STs reporting a great deal of confidence. The proportion of those with hardly any confidence was extremely low, ranging between 5% and 7%. These findings are indeed surprising given the judicial overload of cases and prolonged delays. Yet another striking contrast emerged for the police as a law enforcement agency. A great deal of confidence varied within a narrow range of 13%-18%, with the lowest among STs. Over 30% displayed hardly any confidence, with the highest among SCs and STs. This is not surprising given rampant corruption and discrimination against lower castes. Need for inclusion One component of trust is shaped by beliefs inherited from earlier generations, and another by a contemporaneous environment. Trust in these institutions rose between 2005 and 2012. However, recent accounts indicate a sharp erosion of trust, presumably because of State government policies that are far from inclusive, judicial verdicts that do not conform to high standards of autonomy and fairness, and police actions that violate rights of citizens, and are often brutal. While inculcation of initial beliefs is bound to be slow, transition to a policy environment that is inclusive and transparent is daunting too but growing awareness among the citizens is likely to facilitate it. Veena S. Kulkarni is Associate Professor in Sociology, Arkansas State University, U.S. Raghav Gaiha is (Hon.) Professorial Research Fellow, Global Development Institute, University of Manchester, England and Research Affiliate, Population Aging Research Centre, University of Pennsylvania, U.S. Contributions by Vani S. Kulkarni, Lecturer in Sociology, University of Pennsylvania||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/institutions-caste-and-the-vital-cog-of-trust/article34321678.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The secrecy around deaths after vaccination||Despite four successive lockdowns, COVID-19 cases and deaths kept mounting day by day till mid-September last year. Since January 16, 2021, we have two vaccines under emergency use authorisation, now being given to all those aged 45 and above. More than 100 million doses have been administered so far. Such a gigantic mission entails a greater responsibility on the part of the government to watch out for unintended harm or collateral damage from the vaccine. There are committees of technical experts to monitor ‘adverse events following immunisation’ (AEFI) and there are established mechanisms by the World Health Organization (WHO) to monitor, investigate and report such events.  No thorough investigation  The common man relies on a responsible and responsive government to safeguard him against any vaccine-induced harm, including an unfortunate death. Although 180 deaths out of the 617 severe and serious adverse events up to end March were supposed to have followed COVID-19 vaccination, no case of serious AEFI, including death, has been attributed to the COVID-19 vaccine. ‘There is no link to vaccination’ is the quick response by authorities even before a systematic investigation, including a post-mortem examination, is completed. A line list of less than 15 deaths are visible to the public on the Ministry of Health website. The time of death or the period of gap between the vaccination and death is not mentioned. Some deaths are not even fully documented. Knowing the time line pattern of deaths after vaccination is important. Media reports indicate that many deaths after taking AstraZeneca’s Covishield occurred due to cardiac arrest, cerebral venous thrombosis, and stroke. Deaths in Germany and Norway were also due to clots or thrombus formation following a jab of AstraZeneca’s vaccine. Ireland, Denmark and Iceland are among the countries which have suspended AstraZeneca’s vaccine. In India, Dr. N.K. Arora, Adviser, National AEFI Committee, and member of the COVID-19 National Task Force, said that “in 38 out of 71 post-mortem reports received so far, a causal link to the vaccine has not been established. All the events so far are coincidental”. That means that many cardiac arrests and strokes would have occurred in any case in the population without vaccination. Mere coincidence is not an easy verdict to pronounce unless investigations are thoroughly completed. Only a histopathological examination of tissues after autopsy can establish the diffused thromboembolic phenomena and multiple infarcts of the heart, lungs, and brain, which is different from the single or couple of clots that occur in heart attacks and strokes normally. There is no evidence of such a thorough investigation being done at the sub-district level in India. When thousands die due to various illnesses and accidents daily, a bus accident killing 20 people should not make news, but it does. So also nine deaths after 20 million people getting the vaccine in Europe and the U.K. should not cause concern if it is not associated with the vaccine. But if there is an association, the death becomes preventable. That is why the deaths became a serious issue for the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Severe and fatal coagulopathies occurred in young individuals following vaccination, leading more than 15 countries to suspend their AstraZeneca vaccination programme. After a detailed review and allowing AstraZeneca’s vaccine to be continued, the EMA stated that “the benefits of the vaccine in combating the still widespread threat of COVID-19 (which itself results in clotting problems and may be fatal) continue to outweigh the risk of side effects”. It admitted that the “vaccine may be associated with very rare cases of blood clots associated with thrombocytopenia”. Concerns raised Several doctors of global professional standing signed a protest letter, endorsed by many others, to Emer Cooke, Executive Director of the EMA, against this decision. They wrote: “While we recognise that these occurrences might, every one of them, have been unfortunate coincidences, we are concerned that there has been and there continues to be inadequate scrutiny of the possible causes of illness or death under these circumstances, and especially so in the absence of post-mortem examinations. In particular, we question whether cardinal issues regarding the safety of the vaccines were adequately addressed prior to their approval by the European Medicines Agency.” They assume that the vaccines, which are gene-based agents, will “remain entrapped in the circulation and be taken up by endothelial cells, particularly at sites of slow blood flow, i.e., in small vessels and capillaries... It must be expected that endothelial damage with subsequent triggering of blood coagulation via platelet activation will ensue at countless sites throughout the body.” They postulate that will lead to “a drop in platelet counts, appearance of D-dimers (bio-marker for disease severity) in the blood, and to myriad ischemic lesions throughout the body including in the brain, spinal cord and heart. Bleeding disorders might occur in the wake of this novel type of Diffused Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) syndrome including profuse bleedings and haemorrhagic stroke.” Further, “the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein binds to the ACE2 receptor on platelets, which results in their activation. Thrombocytopenia has been reported in severe cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection and in vaccinated individuals.” They requested evidence that all the above possibilities were excluded in pre-clinical animal models with all three vaccines prior to their approval for use in humans by the EMA. The approval of the COVID-19 vaccines by the EMA, according to them, was “premature and reckless, and that the administration of the vaccines constitute ‘human experimentation’, which was and still is in violation of the Nuremberg Code”. The Code prohibits human experimentation of the very kind being endorsed and defended by the EMA. Under these circumstances in Europe, our AEFI monitoring system cannot be so casual about more than 180 deaths in the country. Any death allegedly caused by the COVID-19 vaccine must be thoroughly documented after autopsy and histopathological examination and the results must be made known to the health staff and scientific community. Science and welfare of humanity must prevail above political mileage. A discerning public will recognise the humility of a responsible caring government in admitting its dilemma based on the adverse events from the field versus wider benefits from mass vaccination. That honesty and transparency on AEFI alone can gain the confidence of the people in taking a calculated risk of continuing with a controversial vaccine. The mist of vaccine hesitancy will melt away quickly by the warm light of truth, if only it is shared. K.R. Antony is a paediatrician and public health consultant in Kochi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-secrecy-around-deaths-after-vaccination/article34321687.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Navigation with permission||On April 7, the U.S.’s 7th Fleet Destroyer, the USS John Paul Jones, conducted a ‘Freedom of Navigation Operation’ 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands inside India’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Not only was this exercise conducted without requesting India’s consent, but the U.S. 7th Fleet noted in its press release that India’s requirement of prior consent is “inconsistent with international law”. In its response, India asserted that the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) “does not authorize other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state”. Owing to the different positions of the two countries, legal questions emerge here. The question is, can countries carry out military exercises in another country’s EEZ and if yes, subject to what conditions? Understanding the law UNCLOS binds all its signatories and customary international law binds all states, subject to exceptions like the doctrine of persistent objector. Most of the provisions of the UNCLOS are the result of codification of the existing rules of customary international law. India is a party to the UNCLOS while the U.S. is not. As per the UNCLOS, EEZ is an area adjacent to the territorial waters of a coastal state where the sovereign coastal state has rights and duties relating to management of natural resources; establishment and use of artificial islands, installations and structures; marine scientific research; and protection of the marine environment. The present difference in legal interpretation brings into the picture Articles 58 and 87 of the UNCLOS. Article 58 (1) provides that in the EEZ, all States, whether coastal or landlocked, enjoy, subject to the relevant provisions of this Convention, the freedoms referred to in Article 87 of navigation and overflight and of the laying of submarine cables and pipelines as well as other internationally lawful uses of the sea. Article 87 provides for freedom of the high seas under which all states have the freedom of navigation. However, the freedom of navigation is subject to the conditions laid down under the UNCLOS and other rules of international law. In addition to it, Article 58 (3) stipulates another qualification: “In exercising their rights and performing their duties under this Convention in the exclusive economic zone, States shall have due regard to the rights and duties of the coastal State and shall comply with the laws and regulations adopted by the coastal State...” The relevant Indian law in this regard is the Territorial Waters, Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and Other Maritime Zones of India Act, 1976. Section 7 sub-section 9 of this Act recognises the freedom of navigation of the ships of all States but makes them subject to the exercise of rights by India within the zone. The declaration by India in 1995 also states that India “understands that the provisions of the Convention do not authorize other States to carry out in the exclusive economic zone and on the continental shelf military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal State”. An ancillary question that emerges is the legal effect of such declarations. Article 310 of the UNCLOS does permit states to make declarations in order to explain the relationship between the Convention and their own laws, but such declarations should not “purport to exclude or to modify the legal effect of the provisions of this Convention in their application to that State”. Negotiating concerns On a conjoint reading of Articles 58, 87 and 310, it can be argued that freedom of navigation cannot be read in an absolute and isolated manner. Given the nature of EEZ and the activities that a coastal state conducts in its EEZ, non-consensual military activities that hinder the lawful enjoyment of such rights need not be permissible. Also, a coastal state is naturally concerned about military exercises and manoeuvres posing a risk to its coastal communities, its installations or artificial islands, as well as the marine environment. Thus, any state which wishes to conduct such exercises must do so only in consultation with the coastal state since the coastal state is the best judge of its EEZ. Both India and the U.S. should negotiate such concerns for the maintenance of international peace and security. Riding roughshod over international obligations premised either in an erroneous interpretation of the law or the scope of its application will not only threaten friendly relations but also undermine the progress made towards codification and development of international law in an area such as the law of the sea, which is particularly complex. Anmolam is a lawyer and Farheen Ahmad is a research scholar, pursuing her Ph.D. in international law from South Asian University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/navigation-with-permission/article34321683.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s time to enact a Siras Act||A law to accord an ex post facto pardon to those who were convicted under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) would do poetic justice to the LGBTQ+ community and Professor Ramachandra Siras. What happened to Siras is a perfect example of the persecution faced by the LGBTQ+ community in India. He was a Professor and head of the Department of Modern Indian Languages at Aligarh Muslim University. On a winter night in 2010, two men trespassed into Siras’ house and caught him having consensual sex with another man. Siras was suspended by AMU for “gross misconduct”. Hansal Mehta’s critically acclaimed biopic, Aligarh (2015), portrayed the social ostracism and mental trauma suffered by Siras. Even though he won his case against the university in the Allahabad High Court and got his job back, Siras died a mysterious death on April 7, 2010. Alan Turing law From Oscar Wilde to Alan Turing, many well-known as well as unknown people were haunted by anti-LGBTQ+ laws, and many jurisdictions repented later. A memorial in honour of the gay and lesbian victims of National Socialism stands in the city of Cologne in Germany today. The U.K. passed the Alan Turing law in 2017, which grants amnesty and pardon to those convicted of consensual same-sex relationships. The law is named after Alan Turing, the computer scientist who was instrumental in cracking intercepted coded messages during World War II and was convicted of gross indecency in 1952. The Alan Turing law provides not only a posthumous pardon but also an automatic formal pardon for living people. R. Raj Rao, in Criminal Love?: Queer Theory, Culture and Politics in India (2017), says homosexuality has always been looked upon with disfavour by three agencies universal to mankind: religion, law and medicine. Among them, the law committed the “most unkindest cut of all”. From 1862, when Section 377 of the IPC came into effect, until September 6, 2018, when the Supreme Court of India ruled that the application of Section 377 of the IPC to consensual homosexual behaviour between adults was “unconstitutional, irrational, indefensible and manifestly arbitrary”, the LGBTQ+ community was treated as a criminal tribe in India. Resurrection of Naz Foundation The Delhi High Court’s verdict in Naz Foundation v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi (2009) resulted in the decriminalisation of homosexual acts involving consenting adults. The Court held that Section 377 offended the guarantee of equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution, because it creates an unreasonable classification and targets homosexuals as a class. Justice A.P. Shah observed in the judgment that discrimination is the antithesis of equality and that it is the recognition of equality which will foster the dignity of every individual. “Specifically, Naz Foundation understood that in promising non-discrimination and equal treatment before the law, the Constitution spoke to a past — and a present — where certain personal characteristics had become the sites of structural and systemic exclusion, marginalisation, disadvantage, and indignity. The jurisprudence of Naz Foundation was an attempt to fulfil the constitutional purpose of redressing this reality,” writes Gautam Bhatia in The Transformative Constitution: A Radical Biography in Nine Acts (2019). In a retrograde step, the Supreme Court, in Suresh Kumar Koushal vs. Naz Foundation (2013), reinstated Section 377 in the IPC. Fortunately India witnessed the resurrection of Naz Foundation through the apex court’s judgment in Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. v. Union of India (2018). The spirit of Navtej Singh Johar should be pushed further. To make amends for the excesses committed against the LGBTQ+ community in the past and present, the Indian state should enact a ‘Siras Act’ on the lines of the Alan Turing law. Ex post facto pardon may be a novel concept in India, but it would do justice, even though delayed, to the prisoners of sexual conscience and Siras. Faisal C.K. is an independent researcher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-time-to-enact-a-siras-act/article34321684.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Examination priorities||The decision to put off the CBSE Class 12 public examination and cancel the Class 10 examination at the end of a disrupted academic year brings much-needed relief to anxious students caught on the crest of the second COVID-19 wave. Unlike last year’s first phase of the pandemic, the ongoing wild spread covers young people as well. The age cohort of those infected now includes even 15-year-olds, according to the Health Ministry. It is a wise move on the Centre’s part to keep this risk group out of harm’s way, reducing the possibility of school-based clusters and onward spread to older age groups who have shielded themselves so far. The onus is now on State governments, some of which have already initiated the examination schedule, to similarly recognise the growing crisis and display flexibility in reconsidering dates. Kerala had, for instance, postponed its SSLC and higher secondary level examinations due to the State election, but these got under way immediately thereafter. Tamil Nadu, which too conducted an Assembly poll, has scheduled school public examinations throughout May. What State governments should be focusing on is enhancement of the efficiency of vaccination rollout, using available vaccines and new ones in the pipeline. This effort will be greatly helped if there is undivided attention devoted to covering all age groups at the earliest, using the enhanced supply. With an unwavering focus on providing vaccine protection to its entire population, the U.S. has advanced its target dates in almost all States to include all those above age 16. University leaders are also pursuing policies to normalise campus-based education that envisage universal vaccination of all college students. Further, there is promise on the vaccine front for school-goers, with Pfizer-BioNTech, after trials on younger recipients, seeking regulatory permission to cover children aged 12 to 15 in the U.S. under emergency-use authorisation norms. Two other vaccine makers are due to report on trials on young recipients. If the results prove to be robust, this is a promising way forward to reopen campuses for children without major disease worries. Yet, while they may succeed with vaccination, where many countries are failing is in addressing the mental health challenges of freedom-constrained children and youth. The problem must be acknowledged, and they must be reassured through publicised talk therapy and counselling, a task that calls for a partnership between educational institutions and the public health system. Over the next few weeks, governments should prioritise vaccinations for the general population, and the resulting control over infections would make the public examination season smooth for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/examination-priorities/article34321670.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Twin troubles||The latest official data on retail prices and industrial production released on Monday provide cause for disquiet, given that inflation continues to accelerate and output at the country’s factories contracted for a second straight month. While inflation quickened to a four-month high of 5.52% in March, as per provisional data from the National Statistical Office, the NSO’s quick estimates of the Index of Industrial Production for February show output including at mines, the manufacturing sector and electricity generators shrank 3.6%, following on from January’s 0.9% contraction. Consumer Price Index numbers show that stubbornly high food and fuel costs remain the main drivers of price pressures. Pulses and edible oils, key kitchen staples and vital nutritional sources for proteins and fats, have been climbing almost dizzyingly for the last few months, a fact not lost on the RBI. While inflation in pulses accelerated to 13.3%, from 12.5% in February, oils and fats saw a more than 400 basis points surge to 24.9%. In its policy statement this month, the central bank hoped that arrivals from the rabi harvest as well as imports would likely augment supply, helping moderate prices of pulses. Similarly, on edible oils the RBI is rather optimistically banking on the government to cut import duties and offer incentives to boost domestic productivity to counter the heightened inflation. With meat and fish, and eggs yet again posting double-digit increases, inflation in the food and beverages category quickened almost 100 basis points to 5.24%. Disconcertingly, transport and communication also saw a more than 100 basis points acceleration to 12.6%, and this despite the pump prices of petroproducts remaining virtually frozen through the month, ahead of the March 27 start of Assembly elections. The most plausible explanation is that the freight and urban transport sectors saw a lagged pass-through of the preceding months’ steep increases in automobile fuel costs. Price pressures are unlikely to ease significantly in the near term, unless the Centre and the States bite the bullet by agreeing to forego some near-term revenue from petroproducts and reduce fuel taxes. The RBI, which has been stridently seeking a reduction in these levies, foresees inflation averaging 5.2% in the April-June quarter. Separately, the IIP data shows mining continuing to backslide, manufacturing struggling for traction with output of capital goods, construction gear and consumer non-durables all contracting in February. And if one considers that these data sets are yet to reflect the likely disruptions caused by the upsurge in COVID-19 infections and the local containment measures, the signs are even more worrying. Policymakers face tough choices in trying to nurse back demand. And they must do this without letting quickening inflation undermine purchasing power and overall economic stability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/twin-troubles/article34321671.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Ferry boat accident||A disastrous accident occurred here yesterday [Noakhali, April 11] to a ferry boat. It appears that a boat plying between the island of Hatiya and the mainland of Noakhali while on the way to Noakhali with about 125 passengers and about 150 maunds of rice and paddy, was overtaken by a strong gale near Char Jabbar and ultimately ran against a submerged char and remained fast. There was very heavy current running and the boats after being badly buffeted by waves capsized with all on board at about 1-30 P.M. and after breaking in two became a total wreck. About 60 passengers were picked up by the Char Jabbar ferry-boatmen and were taken to the town in a helpless condition. From the report so far received from the survivors it appears that there were two female passengers with children on board, one of whom is said to have survived. No trace of the other woman and the remaining male passengers has yet been obtained. It is apprehended that the mortality has been very heavy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ferry-boat-accident/article34321679.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Slow growth of literacy (From an editorial)||Thanks to the use of computers, the results of the census taken at the beginning of this month are already coming in. Those who are alarmed by the growth of population will be pleased to find that the actual figure is 14 millions less than anticipated. Whether this is due to family planning or a higher death rate than originally projected will have to be sorted out. It may also be that several heads have not been counted. In any case, the population figure of 547 millions is big enough to give pause to those who are trying to guide the national economy and create more employment. But foreign commentators who seek to compare India and China with the United States or Russia should note that it makes better sense to make the comparison with a long-settled area like Europe west of the Soviet Union, which is also heavily populated. Of all the census figures, those relating to literacy will be of major interest, since the progress of the country depends heavily on the attainment of a high rate of literacy. The Education Commission of 1964 thought that with a massive campaign of adult education India might reach a literacy percentage of 60 by 1971 but only half that figure has been realised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slow-growth-of-literacy-from-an-editorial/article34321680.ece
15 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Infosys Q4 net rises 17.5% on large deals||Infosys Ltd. on Wednesday reported fourth-quarter profit rose 17.5% from a year earlier to Rs. 5,076 crore, helped by large deal wins and a pandemic-induced acceleration in digital adoption. The software services firm also said it expects revenue in the current fiscal to grow by 12% to 14% and provided guidance for an operating margin of 22% to 24%. “A strong momentum exiting FY21, alongside a focussed strategy to accelerate client digital journeys, gives us confidence for a stronger FY22,” said CEO and MD Salil Parekh. Revenue in the three months ended March increased 13.1% to Rs. 26,311 crore. Full-year revenue rose 10.7% to Rs. 1,00,472 crore while net profit climbed 16.6% to Rs. 19,351 crore. “We have crossed a milestone of Rs. 1,00,000 crore in revenue in FY21,” Mr. Parekh said in a statement. “Our intense focus on client relevance, growing our digital portfolio with differentiated capabilities like Infosys CobaltTM, and empowering employees have helped us emerge as a preferred partner-of-choice for our global clients,” he added. Infosys said it won its largest-ever deal, among 24 other large deals clinched in the quarter totalling $2.1 billion. Of these, 52% were first-time deals. Operating margin fell 90 basis points quarter-on-quarter to 24.5%. For the full year the margin was 24.5%, at the top end of Infosys’s guidance range of 24-24.5%. The Infosys board approved a share buy-back of up to Rs. 9,200 crore. “The company proposes to increase the total dividend per share by 54% over the previous year and a buy-back of equity shares of up to Rs. 9,200 crore,” said CFO Nilanjan Roy. Shares would be bought back at a price not exceeding Rs. 1,750 per share. “It is an open-market buyback; it will be a long process and will take 6 to 7 months to complete,” Mr. Roy added. For FY21, the firm recommended a final dividend of Rs. 15, bringing total dividend per share to Rs. 27. With this, the company has announced a total dividend payout of Rs. 11,500 crore for FY 21. ‘Attrition rises’ Infosys reported voluntary attrition of 15.2% in the fourth quarter, compared with 10% in the preceding quarter. It added 10,307 employees on a net basis to take total headcount to 2,59,619. In FY21, Infosys hired 36,000, of whom 21,000 were from campuses. It plans to hire more than 25,000 in FY22 from campuses. Larger rival TCS hired more than 40,000 in FY21. “We implemented a salary hike in January and we are planning another in July,” said COO U.B. Pravin Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-q4-net-rises-175-on-large-deals/article34321655.ece
15 April 2021||Chennai,||Remembering FCB Ulka’s Anil Kapoor||Legendary adman and former Chairman of FCB Ulka, Anil ‘Billy’ Kapoor passed away on Sunday, aged 74. In over three decades at the helm, he transformed an ailing Ulka Advertising into a flourishing agency that worked closely at the strategic level with a host of brands. Amul, Santoor, Tata Indica are some of the brands that Ulka has a long-standing relationship with. He oversaw the merger of Ulka with Foote, Cone & Belding (FCB) while also ensuring that the global agency retained the Ulka (shooting star in Sanskrit) name. “His razor sharp mind would first interrogate the business model and product delivery before thinking of communication, getting many a client to re-evaluate their marketing strategies,” says FCB India’s Group Chairman and CEO Rohit Ohri. Ambi Parameswaran, former CEO, FCB Ulka, says Kapoor believed very strongly in the need for agencies to partner with CXO-level officials. “We were taught to engage with the senior-most level in an organisation as advertising is not to be left to the discretion of junior brand managers,” he recalls. “His whole philosophy was you should know the client’s brand better than the client themselves which means you got to do enough spadework so you can guide the client on what to do with the brand,” adds Parameswaran. Amul, which has been FCB Ulka’s client for over three decades, honoured Kapoor in an ad with a typical punchline: ‘You will always be part of our Famuly!’ Kapoor’s engagement with Amul started in 1988, when Verghese Kurien asked him to re-energise Amulya, a dairy whitener, which faced stiff competition from Nestle’s EveryDay. Kapoor had just taken over the reins from founder, Bal Mundkur. Recalling Kapoor’s engagement with the dairy cooperative, R.S. Sodhi, Managing Director, Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, says, “There was a clear difference between Kapoor and any other advertising head. In those days, agencies were headed by people from creative areas. But, Kapoor was the man who had come from marketing and sales to advertising.” It was during Kapoor’s time that Amul’s iconic tag line ‘Amul: The Taste of India’ was coined and endures even today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/remembering-fcb-ulkas-anil-kapoor/article34321668.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India’s public debt level among highest in emerging economies’||India’s public debt level is among the highest in emerging economies with a quantitative easing programme underway, while its debt affordability is among the weakest, Moody’s Investors Service said on Wednesday. “With the exception of Chile, most of the 11 emerging markets have weak government effectiveness, suggesting potential risks executing fiscal reforms or consolidation plans,” Moody’s said. “Debt affordability varies widely, with Ghana and India [rated Baa3 negative] weakest. Across the 11 emerging markets, India, South Africa and Ghana have the highest public debt and weakest debt affordability,” the agency added. “The Reserve Bank of India’s programme aims to stabilise the domestic bond market,” the report titled, ‘Quantitative easing programs are largely positive, but risks vary across economies’, noted. “While the bank does not operate in the primary market, dividend payments and transfers of excess reserves to the government fund part of the budget deficit,” the report said. “The bank targets buying more than Rs. 3 trillion [$41.3 billion] of government bonds this fiscal year, having purchased Rs. 3.1 trillion bonds in the previous fiscal year,” Moody’s added in the report. “Most economies’ debt burdens will rise before they stabilise over the next few years,” it said. Depending on recovery prospects and future debt servicing costs, high debt levels may become unsustainable for the more vulnerable economies,” the report warned.  Most economies’ debt burdens will rise before they stabilise over the next few years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-public-debt-level-among-highest-in-emerging-economies/article34321659.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India can be hardware manufacturing hub’||There is an opportunity for India to become a hardware manufacturing location as the world’s technology majors have been moving their supply chains out of China over the past 18 months, Microsoft president Brad Smith said. Urging India and the U.S. to join the Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace that now has 75 countries on board to deal with new cybersecurity threats facing the world, he also emphasised the need to train more professionals to cope with these threats. Terming the changing relationship between China and the U.S. and some other countries as one of the most significant geopolitical developments of this decade, the Microsoft official said the change was certainly impacting the technology sector. “We are seeing not a decoupling, but some drifting apart. We are definitely seeing an impact in terms of hardware supply chains, with many companies moving parts to, (or) in some instances, perhaps, almost all, or all of their hardware manufacturing out of China to other countries. That has been underway for the last 18 months, even though it is not discussed as much by companies publicly as it might,” Mr. Smith said in a session at the Raisina Dialogue late Tuesday night. “I do think this is something that creates potential new opportunities from a longer-term perspective for say, India, as well as others to make themselves more of a location for hardware manufacturing,” he said, adding that capacity had been shifting to Mexico, Vietnam, South Korea, and some southeast Asian countries. ‘Wake-up call’ Terming the recent spate of cyberattacks a wake-up call for tech companies as well as governments, Mr. Smith said the world was more secure when networks ran in the cloud as opposed to servers. Many cybersecurity problems, he said, also emerged from the lack of IT administrators’ compliance with best practices. “We need to keep making this simpler, but the other problem is there is simply a shortage of cybersecurity professionals in the workplace. We are going to need a global initiative to really accelerate all kinds of training to put more cybersecurity professionals in place,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-can-be-hardware-manufacturing-hub/article34321660.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti’s new structure to help focus on digital||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday announced a new corporate structure to “sharpen focus on digital”. “The new structure envisages Airtel Digital Ltd. folding into the listed entity, Bharti Airtel,” the company said in a statement. “The latter will now house all of the digital assets spanning Wynk Music, Airtel X stream, Airtel Thanks, Mitra Payments platform used by a million retailers, Airtel Ads, Airtel IQ, Airtel Secure, Airtel Cloud and all future digital products and services,” the company added. The telecom firm said it intended to house all telecom businesses in a newly created entity, Airtel Ltd. — a wholly owned subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Ltd. “It is intended to eventually fold the DTH business into Airtel Limited to move towards the NDCP [National Digital Communications Policy] vision of converged services to customers, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bhartis-new-structure-to-help-focus-on-digital/article34321663.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Asus eyes 20% of India’s consumer laptop market||Taiwanese tech firm Asus said on Wednesday it aimed to capture 20% share of the consumer laptop market in India this year on the back of new offerings and higher demand due to increased online activity following the pandemic. The company is also in discussions with electronics manufacturing services (EMS) providers to evaluate the possibility of making products in India, said Arnold Su, Business Head, Consumer and Gaming PC, System Business Group, ASUS India. “India, in terms of the PC market size, is already one of the top five countries globally and in Asia Pacific, India market is second only to China,” Mr. Su said. Asus on Wednesday unveiled two new laptops — ZenBook Duo 14 and ZenBook Pro Duo 15 OLED. The company had a market share of 13.7% in the consumer laptop segment in India in 2020, according to the IDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/asus-eyes-20-of-indias-consumer-laptop-market/article34321666.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Maruti sold 1.57 lakh CNG cars in FY21’||Maruti Suzuki said on Wednesday it had sold more than 1.57 lakh factory-fitted S-CNG vehicles in the last financial year, the highest ever in the category. The company offers factory-fitted CNG option for cars including Alto, Celerio, Wagon-R, S-PRESSO, Eeco, Ertiga, Tour S and Super Carry. “We see CNG as a technology that has set a new benchmark in green fuel mobility,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director (Marketing & Sales), Maruti Suzuki India. “CNG is becoming one of the most preferred alternative fuels due to its economic cost of running and improved filling infrastructure,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-sold-157-lakh-cng-cars-in-fy21/article34321661.ece
15 April 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Hiring for blue collar jobs resurges’||With the vaccination drive in full swing in the country and high optimism on economic recovery, the hiring of blue collar workers is resurging as 70% of employers polled in a survey said they had resumed recruitment. Of the 70% employers polled in the second edition of OLX People Survey, nearly 16% said they were hiring 100% of capacity, while 54% are hiring up to 50% of capacity. About 60% of employers stated they faced no challenges in availability of talent, despite the fact that a large number of gig workers had preferred to return to their native at the height of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hiring-for-blue-collar-jobs-resurges/article34321669.ece
15 April 2021||Mumbai,||Publicis Groupe India announces key changes||Publicis Groupe India has announced key changes in the media services domain and has appointed Tanmay Mohanty as CEO of Media Services. It is bringing together data science, programmatic and media tech along with Zenith and Starcom, under a common leadership to further strengthen focus on scaled media, real identity and data capabilities, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/publicis-groupe-india-announces-key-changes/article34321658.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Servify acquires Germany’s WebToGo||Device after-sales management platform Servify on Wednesday announced the acquisition of the key businesses of Germany-based WebToGo, which provides customer experience solutions. The company said this acquisition will help it to further strengthen its global footprint both in terms of technology and people. It, however, did not share the deal size.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/servify-acquires-germanys-webtogo/article34321664.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||HDFC Bank plans to raise Rs 50,000 cr through bonds within 12 months||HDFC Bank on Wednesday said it is planning to raise up to Rs. 50,000 crore during the next 12 months through issuing bonds. The bank's board of directors will take up the proposal at their meeting on April 17, it said in a regulatory filing. "The bank proposes to raise funds by issuing perpetual debt instruments (part of additional tier-I capital), tier-II capital bonds and long-term bonds up to a total amount of Rs. 50,000 crore," HDFC Bank said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-plans-to-raise-rs-50000-cr-through-bonds-within-12-months/article34322226.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Maxwell, Shahbaz Ahmed star as Royal Challengers pip Sunrisers||The triple strike in the 17th over by Royal Challengers Bangalore left-arm spinner Shahbaz Ahmed threw the game wide open. Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Jonny Bairstow perished to a slog sweep with AB de Villiers plucking a sensational catch. Then Manish Pandey, who stroked well for his 38, was done in by a delivery that spun away from him. And Abdul Samad’s attempted slog sweep off a delivery that bounced more settled in bowler Shahbaz’s hands. From 96 for one, with David Warner at the crease, Sunrisers, shockingly, collapsed to 130 for eight, chasing 150. It was madness and mayhem out there. And RCB, holding its nerve in the humdinger, won by six runs in the IPL clash at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai on Wednesday. The beginning of the chase was so different. The left-handed Warner pulled Kyle Jamieson ferociously, harnessing the pace and bounce. Then Pandey whipped the Kiwi for a maximum. The intrepid Warner was picking the length early and getting into positions quickly. Virat Kohli sought wickets through Yuzvendra Chahal. The diminutive India tweaker has a good leg-spinner but lacks a potent wrong ‘un to give his bowling the cutting edge. Warner duly reverse swept Chahal to the fence. Pivotal moment Then came the pivotal moment. Jamieson, back for a second burst, forced a miscue from Warner by going around the wicket and taking the pace off the ball. RCB was back in the hunt. Then Shahbaz came up with his magic over. Earlier, Kohli, asked to bat first, flicked Natarajan to the fence. The stroke had poise and timing. Yet, the Bengaluru side lost wickets and momentum. Among them was the skipper who was brilliantly held by Vijay Shankar off Jason Holder for 33 (29b, 4x4). Eventually, it was Glenn Maxwell’s 41-ball 59 that provided substance to the RCB innings; 149 for eight was a challenging score. The cynosure Maxwell was the cynosure. When Rashid Khan, with his bag of tricks. flighted at Maxwell, the ball spinning outside off, the Australian unleashed the expansive drive through extra-cover. His still head and balance have made Maxwell a lot more solid. Rashid mixed his wrong ’uns with leg-spinners, bowled with guile and control, and his deliveries dipped. He took out the dangerous de Villiers by turning the ball further from him. The South African, without footwork, attempted to clear cover, but holed out. However, Maxwell held fort, countered Rashid with maturity and went after the rest. His was an invaluable innings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maxwell-and-bowlers-help-royal-challengers-pip-sunrisers/article34321766.ece
15 April 2021||Paris,||PSG edges out Bayern Munich in a tense encounter||Paris Saint-Germain did just enough to knock defending champion Bayern Munich out of the Champions League and reach the semifinals for the second straight season, losing a tense match 1-0 on Tuesday to advance on away goals from the first leg. Bayern had to score twice after losing 3-2 at home and survived several scares in the first half before largely taking control in the second. But without the prolific Robert Lewandowski, the six-time champion lacked a cutting edge and could not add to Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting’s first-half goal against his former club. After losing 1-0 to Bayern in last year’s final, PSG stands one step away from the second final of its 51-year history and remains on course to win it for the first time. + Neymar had three shots saved by goalkeeper Manuel Neuer and hit the woodwork twice in an eventful first half that tilted Bayern’s way when Choupo-Moting headed home in the 40 minute. Bayern’s wingers were a constant menace and PSG’s defenders were relieved to see standout goalkeeper Keylor Navas stretch his right hand to keep out Leroy Sane’s dangerous cross deep into injury time at Parc des Princes. That was Bayern’s last chance on a night when the usually so prolific German side paid the price for its wastefulness without Lewandowski. A spectacular goal from a scissor kick by Mehdi Taremi wasn’t enough to earn Porto a place in the Champions League semifinals as Chelsea advanced despite a 1-0 loss in the second leg of its quarterfinal. Chelsea went through 2-1 on aggregate and will play in the last four for the first time since 2014. Taremi’s acrobatic volley, following a cross from the right, came in the fourth minute of second-half stoppage time and lit up a lacklustre game in Seville, which hosted both legs of the quarterfinal because of coronavirus restrictions. It came too late to rescue Porto, which had been successfully stifled up to that point. Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel is looking to return to the Champions League final, where he led Paris Saint-Germain last season before a loss to Bayern Munich.   The results: Quarterfinals: Chelsea 0 lost to Porto 1 (Taremi 90+4) ( Chelsea wins 2-1 on aggregate); Paris Saint-Germain 0 lost to Bayern Munich 1 (Choupo-Moting 40) ( 3-3 on aggregate; PSG wins on away goals).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-edges-out-bayern-munich-in-a-tense-encounter/article34321833.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||From Lala to Virat — colourful characters have always existed in Indian cricket||His sentences in English were short and sounded dismissive even if he didn’t mean them to be. They sounded authoritative too — and this, he meant them to be. I once sat behind him at a Ranji Trophy final. I was in college then, and couldn’t muster up the courage to go up and meet him. For this was Lala Amarnath, entitled to the definite article before his first name like the Don, Bradman himself. There is a lovely story of the Indian team arriving in Pakistan on the 1977-78 tour. As the manager, assuming the limousine waiting was for him walked towards it majestically, the chauffeur told him, “Sorry sir, this car’s for Lala saheb.” Lala was part of the media. Amazing cricketer I don’t know if that story’s true. I don’t know if any of the stories told about Lala Amarnath are true in fact; but they are true in essence. He wasn’t the most popular among peers or officials, but he was one of the most colourful men to have played for India. His language, in his native Punjabi was purple, and he occasionally let slip some of it when he was broadcasting. He was also an amazing cricketer — India’s first century maker, first captain of Independent India, a medium-pacer with 463 First Class wickets and a wicketkeeper who once held five catches while substituting for the injured first-choice. I finally met him, and spent some time with him, in Pakistan. Every generation complains that cricket no longer throws up colourful players, that the straight bat has become more than a technical requirement, it is a symbol for the disappearance of laughter and fun from the game. Who have been India’s most colourful cricketers? Always his own man Bishan Bedi, always his own man, the crooked administrator’s nightmare, and one who wore his greatness lightly comes to mind at once, and not just because of the patkas he wore on the field. He brought laughter everywhere he went. As player, he refused to bowl a negative line in England in ’74, or sign blank receipts to please officials. He laughs heartily, sobs unabashedly, and is generous to a fault. Trevor Bailey said he had a “special brand of mystical obstinacy much favoured by religious leaders.” What might have been a weakness in others was Bedi’s strength. Then there was Salim Durrani, often called a wayward genius. He had everything in his playing days: talent, looks, and a huge fan following — this last thanks to his obliging the calls for six with greater frequency than others. Bollywood came calling soon enough, as did the consequences of a fairly lavish lifestyle. He once held India’s record for the fastest 50 in Tests. For long he was famous for being born in Afghanistan; now he is famous for not being born in Afghanistan but near the Khyber Pass on the other side. Known best for two double centuries in a row and his explanation for schoolmate Sachin Tendulkar’s early success (“He took the elevator, I took the stairs”), Vinod Kambli partied his way into the hearts of those who did not believe that sportsmen must be bound by rules outside the arena too. A longer career might have seen him as a study in the non-Tendulkarite tradition, but perhaps there’s a lesson here. Careers in movies and politics didn’t quite pan out. Farokh Engineer, as wicketkeeper and bon vivant in a team of bon vivants in the 1960s and 70s, had the talent and the record to match. His name usually followed the adjective ‘flamboyant’ and when he modelled for Brylcreem, the hair care product, he became more than a batsman who nearly made a century before lunch. There was a suggestion that he had enough inside his head to match what was outside, but he never got to lead India. His main competitor was Budhi Kunderan, who struck the ball with equal ferocity and could turn an innings with similar ease. His 192 against England was, for long, the highest score by a wicketkeeper before a new generation began to deal in double centuries. A man of intelligence and wit The top three in the batting might include Abbas Ali Baig, a man of intelligence and wit who once had a lady run on to the field to kiss him when he made a Test half-century. It is an incident immortalised in Salman Rushdie’s The Moors’ Last Sigh . Santhakumaran Sreeshanth who manifestly enjoyed himself on the field, on one occasion telling off the South African Andre Nel, provided entertainment beyond the call of duty. And what of the current players? As a conductor of large audiences in stadiums, Virat Kohli stands alone. I can’t imagine Lala Amarnath doing what he does. Kohli has the Lala’s vocabulary though, and is constantly reminding us that cricket is a game of both head and heart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/from-lala-to-virat-colourful-characters-have-always-existed-in-indian-cricket/article34321984.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Manpreet and Rani exude optimism||The Indian men’s hockey team captain Manpreet Singh feels if his side continues with its current good form, it has the potential to end an over four-decade-long Olympic medal drought in Tokyo this year. India had won the last of its eight Olympic gold medals in the 1980 Moscow Olympics before the team endured a sharp slide in its fortunes. But in the last couple of years, India has made steady progress. “Firstly, it was good to be back playing international hockey after a long time. I’m very happy with the progress of the team over the last 18 months. If we continue to build on this, I am sure we can defeat any team,” Manpreet said on the occasion of a 100-day countdown to the Tokyo Games, scheduled from on July 23. The Indian team recently got the better of reigning Olympic champions Argentina in the FIH pro league in an away tie. Team spirit “The team spirit is high right now and as I said before, we should use every opportunity we get before the Tokyo Olympics to fine-tune our game,” Manpreet said. “The youngsters in the team have come a long way. I’m hoping this form continues and we put a much better display than what we’d managed in the Rio Olympics,” he added. The Indian men’s team finished eighth at the 2016 Rio Olympics. Like Manpreet, the Indian women’s team skipper Rani Rampal too is optimistic about a good show in Tokyo. The team would be making a back-to-back Olympic Games appearance for the first time in the history of the event. Fighting qualities “I am happy with the fight our team showed against world No. 2 Argentina and Germany earlier this year,” Rani said in a release issued by Hockey India. “Of course, we’re disappointed to have not registered a win, but we have showed that we could hold our own against higher-ranked opponents. “Since coming back from Germany, we have been working hard on our finishing and our technique. “I feel we have come a long way from a tactical standpoint. “I’m confident that once we convert these good performances into results, we will be in the mix for an Olympic medal too.” Hockey India has launched Hockey te Charcha , a special podcast series to relive the glorious moments of Indian hockey through the voices of some iconic players. The series, in its first episode, featured a conversation with Harbinder Singh. Hockey te Charcha will be a fortnightly series in the lead up to Tokyo Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manpreet-and-rani-exude-optimism/article34321835.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Stoke-less Royals take on upbeat Capitals||Misfortunes rarely come alone. Ask Rajasthan Royals. After bowling-spearhead Jofra Archer suffered a freak injury to his hand in the bathroom, forcing him to miss the initial stage of the IPL, Royals has lost the services of all-rounder Ben Stokes, who broke his finger during the defeat to Punjab Kings on Monday and is out of the tournament. Fortune certainly didn’t favour Royals in that high-scoring encounter, despite a brave innings from its new skipper Sanju Samson (119 off 63 balls). How he would have wished if he could connect that last ball better and sent it a few yards further. Samson though needs to put that innings, as well as the trying circumstances, behind him when he returns to the middle at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium on Thursday for the toss against confident Delhi Capitals. Facing him at the toss will be Rishabh Pant, with whom he had been in competition for the Indian T20 team’s wicketkeeper slot before the latter grew astonishingly in stature over the last four months. Against Chennai Super Kings, Pant’s exceptional skills with the bat weren’t fully required, as openers Prithvi Shaw and Shikhar Dhawan had more or less secured the victory with their 138-run stand. Pacers impress Seamers Chris Woakes and Avesh Khan impressed with the ball though Pant may want more from his spinners R. Ashwin and Amit Mishra. As for the Royals’ bowling, there is definitely room for improvement; only debutant left-arm seamer Chetan Sakariya could make an impact against Punjab. More is expected from the likes of Chris Morris and Shreyas Gopal.  Royals, even as they hope Samson and Jos Buttler would explode, will also need someone to fill the big boots of Stokes. David Miller and Liam Livingstone look good choices. And Royals may not mind some good fortune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/depleted-royals-take-on-upbeat-capitals/article34321759.ece
15 April 2021||Monaco,||Djokovic too hot for Sinner||Novak Djokovic swept past promising Italian teenager Jannik Sinner 6-4, 6-2 in Monte Carlo on Wednesday on the Serbian world number one’s first appearance since claiming the Australian Open in February. And the man he is seeded to meet in the final, Rafael Nadal, encountered even less resistance in brushing aside Federico Delbonis 6-1, 6-2 on his delayed return after injury since losing in the quarter-finals in Melbourne. “Solid” is how Djokovic described his own performance. Djokovic will next face for the first time Briton Daniel Evans, who ousted Hubert Hurkacz, Sinner’s Miami conqueror, for a place in the quarterfinals. Later Wednesday, Nadal took just 81 minutes to send world number 87 Delbonis packing, with Grigor Dimitrov waiting for him in the next round.  Important results: Second round: Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Aslan Karatsev 6-3, 6-4; Andrey Rublev bt Salvatore Caruso 6-3, 6-2; Fabio Fognini bt Jordan Thompson 6-3, 6-3; Grigor Dimitrov bt Jeremy Chardy 7-6(3), 6-4; Cristian Garin bt John Millman 6-1, 6-4; Casper Ruud bt Diego Schwartzman 6-3, 6-3; David Goffin bt Marco Cecchinato 6-4, 6-0; Novak Djokovic bt Jannik Sinner 6-4, 6-2; Lucas Pouille bt Alexei Popyrin 7-5, 2-6, 6-3; Daniel Evans bt Hubert Hurkacz 6-4, 6-1; Roberto Bautista Agut bt Tommy Paul 6-3, 6-4; Rafael Nadal bt Federico Delbonis 6-1, 6-2; Pablo Carreno Busta bt Karen Khachanov 6-2, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sweeping-win-for-djokovic/article34321778.ece
15 April 2021||CENTURION,||Babar blitz flattens SA||Pakistan captain Babar Azam gave a batting masterclass to lead his team to a nine-wicket win in the third T20I against South Africa at SuperSport Park on Wednesday. Babar smashed 122, his first T20I century, as Pakistan chased down a challenging target of 204 with two overs to spare. Babar, who had earlier in the day dethroned Virat Kohli as the world’s top batsman in ODIs, hit 15 fours and four sixes in an exhibition of superb timing and placement before he was out with only seven runs needed. Mohammad Rizwan scored an unbeaten 73 in a record first-wicket partnership of 197 for Pakistan. The visitors took a 2-1 lead in the four-match series. The final game will be held on Friday.  The scores: South Africa 203-5 in 20 overs (Aiden Markram 63, Janneman Malan 55) lost to Pakistan 205/1 in 18 overs (Babar Azam 122, Mohammad Rizwan 73 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babar-blitz-flattens-sa/article34321773.ece
15 April 2021||BAMBOLIM,||Bengaluru canters to victory||Marco Pezzaiuoli’s managerial reign at Bengaluru FC (BFC) was off to a convincing start, with an easy 5-0 victory over Nepalese side Tribhuvan Army FC in the 2021 AFC Cup Preliminary Stage Two clash at the GMC Stadium here on Wednesday. A brace each from Rahul Bheke and Cleiton Silva, and a goal from skipper Sunil Chhetri, ensured BFC’s passage into the playoff stages of the continental competition, where it will meet either Abahani Dhaka Limited (Bangladesh) or Club Eagles (Maldives). Guns blazing After a goalless first half, BFC came out all guns blazing in the second. Bheke nodded home a corner from Silva six minutes after the break to put BFC 1-0 up. Moments later, a scramble in the box saw the ball fall to Chhetri, who slotted home to double the advantage. For the third, Chhetri flicked the ball to Silva and the Brazilian shrugged off his marker, rounded the goalie and then buried the ball into an empty net just after the hour mark. Wriggling past Two minutes later, Udanta Singh managed to wriggle past three players on the right flank and found Bheke, whose cross into the area was brought down by Silva and finished on the turn. Moments after the fourth, Silva’s corner was turned in, once again by Bheke, for the fifth goal of the evening. The game also saw Damaitphang Lyngdoh make his debut after being introduced in the 75th minute. The Meghalaya-born midfielder became BFC’s youngest-ever player.  The result:   Bengaluru FC 5 (Bheke 51, 65, Chhetri 52, Silva 61, 63) bt Tribhuvan Army FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-canters-to-victory/article34321819.ece
15 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM:,||Beethovan clinches Welcome Cup||Beethovan (B.R. Kumar up) won the first division of the Welcome Cup, the main event of the opening day’s races held here on Wednesday (April. 14). The winner is owned by Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph and trained by Sebastian. Trainer: B. Suresh saddled four winners, while jockey Brisson scored a treble.  1. ARTS HANDICAP (1,200m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: RED HOT JET (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Full Bloom (Nakhat Singh) 2, Song Of Glory (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Platini (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 1-1/2, 1-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 10.22s. Owners: Mr. K.K. Belliappa & Mr. C.R. Bala Kumar. Trainer: Mandanna.  2. KNIGHT OF KE HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: TUDOR (A. Imran Khan) 1, Lady Solitaire (Nakhat Singh) 2, Katahdin (Manikandan) 3 and Wild Frank (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 2-1/4, sh and 2. 1m 15.40s. Owners: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing & M/s. Sans Craintes Stud Farm. Trainer: B. Suresh.  3. TAMIL NEW YEAR CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): KRISTALINA (Brisson) 1, Glorious Symphony (B.R. Kumar) 2, Turf Beauty (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Subjucate (R. Manish) 4. Not run: Maximum Star. 1-3/4, 1-3/4 and 1. 1m 15.99s. Owner: Mr. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: B. Suresh.  4. WELCOME CUP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: CAVALLO VINCENTE (Brisson) 1, Rippling Waters (Nakhat Singh) 2, Shalem (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Star Ranking (Surya Prakash) 4. 1-1/2, 3-1/4 and nk. 1m 14.75s. Owner: Mr. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: B. Suresh.  5. WELCOME CUP (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: BEETHOVAN (B.R. Kumar) 1, Wakeful (Surya Prakash) 2, Kings Show (R. Manish) 3 and Butterfly (Rayan Ahmed) 4. 4-1/2, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m 14.71s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastian.  6. KNIGHT OF KE HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: EMELDA (Brisson) 1, Skylight (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Tifosi (R. Manish) 3 and Amore (A. Imran Khan) 4. Not run: Oberon. 9-3/4, 2-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 16.54s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  7. ELK HILL HANDICAP (1,300m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: FABULOUS SHOW (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Chanakya (Surya Prakash) 2, Sifan (R. Manish) 3 and Asian Empress (P. Koushik) 4. 1, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m 25.82s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/beethovan-clinches-welcome-cup/article34321823.ece
15 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Rabada clears tests, Nortje’s result awaited||Delhi Capitals’ South African speedster Anrich Nortje will not be available for the match against Rajasthan Royals on Thursday as his COVID-19 reports are still awaited. However, the good news for DC is that Kagiso Rabada has cleared his RT-PCR tests and has joined the team’s training session. There are reports that Nortje has tested positive, but the Capitals management hasn’t yet come out with any official statement. As per the IPL SOP, all players who have a positive result are tested once again in order to ensure that the first RT-PCR outcome wasn’t a false one. Nortje and fellow paceman Rabada had travelled together and reached Mumbai on April 6. They were expected to be available from the second game after completing seven days of hard quarantine and a negative RT-PCR test result. Now it looks like only Rabada will be available for selection as DC tweeted a picture of his first training session. “At this point, we only know that Anrich Nortje’s results are awaited as he is in quarantine. We can only tell you further after we get the test results,” revealed a DC source. Delhi Capitals’ Axar Patel is in isolation after testing positive for COVID-19 before the start of the tournament. Axar hasn’t yet fully recovered from the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nortjes-second-test-result-awaited/article34321770.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||I enjoyed Tripathi’s wicket the most: Chahar||Rahul Chahar, who has been under Mumbai Indians’ wings since 2018, is a far improved bowler this edition. The experience against England, besides bowling to MI power-hitters at the nets, helped the India international brought out his top game against Kolkata Knight Riders at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Tuesday. The leggie returned 4/27 as the five-time champion clinched the game from the jaws of defeat. Shubman Gill, Nitish Rana, Eoin Morgan and Rahul Tripathi were his victims. “I think I enjoyed Tripathi’s wicket the most. The ball turned really nicely. “There was nothing much in my mind as I have been bowling to the Indian batsmen at the nets. It reduces the pressure. I also bowl to Kieron Pollard and Hardik Pandya. So when there is a similar situation during a game with big-hitters on strike, I don’t feel any pressure,” said Chahar, after the 10-run victory over KKR. His captain Rohit Sharma motivated him further. “Rohit keeps telling me that at times, he also can’t read my deliveries when batting at nets. So how will the others read? He told me to keep the length right and turn the ball,” Chahar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-enjoyed-tripathis-wicket-the-most-chahar/article34321772.ece
15 April 2021||Dubai,||Eight-year ban for Streak||Former Zimbabwe captain Heath Streak was on Wednesday banned for eight years from all cricket after he accepted five charges of breaching the ICC anti-corruption code, including disclosing inside information and facilitating corrupt approaches. One of Zimbabwe’s finest fast bowlers, Streak has been under investigation for a host of games between 2017 and 2018 when he served as a coach. Among others, the charges included (2.3.2) “disclosing inside information under both the ICC Code and various domestic Codes, in circumstances where he knew or should have known that such information may be used for betting purposes.” The matches include some in international cricket as well as for stints in T20 leagues including the IPL, BPL and Afghanistan Premier League. Streak chose to admit the charges. He will be free to resume his involvement in the game on March 28, 2029.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eight-year-ban-for-streak/article34321776.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prajnesh advances||Sixth seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran eased past Matthew Ebden of Australia 6-4, 6-1 in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament in Orlando. In the pre-quarterfinals, Prajnesh will meet Jack Sock of the United States. In a doubles contest, fourth seeds Sriram Balaji and Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan fought hard before losing 7-6(4), 4-6, [16-18] to the American wild card entrants Alexander Ritschard and Alex Rybakov in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Orlando, US: Singles (first round): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Matthew Ebden (Aus) 6-4, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Alexander Ritschard & Alex Rybakov (US) bt Sriram Balaji & Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan 6-7(4), 6-4, [18-16] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-advances/article34321825.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Medals in double digits expected at Tokyo||Indian sports officials are expecting a medal haul in double digits at the Tokyo Olympics. Speaking at a webinar to mark 100 days to the Games, both Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju and IOA president Narinder Batra insisted it was a realistic expectation given the number of qualified athletes. “Every day is important to all athletes hereon. India with its vast population must play a bigger role in the Olympic Movement and that is possible by winning more medals. India must cross double digits (in medals),” Rijiju said. “We are expecting 120-130 athletes to qualify for the Olympics and expect the Indian contingent to be about 185-190 people, including coaches and support staff. “I expect the medal haul to be in double digits this time,” Batra added.  Officials also insisted that the vaccination process for all the athletes will begin soon although no details were announced. Indian rowers and archers have already been vaccinated at the Army Sports Institute while some like wrestler Bajrang Punia made personal arrangements. With the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the country, Sports Authority of India has also issued a new SOP that includes weekly RT-PCR tests and immediate hospitalisation and isolation to affected athletes. The webinar was attended by IOA secretary-general Rajeev Mehta, Sports Secretary Ravi Mital and SAI DG Sandip Pradhan among others. A series of special films on the qualified athletes was also launched with more planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medals-in-double-digits-expected-at-tokyo/article34321986.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Bernardini runs with a good chance||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Bernardini runs with a good chance in the Stewards Cup (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Thursday (April. 15).  SALUTE THE STAR HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 10.30 a.m.: 1. Chaitanya (2) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Off Shore Breeze (5) B.R. Kumar 59.5, 3. Supreme Excelsior (3) Nakhat Singh 57, 4. Blue Patent (4) Shahar Babu 55, 5. Welcome Winner (1) Kuldeep Singh 55, 6. Cape Cod (8) Manikandan 52.5, 7. Kasi Masi (7) P. Koushik 52.5 and 8. Lady Zeen (6) Rayan Ahmed 52.  1. SUPREME EXCELSIOR,   2. OFF SHORE BREEZE,   3. WELCOME WINNER   SALUTE THE STAR HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 11.00: 1. Magical Wish (2) P. Vikram 60, 2. Amendment (2) Brisson 59, 3. Majestic Wind (8) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 4. Otus (3) B.R. Kumar 58. 5, Brilliant Script (6) Surya Prakash 57.5, 6. God's Wish (1) Shahar Babu 57.5, 7. Wise Don (5) Kuldeep Singh 57 and 8. Welcome Chakkaram (7) R. Manish 54.5.  1. AMENDMENT,   2. MAJESTIC WIND, 3. WISE DON   CHAMP FOREVER HANDICAP (1,300m), rated 40 to 65, 11-30: 1. Star Elegant (5) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Cotton Hall (1) P. Koushik 58, 3. Lordship (2) A. Imran Khan 58, 4. Penang (4) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 5. Divina (3) Shahar Babu 56, 6. Booms Lang (8) R. Manish 53, 7. Radical Review (7) B.R. Kumar 52 and 8. Pinewood (6) Manikandan 51.5.  1. LORDSHIP, 2. RADICAL REVIEW, 3. PENANG   CRIMSON PRINCESS PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o only (outstation horses eligible) (Terms), 12.00 noon: 1. Akido (7) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Knight Envied (2) A. Imran Khan 56, 3. Mr Kool (1) Shahar Babu 56, 4. Painted Apache (4) Surya Prakash 56, 5. Annexed (6) Brisson 54.5, 6. Golden Marina (5) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 7. Race For The Stars (8) B.R. Kumar 54.5 and 8. Unmatched (3) Kuldeep Singh 54.5.  1. PAINTED APACHE, 2. RACE FOR THE STARS, 3. AKIDO   STEWARDS CUP (1,200m), rated 80 & above (outstation horses eligible), 12.30 p.m.: 1. Bernardini (7) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Tudor Treasure (8) Nakhat Singh 60, 3. Turf Legend (5) S. Imran 60, 4. Megasthenes (1) P. Sai Kumar 59, 5. Glorious Destiny (6) B.R. Kumar 58.5, 6. Hope And Glory (10) R. Manish 58, 7. Durango (9) Surya Prakash 55.5, 8. King T'Chala (4) P. Koushik 55, 9. Oscars Thunder (2) Rayan Ahmed 54 and 10. Royal Currency (3) Brisson 51.  1. BERNARDINI,   2. HOPE AND GLORY,   3. MEGASTHENES  RECORD BREAKER HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip), 1.00 p.m.: 1. Star Fling (5) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Bolivia (8) Iltaf Hussain 59.5, 3. Demesthenes (4) M. Bhaskar 59.5, 4. Fun Lover (7) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 5. Three Of A Kind (2) P. Koushik 57.5, 6. Lord Of The Turf (6) Shahar Babu 55.5, 7. Strong Breeze (1) Brisson 55.5, 8. Golden Streak (9) B.R. Kumar 55 and 9. Beforethedawn (3) Kuldeep Singh 54.  1. GOLDEN STREAK,   2. STRONG BREEZE, 3. BOLIVIA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bernardini-runs-with-a-good-chance/article34321821.ece
15 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Four HCA Apex Council members question show cause notices on them||Four HCA Apex Council members — secretary R. Vijayanand, joint-secretary Naresh Sharma, vice-president K. John Manoj and treasurer Surender Agarwal — questioned the rights of the president Mohd. Azharuddin in issuing show cause notices to them for their alleged violation of rules and regulations during the recent AGM. “You have no right to issue such a notice. First, it has to be discussed in the Apex Council meeting and it is the Ombudsman who will take a call as per the prescribed rules,” they said in a signed statement on Wednesday. “Instead of focussing on cricket in Hyderabad, haven’t you chosen to be a mentor for a private team in Dubai without sharing any information either with the HCA or the BCCI,” they questioned Azhar. “The AGM has also not endorsed you (Azhar) as its representative at the BCCI and your self-declaration and proclamation is illegal, unconstitutional, unethical, undignified and unlawful. “Appointments made by the president are in contravention of the established procedures of the HCA constitution and against the traditions of the HCA,” they said. “Please explain your walk-out from the AGM (on April 11) without the agenda being completed. And, writing letters to banks is a serious aberration intentionally done.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-hca-apex-council-members-question-show-cause-notices-on-them/article34322303.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||World TT from Nov. 23||The World Table Tennis Championships will be held as per schedule from Nov. 23 to 29 in Houston, USA, the game’s governing body ITTF has said. “After positive weeks of discussions with the Harris County Sports Authority, USATT and USOPC, the decision was to go ahead. Necessary adjustments will be put in place to cater for the current ongoing worldwide pandemic; thus, ensuring the event will be staged successfully,” ITTF said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-tt-from-nov-23/article34322009.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||India makes winning start||India was off to a perfect start at the youth world boxing championships in Kielce, Poland with, Poonam (57kg) and Vinka (60kg) advancing to the pre-quarterfinals after notching up contrasting opening-round wins. While Poonam out-punched Colombia’s Valeria Mendoza 5-0, Vinka edged past Russia’s Daria Panteleeva 3-2 to make the last 16 on Tuesday. Next up for Poonam is Hungary’s Beata Varga. Vinka, on the other hand, will square off against Zhuldyz Shayakhmetova of Kazakhstan.  The results: Women: 57kg: Poonam bt Valeria Mendoza (Col) 5-0; 60kg: Vinka Daria Panteleeva (Rus) 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poonam-and-vinka-advance-to-the-pre-quarterfinals/article34321832.ece
15 April 2021||TOKYO,||The clock ticks||A western Japanese city cancelled the Tokyo Olympics torch relay over spiking COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, fueling fresh fears about whether the pandemic-postponed Games should go ahead with just 100 days until the opening ceremony. Even as Tokyo unveiled installations featuring the Olympic rings and mascots to celebrate the 100-day milestone, organisers face monumental challenges as the virus surges. Organisers have barred overseas fans and postponed test events, but they insist preparations are on track. Cancellation is “certainly not” on the table, International Olympic Committee (IOC) vice- president John Coates told reporters on Wednesday. “The Tokyo Games will be the light at the end of the tunnel.” Optimism For organisers, there are some causes for optimism. The Olympic torch is on its way across Japan, despite being forced off public roads in the Osaka region where it was being carried around a closed circuit on Wednesday with the general public kept away. And vaccination programmes are ramping up in many countries, with some athletes already inoculated. Japan won’t require Olympic participants to be vaccinated, but the IOC is encouraging jabs and has secured Chinese-made doses for athletes in countries without access to them. In Japan, sports events are still on, with crowd numbers capped, and fans have become used to virus rules that will be implemented at this summer’s Games, including a ban on cheering. North Korea’s decision to skip Tokyo 2020 over virus concerns has not prompted a rush for the exits, with athletes mostly seeming impatient for a return to the international stage. “These past 14 months have been very motivating for all of us,” five-time Olympic gold medallist swimmer Katie Ledecky said last week. “Once we get there we really want to show the world all the work that we’ve put in.” Feel-good factor In Japan, a historic Masters golf win by Hideki Matsuyama and swimmer Rikako Ikee’s comeback, just two years after being diagnosed with leukaemia, are offering a feel-good factor. But there’s no disguising the challenges more than a year after the historic postponement. COVID-19 surges across Japan have forced the government to tighten restrictions only weeks after they were lifted and on Wednesday, the head of Tokyo’s Medical Association warned the rising infections could make holding the Games “really difficult”.  Prepared for the worst Coates acknowledged the situation, but insisted organisers and Olympic officials have prepared for “the worst possible scenarios”. “Of course we’re concerned, of course safety remains our priority, but we believe that we’re prepared for the worst situations.” Organisers have released “playbooks” outlining anti-virus measures, which will be updated later this month. Tens of thousands of athletes and other Olympic participants arriving from overseas will be able to skip quarantine, and are not required to show proof of vaccination. But athletes will be asked to limit their movements, stay only at the Olympic village during their events and face regular virus testing. Overseas fans have already been barred from the Games, and a decision on domestic spectator numbers could come in April. Still, the atmosphere will be far from the usual rowdy celebrations, and it remains unclear how strong demand for tickets will be when they finally go back on sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-clock-ticks/article34321836.ece
15 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Mahika knocks out Thaniya||Fifth seed Mahika Khanna shocked top seed Thaniya Sarai Gogulamanda 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 in the girls’ quarterfinals of the Altevol Asian under-14 tennis tournament on Wednesday. In the semifinals, Mahika will play eighth seed Priyanka Rana. The other semifinal will feature second seed Aishwarya Jadhav and unseeded Aakruti Sonkusare. In the boys’ section, Tanussh Ghildyal continued his good run with a 7-5, 7-5 win over Prabir Chavda. He will take on top seed Samprit Sharma in the semifinals.  The results (quarterfinals):   Boys: Under-14: Samprit Sharma bt Arnav Yadav 6-3, 6-3; Tanussh Ghildyal bt Prabir Chavda 7-5, 7-5; Aarav Chawla bt Vedant Bhasin 6-3, 6-3; Kriish Tyagi bt Arnav Paparkar 6-3, 6-2.   Girls: Mahika Khanna bt Thaniya Sarai Gogulamanda 7-5, 4-6, 6-3; Priyanka Rana bt Rithika Kakaramudi 7-5, 1-6, 6-4; Aakruti Sonkusare bt Mehak Kapoor 6-1, 6-0; Aishwarya Jadhav bt Navya Sharma Gullu 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahika-knocks-out-thaniya/article34322007.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Arya guides Elite Challengers to victory||Arya Ganesh’s unbeaten 133 helped Elite Challengers beat Elite Dhinos by one wicket in the final of the G.R. CA u-13 Sportus Trophy recently. For Elite Dhinos, Yoga Balan scored 108 before he retired.  The scores: Elite Dhinos 291 in 43.5 overs (Yoga Balan 108 retired, Yeshwanth 52, Keerthy Vashan 42, A. Krish Vikram 3/36) lost to Elite Challengers 295/9 in 47 overs (Arya Ganesh 133 n.o.).   Special awards: Man-of-the-Match: Arya Ganesh (Elite Challengers); best bowler: A.K. Nithin (Elite Challengers); best batsman: Dariyo (Elite Challengers); best wicketkeeper: Yeshwanth (Elite Dhinos); best fielder: Dariyo (Elite Challengers); player of the tournament: Sreevel (Chennai Centurion) .    G.K. Abhivathanan starred with an unbeaten 74 to help Magnet Rec Club prevail over Behind Stumps Academy by 15 runs and clinch the CCCA-M.J. Gopalan open tournament recently.  The scores: Magnet Rec Club 179/7 in 30 overs (G.K. Abhivathanan 74 n.o., Vetrivel 3/27) bt Behind Stumps Academy 164 in 30 overs (Suresh Ganesan 40, S. Sriram 3/28, G.K Abhivathanan 3/29).   Special awards: Man of the final: G.K. Abhivathanan (Magnet Rec Club); best batsman: Suresh Ganesan (Behind Stumps); best bowler: Iyappa Dass (Behind Stumps); best allrounder: Martin (Magnet Rec Club); promising youngster: S. Sriram (Magnet Rec Club) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arya-guides-elite-challengers-to-victory/article34322253.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||KSLTA suspends tournaments across the State||Due to the spike in COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA) has suspended all tennis tournaments across the state from April 17 to May 31. “At KSLTA, the safety of the players is of utmost importance. We do not want to take a risk with the health of our players and hence we thought it was better to cancel the existing events and postpone all the tournaments to be held by the KSLTA and all the other tournaments held under the aegis of AITA & KSLTA. However, training and practice will be held while following the guidelines from the MHA,” said KSLTA hon. joint-secretary Sunil Yajaman. In an advisory sent to academies and coaches, KSLTA made a request to avoid hosting any private tournaments which may not be under the aegis of AITA or KSLTA.     Favourite Arya Ganapathy defeated Nived Ponappa 6-1, 6-2 in the boys’ quarterfinal of the Sree Gokulam Floresta AITA under-14 CS tennis tournament, hosted by Transform Tennis Academy, here on Wednesday.     Rinship Aslam’s hat-trick powered HAL FC past Blitz FC 5-0 in the BDFA B-division football league here on Wednesday.  The results:   Royals FC 3 (H. Dinesh 28, E. Edison 37, U. Babu 53) bt Sri Gajanana FC 2 (Jona Giri 60, 70); HAL FC 5 (Rinship Aslam 19, 33, 37, Rohit 27, Saikat Das 40) bt Blitz FC 0; Goans FC 3 (Kiran 22, Dokka Enosh 35, Manthan Chinta 37) bt Bangalore Mars 1 (Rakesh Babu 61).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kslta-suspends-tournaments-across-the-state/article34322235.ece
15 April 2021||Villupuram:,||Santhosh scalps five||J. Santhosh Kumar's five-wicket haul helped SGCC notch up a nine-run win over Evergreen CC in the Villupuram DCA second division held recently.  The scores:   I div.: Vikaravandi 164 in 37.1 overs (K. Arun Kumar 40, S. Chandrakanth 37, R. Yeswanth 3/43, V.S. Tamildhasan 5/33) lost to Sunny Sachin 168/7 in 48.1 overs (S. Raghu 62, V.S. Tamil Dhasan 32, N. Raja 3/19).   Captain 168 in 40.2 overs (E. Kalaiarasan 37 n.o., B. Kamalanathan 4/45, S. Senthil Kumar 3/33) bt United CC A 131 in 42.2 overs (E. Ghouse 32, J. Nazar 3/15, S. Anbalaghan 3/26, M. Balaji 3/34).   II div.: SGCC 179 in 25 overs (G. Jayaprakash 59) bt Evergreen 170/9 in 25 overs (P. Venkatesan 46, S. Gokul 33, J. Santhosh Kumar 5/47).     III div.: TVS 89 in 21. 3 overs (D. Ramkumar 33) lost to New Star 92 in 19.5 overs (K. Surya 30).   Siga Management-B 46 in 16.1 overs lost to Power 47/3 in 7.2 overs (R. Amarnath 3/28).   VDCA 123/6 in 25 overs (V. Vajravel 4/9) lost to Siga Management-B 125/4 in 16.1 overs (V. Vajravel 54 n.o.).    S. Chinnamaruthu (126 & three for 28) starred in ARS CC's 110-run win over Nethaji CC in the RDCA first division league. In another match, R. Hariharan's five-wicket haul went in vain as Kalaipuli lost to Agni by 17 runs.  The scores:   Agni 204/8 in 45 overs (S. Gopikrishnan 55 n.o., R. Hariharan 5/43) bt Kalaipuli 187 in 42.1 overs (A. Arunpandiyan 61, C. Mohanarangan 35, M.B. Manojkumar 3/18, A. Arunpandiyan 3/33).   ARS 292 in 43.3 overs (S. Chinnamaruthu 126, P. Kannan 98, R. Arunvengateshbabu 4/54) bt Nethaji 182/9 in 45 overs (S. Manikandan 38 n.o., R. Saravanakumar 31, S. Chinnamaruthu 3/28, M. Prasanth 3/51).   Nehru 169 in 44 overs (T. Janguthappa 84 n.o., M. Soundarapandi 30, M. Hariprasanth 3/23) lost to Luminous 171/6 in 34 overs (I. Mohaideeen Abdul Kadhar 32, M. Koorimugesh 31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santhosh-scalps-five/article34321817.ece
15 April 2021||FATORDA,||FC Goa holds Al Rayyan||FC Goa earned a creditable point, holding Qatari giant Al Rayyan to a goalless draw in the AFC Champions League Group E opener at Fatorda, Goa, on Wednesday. This is the first time an Indian side has directly qualified for the Champions League group stages, making the result noteworthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-holds-al-rayyan/article34322233.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||21 test positive at women’s Natl. camp||Indian women’s boxing’s High Performance Director Raffaele Bergamasco and head coach Mohammed Ali Qamar were among 21 campers who tested positive for COVID-19 at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium here, but none of the infected pugilists were bound for the Tokyo Olympics. The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has issued a statement to confirm the development at the National camp, but it did not reveal the names of those affected. However, a source close to the team said that the top members of the coaching staff are among those who have tested positive. All those who have tested positive are asymptomatic and have been moved to a quarantine zone as per the SAI protocol. The outbreak has resulted in training being halted for the time being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/21-test-positive-at-womens-natl-camp/article34321820.ece
15 April 2021||BUENOS AIRES,||India ends tour on a high||India was off to a perfect start at the youth world boxing championships in Kielce, Poland with, Poonam (57kg) and Vinka (60kg) advancing to the pre-quarterfinals after notching up contrasting opening-round wins. While Poonam out-punched Colombia’s Valeria Mendoza 5-0, Vinka edged past Russia’s Daria Panteleeva 3-2 to make the last 16 on Tuesday. Next up for Poonam is Hungary’s Beata Varga. Vinka, on the other hand, will square off against Zhuldyz Shayakhmetova of Kazakhstan.  The results: Women: 57kg: Poonam bt Valeria Mendoza (Col) 5-0; 60kg: Vinka Daria Panteleeva (Rus) 3-2 . PTI     Sajan Prakash and Kenisha Gupta secured gold medals in the men’s and women’s 200m freestyle races respectively at the Uzbekistan Open swimming championships on Wednesday. While Sajan clocked 1:50.74s to come home first, Kenisha’s timing was 2:06.66s. There were also golds for the women’s trio of Suvana C. Baskar (200m backstroke, 2:24.78s), Divya Satija (50m butterfly, 28.74s) and Chahat Arora (50m breaststroke, 33.80s).  Other results: Men: 200m freestyle: Tanish George Mathew (bronze, 1:52.57s). 50m breaststroke: S.P. Likith (silver, 28.19s), S. Danush (bronze, 29.25s). 50m butterfly: D. Adhithya (silver, 25.16s). Women: 200m freestyle: Shivani Kataria (silver, 2:10.23s) . PTI     The Indian hockey team ended its tour of Argentina with a 4-2 victory in the final practice game here on Wednesday.  The result: Argentina 2 (Leandro Tolini 14, Pedro Ibarra 54) lost to India 4 (Rupinder Pal Singh 3, Jaskaran Singh 12, Shilanand Lakra 50, Surender Kumar 58). PTI     Sixth seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran eased past Matthew Ebden of Australia 6-4, 6-1 in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament in Orlando.  The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Orlando, US: Singles (first round): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Matthew Ebden (Aus) 6-4, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Alexander Ritschard & Alex Rybakov (US) bt Sriram Balaji & Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan 6-7(4), 6-4, [18-16] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-ends-tour-on-a-high/article34321822.ece
15 April 2021||Tashkent,||Sajan and Kenisha clinch gold||Sajan Prakash and Kenisha Gupta secured gold medals in the men’s and women’s 200m freestyle races respectively at the Uzbekistan Open swimming championships on Wednesday. While Sajan clocked 1:50.74s to come home first, Kenisha’s timing was 2:06.66s. There were also golds for the women’s trio of Suvana C. Baskar (200m backstroke, 2:24.78s), Divya Satija (50m butterfly, 28.74s) and Chahat Arora (50m breaststroke, 33.80s).  Other results:   Men: 200m freestyle: Tanish George Mathew (bronze, 1:52.57s).   50m breaststroke: S.P. Likith (silver, 28.19s), S. Danush (bronze, 29.25s).   50m butterfly: D. Adhithya (silver, 25.16s)   Women: 200m freestyle: Shivani Kataria (silver, 2:10.23s) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajan-kenisha-clinch-gold/article34321824.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Payas Jain is World No. 2 in Under-17||Payas Jain has jumped to the second spot in boys’ (u-17) world table tennis age-group rankings released on Tuesday. Payas, winner of the National youth and junior titles in Indore last month, is also the highest ranked Indian in the boys’ u-19 at 33rd.  Leading Indians (with world rankings):   U-19: Boys: 33. Payas Jain, 70. Deepit Patil, 121. Preyash Raj; Girls: 9. Swastika Ghosh, 44. Diya Chitale, 53. Anusha Kutumbale.   U-17: Boys: 2. Payas Jain, 34. Preyash Raj, 66. Vishwa Deendayalan; Girls: 33. Suhana Saini, 86. Anargya Manjunath, 101. Ananya Chande.   U-15: Boys: 6. Preyash Raj. Girls: 7. Suhana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/payas-jain-is-world-no-2-in-under-17/article34321985.ece
15 April 2021||PORTLAND,||Tatum anchors Celtics’ narrow win||Jayson Tatum recorded 32 points, nine rebounds and five assists to lead the Boston Celtics to a 116-115 victory over the host Portland Trail Blazers on Tuesday.  The results: Trail Blazers 115 lost to Celtics 116; Timberwolves 97 lost to Nets 127; Pacers 115 lost to Clippers 126; Hornets 93 lost to Lakers 101; Raptors 103 lost to Hawks 108; Suns 106 bt Heat 86; Jazz 106 bt Thunder 96.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tatum-anchors-celtics-narrow-win/article34321831.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 07:37 IST,||Sudoku — April 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-15-2021/article34322471.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The show must go on||When the Tamil Nadu Government passed a directive allowing theatres to function at full capacity ahead of the release of Vijay’s Master in January, the decision, which was later rebuked, was largely perceived as a signal for the return of normalcy by the Tamil Nadu Theatre Association, in a bid to revive lost business. Four months and a handful of releases later, it appears there has not been much of an improvement, now that the Tamil Nadu Government has rolled back to 50% capacity in new restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the COVID-19 virus. While the sharks (read: multiplexes) barely managed to surf through, it is the small fish (single-screens) that seemed to have suffered most of the onslaught. Movies you can count on South India’s first cinema hall, Variety Hall as it was called, was constructed in Coimbatore in 1914. Now known as Delite Theatre, the single-screen theatre boasts of a legacy of witnessing several transitions in and outside of cinema. It was among the earliest to introduce the concept of tentkotta (tent cinema), wherein a tent was erected for the audience to sit on the floor and watch. Benches and chairs were put up and were later replaced by sofas with a balcony, as there was an ever-burgeoning demand for cinema. The theatre has seen films from the silent era, which were taken over by talkies; the conversion of film-reel projection to digital cinema, and has also survived the influx of multiplex cinema. Today, it serves as a remnant of the city’s past with cinema, as it attempts to adapt by screening reruns of old movies. Not just Delite, but two other single-screen theatres in Coimbatore — Naaz Theatre and Shanmuga Theatre — have been screening yesteryear hits of Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan from their archives, to keep the business afloat. According to G Navamani, an employee at Delite Theatre, these films draw a crowd even today. “We cannot afford new movies as it is mandatory to run four shows, which is not feasible for us. Though we have Qube technology [digital projection] as well as the old projector, most new movies like Master are taken off from Qube’s platform in a month’s time after release. So, we resort to old movies which are screened using the projector,” explains Navamani. The responses for movies such as Nattamai (1994), Sakalakala Vallavan (1982) and Muthu (1995) have been heartening with an audience of over 100 people in a 600-seat capacity hall. “Reruns of Kamal Haasan’s Kalaignan (1993) and Vijayakanth’s Karimedu Karuvayan (1985) were big hits,” she says, adding that tickets are priced at Rs. 45 and Rs. 90 for the two shows at 2 pm and 6pm. Artist V Jeevananthan, author of National Award-winning book Thiraiseelai on cinema, has watched Sholay, Enter the Dragon, Aradhana, and Yaadon Ki Baarat at Delite. “I remember watching Sh olay on the first day, 50th day, 100th day and 150th day. Shanmugha Theatre still shows MGR’s Aayirathil Oruvan and Enga Veetu Pillai to a handful of 10 or 15 people.” Some of the old players like Royal Theatres, one of the first in the city to introduce reruns with MGR films, prefer to wait and watch, and have closed operations for now.  Survival of the fortunate  Mounting debts and financial crunches forced some of the single-screen theatres to convert their properties or call it quits altogether. Like the 50-year-old Shanti Theatre at Narayanguda, Hyderabad, which raised a few eyebrows when it announced in November 2020 that it will shut down operations permanently, owing to losses. However, in mid-February 2021, the property reopened with the Telugu film Check , directed by Chandra Sekhar Yeleti. “We have 20 people working with us and indirectly, 50 families depend on the income generated from the theatre. We requested the owner to keep the theatre running, in the hope that things will limp back to normalcy,” says N Balakrishna, the theatre manager. The pandemic-induced lockdown forced Chennai’s Casino Theatre, one of the iconic single-screens in the city which breathed a new lease of life in August 2019, to convert its space for parking when the lockdown restrictions were eased in July last year. The 80-year-old theatre was surviving as a hand-to-mouth business, until the situation moderately improved when Master released with 50% occupancy. With newer restrictions in place, single-screen theatres are fighting a lonely battle for footfalls; some of them attribute this to the lack of star-backed films.  Master , which many believe to be the biggest release till date, largely helped revive the business of Bengaluru’s Mukunda theatre in Banaswadi. One of the oldest cinema halls in the city, the theatre has been predominantly screening Tamil films due to the large Tamil population in the area, since its opening in 1976. “The recent releases — Puneeth Rajkumar’s Yuvarathnaa (Kannada) and Karthi’s Sulthan (Tamil) — are doing well, too,” says Bharani V, a representative. The alarming rise in the number of COVID cases in the second wave, is keeping families and audiences away from cinemas, believes RS Devdas, owner of Ajantha Theatre, Thiruvananthapuram. Only months before lockdown had Devdas spent nearly a crore to renovate the theatre, which has a rich history of playing classics such as The Sound of Music , Mackenna’s Gold , Oliver Twist , Rathinirvedam and Chithram to mention a few. While there are whispers that suggest that the situation might improve by Onam for Malayalam cinema, there is palpable tension about another lockdown, “It is too early to comment about that and these are still early days to plan ahead. I can do three or four shows with two different films but I can’t screen more than that,” says Devdas. Now, with few films and fewer crowds, single screen theatres are finding ways to stay relevant in the business.  With inputs fromSangeetha Devi Dundoo, Jeshi K, Praveen SudevanandSaraswathy Nagarajan         Mounting debts and financial crunches forced some single-screens to convert their properties, or call it quits altogether||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-show-must-go-on/article34322221.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||But, who spends 69 million on digital art?||This story begins over filter coffee at The Hindu canteen in Chennai, more than a decade ago. When Anand Venkateswaran and Vignesh Sundaresan met, as a journalist and app developer, respectively. Well before they morphed into Twobadour and Metakovan, their ‘exosuits’ as founder and steward of Metapurse, a crypto-based fund. And before they realised that the Metaverse (an online convergence of virtual worlds and augmented reality) is a uniquely democratic playing field, on which they could make history, repeatedly. Their most publicised triumph — so far — is the recent acquisition of Beeple’s Everydays: The First 5000 Days ,for a staggering $69,346,250 in a Christie’s online only sale. The news made headlines across the world for many firsts. This was the third highest price paid at an auction for work by a living artist. The work is an NFT, or non-fungible token, meaning it is a unique digital file on the blockchain. And, the 255-year-old auction house accepted payment in Ether, a cryptocurrency. (One Ether is roughly Rs. 1,62,000.) Mike Winkelmann aka Beeple posted a new work of art on May 1, 2007. He then did the same thing the next day, and the next, every single day for 13-and-a-half years. These individual pieces merged together create Everydays: The First 5000 Days . Of course, the sale was polarising. Even Beeple was startled at the high price: Bids jumped from $100 to $1 million in the first hour of the auction. There were 33 bidders from 11 countries, and 22 million visitors logged in for the final minutes at Christies.com. Did they pay too much? Is Beeple’s grid of everyday art really that impactful? In an audio-only GoogleMeet interview immediately after the sale, Singapore-based Vignesh, then speaking via his Metakovan pseudonym said, “I feel like I got a steal,” to The New York Times . Anand agrees. “Digital art takes the same amount of labour and talent as conventional paintings. The Christie’s sale proved that digital art should be taken seriously,” says Anand, who lives in Chennai. “Instead of the whole process of making a pilgrimage to a museum to view it, you can see it anywhere. It’s portable: you can carry it on your phone, or view on a laptop. There are now massive screens, where you can display the NFT directly on a wall…” He adds, “People keep saying, ‘But I can’t touch it.’ Well, experience doesn’t come from touch... Besides, this doesn’t get corroded, it’s resilient. And there is merit in that. There is a joy in owning something that will never age.” Whose art is it anyway ‘Ownership’ with NFTs is very different from a traditional oil on canvas. NFTs enable collectors and artists to verify authenticity of digital artworks by encrypting an unforgeable signature on the blockchain. Still, anyone can copy or download the $69 million Beeple — for free. Anand shrugs, “You can also make the Mona Lisa your screensaver. That is how art propagates itself.” He admits that, like for many of us, the concept was challenging to fully appreciate at first. “Frankly, I was a little freaked out by it. That was the first step of unlearning for me. My notion of art is a square canvas with paint. The fact that that it could be programmable was overwhelming, for me. But that is why it is so relatable. You can communicate with it, even more than a physical piece — it talks back to you in vivid ways.” However, it took a while for Anand to be fully convinced about diving into the world of blockchain. “Vignesh came on board as an app developer at The Hindu , and we worked together for a while,” says Anand. “He discovered crypto in 2012, and that information was enough for him to fly to Canada to study, and start a crypto-based company.” Vignesh began looking for ways to earn Bitcoin, beginning with an exchange called Coins-e, which was sold in 2014. He then co-founded BitAccess, and went on to programme and install Bitcoin ATMs. He left BitAccess in 2016, to dive into Ethereum (the network on which ether operates), and now has multiple billion-dollar projects. He also runs Metapurse with Anand, which focusses on collecting NFTs in the virtual estate, art, unique collectables and more. Admitting that crypto can be intimidating for people who are not steeped in finance and technology, Anand says it actually enables creators to find imaginative ways to express themselves on a democratic playing field. “Our Aha moment happened during the pandemic. The world has changed, and we were trying to figure out what the next big thing would be in the virtual space,” he says. Ethereum was mainly used for financial applications till in 2017, a blockchain game featuring digital cats, called CryptoKitties, got so popular it clogged the network. “This was a window into what the future would be… experience and fun,” says Anand. The market crashed, leading to two years of a ‘crypto winter’ in 2018 and 2019, after which the world of blockchain began to evolve in 2020, offering players a way to experience games and yes, art.   A digital rebellion  Discussing the allure of digital art, Anand says, “The tech behind it is what excites Vignesh. For me, it is the rebelliousness of these artists. Their ability to mix notions of conventional art and digital performance.” Questions remain on whether the Beeple buy was a marketing ploy: after all, it put Vignesh and Anand, as well as Metapurse, on the map. After a thoughtful pause Anand says, “I don’t think the numbers add up. You don’t spend 69 million on marketing. And there is no product we are trying to sell here.” He states they have no plans to “flip it” either, selling it for a higher price. “That would be extremely unimaginative.” Stating that they are both “massive fans of Beeple,” Anand says, “This art represents years of consistent work. He did on his good days, bad days, sick days… he did one piece in three minutes at 5 am, when his wife was in labour. You can see his growth as an artist,” says Anand, adding “the commitment he showcased – mad respect for that.” He adds that he and Vignesh felt that work, which was also the first NFT to be sold by a mainstream auction house, belonged in Metapurse, even though they had no idea how much it would cost when the auction began. “The reason we were able to buy it is, Vignesh is not tied down to a certain lifestyle. He does not own a house, he does not own a car, and over 99% of his assets are in crypto. He lives from thesis to thesis with this space,” says Anand, adding that they are working on a virtual monument now to display their big buy. “NFTs have become a part of popular conversation because of this auction,” says Anand. “Let’s face it, is this the best piece of art there is for 69 million? I have no idea — and it doesn’t matter. We were in the right space, at this point in history to create this tiny moment. So we did.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/but-who-spends-69-million-on-digital-art/article34322224.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||One more light shines||These are unusual surroundings for Linkin Park founder Chester Bennington — next to a decidedly local TASMAC shop and a Madurai mess boasting ‘Malasiyan parotta’ (sic). Ever since Chester’s death four years ago, a group of hardcore Linkin Park fans from Chennai had made it their mission to give the city a Chester mural to commemorate their favourite artiste. Weeks after what would have been his 45th birthday (on March 20, 2021), their dream has finally materialised. A picture of the singer, caught in all his screaming, tattooed glory, has been graffitied on to a wall at MZink Tattoo Studio, Nungambakkam. The waft of freshly made rice from the mess outside is masked by the odour of paint as we walk into the studio entrance, interrupting its owner Mickey Santiago’s reverie. He looks up from applying the last few strokes to Chester’s name. “Some of us haven’t slept properly for a week,” says Mickey, “We were approached by Linkin Park India to paint the mural a month before Chester’s birthday.” Linkin Park India is a community of 85,000 fans across the country. In Chennai, its earliest members were Aravind Ramaswami and Shankar Narayanan. “When Chester passed away, we wanted to bring together fans sharing the same grief, and celebrate his life. India only has two of his murals so far: one in Bangalore and one in Mumbai,” says Aravind. Ripples of grief On July 20, 2017, Chester was found dead in his home in California. His death was ruled as suicide. Overwhelmed, the world shared their favourite memories of the singer. For their next few concerts, Jay-Z, Chris Martin, Jared Leto, Muse, Machine Gun Kelly, Imagine Dragons… everyone would pay their tributes. Back in India, a country Linkin Park has never toured, fans were equally heartbroken. Chester’s struggle with depression and substance abuse sparked off a conversation on mental health among his Indian fans, who began sharing their own experiences. Every day for three years, on WhatsApp and Facebook, they have been sharing videos of their favourite concerts, their favourite songs, vinyl recordings, other artwork related to the band, and of course — merch. Till today, they meet up in their respective cities and cut a cake on his birthday. After his death, the band had to cancel its One More Light tour. The song about losing a friend, lends its name to the mural in Chennai. “The basic idea behind the mural and the project is to highlight mental health. It’s called One More Light to underline that each and every one is important. We plan to do this in other cities too, this is the beginning,” says Roma Neupane, who flew down from Delhi for the unveiling of the mural. Wouldn’t a public wall, easily visible to commuters, have been a more suitable venue for the mural? The group says it criss-crossed the city — Ashok Nagar, Anna Nagar, Nanganallur, Ambattur, Purasaiwalkam — hoping to find one. “There isn’t a graffiti culture in the city. It was very difficult to find a public place — either there would be permission issues or financial issues, or the question of how long it will be allowed to stay up,” says Javid Farooqi, another member of Linkin Park India. Finally, they approached Mickey, a metalhead and a former musician himself. “This is a place associated with Art and Music. Lots of musicians walk into the studio, so they would like seeing Chester’s mural here,” says Mickey. Mickey & Co went through 40 photos of Chester before picking the one from the Projekt Revolution Tour in New York, 2007. “It captures him with his flaming tattoos and his signature scream,” say Javid. “That’s him in his element”. If these topics cause mental distress, please call Sneha Foundation at 24640050.  It captures him with his flaming tattoos and his signature scream. That’s him in his element||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/one-more-light-shines/article34322222.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Pit stop in the city||Thousands of tiny, earthy-hued sparrows roaming raucously across neighbourhoods was a common sight for most city-dwellers through the 1980s and early 1990s. Cut to three decades later, the ubiquitous avians are out of sight, and for younger generations, out of mind as well. But all is not lost. Even as a second round of movement restrictions looms, staying home can mean more birds chirping by your window and sipping from your bird baths. Ganeshan D or Kuruvi Ganeshan, as he is known in conservation circles, is a professor of Mechanical Engineering at SRM institute of science and technology in Ramapuram. As a student, Ganeshan was introduced to a nest box, a simple wooden contraption that provided a safe space for sparrows to nest. Since then, Ganeshan has set up nest boxes across schools. He is hopeful of sparrows visiting homes as long a they are provided with ideal conditions. “The most important thing is building something of sturdy material, no loud colours or decorations, placing the entrance cavity at the right height and then leaving the area with no additional materials inside. You will see that using regular wood for the box keeps the temperature fairly stable inside even as the mercury soars,” Ganeshan explains. The professor has tinkered with various dimensions for the box and has arrived at a standard measurement that has a high success rate of occupancy round the year. He has uploaded tutorials on DIY nest boxes on his YouTube channel. In Kanathur, Haresh Chugani and his wife Andrea have shared their sea-facing home with sparrows since 2015. “I started with a simple cardboard box at home with a water bowl next to it by our mezzanine window. We saw birds singing at dawn fairly soon. I then moved onto simple recycled wood boxes, and even experimented with tethering them in a row. But it turns out, sparrows like space between two nests,” says Haresh. He has a simple mantra when it comes to care for sparrows during the summer. “The best way is to try and internalise — what do we do when it gets too hot for us? We go to a cooler place with shade, a light breeze and get a drink of water. The same applies for any living creature.” The couple shares their home with their daughter and a motley crew of three dogs, hens, sparrows and bees. “In the last four to five years, we have seen at least 500 sparrows make their way through our house. We have boxes in our hall, bathrooms and some prefer the pelmets of our room. They have learned to share food with our chickens and other animals around,” explains Haresh. Some observations the family has made while sharing their home are that male sparrows (with black plumage under the neck) will teach the young ones to fly. So, it is best to witness the training without interfering in the process. Expect loud chirping noises during flight training. Haresh’s four-year-old daughter Xoe, has grown up with sparrows announcing the break of dawn, a world most of us do not inhabit, but one more of us would like to see — skies and trees speckled with sparrows.  Contact Kuruvi Ganeshan at koodugal.org and Haresh Chugani at livingearthtrust.com for more tips.   build a nest box  Nest boxes are not fancy contraptions. A simple cardboard box or spare wood will do, between six and 12 inches. The smaller the box, the cosier it is for the birds. It must not emit any strong odours.   Then, make a hole the size of a five year old’s bangle, around the middle of the box, or slightly higher than that. You can insert a pencil or wooden dowel near the bottom on either side so the birds can stand near the hole and feed their chicks.   Tape the box around for longevity. Place the box at a height, away from direct sunlight, and near a bowl of water, shallow enough for the little birds to take a dip without the fear of drowning.   Leave it undisturbed. Sparrows know how to keep their homes clean.   Make two boxes at least to give the birds a choice, and maintain a minimum distance of five feet between them. Sparrows are territorial and could get in fights, if their homes are too close. - Haresh Chugani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pit-stop-in-the-city/article34322201.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Snapshots from life||Nivetha Thomas knew it wasn’t going to be an easy ride, to reprise Taapsee Pannu’s role from Pink (2016) and that of Shraddha Srinath from the Tamil remake Nerkonda Paarvai (2019). But she pulled it off and, along with co-stars Anjali and Ananya Nagalla, held her own despite the starry presence of Pawan Kalyan in the Telugu remake Vakeel Saab . Playing Pallavi Vemula, a victim of sexual abuse who is in turn accused of inflicting injury on her perpetrator, turned out to be an emotionally draining experience. The actor recovered from COVID-19 just in time for the film’s release. Brush with the virus She says her brush with COVID-19 “was rough, but I am thankful I pulled through”. She was filming in Hyderabad for the Telugu remake of the Korean action-comedy Midnight Runners , directed by Sudheer Varma, when she began to show symptoms: “My staff and others around me in the unit tested negative. I didn’t venture out anywhere else, so I was surprised how I got infected,” she says. Nivetha has featured in several original stories, but remakes are not new to her. She featured as Kamal Haasan’s daughter in Papanasam , the Tamil remake of the Malayalam thriller Drishyam . “If you ask me, I will say don’t remake a film. There is a reason why a film gets appreciated and becomes a huge hit. It is a tough space to get into,” she admits. Stepping into Taapsee’s shoes was a responsibility she was willing to take, given the film’s stance against sexual violence. “There is a sense of happiness in being able to do such a character,” she adds. She watched Pink twice when it released but didn’t get around to watching Nerkonda Paarvai . For the Telugu adaptation, Nivetha had several conversations with director Sriram Venu and wanted to bring in her own interpretations. Her character Pallavi represents the many urban working women who live on their own: “I have friends who have gone through bad experiences. It was important for me to understand Pallavi’s emotional trauma,” she says. Character assassination “An extreme sense of sadness”, she says, washed over her in the courtroom scenes where the women face character assassination. Those scenes were filmed in sequence and there were six cameras, each focussing on different portions of the room. So she stayed focussed and ‘in character’ at all times. “This helped to emote right, but it was also draining. I had to switch off after each cut so as to not get overwhelmed.” Her outburst in the court was among the more demanding scenes. Rather than cutting away from her soon after the outburst, the camera lingers as she doubles up, venting the frustration, anger and helplessness. “We talked about how this scene will be filmed and I have always been critical of everything I did while working on the film. This scene got cleared in one take,” she says. Stars as colleagues Ask her how she manages not to get overawed in the presence of a superstar — be it in Papanasam , or in Darbar where she played Rajinikanth’s daughter or with Pawan Kalyan, and she attributes it to her long innings in cinema. She has been in front of the camera since the age of eight, starting her career with Malayalam cinema before foraying into Tamil and Telugu. “For years, I have seen how people behave when there is a star on set. A star’s presence dictates the mood. I have found that it helps to talk and break the ice so that in front of the camera, we can work as colleagues,” she says. Balancing academics and cinema since childhood, Nivetha is an architect and an actor. The toughest thing during lockdown, she says, was the anxiety that Vakeel Saab shooting had been paused. “Otherwise, I can be happy in my own company. More than the pandemic, I was restless in 2018 and 2019 when I wasn’t signing many films; I wondered if I should freelance as an architect,” she says. “Then Darbar and V (Telugu) happened. Interesting projects are coming my way.”  For years, I’ve seen how people behave when there’s a star on set. A star’s presence dictates the mood. I’ve found that it helps to talk and break the ice so that in front of the camera, we can work as colleagues Nivetha Thomas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/snapshots-from-life/article34322203.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||When culture and coffee collide||Spaces is a unique Chennai luxury. Set beside popular Besant Nagar beach, the graceful venue, wild with flowers and vibrant with the scent of the sea, is a democratic breathing space for art, theatre and experimental performances. How do you fuse a café into a space that is so individualistic, and so fiercely loved? “Very thoughtfully,” says soft-spoken architect-hotelier-dancer Krithika Subrahmanian, who is perhaps the ideal person for the job with her ambitious vision for the space, supported by a meticulous attention to detail and personal history with the neighbourhood. At the entrance to her just-launched venue, Synck, she explains how she grew up in the plot next door, “sitting on the balcony with my grandparents and a constant stream of visitors, listening to the music from performances at Spaces”. Now, she has merged both properties, building a sprawling café, bar and restaurant besides the performance space, without altering its energy and setting. And, in the tradition of legendary dancer-choreographer Chandralekha who envisioned and created Spaces, Krithika hopes Synck will grow beside it, into a welcoming, creative community venue. “I want to invite artists… I want guests to mingle, and have conversations,” she says, adding, after a pause, “Of course, some of that can only happen in a post-COVID world.” Nevertheless, Synck has launched with an ambitious mandate. Comprising multiple ideas and moods that flow into each other, it includes a relaxed outdoor café Svah, an intimate fine dining restaurant called Svasa and a soon-to-launch speakeasy bar, in addition to a compact theatre. As Krithika walks through the café, pointing out the art it houses, traditional and digital, she explains why she chose to showcase progressive, vegetarian food in different formats across the property. “We want to focus on taste and nutrition,” she says, adding that the team is building on its strengths, leaning on experience. (She also runs award-winning hotel Svatma in Thanjavur, set in a century-old building, popular for its luxurious vegetarian menus.) The large alfresco café, an alluring refuge for pandemic-weary open space seekers, serves fairly adventurous “glocal” cuisine, in addition to café classics, from Himalayan pink salt lattes to saffron affogatos. Advertisedwith contemporary Wellness’ favourite buzzwords, the menu promises food that is “organic, artisanal, progressive and inclusive”. Fortunately, along with the gimmicky frills (includingdalserved in dinky jugs), the cooking has a serious backbone. At Svasa, dinner opens with creamy plantain stem soup, topped with crisp slices of airfried paintain tempura. The playful menu features stuffed brinjal served with Indianised arancini and enveloped in a rich velvety curry; a unique take onbisi bele bathserved with akodumpulitart; and for dessert, a heady scoop of jasmine icecream. The Awadhi mussalam stars bright, springy broccoli instead of meat, stuffed generously with nuts. It is laced with a clingy gravy, the flavours deepened with patiently toasted onions and garlic pods caramelised to a pleasing, earthy sweetness. While the kitchen brandishes a plethora of molecular gastronomy skills and showy plating, it is the old-fashioned sincerity with which they execute the food that will be Synck’s strength: their careful sourcing, and respectful treatment of produce. The highlight, however, will always be the unique proximity to Chandraleka’s iconic open air theatre, and joy of soaking in strains of a concert in an eddy of sea breeze.  Synck is at 42, 35th Street, Besant Nagar. For more details, contact 99445 70908.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-culture-and-coffee-collide/article34322214.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Portrait of a teacher||Amidst sheets of art lie stacks of old-fashioned diaries filled with phone numbers and photographs: Hema Prasad’s most prized possessions. “Right from six digit to eight digit telephone numbers, and 10 digit mobile numbers I have them all,” smiles the senior citizen. And there are thousands. Hema started teaching when she graduated from the Madras School of Art (now, Government College of Fine Arts). “I used to go from house to house. But parents were kind and suggested that I start classes at home and they would bring their kids,” she says. “In many cases, I have taught three generations and even large families including 23 members from one particular family,” she laughs, adding that now her students are between the age group of three to 72. “There is no age for art,” she says. Some of her older students have joined her classes after retirement. While a majority of younger students have serious artistic aspirations, lately there has been a number who attend classes to de-stress. Classes keep the keen teacher occupied seven days a week. What about Sunday? “Those are the busiest from 8 am to 8 pm,” she smiles, adding that she has never really taken a break from teaching ever since she started. “I am happy to have students everyday.” Even through the lockdown, Hema kept her classes alive. Now, she persists with physical classes, limiting it to one student per class and with necessary precautions, including wearing a mask through the duration of the session. Hema’s students, who are scattered all over the world, stay in touch with her. As we speak, a student drops in, just to check on her. Hema says that while she never got to do a solo show because of monetary constraints and had to dive right into teaching, she is thrilled that her students have put up successful exhibitions. And, as for drawing, she gets to do that everyday, even if not on a canvas, then atleast in the rough note book of her students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/portrait-of-a-teacher/article34322223.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Shankar, Ranveer Singh join forces||Director Shankar and Bollywood star Ranveer Singh are teaming up for the first time for a big pan-Indian project. The two will work on the official adaptation of Anniyan. Bringing these together will be veteran film producer Dr Jayantilal Gada of Pen Studios. “For it to be made into a Hindi film, Anniyan needed a maverick, charismatic showman like no other to play the part. I found this in the mercurial Ranveer Singh because he is a one-in-a-generation actor who has shown us that he can immortalise a character through his stellar performance,” said Shankar in a press statement. The pan-Indian entertainer is slated to go on floors in mid 2022. It will be co-produced by God Bless Entertainment and the music will be available on Saregama. Shankar’s Vikram-starrer Anniyan was released in 2005, and since then, the director has worked with the leading stars of Tamil cinema including Rajinikanth ( Endhiran , 2.0 ), Vijay ( Nanban ), Vikram ( I ) and Kamal Haasan ( Indian 2 ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shankar-ranveer-singh-join-forces/article34322197.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Arun Vijay heads to Border||After collaborating on the 2017 Tamil flick Kuttram 23 , actor Arun Vijay and director Arivazhagan are teaming up yet again for a film titled Border . This project will star Regina Cassandra, Steffy Patel and Bagavathy as well. “If my previous film with Arun ( Kuttram 23 ) was a medial crime thriller, this will be a spy action thriller. It will have a lot of emphasis on action and so will be very different from my earlier films,” said Arivazhagan in a press statement. Produced by All In Pictures, Border will be shot in locations in Chennai, Delhi and Agra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/arun-vijay-heads-to-border/article34322195.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||But, who spends 69 million on digital art?||This story begins over filter coffee at The Hindu canteen in Chennai, more than a decade ago. When Anand Venkateswaran and Vignesh Sundaresan met, as a journalist and app developer, respectively. Well before they morphed into Twobadour and Metakovan, their ‘exosuits’ as founder and steward of Metapurse, a crypto-based fund. And before they realised that the Metaverse (an online convergence of virtual worlds and augmented reality) is a uniquely democratic playing field, on which they could make history, repeatedly. Their most publicised triumph — so far — is the recent acquisition of Beeple’s Everydays: The First 5000 Days ,for a staggering $69,346,250 in a Christie’s online only sale. The news made headlines across the world for many firsts. This was the third-highest price paid at an auction for work by a living artist. The work is an NFT, or non-fungible token, meaning it is a unique digital file on the blockchain. And, the 255-year-old auction house accepted payment in Ether, a cryptocurrency. (One Ether is roughly Rs. 1,62,000.) Mike Winkelmann aka Beeple posted a new work of art on May 1, 2007. He then did the same thing the next day, and the next, every single day for 13-and-a-half years. These individual pieces merged together create Everydays: The First 5000 Days . Of course, the sale was polarising. Even Beeple was startled at the high price: bids jumped from $100 to $1 million in the first hour of the auction. There were 33 bidders from 11 countries, and 22 million visitors logged in for the final minutes at Christies.com. Did they pay too much? Is Beeple’s grid of everyday art really that impactful? In an audio-only GoogleMeet interview immediately after the sale, Singapore-based Vignesh, then speaking via his Metakovan pseudonym said, “I feel like I got a steal,” to The New York Times . Anand agrees. “Digital art takes the same amount of labour and talent as conventional paintings. The Christie’s sale proved that digital art should be taken seriously,” says Anand, who lives in Chennai. He adds, “Instead of the whole process of making a pilgrimage to a museum to view it, you can see it anywhere. It’s portable: you can carry it on your phone, or view on a laptop. There are now massive screens, where you can display the NFT directly on a wall…” He adds, “People keep saying, ‘But I can’t touch it.’ Well, experience doesn’t come from touch... Besides, this doesn’t get corroded, it’s resilient. And there is merit in that. There is a joy in owning something that will never age.” Whose art is it anyway ‘Ownership’ with NFTs is very different from a traditional oil on canvas. NFTs enable collectors and artists to verify authenticity of digital artworks by encrypting an unforgeable signature on the blockchain. Still, anyone can copy or download the $69 million Beeple — for free. Anand shrugs, “You can also make the Mona Lisa your screensaver. That is how art propagates itself.” He admits that, like for many of us, the concept was challenging to fully appreciate at first. “Frankly, I was a little freaked out by it. That was the first step of unlearning for me. My notion of art is a square canvas with paint. The fact that that it could be programmable was overwhelming, for me. But that is why it is so relatable. You can communicate with it, even more than a physical piece — it talks back to you in vivid ways.” However, it took a while for Anand to be fully convinced about diving into the world of blockchain. “Vignesh came on board as an app developer at The Hindu , and we worked together for a while,” says Anand. “He discovered crypto in 2012, and that information was enough for him to fly to Canada to study, and start a crypto-based company.” Vignesh began looking for ways to earn Bitcoin, beginning with an exchange called Coins-e, which was sold in 2014. He then co-founded BitAccess, and went on to programme and install Bitcoin ATMs. He left BitAccess in 2016, to dive into Ethereum (the network on which ether operates), and now has multiple billion-dollar projects. He also runs Metapurse with Anand, which focusses on collecting NFTs in the virtual estate, art, unique collectables and more. Admitting that crypto can be intimidating for people who are not steeped in finance and technology, Anand says it actually enables creators to find imaginative ways to express themselves on a democratic playing field. He says, “Our Aha moment happened during the pandemic. The world has changed, and we were trying to figure out what the next big thing would be in the virtual space.” Ethereum was mainly used for financial applications till in 2017, a blockchain game featuring digital cats, called CryptoKitties, got so popular it clogged the network. “This was a window into what the future would be… experience and fun,” says Anand. The market crashed, leading to two years of a ‘crypto winter’ in 2018 and 2019, after which the world of blockchain began to evolve in 2020, offering players a way to experience games and art.   A digital rebellion  Discussing the allure of digital art, Anand says, “The tech behind it is what excites Vignesh. For me, it is the rebelliousness of these artists. Their ability to mix notions of conventional art and digital performance.” Questions remain on whether the Beeple buy was a marketing ploy: after all, it put Vignesh and Anand, as well as Metapurse, on the map. After a thoughtful pause Anand says, “I don’t think the numbers add up. You don’t spend 69 million on marketing. And there is no product we are trying to sell here.” He states they have no plans to “flip it” either, selling it for a higher price. “That would be extremely unimaginative.” Stating that they are both “massive fans of Beeple,” Anand says, “This art represents years of consistent work. He did on his good days, bad days, sick days… he did one piece in three minutes at 5 a.m., when his wife was in labour. You can see his growth as an artist,” says Anand, adding “the commitment he showcased — mad respect for that.” He adds that he and Vignesh felt that work, which was also the first NFT to be sold by a mainstream auction house, belonged in Metapurse, even though they had no idea how much it would cost when the auction began. “The reason we were able to buy it is, Vignesh is not tied down to a certain lifestyle. He does not own a house, he does not own a car, and over 99% of his assets are in crypto. He lives from thesis to thesis with this space,” says Anand, adding that they are working on a virtual monument now to display their big buy. “NFTs have become a part of popular conversation because of this auction,” says Anand. “Let’s face it, is this the best piece of art there is for 69 million? I have no idea — and it doesn’t matter. We were in the right space, at this point in history to create this tiny moment. So we did.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/but-who-spends-69-million-on-digital-art/article34321963.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||One more light shines||These are unusual surroundings for Linkin Park founder Chester Bennington — next to a decidedly local TASMAC shop and a Madurai mess boasting ‘Malasiyan parotta’. Ever since Chester’s death four years ago, a group of hardcore Linkin Park fans from Chennai had made it their mission to give the city a Chester mural to commemorate their favourite artiste. Weeks after what would have been his 45th birthday (on March 20, 2021), their dream has finally materialised. A picture of the singer, caught in all his screaming, tattooed glory, has been graffitied on to a wall at MZink Tattoo Studio, Nungambakkam. The waft of freshly made rice from the mess outside is masked by the odour of paint as we walk into the studio entrance, interrupting its owner Mickey Santiago’s reverie. He looks up from applying the last few strokes to Chester’s name. “Some of us haven’t slept properly for a week,” says Mickey, “We were approached by Linkin Park India to paint the mural a month before Chester’s birthday.” Linkin Park India is a community of 85,000 fans across the country. In Chennai, its earliest members were Aravind Ramaswami and Shankar Narayanan. “When Chester passed away, we wanted to bring together fans sharing the same grief, and celebrate his life. India only has two of his murals so far: one in Bangalore and one in Mumbai,” says Aravind. Ripples of grief On July 20, 2017, Chester was found dead in his home in California. His death was ruled a suicide. Overwhelmed, the world shared their favourite memories of the singer. For their next few concerts, Jay-Z, Chris Martin, Jared Leto, Muse, Machine Gun Kelly, Imagine Dragons… everyone would pay their tributes. Back in India, a country Linkin Park has never toured, fans were equally heartbroken. Chester’s struggle with depression and substance abuse sparked off a conversation on mental health among his Indian fans, who began sharing their own experiences. Every day for three years, on WhatsApp and Facebook, they have been sharing videos of their favourite concerts, their favourite songs, vinyl recordings, other artwork related to the band, and of course — merch. Till today, they meet up in their respective cities and cut a cake on his birthday. After his death, the band had to cancel its One More Light tour. The song about losing a friend, lends its name to the mural in Chennai. “The basic idea behind the mural and the project is to highlight mental health. It’s called One More Light to underline that each and every one is important. We plan to do this in other cities too, this is the beginning,” says Roma Neupane, who flew down from New Delhi for the unveiling of the mural. Wouldn’t a public wall, easily visible to commuters, have been a more suitable venue for the mural? The group says it criss-crossed the city — Ashok Nagar, Anna Nagar, Nanganallur, Ambattur, Purasaiwalkam — hoping to find one. “There isn’t a graffiti culture in the city. It was very difficult to find a public place — either there would be permission issues or financial issues, or the question of how long it will be allowed to stay up,” says Javid Farooqi, another member of Linkin Park India. Finally, they approached Mickey, a metalhead and a former musician himself. “This is a place associated with Art and Music. Lots of musicians walk into the studio, so they would like seeing Chester’s mural here,” says Mickey. Mickey & Co went through 40 photos of Chester before picking the one from the Projekt Revolution Tour in New York, 2007. “It captures him with his flaming tattoos and his signature scream,” say Javid. “That’s him in his element”. If these topics cause mental distress, please call Sneha Foundation at 24640050.  It captures him with his flaming tattoos and his signature scream. That’s him in his element||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/one-more-light-shines/article34321954.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Snapshots from life||Nivetha Thomas knew it wasn’t going to be an easy ride, to reprise Taapsee Pannu’s role from Pink (2016) and that of Shraddha Srinath from the Tamil remake Nerkonda Paarvai (2019). But she pulled it off and, along with co-stars Anjali and Ananya Nagalla, held her own despite the starry presence of Pawan Kalyan in the Telugu remake Vakeel Saab . Playing Pallavi Vemula, a victim of sexual abuse who is in turn accused of inflicting injury on her perpetrator, turned out to be an emotionally draining experience. The actor recovered from COVID-19 just in time for the film’s release. Brush with the virus She says her brush with COVID-19 “was rough, but I am thankful I pulled through”. She was filming in Hyderabad for the Telugu remake of the Korean action-comedy Midnight Runners , directed by Sudheer Varma, when she began to show symptoms: “My staff and others around me in the unit tested negative. I didn’t venture out anywhere else, so I was surprised how I got infected,” she says. Nivetha has featured in several original stories, but remakes are not new to her. She featured as Kamal Haasan’s daughter in Papanasam , the Tamil remake of the Malayalam thriller Drishyam . “If you ask me, I will say don’t remake a film. There is a reason why a film gets appreciated and becomes a huge hit. It is a tough space to get into,” she admits. Stepping into Taapsee’s shoes was a responsibility she was willing to take, given the film’s stance against sexual violence. “There is a sense of happiness in being able to do such a character,” she adds. She watched Pink twice when it released but didn’t get around to watching Nerkonda Paarvai . For the Telugu adaptation, Nivetha had several conversations with director Sriram Venu and wanted to bring in her own interpretations. Her character Pallavi represents the many urban working women who live on their own: “I have friends who have gone through bad experiences. It was important for me to understand Pallavi’s emotional trauma,” she says. Character assassination “An extreme sense of sadness”, she says, washed over her in the courtroom scenes where the women face character assassination. Those scenes were filmed in sequence and there were six cameras, each focussing on different portions of the room. So she stayed focussed and ‘in character’ at all times. “This helped to emote right, but it was also draining. I had to switch off after each cut so as to not get overwhelmed.” Her outburst in the court was among the more demanding scenes. Rather than cutting away from her soon after the outburst, the camera lingers as she doubles up, venting the frustration, anger and helplessness. “We talked about how this scene will be filmed and I have always been critical of everything I did while working on the film. This scene got cleared in one take,” she says. Stars as colleagues Ask her how she manages not to get overawed in the presence of a superstar — be it in Papanasam , or in Darbar where she played Rajinikanth’s daughter or with Pawan Kalyan, and she attributes it to her long innings in cinema. She has been in front of the camera since the age of eight, starting her career with Malayalam cinema before foraying into Tamil and Telugu. “For years, I have seen how people behave when there is a star on set. A star’s presence dictates the mood. I have found that it helps to talk and break the ice so that in front of the camera, we can work as colleagues,” she says. Balancing academics and cinema since childhood, Nivetha is an architect and an actor. The toughest thing during lockdown, she says, was the anxiety that Vakeel Saab shooting had been paused. “Otherwise, I can be happy in my own company. More than the pandemic, I was restless in 2018 and 2019 when I wasn’t signing many films; I wondered if I should freelance as an architect,” she says. “Then Darbar and V (Telugu) happened. Interesting projects are coming my way.”  For years, I’ve seen how people behave when there’s a star on set. A star’s presence dictates the mood. I’ve found that it helps to talk and break the ice so that in front of the camera, we can work as colleagues Nivetha Thomas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/snapshots-from-life/article34322043.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||From the rooftop||Hyderabad-based photojournalist Madhu Gopal Rao’s first capture on the rooftop during lockdwon 2020 was of a family relaxing on the terrace and a group of boys playing cricket. Little did he realise that his way of surviving the lockdown would pave way for a series. In the first two months of lockdown, his photos spoke of silence. “I remember one photograph of a man sitting on a water tank; I could feel his loneliness,” he recalls. Then, as seasons changed, Madhu captured how the attitude and behaviour of families too changed. Later, even after lockdown was lifted, Madhu continued to go to the terrace to document life from there, but his ‘subjects’ became fewer. “The number of people is slightly higher during weekends,” he shares. Since most of the photographs were long shots, the focus was not an individual person but on the rooftop buzz. People began to recognise him and some even posed waving their hands. The ‘Rooftop’ project was initially ‘Rooftop - Streets in the sky’ as ‘rooftops appeared like a street buzzing with people doing different activities’ The rooftop gave him a breathing space and a way to connect. “Despite the physical distance and not knowing many neighbours, I felt relaxed at seeing a person on a terrace. This project kept me busy, else it would have been tough for me to survive the past year,” he adds. Madhu continues this activity even now and hopes to have a book from his collection of over 10,000 photos depicting the daily lives of people and their enduring human and personal experiences. Some pictures have been published and were part of the virtual Indian Photo Festival held last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/from-the-rooftop/article34322041.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Portrait of a teacher||Amidst sheets of art lie stacks of old-fashioned diaries filled with phone numbers and photographs: Hema Prasad’s most prized possessions. “Right from six-digit to eight-digit telephone numbers, and 10-digit mobile numbers I have them all,” smiles the senior citizen. And there are thousands. Hema started teaching when she graduated from the Madras School of Art (now, Government College of Fine Arts). “I used to go from house to house. But parents were kind and suggested that I start classes at home and they would bring their kids,” she says. “In many cases, I have taught three generations and even large families, including 23 members from one particular family,” she laughs, adding that now her students are between the age group of three to 72. “There is no age for art,” she says. Some of her older students have joined her classes after retirement. While a majority of younger students have serious artistic aspirations, lately there has been a number who attend classes to de-stress. Classes keep the keen teacher occupied seven days a week. What about Sunday? “Those are the busiest from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.,” she smiles, adding that she has never really taken a break from teaching ever since she started. “I am happy to have students every day.” Even through the lockdown, Hema kept her classes alive. Now, she persists with physical classes, limiting it to one student per class and with necessary precautions, including wearing a mask through the duration of the session. Hema’s students, who are scattered all over the world, stay in touch with her. As we speak, a student drops in, just to check on her. Hema says that while she never got to do a solo show because of monetary constraints and had to dive right into teaching, she is thrilled that her students have put up successful exhibitions. And, as for drawing, she gets to do that every day, even if not on a canvas, then at least in the rough notebook of her students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/portrait-of-a-teacher/article34321957.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Medicos dance in support of Naveen and Janaki||When the dance video featuring Naveen K Razak and Janaki Omkumar, students of Thrissur Medical College, went viral, there were a few who viewed it through a communal lens after they came across the surnames of the dancers. The reaction to the remarks was immediate and has been rocking the student community across Kerala. The first to stand with their batchmates were the students of Thrissur Medical College. Thirteen of the Vikings, the college’s dance group, moved to the beats of ‘Rasputin’ and uploaded it on the Facebook page of Aikya College Union 19-20, Thrissur Medical College. Their message: “If your aim is to hate, ours is to #resisthate The IMA MSN (Indian Medical Association Medical Students’ Network) is also conducting a competition for “medical students, allied courses and doctors”, says Adnan Ummer chairperson of the IMA MSN unit of Calicut Medical College. “It is not only the remarks about love jihad that we are protesting again. There were also some who wondered if doctors should be dancing in scrubs, that too in the corridors of a medical college, and since medicine is a noble profession, shouldn’t we be at work and so on. We are not robots. So, doctors, medical students, interns and nursing students from the State and outside are sending us Instagram reels of them dancing in scrubs, in white coats and in civvies. That does not affect our dedication or sincerity towards our work,” he explains. The students’ wing of a political party has begun a campaign to come up with Instagram reels of the ‘Rasputin’ challenge and prizes of Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500 are being offered to the best video of the dance. Meghna GR, an office-bearer of the cultural wing, says that the idea was to protest against attempts to communalise campuses. “One of the entries by Daya Babraj from Devagiri College has also gone viral. She has danced to ‘Rasputin’ in a traditional mundu and melmundu ,” says Meghna, a student of the University of Kerala. Government departments and public sector units have also come out in support of the two dancers. Last week, the Health Department of Kerala released an animation ad showing two bottle of vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — dancing to ‘Rasputin’. Released by the Health Minister of Kerala, KK Shailaja to promote the vaccination drive, the ad also expresses support for the medical students’ dance video. Prior to that, the Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) was off the mark quickly to release an ad featuring caricatures of Janaki and Naveen. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared the video of Naveen and Janaki dancing on her Instagram handle. “More power to you guys and the entire student community for standing up against hatred and bigotry,” she posted in a story. Janaki meanwhile is “very happy,” as she, “never expected so much of love and support from so many people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/medicos-dance-in-support-of-naveen-and-janaki/article34322029.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE decision on exams a great relief for students, parents: CM||The decision taken by the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) to cancel the Class X Board examination and postpone the Class XII Board examination was welcomed in Delhi, with Chief Minster Arvind Kejriwal saying that the news comes as a great relief. “I am glad that the exams have been cancelled/postponed. This is a great relief for lakhs of students and their parents,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. The CM had on Tuesday appealed to the Central government to cancel the examination or find an alternative method of conducting the examination online or via internal assessments due to the surge in COVID-19 cases in the Capital. Mr. Kejriwal had said that there had been reports of children and the younger population being more prone to the virus in the fourth wave and with over six lakh students and one lakh teachers being involved in the exercise that was to start on May 4, there were concerns that examination centres could become hotspots. Education Minister Manish Sisodia also welcomed the move and said: “It’s a big relief to 30 lakh students, their parents and teachers. Cancellation/postponement of CBSE exam for Class X and XII was being demanded by all of us since many days.” Right move While students of Class X were happy that the examination had been cancelled, those in Class XII said that postponing the examination just prolonged the uncertainty, but felt that it was the right move due to the rising number of cases. Krishay, a Class XII students from a private school in south Delhi, said “This entire year has been a roller-coaster ride. But delaying the exam also means delay in college applications and fears that the CBSE exam dates may clash with other entrance exam dates,” he said. Rajesh Tyagi, an Economics teacher, said that the safety of students was of utmost priority and that a final decision by the Board helped calm the nerves of students who were keenly awaiting a decision by the Board ever since cases started rising. All India Parents Association (AIPA) president Ashok Agarwal said that the CBSE must have taken decision keeping students’ interest in mind. Therefore, the AIPA welcomes this decision. Aprajita Gautam from the Delhi Parents Association also hailed the government’s move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cbse-decision-on-exams-a-great-relief-for-students-parents-cm/article34321812.ece
15 April 2021||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal bids to woo Dalit voters ahead of Punjab Assembly polls||In an attempt to gather Dalit votes in the Punjab Assembly polls due early next year, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) announced on Wednesday that it would appoint a Dalit as Deputy Chief Minister after forming the government. The announcement that was made by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal evoked sharp criticism from the Congress, with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh calling it “poll optics”. Mr. Badal made the announcement in Jalandhar, after paying tribute to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary. He also tweeted, “@Akali_Dal is proud to follow the ideals of Babasaheb Dr BR Ambedkar ji. We are committed to working for the weak & downtrodden. Once SAD forms govt in Punjab in 2022, the Deputy CM will be from Dalit bhaichara. We will also establish a University in Doaba in Babasaheb’s name.” Dalits make up nearly 32% of the total population in Punjab. Captain Singh said the announced by Mr. Badal was nothing but a political antic aimed at misleading the people.  ‘Political gimmickry’ “The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party had failed to ensure the welfare of the Dalits in the State for 10 years and are now resorting to political gimmickry to woo the community with an eye on the 2022 elections,” he said. “Sukhbir Badal is now promising a Deputy Chief Minister but has nothing to show what he or his party, in alliance with the BJP ever did for the community,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/akali-dal-bids-to-woo-dalit-voters-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-polls/article34321970.ece
15 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Tikait, Bhim Army chief pay tributes to Ambedkar||In a significant move, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait joined hands with Bhim Army Chief Chandrashekhar Azad to pay tribute to Bhimrao Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary at the Ghazipur border on Wednesday. Invoking a new slogan, ‘Kisan bachao, Samvidhan Bachao’, Mr. Tikait said the present government was more interested in perpetuating the interests of companies than in respecting Babasaheb’s Constitution.  ‘False impression’ “BJP people are living under a false impression that they are running the country. The reality is that some companies are controlling the show. Had there been a sensitive government, it would have engaged with the protesters against the farm laws,” he said, adding it was a fight for salvaging the farmer’s self-respect. Describing it a historic moment, Mr. Azad said he was standing with farmers in their struggle to protect their rights. He challenged the Central government that its divide and rule policy would not work any more. “The countrymen have seen through it. People are uniting to answer the tyranny and harassment that this government is inflicting upon them.” “Living is not a big thing, living with dignity matters and that is what is under threat,” asserted Mr. Azad. “Babasaheb Ambedkar used to say if the slave realises that he is living the life of a slave, he would break his shackles. Today, there has been an attack on the rights of farmers, who are the backbone of this country. They have to rise to make themselves heard,” he added. Mr. Azad had visited the protest site earlier as well when Mr. Tikait became emotional and cried after possible police action at the Ghazipur border on January 28 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tikait-bhim-army-chief-pay-tributes-to-ambedkar/article34321968.ece
15 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. postpones board examinations||After the CBSE announced cancellation of its class X examinations, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday decided to postpone the State Secondary Education Board’s examinations for classes X and XII. The State Board was also directed to promote the students of classes VIII, IX and XI to the next classes. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took the decision after discussions with Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasra in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 infections.  Revised dates Mr. Dotasra said a decision on the revised dates for exams would be taken if the situation improved during the next 15 to 20 days. He said the students of class VIII would be promoted to class IX without examinations in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. The State government has already promoted the students till classes VII to the next classes. Mr. Gehlot earlier held interactions with experts, doctors, leaders of political parties, religious leaders and social activists through video-conferencing and sought their suggestions for handling the pandemic. BJP State president Satish Poonia suggested in the session that the hospitals be instructed not to ignore the treatment of patients other than those having the virus infection. In another order, the State government on Wednesday extended the night curfew to the municipal limits of all urban areas for 12 hours everyday, from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-govt-postpones-board-examinations/article34321966.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire guts 50 shanties in Jamia Nagar||Around 50 shanties were gutted after a fire broke out at Noor Nagar in south-east Delhi’s Jamia Nagar on Wednesday afternoon, Delhi Fire Services (DFS) officials said. No injuries have been reported and the authorities suspect that a sparking in the electricity supplying cables in the shanties cloud be the cause. Furnitures and household essentials, including LPG cylinders and e-rickshaws parked in the slum cluster, were also damaged in the fire, officials said. According to DFS, a call regarding the fire in Noor Nagar was received at 3.13 p.m. after which nine fire tenders were sent to the spot. Later, four more fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control. The cooling process is still under way, the fire officials said.  Concerted effort After reaching the spot, the police team also roped in local NGOs to assist in the rescue operations and informed civic agencies. Staffers from BSES, CAT ambulance, and SDM also reached the spot, according to police. “Around 40 to 50 shanties were burnt completely in the fire, and during preliminary enquiry, the main suspected cause of the fire is found to be due to sparking in the electricity supplying cables. However, no one has been reported injured in the incident,” said R.P. Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East). Further, rescue operation was taken up with the help of civic agencies while food and temporary shelter are being provided to the victims in the nearby Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, the officer said. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fire-guts-50-shanties-in-jamia-nagar/article34321810.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia launches festival to celebrate Ambedkar||The Delhi government on Wednesday launched the first edition of Babasaheb Ambedkar Digital Kala Festival, a week-long exhibition marking the 130th birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar. Conceptualised by the Department of Art, Culture and Languages, the festival seeks to promote the teachings of Ambedkar. The festival will be held with Ambedkar’s quote, “We are all equal under the blue sky”, as the theme. Through this exercise, the government seeks to encourage out-of-the-box and unique interpretations of this quote by Ambedkar, along with inculcating a sense of patriotism in the participants. Launching the festival, Deputy Chief Minister and Minister of Art, Culture, and Languages, Manish Sisodia, said such events will instil and encourage a sense of pride among people, while they work around the theme of equality for all, which is, in today’s times, struggling to regain its lost essence. Delhiites will be able to participate in the festival by uploading their content on Instagram/Twitter/YouTube and tagging the Department of Art, Culture and Languages handles on each of the platforms and follow it up with an email with the link toambedkar.delhigovt@gmail .com, the government said. The categories of the submissions include reels/short video format, poetry/song/rap, or visual arts. The winners of the competition will be announced on May 1 and the winner will be awarded Rs. 75,000, the first runner-up will be awarded Rs. 50,000 and the second runner-up Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-launches-festival-to-celebrate-ambedkar/article34321806.ece
15 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gets its first wellness resource centre||Focusing on a holistic model of health, happiness and well-being, Rajasthan’s first wellness resource centre has been launched here in collaboration with Indus Wellness Code Trust (IWCT) of Silicon Valley, U.S., with emphasis on “multidimensional wellness”. The centre will cater to the wellness needs by reckoning on each person’s individual characteristics. Jaipur-based Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) signed a memorandum of understanding with IWCT here earlier this week for establishing the centre. Similar centres have been functioning in North America for the last three years under the aegis of India Community Centre-Crack the Wellness Code, with which 130 doctors are associated. The centre in Jaipur will provide relevant information to the visitors and offer evidence-based resources in audio, video, and text formats on multiple dimensions of wellness. Centre’s manager and clinical psychologist Sneha Vashisht said here on Wednesday that it would cover several aspects, such as physical, mental, emotional, spiritual, social, environmental, occupational, financial, technological and legal wellness. The alliance between IWCT and IIHMR will also enable the latter’s Centre for Innovation, Incubation & Entrepreneurship to extend support to the upcoming healthcare start-ups. IIHMR president P.R. Sodani said the MoU would not only facilitate knowledge generation and dissemination activities, but would also influence the government’s policies towards wellness and prevention of diseases.  ‘Curative aspect’ “A wellness index on the lines of happiness index needs to be created in the country to assess all dimensions of well-being,” Dr. Sodani said. Inaugurating the centre, Sawai Man Singh Government Medical College’s Principal Sudhir Bhandari said the COVID-19 pandemic had created an urgency among the health fraternity, giving rise to wellness as an important curative aspect of medical practice. Dr. Bhandari said the State government’s Nirogi Rajasthan campaign was a similar initiative in which the people were given useful information for fighting diseases and protecting themselves and their families. The wellness resource centre’s mission will also be to educate, inspire and empower the people to ensure their overall well-being.  A wellness index on the lines of happiness index is needed to assess all dimensions of well-being P.R. SodaniPresident, IIHMR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-gets-its-first-wellness-resource-centre/article34321972.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||331 child labourers rescued in 2020-21 compared to 202 in last 3 years: DCPCR||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Thursday said that it had facilitated the rescue operations of 331 child labourers in the year 2020-21 compared to 202 children in preceding three years. Anurag Kundu, Chairperson of DCPCR, said the commission was able to conduct rescue operations due to efficient citizen reporting. He said that citizens need to be encouraged to report instances of child labour through DCPCR’s WhatsApp number. He added that DCPCR also has a scheme through which those reporting incidents were offered rewards. The DCPCR said that the children belonged to different age groups and were rescued from factories, bakery units, and auto centre units, as well as residential colonies where they were working as domestic servants. They were produced before the Child Welfare Committees the same day, which conducted their social investigation to trace families for their restoration and reintegration, it said. “It becomes critical as the pandemic and the consequent joblessness and reduced family income have pushed children towards the menace of labours. Therefore, these children’s rehabilitation becomes utmost significance. DCPCR is committed to tracking their education enrolment, and the family’s involvement in different government schemes,” the DCPCR said in a statement. Non-payment of minimum wages, inordinate long working hours, and unhygienic working conditions emerged as common patterns in most cases, the DCPCR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/331-child-labourers-rescued-in-2020-21-compared-to-202-in-last-3-years-dcpcr/article34321805.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Health is top priority for Centre: Gupta||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to postpone Class 12 CBSE Board exams and cancel Class 10 exams. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta termed the decision timely while Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the decision would put an end to trauma both for students as well as parents. “This step is for the good of students, the health of their near and dear ones is a top priority of the Modi government,” Mr. Gupta said. “The Delhi government should take all adequate measures to ensure that the studies of the students do not suffer,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/health-is-top-priority-for-centre-gupta/article34321807.ece
15 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three women held for trying to extort cash||Three women were arrested for allegedly trying to extort Rs. 10 lakh from a person on the pretext of false molestation charges, police said. The accused have been identified as Sonia (28), her sister Poonam (31), both residents of Tagore Garden, and Kiran (30), a resident of Meerut, they said. On April 7, Kiran made allegations of molestation against one Dinesh Chand Mahajan (61). Later, it was found that the allegations were false, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-women-held-for-trying-to-extort-cash/article34321809.ece
15 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Bypoll put off as candidate dies of virus||By-election to the Pipili assembly constituency in Odisha has been postponed after Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj died of COVID-19. The by-election was scheduled for Saturday (April 17). It was necessitated by the death of sitting BJD MLA and former Minister Pradeep Maharathy, who also lost his life to COVID-19. Mr. Mangaraj was facing acute respiratory problem and had been admitted to a private hospital. He informed his supporters about having tested positive for coronavirus through a Facebook post on Saturday. Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union Petroleum, Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee Niranjan Patnaik expressed their condolences. Odisha on Wednesday breached the 2000-mark for the first time after the resurgence of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bypoll-put-off-as-candidate-dies-of-virus/article34321971.ece
15 April 2021||Dehradun,||Kumbh: lakhs ignore virus concerns to take holy dip||Throwing caution to the wind amid rising cases of COVID-19, lakhs of people congregated on Wednesday on the ghats in Haridwar to take a dip in the Ganga during the third shahi snan of the Kumbh mela. Over 13.5 lakh people, including sadhus from 13 akhadas, had bathed in the Ganga up to a little before sunset, the office of the Inspector General of Police (Mela) Sanjay Gunjyal said. The ‘royal bath’ marked Mesh Sankranti and Baisakhi, and fell two days after a similar convergence of seers and other devotees for the second shahi snan — mammoth events where following social distancing norms appears almost impossible.  ‘Less crowd’ Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Om Prakash said the number of devotees at the third shahi snan — said to be the most important in a series of four — was much less than expected due to COVID-19.   Police personnel were seen distributing masks in the mela area. But social distancing norms were violated openly by the seers when they and their followers descended the steps at Har ki Pairi to wade into the river. No masks were worn by a large proportion of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kumbh-lakhs-ignore-virus-concerns-to-take-holy-dip/article34321973.ece
15 April 2021||April 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Work load||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/work-load/article34322021.ece
15 April 2021||new delhi,||10 arrested for using Bluetooth devices in exam||The Delhi police have busted a gang allegedly involved in cheating during an entrance exam for a court job using Bluetooth devices and arrested 10 people including two government employees, officials said on Wednesday. The matter came to light after one of the examination centres informed the police on February 28 that some candidates appearing for a job at Tiz Hazari Courts were found using Bluetooth devices. The police caught the accused and seized three Bluetooth devices from Rahul Jatain, Kunal Sharma and Rajesh Kumar. The accused disclosed the name of the mastermind who was nabbed after raids in Burari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/10-arrested-for-using-bluetooth-devices-in-exam/article34322019.ece
15 April 2021||New Delhi,||Saurabh- assault||After the video of a policeman on duty being assaulted had gone viral, the police said an inquiry into the incident is under way. The incident took place on April 1 in Uttam Nagar, they said. According to the police, Sushil was earlier posted as a PSO to a businessman named Sanjay Gupta. On April 1, when Mr. Sushil went to meet Mr. Gupta, he got into an argument with his relative. Following it, Sushil was allegedly abused and beaten up by Mr. Gupta’s younger brother Rinku Gupta, a senior police officer said. An inquiry is under way, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/saurabh-assault/article34321808.ece
