16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||India records 2.16 lakh new cases, 1,153 deaths||India registered 1,97,842 new COVID-19 cases and 1,019 deaths as of 9.15 p.m. on Thursday. The country has so far reported a total of 1,42,68,940 cases and 1,74,172 deaths. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Andaman and Nicobar, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Ladakh, Tripura and Sikkim. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily figures. Over 13.84 lakh tests were conducted on Wednesday. Most deaths too Maharashtra reported 61,695 infections (accounting for nearly 31% of new cases) on Thursday, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 22,339 cases and Delhi with 16,699 cases. Maharashtra also recorded the most casualties (349) on Thursday. Delhi followed with 112 deaths, while Uttar Pradesh registered 104 casualties. A total of 33.13 lakh doses of vaccines were administered in the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. on Thursday. It is about 6.6 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is about 8.2 lakh doses lower than what was recorded the previous Thursday. India continues to lead the world in terms of average daily cases detected. The nation now accounts for one in every four cases reported globally every day. As of April 14, India recorded over two times the average daily cases detected in the United States. The U.S. records the second-most number of average daily cases — about 71,200 infections. As of April 14, India recorded the second most number of average daily deaths. Brazil, with more than 3,000 average daily fatalities, is leading the world in this category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-second-straight-day-india-reports-more-than-19-lakh-cases/article34331245.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Houses, horticulture crops suffer damage as rain lashes twin dists||There was widespread rain, accompanied by thunderstorm, across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. It resulted in damage to houses, horticulture crops and electricity poles in some parts of the two districts. Rain and thunderstorm brought down nearly 500 arecanut trees and about 200 rubber trees in the farm of Kambri Ganesh in Panja village of Sullia taluk. Nearly 20 electricity poles were damaged in the vicinity. Family members of Vijay Kotebail escaped with minor injuries after a tree branch fell on a part of their house in Ainekidu village of Sullia taluk. A motorcycle parked outside the house was damaged. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Dakshina Kannada district recorded an average of 14.2 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Panaje recorded the highest of 87 mm rainfall, a KSNDMC report said. In Udupi district, a Naga Bana off the National Highway in Polipu near Kaup was damaged after a branch of an old tree fell. A few electricity poles in the vicinity were damaged. According to information provided by the Udupi district administration, a cowshed was totally damaged and three houses were partially damaged after trees fell in Kergalu, Nada and Muduru villages of Byndoor taluk. Udupi district received an average of 4.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Thursday, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/houses-horticulture-crops-suffer-damage-as-rain-lashes-twin-dists/article34331910.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,||An inspiration that has spurred a philanthropic work||The grandson has attempted a repeat of what his grandfather used to do some six decades ago — providing shelter and drinking water to commuters — by building two shelters for passengers, providing drinking water for animals as well as the general public, on the flanks of NH 66 at Melpete-Pandeshwara in Sasthan village of Udupi district. “Alumni of St. Antony School on the other side of the highway, who are now settled down in different places, often recalled how they used to visit my grandfather Narasimha Thunga’s house to drink water, with jaggery. Though many weren’t thirsty, they drank water for the sake of jaggery,” said Chandrashekhara Maiya, a newspaper agent-cum-3D animator. At a time when people mostly travelled by foot and when the Mabukala bridge across the Sita river connecting Kundapur region with Brahmavar region was not built, the Late Thunga kept drinking water and jaggery at the forecourt of his residence. It was called “Hebbagila Mane”, meaning house at the entrance. Commuters used to relax a bit in the forecourt after quenching their thirst. This was also clearly etched in the mind of Mr. Maiya who began saving money since about six years ago to repeat his grandfather’s gesture. The Late Thunga was his maternal grandfather, while Mr. Maiya lost his father when he was 24 days old. His mother, Shreemathi Maiya, came to stay with her parents after husband’s death and Mr. Maiya continued to stay there. The Late Thunga’s old house existed on the place where the new shelter towards Kundapur has come up now. The 45-year-old Maiya, who has ben into newspaper vending for 21 years now, has spent over Rs. 6 lakh to get the shelters constructed. The other shelter was built off NH 66 carriageway towards Udupi, abutting the St. Antony School. He has also installed a purified drinking water unit at the shelter on the road towards Kundapur to quench the thirst of commuters. As if it was not enough, Mr. Maiya found a 400-year-old Marige (small stone tank to feed water to animals) and placed it next to the bus shelter for animals to use. Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swamiji of Udupi Pejawar Mutt and Fr. John Walter Mendonca, Parish Priest, St. Antony Church, Sasthan, inaugurated the facilities on Wednesday in the presence of Mr. Maiya’s Guru Madhusudhana Bairy, mother, wife and others. The religious heads lauded the gesture of Mr. Maiya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-inspiration-that-has-spurred-a-philanthropic-work/article34331907.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to push judges’ appointments||The Union government on Thursday offered to decide in three months the Supreme Court Collegium recommendations for appointment of judges in the High Courts pending with it for over half a year. Appearing before a Special Bench of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde and Justices S.K. Kaul and Surya Kant, Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal made a statement that the High Courts continued to have 220 vacancies because their collegiums had not forwarded any names. Mr. Venugopal said those collegiums should be put on a clock to forward their recommendations. ‘Share timeline’ Chief Justice Bobde shot back saying it would be helpful if the government shared its own timeline at each stage of the appointment process. ‘Two timelines’ “There are two timelines. One for the government and another for the HCs. The Chief Justice says he will deal with the High Court timelines. As regards the timeline for the government, you tell us on the next date... We are only asking you to tell us the timeline within which the government and the judiciary will cooperate,” Justice Kaul intervened. Mr. Venugopal said the Memorandum of Procedure guided the government and the judiciary through the appointment process. The procedure did not insist on a deadline but only loosely says the process should be completed within a reasonable time. On March 23, the Bench had asked the government to come clear on the status of 55 recommendations made by the collegium for judicial appointments to various High Courts six months to nearly a year-and-a-half ago. Forty-four of the pending recommendations were made to fill up vacancies in Calcutta, Madhya Pradesh, Gauhati, Rajasthan and Punjab High Courts. Every one of these recommendations had been pending with the government for over seven months to a year. Recommendations of names made by the collegium to the Delhi High Court had been pending for seven months. “This is a matter of grave concern ... When do you propose to take a decision?” the Bench had addressed Mr. Venugopal. In the previous hearing, the court had asked Mr. Venugopal to enquire with the Union Ministry of Law and Justice and make a statement on April 8 about their status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-offers-to-decide-on-hc-appointments-in-3-months/article34331241.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||FOGDA suggests 14-day intense lockdown||Noting that the rapid surge in COVID-19 cases could cause a huge burden on the healthcare workers, the Federation of Government Doctors Association (FOGDA) has suggested an intense lockdown for 14 days starting from April 18 to slow down transmission and give a breathing space for preparedness. In a representation to the Health Secretary, FOGDA has put forward suggestions to tackle the present crisis as the daily COVID-19 cases were steeply increasing in the State. Such a sudden surge could make it difficult for the health infrastructure, and causes a huge burden on healthcare workers who are required to be deployed to treat patients with COVID-19 as well as take effective preventive measures. Workforce has to be deployed for the vaccination drive too, it noted. FOGDA suggested an intense lockdown for 14 days from April 18, giving a short leeway of three to four days for the public to make appropriate arrangements to cope during this lockdown period. This would help in overcoming the present crisis. The lockdown, as already experienced, would help in slowing down new cases of COVID-19 as well as provide a breathing space for the logistics preparedness, the association said. The association has requested the government to consider lowering the age restrictions for COVID-19 vaccinations from 45 years to 18 years so that there could be larger coverage, and also because more younger patients were suffering from severe COVID-19 now when compared to last year. It demanded the government recruit 2,000 new doctors and nurses to manage both COVID-19 and non COVID-19 diseases. To encourage the healthcare workers, who were already fatigued, the government could release the promised COVID-19 related benefits such as one month special pay, Rs. two lakh ex-gratia for those who tested positive for COVID-19 and Rs. 50 lakh solatium for the families of the deceased healthcare workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fogda-suggests-14-day-intense-lockdown/article34331781.ece
16 April 2021||Pune,||Notify COVID-19 pandemic as natural disaster: CM to PM||As Maharashtra stares at a full-blown medical crisis amid ever-surging COVID-19 cases and fatalities, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to the Prime Minister urging him to declare the pandemic a natural disaster and give economic relief to those most affected. Given the acute shortage of oxygen, Mr. Thackeray, in his letter on Thursday, appealed to the Centre to take action under the National Disaster Management Act to supply vital oxygen by air. Relief measures In his letter, Mr. Thackeray detailed the relief measures that could be accorded to Maharashtra’s citizens which include a three-month extension of the timeline for filing GST returns for small and medium taxpayers. “The pandemic may be notified as a natural calamity under the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF). Accordingly, the State may be allowed to pay relief of Rs. 100 per adult per day and Rs. 60 per child per day for all the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority House Hold (PHH) family members whose names are included in the AAA and PHH ration cards,” reads the letter. Mr. Thackeray has urged the Centre to release the first instalment of the Centre’s share of SDRF to help the State tide over the financial crisis arising due to the pandemic. The letter has also asked for banks to defer instalment payments from small business owners and producers that will be due in the first quarter of this financial year. The Chief Minister said that given the large number of tests being conducted and the massive case surge, Maharashtra’s active cases were expected to touch 11.9 lakh by April 30. “In contrast, last year in September, there were 10.5 lakh active patients in the whole country. With more than six lakh active patients in the State today, the shortage of oxygen for medical purposes is a matter of grave concern,” he said. The State needed more than 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen. This could soar to 2,000 metric tonnes per day by the month end, he wrote. “While the Centre has approved taking oxygen from steel projects in the eastern and southern parts of the country, we are providing oxygen from local areas as well as nearby places. However, to save time, urgent action needs to be taken under the National Disaster Management Act to divert this oxygen by other means, mainly by air,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/notify-covid-19-pandemic-as-natural-disaster-cm-to-pm/article34331932.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||HC says COVID-19 norm violations are cognisable, non-bailable offences||Pointing out that violation of COVID-19 norms notified under the provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act 2020 are cognisable and non-bailable, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police to ensure that the police register First Information Reports (FIRs) when instances of such violations are brought to their notice. The court also directed the DG&IGP to constitute a team of senior police officers to educate the police on the effective enforcement of laws to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and monitor the registration of FIRs and investigation in cases of violations, including not wearing masks, failure to maintain social distancing, and violation of norms at large congregations. The DG&IGP has been directed to issue directions/guidelines to police officers for the effective implementations of the provisions of the Act. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the directions while noticing that police are hesitant in registering FIRs against these violations and are taking the law lightly, perhaps, due to the provision in the law to compound these offence by way of collection of fine by authorised officers even after registration of FIRs. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Letzkit Foundation. The Bench issued the directions after taking note of rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State. Unless penal action under the Act is taken and the regulations are enforced strictly, the purpose of enacting these laws as a tool for the State authorities to prevent the spread of epidemics cannot be achieved effectively, the Bench observed. Pointing out that right to lead a healthy life is guaranteed under Article 21, the Bench said that the government must view violations seriously as they would violate the right to a healthy life of others. As prominent political and religious leaders and celebrities will have to lead by example, it is all the more necessary for the police to take strict action when this class of society violates the norms, the Bench said, while referring to instances in which the police had registered FIRs against such leaders only after the court’s intervention. “We hasten to add that none should be spared for the violations,” the Bench observed. On the allegation that the government relaxed norms on occupation of seats in cinemas at the instance of a leading Kannada actor [Puneet Rajkumar], the Bench hoped that the government in future will not relax norms at the instance of a few individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-says-covid-19-norm-violations-are-cognisable-non-bailable-offences/article34331387.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Vaccinate at least 6 lakh people daily: CM||A record 6.28 lakh people were vaccinated on Wednesday, and the target should be to administer the vaccine to at least six lakh people daily, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Thursday. “Since there is shortage of vaccine, the officials have to take steps for procuring adequate stocks from the Centre,” the Chief Minister said, and added that he would also write a letter to the Union government requesting despatch of additional quantities of vaccines.  “Persons aged above 45 and all frontline workers should be vaccinated on a priority basis in order to check the spread of the pandemic,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said at a review meeting on COVID-19 management and vaccination programme. “Ensure enough beds in the hospitals, and allot the same within three hours of the patients seeking admission through the call centre number, ‘104’, which is being dedicated to COVID services,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy told the officials. The patients should be admitted to hospitals, or advised home isolation, based on the suggestion of the doctors, he said, and directed that the ambulance services be provided and treatment facilitated by ASHA workers. Stressing the need for keeping a watch on the health condition of those in home isolation, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy told the officials of the Medical, Health & Family Welfare Department not to compromise on tests, treatment, sanitation and quality of food in the hospitals, and insisted that there be no shortage of medicines. ‘Fix charges in private hospitals’ The Chief Minister asked the officials to fix the price at which the private hospitals should treat the COVID-19 patients and ensure that they were not exploited. The Aarogyasri - empanelled hospitals and the private hospitals should maintain a record of the number of beds available. Besides, the details of treatment charges and the cost of medicines and injections should be displayed at hospitals, he said. “The names and contact numbers of the hospital administrators tasked with redress of grievances have to be highlighted,” he said. The Chief Minister further ordered that the hospitals be supplied enough quantities of oxygen to enable them to treat the seriously ill patients. Officials told the Chief Minister that the positivity rate was 6.03% and that 108 hospitals were under the control of the Health Department. They also said that 1,987 ventilators were available. They further informed that 22,637 patients were in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinate-at-least-6-lakh-people-daily-cm-tells-officials/article34331234.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Mango yield to be 30-40% of normal year||Mangoes, the one joy in whatis proving to be a particularly punishing summer, seem hard to come by this season. A combination of factors from vegetative growth of trees and unseasonal rains to pest attacks have adversely impacted the yield. Farmers estimate that this year’s yield may be in the range of 30% to 40% of that of a normal year. Followed by nearly three years of drought, 2020-21 received good rains, raising the hopes of mango growers. However, the trees that had taken a hit for the past three years saw vegetative growth this year, impacting flowering and fruit formation. “The health of the trees had taken a severe hit over the past three years due to drought, which seems to be corrected this year. While it has severely affected the yield this year, it will come in handy for a good yield for the next two to three years,” said K. Srinivas Gowda, president, Chickballapur Mango Growers’ Association. Taking the vegetative growth phase into consideration, the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd. (KSMDMCL), had estimated a yield of over 14 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes this season. However, unseasonal rains in January-February and a pest attack on the fruit has made them revise the estimate to less than 9 lakh tonnes. “There is a risk of the mango fruit fly pest infesting the fruit further. We have advised the farmers to use pheromone traps to protect thefruits,” said C.G. Nagaraju, MD, KSMDMCL. “The situation is almost the same across various mango growing regions — not only in the old Mysuru region, but also in Haveri, Dharwad, and Belagavi in the north,” he added. Coming after nearly three years of low yield and amidst a pandemic, this has hit farmers hard. “For three years, I was forced to water my trees using water tankers. With good rains, I was hoping for a better harvest this year, but that has not happened. The pandemic has also hit us hard and it will be difficult to repay debts this year too,” said Adi Reddy, a grower from Kolar. Given the low yield, the prices of mangoes are expected to remain high this season. “The early varieties that have come to the market — Raspuri, Sindhura and Totapuri — have been trading on a higher scale today, which is expected to continue through the season. Those who have sold their produce till now have mostly sold a kilo at over Rs. 160 levels,” Dr. Nagaraju said. Another silver lining is that unlike last year, international flights and ship traffic seems unaffected for now, raising hopes of good business in the exports sector.  Order mangoes  You can now order mangoes directly from farmers online and it will be delivered to your doorstep via India Post. The KSMDMCL, which started the programme during the lockdown last year, opened for orders from Thursday on its website: https://www.karsirimangoes.karnataka.gov.in/. Consumers need to order in multiples of three kilos. “The programme was a big success last year. We sold over 100 tonnes of mangoes through our portal,” said Dr. Nagaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mango-yield-to-be-30-40-of-normal-year/article34331735.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tighter curbs to check COVID-19 spread||The State government on Thursday announced a raft of restrictions to arrest the post-Assembly election surge in COVID-19 cases. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy said the measures ranged from closing of bars, restaurants, cinema halls, malls, shops and commercial establishments by 9 p.m. to limiting the number of persons attending indoor and outdoor events to 75 and 150 respectively. Those seeking to attend larger functions should produce recent COVID-19 negative certification at the entrance. Transport buses should not admit passengers over the legal seating capacity, he said. Mr. Joy said citizens required no prior permission to hold weddings or social events. However, they have to inform the local police about such gatherings. Optimally, hosts should not encourage communal feasting. Instead, they could supply guests with parcelled meals. 14-day campaign The government has initiated a 14-day testing, vaccination and enforcement campaign to curb the surge. It hoped to flatten the rising infection curve. Kerala will launch a two-day COVID-19 mass testing drive on Friday and Saturday to test 2.5 lakh people and to isolate those who test positive so that the intense disease transmission over the next two weeks can be contained fast. The idea was to find the maximum number of people who would have been infected during the Assembly election period and to isolate them immediately. The focus of testing will be on those below 45 years – front-line workers, delivery boys, sales staff in shops and hotel staff -- and all those who might be having increased public interactions. Rapid antigen tests would be deployed to pick up all infectious people and any one who tests negative but displays symptoms would be re-tested using RT-PCR. Ideally, hotels should shift their emphasis from indoor dining to home delivery. Shops should follow suit to avoid crowding at market places. He said micro-containment zones would not impede the movement of COVID-19 negative residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tighter-curbs-to-check-covid-19-spread/article34331434.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Khalid granted bail in riots case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former JNU student Umar Khalid in connection with an FIR alleging “criminal conspiracy” in a north-east Delhi riots case. The court questioned the rationale behind the police making a case of conspiracy against Mr. Khalid based on the statement of a public witness who allegedly saw him and former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain walk into a building at Shaheen Bagh on January 8 last year. “If principal accused Tahir Hussain was moved or actuated by the applicant (Khalid) in meeting dated January 8, 2020, then the applicant should have been made co-accused in 10 other cases [in which Hussain in an accused] also which is not the case,” Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said. Mr. Khalid was initially arrested on September 13, 2020 in another north-east Delhi riots case being probed by the Special Cell, where charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act have been invoked. He was formally arrested in the present FIR on October 1, 2020, after seven months of registration of the FIR. Mr. Khalid will continue to remain in jail as he is yet to get bail in the UAPA case. The present FIR was registered on the statement of a constable who was on duty on main Karawal Nagar Road on February 24, 2020 when a mob went on the rampage. ‘Political vendetta’ Mr. Khalid in his bail plea argued that he had been falsely implicated in the matter by the investigating agency on account of “political vendetta to muzzle dissent”. He argued that he was not present at the scene of crime. The court pointed out that the statement of the primary witness merely talked of some meeting between Mr. Khalid, co-accused Hussain and Khalid Saifi. Judge Yadav further highlighted that the same person is also a witness in the UAPA case. When the statement of this witness was recorded on May 21, last year in the UAPA case, “he did not utter a single word against” Mr. Khalid. “Now all of a sudden he blew the trumpet of criminal conspiracy” against the applicant, the judge noted. “This prima facie does not appeal to the senses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/khalid-granted-bail-in-riots-case/article34331804.ece
16 April 2021||Belagavi,||CM meets 70 seers||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa met around 70 seers in Belagavi on Thursday. He also participated in a Sudarshan Homa ritual at the Hukkeri Hiremath. He spoke to a congregation of mutt heads in Hukkeri Hiremath. He asked them to bless the party candidate Mangala Angadi and pray that the State was free from COVID-19 soon. He said that he was working hard towards making Karnataka a model State. “We are facing challenges like COVID-19,” he said. He said that the BJP governments at the Centre and in the State were trying to create a sense of culture, religion and nationhood among the people. The people of the country are so faithful that they have donated Rs. 2,500 crore for the Ram temple coming up at Ayodhya. This is commendable, he said. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi described Mr. Yediyurappa as the only leader who treated all religions equally. “The seers who have gathered here know who they should bless,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-meets-70-seers/article34331386.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Centre orders diversion of Remdesivir stocks to four States||The Tamil Nadu government has sought the intervention of the Union Health Minister to ensure an uninterrupted supply of Remdesivir, the anti-viral drug used in the treatment of COVID-19. The decision follows an order issued by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (Enforcement Division) to six manufacturers of Remdesivir (Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Jubilant Life Sciences, Hetero and Mylan Laboratories) on the supply of the drug. “In light of concerns over the availability of Remdesivir in major States dealing with COVID-19 cases, especially Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat, you are requested to rush the stock to these States immediately and action taken in this regard should be intimated...,” Drugs Controller-General of India V.G. Somani said in the April 10 order. Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that though an order for 2 lakh doses of the drug had been placed, through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited, the vendors said they were under pressure to divert fresh stocks to the four States. “We have stocks to manage the situation now. But the COVID-19 cases are increasing by the day... This anti-viral drug has proved to be effective among patients with moderate to severe illness requiring oxygen therapy. It reduces the duration of recovery and hospitalisation. Any shortage would not only affect the treatment protocol but would also encourage the drug to be sold at much higher prices in the black market,” he told The Hindu on Thursday. Tamil Nadu is among the six States reporting a high number of cases. “We cannot afford any shortage of vaccines or anti-viral drugs. Adequate steps have been taken to control the spread and effectively treat the infected people. “Only early intervention and preventive measures can avert a situation similar to the one prevailing in Maharashtra... I will be taking up the issue with the Union Health Minister...,” Dr. Vijayabaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-orders-diversion-of-remdesivir-drug-stocks-to-four-states/article34331286.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Man kills 6 of family to avenge ‘rape’ of daughter||A 49-year-old man allegedly killed six persons of a family, including two children, to avenge the alleged rape of his daughter, at Juttada village of Pendurthy mandal on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The murders sent shock waves among the villagers. The relatives of the victims, along with the locals, staged a protest demanding the immediate hanging of the accused. The accused allegedly attacked the six with a scythe. All of them died on the spot. The names of the deceased were given as Bammidi Ramana, 57, Bammidi Usha Rani, 30, Allu Ramadevi, 53, mother of Usha Rani; Nakettlu Aruna, 37, Bammidi Uday, 4, and Bammidi Urvasi, 6 months, both children of Usha Rani and Vijay Kiran. Came for voting Usha Rani, living with her husband Vijay Kiran and her children in Vijayawada, came to her father-in-law Ramana’s house at Juttada to vote in the MPTC polls and stayed back in the village to attend a wedding. The accused went to the house early in the morning and killed them one after the other, according to police sources. He bore a grudge against Vijay Kiran, 30, as the latter had allegedly raped his daughter after giving her soft drink and tea laced with intoxicants on several occasions prior to April 9, 2018. The victim had lodged a police complaint on the above date, alleging that Vijay Kiran had called her to his house and had raped her after giving her drinks, according to the police. She had also alleged that Usha Rani had blackmailed her by showing her photos and demanded money from her. She had also named four others in her complaint for cooperating with the prime accused, police said. A chargesheet was filed on January 31, 2019 and the case is pending trial. The Pendurthy police have taken the accused into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/to-avenge-rape-of-daughter-man-kills-six-of-family-in-ap/article34331205.ece
16 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Night curfew in urban areas in Odisha||After Odisha recorded 658% growth in COVID-19 cases in the last fortnight, the State government on Thursday announced night curfew in all urban areas across the State from Saturday evening. The curfew will remain in force from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all urban areas and will be enforced strictly, Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said, declaring measures to curb the pandemic. Mr. Mohapatra said the restrictions are meant for people and not for goods movement. Essential services have been kept out of the purview of the curfew. On April 1, the State reported a daily spike of 394 cases, while it shot up to 2,989 on Thursday. The government also announced complete shutdown on weekends and increased the duration of night curfew to 11 hours from eight in urban areas for an indefinite period in 10 districts which border Chhattisgarh. The night curfew in these districts would start at 6 p.m. “Night curfew is in force in the 10 districts. Despite strict restrictions on movement between Odisha and Chhattisgarh and a campaign launched on mandatory mask wearing, COVID-19 cases have been rising in the State,” Mr. Mohapatra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-in-urban-areas-in-odisha/article34331470.ece
16 April 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai company to manufacture Covaxin||Haffkine Biopharma Corporation, Mumbai, has received permission from the Union government to manufacture Covaxin, an anti-coronavirus vaccine of Bharat Biotech, on technology transfer basis. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for this late on Thursday evening. The State government had sent the proposal to the Centre in February saying the infrastructure of Haffkine can be used for corona vaccine production. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte received a letter from Renu Swarup, Secretary of Science and Technology Ministry, granting permission, for one year, based on the recommendation of the technical committee of scientists. The letter said experienced and trained technicians should be appointed at the earliest to ensure production of the vaccine. Mr. Thackeray has directed Mr. Kunte to appoint a senior official to monitor the project and ensure timely delivery of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-company-to-manufacture-covaxin/article34331729.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||ISRO case: SC asks CBI to look into panel report||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the Justice D.K. Jain Committee report on senior Kerala police officials who allegedly framed space scientist Nambi Narayanan in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case of 1994. A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, said the report concerned a “serious matter” warranting a CBI probe. “This requires a thorough investigation,” Justice Khanwilkar said. “Registrar Judicial shall forward a copy of the report to the Acting Director, CBI, who may proceed in accordance with the law... Open to the CBI to treat the report as a preliminary enquiry report and proceed accordingly,” the order said. The Supreme Court barred the public circulation of the contents of the report. The Supreme Court copy would be placed in a sealed cover. Advocate Amit Sharma, for one of the police officers, retired ADGP Siby Mathews, said while Mr. Narayanan was heard out by the committee, Mr. Mathews was not called or given an opportunity to state his case. “Naturally, the accused need not be heard before registration of offence...” Justice Khanwilkar reacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/isro-case-sc-asks-cbi-to-look-into-panel-report/article34331289.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Six more wanted in inter-district dacoity, theft cases arrested||The Moodbidri Police on Thursday arrested six more persons in connection with 28 cases of dacoity, theft, cattle theft, extortion registered in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts and in Bengaluru city. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the names of six arrested persons as Mohammed Zubair, Ibrahim Lateef, Rakesh, Arjun, Mohan and Boliyar Mansoor. The police have already arrested nine persons in this connection, he said. These 15 persons were part of a group of about 60 accused in a spate of dacoities and other criminal cases registered across the State. The arrest follows investigation into seven cases of dacoity and theft reported in Moodbidri, Mulky and Bajpe police limits of the city in March. Mr. Kumar said that Zubair, Lateef and Rakesh and another person, who is at large, headed a group of about 15 persons each. These groups have been coordinating with one another in committing dacoity, theft, cattle theft and extortion in the last three years. Among those who have been robbed of their valuables by these accused include pilgrims coming to Dharmasthala, Kukke Subrahmanya and those going to holiday destinations in Kerala, Goa and Tamil Nadu. “We have traced their inter-district operation. We are tracing their inter-State operation now,” Mr. Kumar said. Apart from seven cases registered in Mangaluru, the accused were involved in eight cases registered in Dakshina Kannada district, five cases in Kodagu district, three cases in Chikkamagaluru district, two cases each in Hassan and Udupi districts and one case in Bengaluru’s Vijayanagar Police limits. The police seized three cars, eight mobile phones, 54 grams of gold ornaments, 3.5 kg of silver articles and two machetes. Mr. Kumar said that a licensed pistol used by Sameer to open fire at personnel of a hotel in Falnir in October 2020 had been stolen by Mansoor and his associates from a house in Arehalli Police limits of Hassan district. Mansoor had sold that fire arm to Sameer, he said. Mr. Kumar appreciated the efforts of a team headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Mahesh Kumar in tracing the accused. The team comprised Moodbidri Police Inspector Dinesh Kumar B.S., Police Sub-Inspector Sudeep M.V., Head Constables Rajesh, Mohammed Hussain and Police Constables Akil Ahmed, Sujan, Santosh, Basavaraj Patil, Yashwanth Kumar, Shivaraj, Narasimha, Pradeep and Manoj Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-wanted-in-inter-district-dacoity-theft-cases-arrested/article34331908.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||State reports huge spike with 14,378 new cases||Karnataka on Thursday reported 14,378 new cases of COVID-19, the highest so far for a single day, taking the total to 11,09,650. Of these, 10,497 were from Bengaluru Urban. Last year during the first outbreak, the State had reported the highest single day spike of 10,947 cases on October 7. Bengaluru Urban’s 2020 record was 5,121 on October 8. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the steep rise over the past two days also includes the reports of a backlog of samples that had piled up in the State’s labs during the weekend and Ugadi holidays. The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) met on Thursday and examined the stricter restrictions being enforced in Maharashtra. The committee is learnt to have recommended that the State should consider imposing Maharashtra-like restrictions. The committee’s report is likely to be taken up for discussion at the all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday. On Thursday, several hospitals across the State reported zero availability of beds, resulting in patients scrambling to get hospitalised. Sources in the 108 helpline, which handles the central bed allotment system, said they were flooded with requests for bed allotment and were helpless. The rise in cases is also not giving time for patients to recover and get discharged, said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-huge-spike-with-14378-new-cases/article34331731.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend curfew in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a weekend curfew in Delhi in an attempt to break the chain of transmission of COVID-19 in the National Capital. The Chief Minister said essential services would not be impacted during the curfew. The curfew will begin at 10 p.m. on Friday and end at 5 a.m. on Monday. He added that malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums would be shut immediately, and cinema halls could run with 30% occupancy.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-in-delhi/article34331233.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Practical exams for Plus 2 students to begin today||The practical examinations for Plus 2 students of State board schools will begin on Friday across Tamil Nadu. The examinations will go on till April 23, and the students will sit for the board examinations from May 5. On Thursday, officials, including School Education Secretary Dheeraj Kumar and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, took part in a meeting that discussed the possibility of postponing the Class 12 examinations. A senior official of the School Education Department said the practical examinations would begin as per schedule. The Directorate of Government Examinations has already issued Standard Operating Procedures for the conduct of the practical examinations. It has made the use of masks compulsory for both staff members and students and asked the schools to sanitise and disinfect the laboratories after every batch of students completes the examinations. Students who test positive for COVID-19 will be allowed to take the examinations later. Teachers’ associations have asked the State government to postpone the State board examinations, given the rising COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/practical-exams-for-plus-2-students-to-begin-today/article34331780.ece
16 April 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal sees highest-ever spike in cases||West Bengal on Thursday registered a record 6,769 new COVID-19 cases and 22 deaths, including that of Rezaul Haque, Congress party nominee for the Samsherganj constituency in Murshidabad district. The latest spike is the highest-ever single-day surge in the State since the first case was recorded in March 2020. The State, however, has registered a higher number of deaths due to the virus. Haque (46) died at a private hospital in Kolkata on Thursday after being admitted with breathing related issues. At least two other candidates — one from the Samyukta Morcha and the other from the Trinamool Congress — have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-sees-highest-ever-spike-in-cases/article34331471.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Annuity clause goes for NPS subscribers||The National Pension System (NPS) will no longer compel investors to convert 40% of their accumulated retirement corpus into an annuity, as poor yields on annuities and high inflation are translating into negative returns, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Chairman, Supratim Bandyopadhyay, said on Thursday. The regulator will issue fresh rules to soon allow those saving up to Rs. 5 lakh in the NPS to take the whole amount at retirement, up from Rs. 2 lakh at present. The pension fund regulator is also hoping to launch the first guaranteed return NPS scheme in the coming year. Separately, amendments will be made to the PFRDA Act of 2013 to allow NPS members with a balance over Rs. 5 lakh to retain 40% of the corpus in the NPS or wind it down over a few years through a system akin to a systematic withdrawal plan. “Post-retirement, a person has to take 40% of the total corpus as an annuity as per the law’s mandate, and 60% can be commuted and taken as a lump sum. But the annuity rates always track the interest rates in the market which have come down drastically. So much so, if someone opts for a lifetime annuity at retirement with a return of purchase price to the nominee when the person dies, the rates are varying between 5% and 5.5%,” he pointed out. Tax, inflation hits Since annuities are taxable, deducting the tax and factoring in inflation means annuities are yielding negative returns. “A lot of people are complaining about that. We have thought of giving them one more choice of retaining the 40% with our pension fund managers, and giving them a better return,” he said, suggesting a systematic payout scheme could be offered to them over 15 years instead of an annuity. The Finance Ministry has announced plans to amend the PFRDA law since Budget 2019-20 and to make legislative changes to override the statutory annuitisation provision. The need to raise the lump sum withdrawal bar from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, Mr. Bandyopadhyay said, was also driven by the paltry annuity returns. “Suppose somebody reaches Rs. 2.1 lakh at retirement, he will get an annuity component of Rs. 84,000 which today will fetch an income of Rs. 400 or Rs. 450 a month — a pittance,” the PFRDA chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-annuity-rider-nps-subscribers-get-rs-5-lakh-exit-option/article34331281.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Four of NRI family found dead in city apartment||Four members of an NRI family were found dead under suspicious circumstances in their fifth-floor flat at an upscale gated residential community at Midhilapuri VUDA Colony in Madhurawada in the early hours of Thursday. The victims died of burns and asphyxiation in a fire that broke out inside their flat, say police sources, adding that initial investigation points to murder. Neighbours said they heard shouting from the victims’ flat, after which they alerted security guards at the gate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-of-nri-family-found-dead-in-vizag-apartment/article34332033.ece
16 April 2021||Ahmedabad,||8 Pakistani men held with drugs in sea||In a mid-sea operation on Thursday, the Coast Guard and the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Gujarat apprehended eight Pakistani nationals on board a fishing boat with heroin valued at about Rs. 150 crore off the Gujarat coast. Action on a tip-off, a joint team captured the boat near the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) in the Arabian Sea. “We acted on a tip-off regarding a drug consignment likely to be delivered mid-sea by a boat from Pakistan. In a joint exercise with the Coast Guard, we zeroed in on the suspected boat as soon as it entered Indian territorial waters,” Deputy Inspector-General of Police, ATS, Himanshu Shukla said.  “The ICG, in a joint operation with ATS Gujarat, apprehended Pakistani boat PFB (Pakistani Fishing Boat) NUH with 8 Pak nationals & 30 kg of heroin off Jakhau #Gujarat close to IMBL in Indian waters today,” the Coast Guard posted on Twitter. The Pakistani nationals were taken for interrogation to the coastal police station in Jakhau, a major fishing harbour in Kutch district. A statement released by the Coast Guard said: “On April 13, we received an input regarding suspected narcotics trafficking by Pakistani boat off Indo-Pak notional IMBL.” “A coordinated operation was launched swiftly by the ICG in association with the Gujarat ATS. The ICG Fast Interceptor Boat with ATS officials was deployed to intercept the suspected Pakistani boat. On the intervening night of April 14 and 15, the suspected boat was sighted in Indian waters and intercepted by the ICG,” the statement added. “On boarding and rummaging, 30 packets of heroin weighing approximately 1 kilogram each were recovered from the boat,” it said. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the consignment being smuggled was destined for landing on the Gujarat shore.” “The boat along with eight Pakistani nationals has been escorted to Jakhau for further rummaging and joint investigation,” the statement said. The Gujarat coast is known to have become a major route for smuggling drugs into the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-pak-men-held-with-drugs-in-sea/article34331243.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Will garland Ambedkar statue, says Murugan||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan said he will go to Tallakulam in Madurai on Friday, where his party cadres were chased away by cadres of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi on Wednesday, and garland Dr. Ambedkar’s statue. “The BJP is a peaceful party and we follow all the rules. I will go and garland Dr. Ambedkar’s statue and pay my respect on Friday, where our cadres were not allowed to go. We will also hold a protest against the VCK and the DMK,” Mr. Murugan said on Thursday. Mr. Murugan accused that the VCK had instigated violence and then put the blame on the BJP that it wanted to create trouble. “Everyone has the right to garland a statue,” he said. He also accused the VCK of acting at the behest of the DMK of trying to incite communal riots in the State. “The Arakkonam incident [where two Dalit youths were killed], should not have happened. Every life is valuable. The guilty should be punished severely. While a fact-finding team found that there was no political rivalry that led to the killings, the DMK and the VCK are using this incident to create caste violence in the State,” he claimed and asked the Tamil Nadu police to take preventive steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-garland-ambedkar-statue-today-murugan/article34331382.ece
16 April 2021||MYSURU,||Rain lashes Mysuru||Moderate to heavy rain accompanied by hailstones lashed parts of Mysuru on Thursday bringing reprieve from the summer heat. The day time maximum temperature on Thursday was 36 degrees C, according to IMD and it was 2 degrees C above normal. But there was a semblance of relief in the afternoon when the overcast skies opened up and it rained. The minimum temperature was 21.2 degrees C which was normal. Bogadi and surrounding areas reported hailstones though there were mild showers bordering on light drizzle in other parts of the city. The rural hinterland too received heavy rain and this is expected to bring down the temperature considerably. The forecast till April 21 is temperature in the range of 35 degrees C but with cloudy conditions with one or two spells of thunder showers. The all-time high temperature for Mysuru in the month of April is 39.9 degrees C recorded on April 25, 2016. But otherwise the temperature hovers around 35 degrees with the lowest in the last 10 years being 34.9 degrees C recorded on April 2, 2011. The highest temperature in the month of April last year was 35.9, recorded on April 6, 7 and 23, as per IMD data. The lowest temperature last year was 21.3 degrees C and the all-time low for April was 14.9 degrees C recorded on April 1, 2002. But the summers in neighbouring Kodagu is relatively mild and the maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 29 degrees C. The minimum temperature was 19.6 degrees C which was 2 degrees above normal. The all-time high record for April in Kodagu was 34.2 degrees C recorded on April 7, 1998, as per IMD data and the highest temperature last year was 32 degrees C. The lowest temperature in April last year was 14.8 degrees C and the all-time low for April is 10.6 degrees C recorded on April 16, 1955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-lashes-mysuru/article34331528.ece
16 April 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal gears up for phase 5 of election||In the fifth phase of the West Bengal Assembly election on April 17, 45 Assembly seats spread across six districts of the State will go to the polls. Of the 45 constituencies, 13 are in north Bengal and 32 in south Bengal. This is the highest number of seats going to the polls in any of the eight phases of the Assembly election. In north Bengal, 13 seats are spread across three districts — five in Darjeeling, seven in Jalpaiguri and one in Kalimpong. In south Bengal, 16 seats are spread across North 24 Parganas, and there are eight each in Nadia and Bardhaman districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-gears-up-for-phase-5-of-election/article34331802.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||ISRO case: SC asks CBI to look into panel report||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the Justice D.K. Jain Committee report on senior Kerala police officials who allegedly framed space scientist Nambi Narayanan in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case of 1994. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said that the report concerned a “serious matter” warranting a CBI probe. The Supreme Court, in its 2018 judgment, had called the treatment meted out to the scientist while he was in custody as “psycho-pathological”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/isro-case-sc-asks-cbi-to-look-into-panel-report/article34331239.ece
16 April 2021||VELLORE,||Leopard attacks family in Gudiyatham||Three members of a family, including two women, were attacked by a leopard that entered their house at Kalarpalayam in Gudiyatham, Vellore district, late on Wednesday. They were injured and hospitalised. On Thursday, Forest Department staff tranquillised the big cat trapped inside the house. It was taken to a forest on the Tamil Nadu -Andhra Pradesh border to be released. According to sources, Prema, 40, and her children Manohar, 20, and Mahalakshmi, 14, were sleeping inside the house, in Kalarpalayam, Erthangal village, in Gudiyatham taluk. They had left the main door open for ventilation. It is suspected that around midnight, the leopard entered the house and attacked the family. In panic, the three ran out of the house and closed the main door and the animal was trapped inside. On information, the police and Forest Department officials rushed to the spot. A special team from the Forest Department from Hosur later came to the village. “Since the animal was hiding in one of the rooms, the Forest officials tried different methods to make it come to the hall so that they could shoot it with the the tranquilliser. Even a battery-operated toy car was used for this purpose. Finally, they drilled a small hole in the rear of the house and the animal, probably scared of the noise, ran into the hall. It was then tranquillised,” said a police officer. Forest officials checked its condition and then carried the animal out in a stretcher. “They transferred it into a cage and kept some water for it to drink. The animal was then taken into the forest near Sarangal on the Tamil Nadu- Andhra Pradesh border, and will be released after checking its health condition once again,” added the officer. Residents said that this was the first time a wild animal had entered a village in Gudiyatham taluk. “Five years ago, a deer came into the Gudiyatham town. These animals stray into our village from the Mordana forest,” said Mahalingam, a resident of Erthangal village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leopard-attacks-family-in-gudiyatham/article34331282.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/out-of-action/article34331385.ece
16 April 2021||VILLUPURAM,||Law Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Law Minister and AIADMK candidate for Villupuram assembly constituency C.Ve. Shanmugam tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. According to official sources, Mr. Shanmugam was not keeping well for the past couple of days and got himself tested at the Tindivanam General Hospital on Thursday. The test results returned positive and he was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/law-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34331287.ece
16 April 2021||KANNUR,||1 hurt in crude bomb blast||One person was seriously injured in a crude bomb blast at Nallam Mile in Kathirur on Wednesday evening. In the blast, which took place at 10.30 p.m. while allegedly making bombs, the hand of Nijesh, alias Marimuthu, was severed. Another person who was with him was also injured. Nijesh was admitted to the Thalassery Cooperative Hospital and then to a Mangaluru hospital with serious injuries. The bomb and dog squad reached the spot and a preliminary investigation reveals that there has been an effort to destroy evidence. The police suspect that more bombs might have been shifted from here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1-hurt-in-crude-bomb-blast/article34331429.ece
16 April 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal set for phase 5 of polls||As West Bengal goes to the polls in the fifth phase on Saturday, the focus would be on the plight of tea garden workers and agrarian distress. Election will be held in 45 seats, of which 13 are in north Bengal and 32 in south Bengal. In north Bengal, suffering of tea garden workers is a key poll issue, while agrarian distress remains the main issue in south Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-set-for-phase-5-of-polls/article34331941.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||HC stays order to exhume body||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday stayed the operation of an order passed by a single judge of the court on March 31, directing the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner to exhume the body of a neurosurgeon who died in April 2020 after testing positive for COVID-19, from a cemetery at Velangadu, near New Avadi Road here, and re-bury it at a Christian cemetery in Kilpauk. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R.N. Manjula granted the interim stay after Additional Advocate General (AAG) P.H. Arvindh Pandian pointed out that the Corporation was busy tackling the second wave of COVID-19 and the situation was not conducive to exhuming the body of a COVID-19 victim. Appearing on behalf of the Corporation Commissioner, the AAG said an expert committee had opined against exhuming the body. The law officer brought it to the notice of the court that the body could not be buried at the Kilpauk cemetery last April because of resistance from some residents who indulged in violence. The AAG also stated that any decision on exhuming the body could be taken only after normalcy was restored. The judges directed the High Court Registry to list the appeal for further hearing on July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-to-exhume-covid-19-victims-body-stayed/article34331764.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Students need to clear arrears via online exams’||The State government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that students from arts and science colleges would not be allowed to clear arrears without appearing for online examinations. It said 2,66,339 students from 10 different universities in the State had already appeared in the first schedule of the examinations conducted since October 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-need-to-clear-arrears-via-online-exams/article34331345.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Water may be impounded at new dam by year-end||With work on foundation, piling and erection of piers completed almost for two thirds of the length of the Adyar-Harekala Vented Dam-Cum-Bridge within four months of commencement of the project, the Minor Irrigation Department is now confident of impounding water in the dam by December this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-may-be-impounded-at-new-dam-by-year-end/article34331912.ece
16 April 2021||NAGERCOIL,||Bodies of two fishermen brought back, buried||The bodies of two fishermen, who were among the three killed in a mid-sea collision of a mechanised boat and a merchant vessel off Mangaluru in the early hours of Tuesday, were brought to Colachel on Thursday and buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bodies-of-two-fishermen-brought-back-buried/article34331898.ece
16 April 2021||BELAGAVI,||Belagavi LS constituency sees hectic activity||The last day of public campaigning in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency saw hectic activities by political parties on Thursday. BJP leaders were engaged in aggressive campaigning, while the Congress used it mostly for door-to-door campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-ls-constituency-sees-hectic-activity/article34331390.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||RTCs operate 4,000 buses even as strike continues||While the staff of the State road transport corporations are adamant about continuing the bus strike till their demands are met, the corporations are managing to run more buses every day. On Thursday, the four RTCs operated over 4,000 buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtcs-operate-4000-buses-even-as-strike-continues/article34331527.ece
16 April 2021||Mysuru,||Tourist guides in despair as second wave hits travel||The second wave of pandemic has put paid to the fate of tourist guides who were on the verge of recovery after last year’s crippling blow dealt by COVID-19 to the tourism industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tourist-guides-in-despair-as-second-wave-hits-travel/article34331530.ece
16 April 2021||Kalaburagi,||Remdesivir: ‘Legal action against hoarders’||Sending a clear message to those hoarding Remdesivir, a drug used in treatment of COVID-19, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said legal action would be initiated against those who create artificial scarcity and then sell it at inflated prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/remdesivir-legal-action-against-hoarders/article34331531.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Merge the remaining phases of Bengal poll’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urged the Election Commission of India to consider holding polls for all the remaining Assembly constituencies in West Bengal on a single day, instead of following the existing schedule with four phases still to go. So far, polling has been held for 135 Assembly seats, and the remaining 159 seats go to the polls between April 17 and 29. The fifth of the eight-phase polls will be held for 45 seats across north and south Bengal on April 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/merge-the-remaining-phases-of-bengal-poll/article34331467.ece
16 April 2021||Guwahati,||E-census of Assamese Muslims launched||The Janagosthiya Samannay Parishad, Assam (JSPA) on Thursday launched a portal for conducting the first-ever census of Assamese Muslims for distinguishing them from their migrant, Bengal-origin or Bengali-speaking counterparts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-census-of-assamese-muslims-launched/article34331468.ece
16 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. wins 12 out of 29 seats in Garo Hills polls||The Congress in Meghalaya emerged as the single largest party in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council, winning 12 of the 29 seats where elections were held on April 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-wins-12-out-of-29-seats-in-garo-hills-polls/article34331469.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||10 new COVID-19 Care Centres in three days||In an attempt to ease the city’s medical infrastructure, which is straining under the surge of COVID-19 cases, the BBMP will establish 10 more COVID-19 Care Centres that will be made operational in three days. With this, there will be over 1,500 additional beds available for people who cannot isolate themselves at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-new-covid-19-care-centres-in-three-days/article34331733.ece
16 April 2021||BELAGAVI/ KALABURAGI/YADGIR,||Bypolls: Dust settles on public campaign||With the deadline for public campaigning ending on Thursday evening, leaders of political parties spent the day holding roadshows and rallies in a bid to woo voters in the three constituencies of Belagavi, Maski and Basavakalyan, which will see bypolls on Saturday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was in Belagavi to campaign for the BJP candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bypolls-dust-settles-on-public-campaign/article34331730.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Court dismisses bail plea of riots-accused Shahrukh||The Delhi High Court on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of a man who allegedly pointed a pistol at a policeman during the north-east Delhi riots, saying that the role attributed to him was not confined to participation in the mob of rioters but of heading the large crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-riots-accused-shahrukh/article34331801.ece
16 April 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot refutes Vardhan on vaccine availability||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday refuted Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s claim that there was no shortage of COVID-19 vaccine in the country, and that the Centre was providing vaccine supply to every State. Mr. Gehlot said Dr. Vardhan’s accusation of mismanagement by States was “totally wrong”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlot-refutes-vardhan-on-vaccine-availability/article34331805.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC allows prayers at Nizamuddin centre||The Delhi High Court on Thursday permitted 50 people to offer prayers five times a day at the Nizamuddin centre during Ramzan, noting that there was no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notification to close down places of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-allows-prayers-at-nizamuddin-centre/article34331943.ece
16 April 2021||Lucknow,||Uttar Pradesh to open quarantine centres again||Uttar Pradesh is gearing up once again to open quarantine centres for migrant workers returning home amid the surge in COVID-19 cases. The State on Thursday recorded 22,439 new cases and 104 deaths. The Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said migrant workers would be quarantined at the gram panchayat level or in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttar-pradesh-to-open-quarantine-centres-again/article34331806.ece
16 April 2021||Mumbai,||Jaslok Hospital to be COVID-19 facility||Jaslok Hospital will now be a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation announced on Thursday. The civic body has also decided that patients who do not require emergency medical intervention in private hospitals will now be shifted to step-down facilities, which will be set up in four- or five-star hotels. These facilities can charge a maximum of Rs. 4,000/per day/bed to be paid by hospitals. Hospitals can charge extra for medical expenses, doctor visits and other incidental charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jaslok-hospital-to-be-covid-19-facility/article34331929.ece
16 April 2021||Mumbai,||Plea in HC to allow Jains to collect food from temples||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the State government to reply to a petition seeking permission for the Jain community to take away parcels of boiled food from their temples during the Ayambil fast for nine days starting April 19. A Division Bench was hearing a petition filed by two Jain trusts. The plea urged the court to allow trusts to open Jain temples with standard operating procedures. “Devotees cannot come... The idea behind the SOP is to avoid congregations,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-in-hc-to-allow-jains-to-collect-food-from-temples/article34331930.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Need a free hand to tackle COVID-19: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijaya- baskar on Thursday urged the Election Commission of India to fully relax the restrictions under the model code of conduct with regard to the pandemic to give the authorities a free hand in tackling the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/need-a-free-hand-to-tackle-covid-19-minister/article34331284.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||In a new high, 7,987 test positive in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu registered another new high in daily COVID-19 cases on Thursday as 7,987 persons tested positive. Nearly half cases were reported from Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. The State recorded 29 deaths , of which eight were registered in Chennai, four in Kancheepuram and three in Nagapattinam. So far, 12,999 persons have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-new-high-7987-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article34331285.ece
16 April 2021||NAGERCOIL,||Bodies of two fishermen brought back, buried||The bodies of two fishermen, who were among the three killed in a mid-sea collision of a mechanised boat and a merchant vessel off Mangaluru in the early hours of Tuesday, were brought to Colachel on Thursday and buried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bodies-of-two-fishermen-brought-back-buried/article34332024.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||India, Australia must stand together: Morrison||India and Australia should stand together for democratic freedoms amid “a great polarisation” in the region between authoritarian countries and liberal democracies, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday. Addressing the annual Raisina Dialogue from Perth, organised virtually this year by the Observer Research Foundation and the Ministry of External Affairs, the Australian Prime Minister described the recently held first-ever Quad leaders’ summit, which he attended along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, U.S. President Joe Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, as a “historic” moment for “like-minded” countries in the region. Mr. Morrison said India and Australia “share a deep friendship, or, as you say in India, maitri ”, and shared in common a “passion for democratic freedom, commitment to the rule of law, and a free and open Indo-Pacific region”. The Australian Prime Minister described the region as “dynamic” and “full of promise”, but said Australia was “not blind to the geopolitical reality” of it becoming the “epicentre of strategic competition”. ‘Indo-Pacific region’ “The Indo-Pacific is the region that will shape our prosperity, our security and our destiny, individually and collectively,” Mr. Morrison said, as he warned of tensions due to territorial claims as well as “unprecedented” military modernisation. Mr. Morrison did not name China, but spoke of foreign interference and economic coercion, two issues that have emerged as strains in the Australia-China relationship. “Democratic sovereign nations are being threatened and coerced by foreign interference,” he said. “Cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated, including from state-sponsored actors. Economic coercion is being employed as a tool of statecraft. Liberal rules and norms are under assault and there is a great polarisation that our world is at risk of moving towards — a polarisation between authoritarian regimes and autocracies, and the liberal democracies that we love,” he added. Mr. Morrison called for “like-minded nations”, including India and Australia, to “act more consistently, more cohesively, more often, in our shared interests” and to protect “liberal values that underpin the global order”. ‘Strategic balance’ Countries should come together “to build a durable strategic balance in the Indo-Pacific”, a balance that he said, quoting former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, “favours freedom”. In this context, the Australian Prime Minister said the Quad leaders’ summit was “a historic first” and “a mark of the momentum that continues to be built among like-minded counties in our region”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-australia-must-stand-together-morrison/article34331161.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||CoWin to allow minor corrections in data||The government-controlled CoWin digitalised platform to register for COVID-19 vaccination is all set to “introduce a new functionality of allowing correction of information to be uploaded onto the final vaccination certificates,” confirmed R.S. Sharma, Chairman, Empowered Group on COVID vaccination, while speaking exclusively to The Hindu . The move comes following complaints of data entry errors. “We are deploying a patch — piece of software — that will allow corrections and issue certificate based on this. The provision is totally new and the final certificate is digitally verifiable from anywhere in the world,” said Dr. Sharma. Stating that the software would be in place within the next couple of days, Dr. Sharma said this technology would allow minor changes in the spelling of a name or mistakes in the surname etc. “We will have a protocol in place to guide users on how to do it [correct the minor error]. It will be done in a manner where one cannot misuse the system to change the name first entered completely to an entirely new different name and thus wrongly issue a new certificate. We need to initiate all necessary security protocols before we roll out this patch,” he added. Dr. Sharma noted that purely from a software standpoint, the platform is currently not facing any challenges. “The software is simple to use, inclusive, highly scalable and can cater to a large number of people. The problems occur at data entry level. Though the data sought are minimal — name, age and gender — mistakes occur. While minor errors can be rectified at the time of vaccination where the verifier checks these details, however, there are still some cases — fairly rare ones and errors remain. In such cases, those who need the certificates for travel or other purposes, want these errors to be corrected and that is where the system comes in handy,” he explained. Dr. Sharma added that at present the system of vaccination event is recorded as Immutable Vaccination Event Record (IVER) which could not be altered. “If we allow it to be changed, then all kinds of problems could occur. People can misuse it to get the certificate by changing the names of the person etc. Hence, we did not have any provision for change in the IVER. The change we are putting in place, through deploying a patch, allows correction of spelling errors in a name or gender,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cowin-to-allow-minor-corrections-in-data/article34331185.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘China tried to change status quo ’||China tried to change the status quo in Eastern Ladakh by the use of disruptive technologies without using force, and thought that India as a nation would “succumb” to the pressure due to its technological advantage, the Chief of the Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, said on Thursday. “We stood firm on the northern borders and proved that we will not get pushed,” he said. “They [China] feel they have arrived. They have superior armed forces because of the technological advantage that they have. They have been able to create disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of the adversaries. So they believe that by some shove and push they can compel nations to give into their demands,” Gen. Rawat said while speaking at the ongoing Raisina Dialogue summit, jointly organised by the Ministry of External Affairs and the Observer Research Foundation. “In whatever we have achieved by standing firm, in preventing a change of status quo, we have been able to gather world support,” he added. “The international community has come to our support and said, yes, there is an international order that every nation must follow,” Gen. Rawat said, adding, “That’s what we have been able to achieve, and we are trying to gather support from other nations.” Asked about the situation of the Uighurs in the Xinjiang province of China, Gen. Rawat said, “In India, it’s believed that every community, irrespective of the religion that they follow, their caste, creed and colour of the skin, everybody has equal rights. As far as humanity is concerned, the world must stand together in ensuring that people get their human rights. It is a call the international community has to take.” Talking of the development of disruptive technologies, Gen. Rawat said, “Nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel that they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that if they [other nations] don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict by unconventional means.” In the context of the Ladakh stand-off, he said, “Nations are trying to become assertive... This is what China attempted to say — it’s my way or no way... Such nature of undeclared war will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers [on] whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labelled as aggressor...” ‘Grey zone tactics’ Japan’s Chief of General Staff General Yamazaki said China was attempting to unilaterally change the international order. He added that it was necessary to cooperate with other countries to counter such “grey zone tactics”. General Angus Campbell, Chief of the Defence Force, Australia, said grey zone tactics were a way to nibble away at territory. Noting that this was seen in the South China Sea, he said it was very challenging to respond without breaching the line that led to open conflict. On the tensions in the Taiwan strait, he said, “Conflict over the island of Taiwan will be a disaster for the people of the region and something we all must work to avoid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-tried-to-change-status-quo/article34331157.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||UNFPA’s population report launched||Nearly half the women from 57 developing countries do not have the right to make decisions regarding their bodies, including using contraception, seeking healthcare or even on their sexuality, according to the United Nations Population Fund’s (UNFPA) flagship State of World Population Report 2021 titled ‘My Body is My Own’ launched on Thursday. This is the first time a United Nations report has focused on bodily autonomy, defined as the power and agency to make choices about your body without the fear of violence or having someone else decide for you. The report shows that in countries where data is available, only 55% of women are fully empowered to make choices over healthcare, contraception and the ability to say yes or no to sex. It also highlights that only 75% of countries legally ensure full and equal access to contraception. Some examples of violation of bodily autonomy include, child marriage, female genital mutilation, a lack of contraceptive choices leading to unplanned pregnancy, unwanted sex exchanged for a home and food or when people with diverse sexual orientations and gender identities cannot walk down a street without fearing assault or humiliation. Under its ambit also fall people with disabilities stripped of their rights to self-determination, to be free from violence and to enjoy a safe and satisfying sexual life. “Women around the world are denied the fundamental right of bodily autonomy with the COVID-19 pandemic further exacerbating this situation... Realising bodily autonomy is essential to achieving the UNFPA’s goals of ending the global unmet need for contraception, preventable maternal deaths, gender-based violence and harmful practices by 2030... We are committed to the cause,” Argentina Matavel Piccin, India’s UNFPA Representative and Country Director, Bhutan, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unfpas-population-report-launched/article34331159.ece
16 April 2021||Kolkata,||Hill parties no longer hold sway in Darjeeling||Like the steep and narrow roads leading to Darjeeling, politics in these hills of West Bengal is marked by twists and turns. However, amid the changing seasons, the demand for a separate State of Gorkhaland has remained at the centre of its politics. The 2021 Assembly polls in the three seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong will be held on April 17. The Gorkha Janamukti Morcha (GJM) that held sway in the region for more than a decade is now divided into two factions: one led by GJM founder Bimal Gurung and other by Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa. Both the factions have fielded candidates for each of the three seats. While the GJM factions are in an alliance with the ruling Trinamool Congress, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) — the party set up by Subhas Ghising who started the statehood stir in the late 1980s — have joined forces with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A significant development that has added a new dimension to the politics of the hills did not happen in Darjeeling but in Kolkata, when on October 21, 2020, Mr. Gurung made a public appearance after hiding from the law for three years and announced his parting of ways with the BJP. He pledged unconditional support to the Mamata Banerjee in the Assembly election. Mr. Gurung was on the run after the Trinamool government filed more than 100 cases against him under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, following the 104-day-long violent agitation and blockade that he led in 2017. Veteran politician Harka Bahadur Chettri, former GJM MLA from Kalimpong, said the election would decide the future of the movement for separate statehood. “I did not want to add to the confusion by fielding candidates,” he said. “People do not talk about Gorkhaland now. They use a phrase ‘permanent political solution’ for Darjeeling hills.” A “permanent political solution” was also on the lips of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who has attacked the Mamata Banerjee government for the “excesses” committed in 2017. The phrase found mention in the BJP Sankalp Patra for 2019. Earlier in 2014, the saffron party, in its general election manifesto, stated that it would “sympathetically examine and appropriately consider the long-pending demands of the Gorkhas”. Days before Mr. Shah campaigned in the hills, Colonel Ramesh Allay (retd), who was a former member of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office on the issue of “denial of creation of small States vis a vis various assurances by the Prime Minister”. Mr. Allay, president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Poorva Sainik Ardh Sainik Sangathan, says that the demand of Gorkhaland is almost a century old and the Centre, in a letter in 2020, had stated to him that there was no proposal under the consideration of the Government of India for a new State. Sandip Jain, a resident of Kalimpong and editor of Himalayan Times , said that it was always the hill parties that set the agenda of elections in Darjeeling. “It has always been the hill parties that were the dominant partner as far as issues of the hills were concerned. I don’t see this happening now,” Mr. Jain said. Political analyst and psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty said the most interesting thing that has emerged during this election is that there is no dominant player this time. “Elections in Darjeeling were always one-sided with one hill party maintaining sway over the electorate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hill-parties-no-longer-hold-sway-in-darjeeling/article34331172.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Gyms, malls and spas shut in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a weekend curfew in Delhi to break the chain of transmission of COVID-19. He said e-passes will be issued to providers of essential services and those who need to attend weddings over the weekend as the wedding season is on. The curfew will begin at 10 p.m. on Friday and end at 5 a.m. on Monday. Mr. Kejriwal said, “During the week, people have to step out to earn their livelihood and other essential activities. But over the weekend, they go out for entertainment and other activities that can be curtailed. People should not think of it as an inconvenience. It is in fact for their own safety. We need to break the corona chain.”  No in-dining He said malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums will be shut immediately, and cinema halls can run with 30% occupancy. Only one weekly market per day, per zone will be allowed to open. At restaurants, there will be no in-dining facility and only home delivery will be permitted. “Imposing these restrictions right now is very important and I hope everyone will cooperate with the government. We will also be enhancing an enforcement drive to ensure people maintain social distancing and wear masks,” Mr. Kejriwal said . He said there is no shortage of beds as more than 5,000 are vacant. “Please do not insist on a hospital of your choice. There may be a few hospitals that do not have any beds available but that does not mean that there are no beds left in the entire city.” The Chief Minister said authorities have been noticing a callous attitude in terms of wearing masks, observing social distancing and that there will be strict implementation of these regulations. “These restrictions are being put in place for you, your families, your health, your lives. We understand that these restrictions might be of inconvenience for you, but also hope that you understand the need for these restrictions in the present conditions and support the government.” He said he hoped that by following these guidelines and working together, Delhi will be able to defeat the fourth wave as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gyms-malls-spas-shut-in-delhi/article34331197.ece
16 April 2021||Chennai,||Crossword community loses a giant||The crossword community has lost one of its giants. C.G. Rishikesh, whom most readers of The Hindu will have been familiar with as the ‘Gridman’, passed away in Chennai on Wednesday after a brief illness. He was 78. A veteran setter of cryptic crosswords, with over a thousand published puzzles to his credit, ‘Gridman’ was more fondly known as Chaturvasi sir — or simply as “Rishi” — among countless friends, cruciverbalists and protégés in crossword forums and websites across the world. He was “the face of Indian crosswords in the international community”, being the first Indian setter to gain visibility in several global crossword groups. He joined The Hindu Group’s Frontline magazine in 1986 after an 18-year stint with The Indian Express . He retired from service in 2003, but not before donning his ‘Gridman’ cape in 2001, when he made his historic entry into the TH setters’ panel. He has also made significant contribution as a crossword consultant for The Hindu , helping set the tone for fairness and high standards in the paper’s cryptic crossword feature. Remembered as a rare individual with a prodigious memory and knowledge of English literature, whose passion for lexical whimsy was soundly matched by his zeal for scouting, guiding and nurturing budding crossworders, C.V. sir was a devotee of the craft till the very end. His enthusiasm scarcely waning with age or health, he marched on and continued to set puzzles till February 2021, when the last of his grids (THC 13177) were published in the pages of The Hindu . Well-versed in Tamil and English, C.V. sir enjoyed translating, building a bridge — as was his wont — between tongues as well as minds. Among the many works from his long career, he has edited Lettered Dialogue , by historian and author K.R.A. Narasaiah. His oeuvre is hugely popular among aficionados and novices alike. His clues, brewed to a highly satisfying blend, are so clean that, once you have familiarised yourself with his style, you can almost feel the wordplay morph from cryptic to obvious. They dwell in that Goldilocks zone of “neither too tough, nor too easy”. He encouraged setters to garnish their grids with an “Indian” flavour, including references to national motifs and dictionary-approved terms, and led distinctively by example. C.V. sir was an eminently approachable person who was generous in his appreciation of good work, as many co-setters attest. During his days as crossword consultant, he could be sighted at The Hindu Crossword desk, ensconced snugly in a spare chair, spectacles pinched between index finger and thumb, and squinting astutely at a sheet of clues, rising from his reverie only to crisply pass on his perspicacious comments to the crossword editor. For a man of his stature, he displayed tremendous grace and compassion — be it as an arbiter in crossword contests, mediator of disputes in comment forums, or while sharing his keen insights. He reportedly remained curious, always open to feedback and eager to evolve. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gridman-goes-off-the-grid-crossword-community-loses-a-giant/article34331163.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul lashes out at Centre, says Tika Utsav is a ‘sham’||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Thursday called the Tika Utsav [vaccination festival] a ‘sham’, and questioned the government on the use of the PM-CARES fund in tackling the second wave. Mr. Gandhi alleged that neither testing was being done nor hospital beds, ventilators and oxygen were available. Separately, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared a photo of Uttar Pradesh authorities covering up a Lucknow cremation ground by placing tin sheets and asked the government “not to hide the corona deaths”. “There are no tests or beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators or oxygen. The vaccine is also not there. But there is a sham of a festival. PM-CARES?” he asked. Mr. Gandhi has been critical of the government’s handling of the second wave and had written to the Prime Minister on April 8, asking the government to open up vaccination to “whoever needs it”.  The Congress leader’s renewed attack came as India witnessed its highest single-day rise of 2,00,739 COVID-19 infections and 1,038 deaths. “One request to the U.P. government: don’t waste your time, resources and energies in trying to hide and suppress this tragedy,” Ms. Vadra said on Twitter with a video of tin sheets being placed around the Baikunth cremation ground in Lucknow. On Wednesday, there were several clips on social media showing many bodies being cremated at this ground in Lucknow. “Please take concrete steps to stop the pandemic, save lives and contain the spread of the virus. This is the need of the hour,” Ms. Vadra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-lashes-out-at-centre-says-tika-utsav-is-a-sham/article34331169.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||India restores e-visa for 156 countries||The Union Home Ministry has restored the electronic visa (e-visa) facility for foreigners from 156 countries who intend to visit India for business, conferences and medical reasons, including for medical attendants. E-visa for tourists is yet to be restored. Though available to people of 171 countries before restrictions were announced in 2020, the facility has been restored only for 156. China, the U.K., Canada, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia are notable exclusions. In an order on March 30, the Ministry said, “e-Visa under the following categories viz. e-business visa, e-medical visa, e-medical attendant visa and e-conference visa has been restored with immediate effect.” The relaxation comes in the wake of a deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The number of persons infected with COVID-19 increased from 59,118 on March 25 to nearly two lakh on Thursday. India had earlier relaxed visa restrictions on October 22, 2020 enabling foreigners to come to India for business, conferences, employment, education, research and medical purposes on getting regular visas from missions and embassies abroad. An e-visa is provided in five categories — tourist, business, conference, medical, and medical attendant. Under the arrangement, a foreigner can apply online four days prior to travel. After the details are verified, an electronic travel authorisation (ETA) is generated, which has to be presented at the immigration checkpost on arrival. Entry through e-visas is allowed only at 28 designated international airports and five major seaports in India. International air travel to and from 107 immigration checkposts was suspended by the Ministry on March 23, 2020, a day before the lockdown in view of the pandemic. Later in the year, the Ministry allowed foreign nationals from the U.S., the U.K, Germany and France on “business, medical and employment” visas under an air bubble scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-restores-e-visa-for-156-countries/article34331195.ece
16 April 2021||Patna,||Bihar struggles to cope with rising cases||With the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases, the Bihar government is apparently struggling to provide medical facilities to patients. Hospitals are having to cope with shortage of oxygen cylinders as well. The State government has urged the Defence Ministry to depute Army doctors at the dedicated COVID-19 hospital at Bihta, near Patna. “I’ve sent a letter to the Defence Secretary urging him to depute at least 50 doctors so that all 500 beds at the dedicated hospital can be utilised. It will ease the load in Patna-based hospitals,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Principal Secretary in the State Health Department. Sources in the department told The Hindu that directives had been given to add 30-50 beds in various government hospitals. However, hospitals are facing an acute shortage of doctors, nurses and para-medical staff. In government hospitals, 75% of the posts of nursing and para-medical staff are reportedly vacant. Also, infrastructure to cope with a large rush of patients is lacking in most of them. Last year, on May 16, the Health Department had informed the Patna High Court that out of 11,645 sanctioned posts of doctors in the State, 8,768 were vacant, 5,600 of them in rural areas. On Thursday, the Patna District Magistrate deputed magistrates at three agencies supplying oxygen cylinders to ensure seamless availability at hospitals. Most of the private hospitals in Patna have stopped admitting COVID-19 patients due to lack of oxygen cylinders. Meanwhile, COVID-19 patients are thronging government and private hospitals, only to be turned away for lack of beds. As many as 4786 new cases were reported in Bihar in the last 24-hours and 21 have died. In the last two weeks, 75 people have lost their lives.  District court shut The State’s Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, a Minister and several top officials are reported to have been infected. The Bettiah district court in West Champaran had to shut down for five days after 25 positive cases and one death were reported. Party headquarters of the ruling Janata Dal (United) has been locked till April 20. Party offices of other political parties in Patna too wore a deserted look. Videos of relatives of patients wailing and complaining about lack of infrastructure and care in government hospitals have been going viral on social media. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday took the second dose of vaccine at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna. He told media persons that the “number of beds at dedicated COVID-19 hospitals was being increased. The government, he said, would implement suggestions that emerge at all-party meeting called by the Governor on April 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-struggles-to-cope-with-rising-cases/article34331809.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||NEET PG exam put off: Minister||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test – (Postgraduate) (NEET-PG) 2021 medical entrance exams scheduled for April 18 has been postponed in light of the surge in COVID-19 cases, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted on Thursday evening. The Minister added that the new date for the exam will be announced later. “Decision has been taken keeping the well-being of our young medical students in mind,” the Minister added in his tweet. The National Board of Examinations was scheduled to conduct the entrance test this Sunday and the decision comes following an outcry by students, parents, medical experts and opposition leaders demanding postponing of the exam. The postgraduate medical entrance test was to be conducted for admission to MD, MS, PG Diploma programmes for the academic session 2021. Earlier, a group of student doctors moved the Supreme Court seeking postponement of the NEET-PG medical entrance exams and a Bench was scheduled to hear the matter on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-pg-exam-put-off-minister/article34331190.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC allows prayers at Nizamuddin Markaz||The Delhi High Court on Thursday permitted 50 people to offer prayers five times a day at the Nizamuddin centre during Ramzan, noting there was no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notification to close down places of worship. Justice Mukta Gupta directed that prayers be offered on the “first floor above the basement” of the mosque, and “strictly in accordance” with the DDMA’s April 10 notification and other standard operating protocols. The High Court remarked that there was “no clear stand” of the Central government as to whether religious congregations or gatherings were permitted in other places of worship. “Considering the fact that religious places/places of worship are not closed by the DDMA notification, this court finds that the petitioner (Delhi Waqf Board) has made out a prima facie case for permitting devotees to offer namaz at Masjid Bangley Wali,” the court said. It directed the Station House Officer of the Nizamuddin police station to permit entry of 50 people five times a day to offer namaz only on the first floor of the Masjid Bangley Wali. “Considering the fact that devotees require to perform namaz five times a day during the holy month of Ramzan and at the same time care has to be taken that COVID-19, which is increasing exponentially in Delhi, does not spread and does not affect the health of the public at large and those who will visit the mosque to offer namaz,” the High Court said. Justice Gupta declined to increase the number of people or allow use of other floors of the mosque for offering prayers, saying “day by day, situation is getting worse in Delhi”. Subject to review The court, however, clarified that its order would be subject to any notification issued by the DDMA in view of the increasing number of COVID cases in the Capital. The court’s direction came while hearing the plea of the Delhi Waqf Board to reopen the Nizamuddin centre where the Tablighi Jamaat congregations are held. It has been locked since March 31 last year. The board has contended that even after Unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the centre continues to be locked up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-allows-prayers-at-nizamuddin-markaz/article34331182.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Centre plans to import medical oxygen||Stating that there has been increasing demand for medical oxygen, especially from 12 States — Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan — with a high burden of active COVID-19 cases, the Centre on Thursday said it would be mapping the oxygen sources of these States. The Union Health Ministry said that in view of the increasing demand for medical oxygen, the import of 50,000 tonnes of medical oxygen was also being looked into. “The States like Madhya Pradesh do not have any production capacity to meet their demand for medical oxygen and there is a trend of increasing demand in oxygen-producing States such as Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan,” a release said. It added that a Ministry-level review meeting was organised to assess the availability of essential medical equipment and oxygen during the pandemic.  The Health Ministry also said that it was working at identifying another 100 hospitals for Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants manufacturing oxygen. “This will help hospitals become self-sufficient in their requirement for medical oxygen while also reducing the burden on the national grid for supply of medical oxygen. Over 160 PSA plants sanctioned under PM-Cares are being closely reviewed for early completion to enhance self-generation of oxygen in hospitals especially in remote areas,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-plans-to-import-oxygen/article34331240.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Migrant workers vulnerable again: activists||With State governments announcing lockdowns and curfews in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, migrant workers could once again be staring at loss of wages and lack of social protections, labour union leaders and activists said on Thursday. A year after lakhs of workers made their way back to their home States after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March 2020, their condition has not changed much, they said. “Workers in the informal sector think that if there is a lockdown again, they could be stranded and so have started returning to their villages. After the lockdown last year, many of these workers could not get back their jobs as the contractors who hired them did not want to take the responsibility of paying them lockdown wages,” said All-India Trade Union Congress general secretary Amarjeet Kaur. She added that unions had received reports of workers leaving from Lucknow, the Delhi-National Capital Region, Karnataka and Maharashtra. “The workers have learnt that the government won’t do anything for them; they are protecting themselves [by leaving cities],” she said. Workers in the informal sector have already begun to face wage loss due the curfews. Nirmal Gorana, the general secretary of the Bandhua Mukti Morcha that works to free bonded labour, said with Delhi on Thursday announcing weekend curfew, a rush of migrant workers leaving the Capital could be seen on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-workers-vulnerable-again-activists/article34331192.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Merge remaining phases, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee urged the Election Commission of India (EC) to consider holding polls for all the remaining Assembly constituencies in West Bengal on a single day, instead of following the existing schedule with four phases still to go. So far, polling has been held for 135 Assembly seats, and the remaining 159 seats go to the polls between April 17 and 29. “Amid an ongoing pandemic, we firmly opposed the ECI’s decision to conduct West Bengal polls in eight phases. Now, in view of the huge surge in #COVID19 cases, I urge ECI to consider holding the remaining phases in ONE go. This will protect the people from further exposure to #COVID19,” Ms. Banerjee tweeted. Party insiders said the Trinamool would be raising the issue at a meeting called by the Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal on Friday. The EC’s spokesperson in Delhi said Friday’s meeting was only to ask all political parties to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocol issued by the Commission. The EC also clarified that there was “no plan of clubbing the remaining phases”. Cong. candidate dies According to Union Health Ministry’s numbers, West Bengal had reported 32,621 active COVID-19 cases as of Thursday morning. The situation in the State is grim. Congress candidate from Samserganj in Murshidabad, Rejaul Haque, died at a Kolkata hospital on Thursday morning. He had tested positive for COVID-19. Trinamool leaders said they had always been opposed to the eight phases of election announced by the Election Commission, and in view of the spurt in COVID-19 cases, it was imperative that the Assembly election in the State were curtailed. Ms. Banerjee had questioned the EC’s neutrality with regard to the eight-phase elections, saying States of a similar size, such as Bihar and Assam, had only three-phase polls. “We did NOT want an 8 Phase election in the first place,” Trinamool Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’ Brien tweeted. He added, without naming anyone, “The TWO will say, let people die. But don’t do anything to thwart our blind ambition of ‘winning Bengal’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/merge-the-remaining-phases-of-bengal-poll-says-mamata/article34331174.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Annuity clause goes for NPS subscribers||The pension fund regulator is also hoping to launch the first guaranteed return NPS scheme in the coming year. Separately, amendments will be made to the PFRDA Act of 2013 to allow NPS members with a balance over Rs. 5 lakh to retain 40% of the corpus in the NPS or wind it down over a few years through a system akin to a systematic withdrawal plan. “Post-retirement, a person has to take 40% of the total corpus as an annuity as per the law’s mandate, and 60% can be commuted and taken as a lump sum. But the annuity rates always track the interest rates in the market which have come down drastically. So much so, if someone opts for a lifetime annuity at retirement with a return of purchase price to the nominee when the person dies, the rates are varying between 5% and 5.5%,” he pointed out. Since annuities are taxable, deducting the tax and factoring in inflation means annuities are yielding negative returns. “A lot of people are complaining about that. We have thought of giving them one more choice of retaining the 40% with our pension fund managers, and giving them a better return,” he said, suggesting a systematic payout scheme could be offered to them over 15 years instead of an annuity. The Finance Ministry has announced plans to amend the PFRDA law since Budget 2019-20 and to make legislative changes to override the statutory annuitisation provision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/annuity-clause-goes-for-nps-subscribers/article34331721.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Centre eases guidelines for OCI cardholders||The Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) will not be required to register for a fresh OCI card every time a new passport is issued in her/his name, except for those below 20 years of age, the Home Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. The Ministry stated that presently the OCI card is required to be reissued each time a new passport is issued up to 20 years of age and once after completing 50 years of age “in view of biological changes in the face of the applicant”.  ‘Reissue only once’ “With a view to facilitate the OCI cardholders, it has now been decided by the Government of India to dispense with this requirement. A person who has got registration as OCI cardholder prior to attaining the age of 20 years will have to get the OCI card reissued only once when a new passport is issued after his/her completing 20 years of age, so as to capture his/her facial features on attaining adulthood. If a person has obtained registration as OCI cardholder after attaining the age of 20 years, there will be no requirement of reissue of the OCI card,” the Ministry said. It added that the details of the new passports obtained by the OCI cardholder can be uploaded online within three months of receiving the passport. “It has been decided that he/she shall upload a copy of the new passport containing his/her photo and also a latest photo on the online OCI portal, each time a new passport is issued up to 20 years of age and once after completing 50 years of age,” it said. The Ministry added that foreign spouses registered as OCIs will be required to upload a copy of the new passport and also a latest photo, along with a “declaration that their marriage is still subsisting, each time a new passport is issued”. The documents will have to be uploaded within three months of receipt of new passport. “The details will be updated on the system,” the Ministry stated. A government official said a decision had been taken to simplify the registration for OCIs and the portal would be announced soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-eases-guidelines-for-oci-cardholders/article34331164.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Eight Pakistani men held with drugs in sea||“We acted on a tip-off regarding a drug consignment likely to be delivered mid-sea by a boat from Pakistan. In a joint exercise with the Coast Guard, we zeroed in on the suspected boat as soon as it entered Indian territorial waters,” Deputy Inspector-General of Police, ATS, Himanshu Shukla said. “The ICG, in a joint operation with ATS Gujarat, apprehended Pakistani boat PFB (Pakistani Fishing Boat) NUH with 8 Pak nationals & 30 kg of heroin off Jakhau #Gujarat close to IMBL in Indian waters today,” the Coast Guard said on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-pakistani-men-held-with-drugs-in-sea/article34331723.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||India records 2.16 lakh new cases, 1, 153 deaths||As of April 14, India recorded over two times the average daily cases detected in the United States. The U.S. recorded the second most number of average daily cases — about 71,200. As of April 14, India recorded the second most number of average daily deaths. Brazil, with more than 3,000 average daily fatalities, is leading the world in this category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-216-lakh-new-cases-1-153-deaths/article34331724.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||ISRO case: SC asks CBI to look into panel report||The Supreme Court barred the public circulation of the contents of the report. The Supreme Court copy would be placed in a sealed cover. Advocate Amit Sharma, for one of the police officers, retired ADGP Siby Mathews, said while Mr. Narayanan was heard out by the committee, Mr. Mathews was not called or given an opportunity to state his case. “Naturally, the accused need not be heard before registration of offence...” Justice Khanwilkar reacted. The Centre has also put its weight behind a report filed by a three-member Committee chaired by former Supreme Court judge Justice D.K. Jain. The Centre had applied to the Supreme Court, urging it to accept on record the inquiry report submitted by the Justice Jain Committee and take suitable action on the suggestions made within against the “erring officials”. Mr. Narayanan, in his petition before the Supreme Court, had arraigned Mr. Mathews, K.K. Joshwa and S. Vijayan, the latter two had retired in senior positions in the police, as responsible. The Committee was constituted by the Supreme Court in September 2018 to find out “ways and means to take appropriate steps against the erring officials”. The court had allowed the Central and State governments to nominate one officer each to the committee. The Centre had appointed a top official, D.K. Prasad, and the Kerala government appointed former additional chief secretary V.S. Senthil. At the time of his arrest on November 30, 1994, Mr. Narayanan was working on cryogenic engine technology at the ISRO. The police investigators had accused him of passing on documents and drawings of the ISRO relating to the Viking/Vikas engine technology, cryogenic engine technology and the PSLV flight data/drawings to Pakistan. But the Supreme Court had dismissed the case in 2018 as a criminal frame-up based on “some kind fancy or notion”. It said Mr. Narayanan’s career got “smothered”. The scientist himself had said the prosecution launched by the Kerala police had a “catastrophic effect” on his career and personal life besides setting back the technological advancement in space research. The CBI, which took over the probe from the Kerala police, had promptly filed a closure report in 1996. But Mr. Narayanan had fought on to bring his accusers to justice. The Supreme Court, in its 2018 judgment, had called the treatment meted out to the scientist while he was in custody as “psycho-pathological”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isro-case-sc-asks-cbi-to-look-into-panel-report/article34331166.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre to push HC judges’ appointments||On March 23, the Bench had asked the government to come clear on the status of 55 recommendations made by the collegium for judicial appointments to various High Courts six months to nearly a year-and-a-half ago. Forty-four of the pending recommendations were made to fill up vacancies in Calcutta, Madhya Pradesh, Gauhati, Rajasthan and Punjab High Courts. Every one of these recommendations had been pending with the government for over seven months to a year. Recommendations of names made by the collegium to the Delhi High Court had been pending for seven months. “This is a matter of grave concern ... When do you propose to take a decision?” the Bench had addressed Mr. Venugopal. In the previous hearing, the court had asked Mr. Venugopal to enquire with the Union Ministry of Law and Justice and make a statement on April 8 about their status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decision-on-appointments-in-three-months-centre/article34331167.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC notice to Bengal BJP leader Sayantan Basu||The Election Commission on Thursday issued a notice to West Bengal BJP leader Sayantan Basu for allegedly making an “inflammatory speech” about the Sitalkuchi firing incident where four persons were killed on polling day on April 10. The EC said it had received a complaint that Mr. Basu had “delivered an inflammatory statement which is an open threat” to West Bengal and its people, during a public rally in Barangar, North 24 Parganas. Referring to the four persons killed in firing by the security forces, Mr. Basu had said: “I, Sayantan Basu, am here to tell you that don’t try to play too much. We will play the game of Sitalkuchi. They killed 18 years old Ananda Barman, a first time voter, in the morning. He was the brother of the BJP’s Shakti Pramukh. We did not have to wait for long ... Four of them were shown the way to heaven...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-notice-to-west-bengal-bjp-leader/article34331178.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||HC: Norm violations are non-bailable offences||The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Letzkit Foundation. The Bench issued the directions after taking note of rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State. Unless penal action under the Act is taken and the regulations are enforced strictly, the purpose of enacting these laws as a tool for the State authorities to prevent the spread of epidemics cannot be achieved effectively, the Bench observed. Pointing out that right to lead a healthy life is guaranteed under Article 21, the Bench said that the government must view violations seriously as they would violate the right to a healthy life of others. As prominent political and religious leaders and celebrities will have to lead by example, it is all the more necessary for the police to take strict action when this class of society violates the norms, the Bench said, while referring to instances in which the police had registered FIRs against such leaders only after the court’s intervention.  On the allegation that the government relaxed norms on occupation of seats in cinemas at the instance of a leading Kannada actor [Puneet Rajkumar], the Bench hoped that the government in future will not relax norms at the instance of a few individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-norm-violations-are-non-bailable-offences/article34331737.ece
16 April 2021||guwahati,||Cong. wins 12 out of 29 seats in Garo Hills polls||The Congress in Meghalaya emerged as the single largest party in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC), winning 12 of the 29 seats where elections were held on April 12. The National People’s Party (NPP), which rules the State in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party and a few regional parties, took the second spot with 11 seats. The BJP sprang a surprise by winning two seats followed by the regional Garo National Council (GNC) that bagged one seat. Independents won the remaining three seats.  Anti-defection law The NPP had won 10 seats in the 2015 GHADC elections but it went on to form the local government because of defections from other parties. The anti-defection law does not apply to any of the tribal councils in Meghalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-wins-12-out-of-29-seats-in-garo-hills-polls/article34331807.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Migrant workers are vulnerable again: activists||With State governments announcing lockdowns and curfews in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, migrant workers could once again be staring at loss of wages and lack of social protections, labour union leaders and activists said on Thursday. A year after lakhs of workers made their way back to their home States after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March 2020, their condition has not changed much, they said. “Workers in the informal sector think that if there is a lockdown again, they could be stranded and so have started returning to their villages. After the lockdown last year, many of these workers could not get back their jobs as the contractors who hired them did not want to take the responsibility of paying them lockdown wages,” said All-India Trade Union Congress general secretary Amarjeet Kaur. She added that unions had received reports of workers leaving from Lucknow, the Delhi-National Capital Region, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Workers in the informal sector have already begun to face wage loss due the curfews and lockdowns in some States like Maharashtra and National Capital Territory of Delhi. Nirmal Gorana, the general secretary of the Bandhua Mukti Morcha that works to free bonded labour, said with the Delhi government on Thursday announcing weekend curfew, a rush of migrant workers leaving the Capital could be seen on Friday evening. He wondered whether the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board would pay the workers for the loss of two days of wages every week. “The night curfew has already affected sex workers, construction workers and auto-rickshaw drivers. There is fear among workers... The job loss, hunger will be worse this time as the COVID-19 cases are much worse,” he said. The government failed to take actions like reducing the working hours of informal sector workers and getting them registered for social security benefits. Chandan Kumar, of the Working People’s Charter, added that most informal sector workers had not received their wages for the lockdown in 2020 despite government directions, and were facing the same crisis they did last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-workers-are-vulnerable-again-activists/article34331810.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre plans to import oxygen||“Medical oxygen is a critical component in the treatment of COVID affected patients. To give clarity and assurance to the states on oxygen supplied over the next few weeks of surge in cases, a mapping exercise was undertaken where sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity was mapped to match the requirement of states and an indicative framework has been developed to guide the states on the sources of medical oxygen,” said the Ministry. The Health Ministry also said that it was working at identifying another 100 hospitals for Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants manufacturing oxygen. “This will help hospitals become self-sufficient in their requirement for medical oxygen while also reducing the burden on the national grid for supply of medical oxygen. Over 160 PSA plants sanctioned under PM-Cares are being closely reviewed for early completion to enhance self-generation of oxygen in hospitals especially in remote areas,”’ it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-plans-to-import-oxygen/article34331165.ece
16 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. wins 12 out of 29 seats in Garo Hills polls||The Congress in Meghalaya emerged as the single largest party in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC), winning 12 of the 29 seats where elections were held on April 12. The National People’s Party, which rules the State in alliance with the BJP and a few regional parties, took the second spot with 11 seats. The BJP sprang a surprise by winning two seats, followed by the regional Garo National Council that bagged one seat. Independents won the remaining three seats. The NPP won 10 seats in the 2015 GHADC elections but it went on to form the local government because of defections from other parties. The anti-defection law does not apply to any of the tribal councils in Meghalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-wins-12-out-of-29-seats-in-garo-hills-polls/article34331170.ece
16 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Mumbai airport to shift T1 domestic operations to T2||In view of the rapid spread of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai and the Maharashtra government imposing multiple restrictions to handle the situation, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has decided to shift all domestic passenger flights at Terminal 1 to Terminal 2. The CSMIA will be operating all international as well as domestic flights through its Terminal 2 from April 21. As a result, all domestic flights of GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia, TruJet and IndiGo, operating from Terminal 1, will be moved to Terminal 2 “All passengers of GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia, TruJet and IndiGo are requested to get in touch with the respective airlines for further queries,” the CSMIA said. The CSMIA said it had been been working closely with its stakeholders and relevant regulatory and government bodies to curb the spread of the virus. After the resumption of domestic passenger services late last year, following a nearly two-month shutdown due to the pandemic, the flight services were being operated only from Terminal 2 till March 9 this year. From March 10, GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet resumed all their domestic operations from Terminal 1. In addition, while IndiGo was operating most of its flights from Terminal 2, its base flights were being operated through Terminal 1. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-airport-to-shift-t1-domestic-operations-to-t2/article34331193.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A strange wish is sought||Periyapuranam is valued as much for the social, cultural and economic milieu it captures as for the way it transmits the depth of Siva devotion prevailing among the people of that era. This is very explicit in Sekkizhar’s account of the trajectory of the saint devotee Karaikal Ammaiyar’s life, wherein her ideals of life and devotion are manifest in the most unique manner, pointed out Selvi Lemuria Manickam in a discourse. Born as Punitavati in a prosperous merchant family, she is blessed with the inherent strain of devotion to Siva and Sivan Adiyars. After marriage, she abides by her wifely duties with diligence. At this juncture, an incident that becomes a defining moment in her devotional life happens owing to the Lord’s will. One day she offers one of the two mangoes her husband had sent home to a Sivan Adiyar by way of hospitality. She serves her husband the other mango at lunch. Drawn by the delicious taste, he asks for the other fruit. She is in a dilemma and prays to Siva for guidance. The Lord grants her a mango which she gives to her husband. He finds this fruit far more delicious and asks her about it. Then she tells him all that had happened. He wants to test her and asks her to get another mango and Siva answers her prayer once again. But it disappears the moment she hands it over to him. He is now filled with awe and convinced of her divine nature. Henceforth he is unable to see her as his wife. As she is committed to her dharma as a wife, she reacts to his decision in the strangest manner. She wishes for an existence in the skeleton form without skin, flesh, etc, that lend appearance and beauty to all living species. Her rejection is rare and one of its kind, reflecting a mature level of realisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-strange-wish-is-sought/article34331183.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Saudi likely to send remains of Indian: govt.||The Centre on Thursday informed the Delhi High Court that the Saudi Arabian government has located the grave of a Hindu man and is considering repatriation of the remains. The Ministry of External Affairs informed Justice Prathiba M. Singh that the Indian consulate in Jeddah has initiated legal proceedings in a Saudi court in this regard. The Ministry made the submission in response to a petition by Ms. Anju Sharma, wife of Mr. Sanjeev Kumar, who passed away on January 24, 2021 at his workplace in Saudi Arabia. Mr. Kumar, who worked in Saudi Arabia for 23 years, died due to diabetes, hypertension and cardiac arrest, and the mortal remains were kept in the Beesh general hospital, Jizan, Saudi Arabia. On getting the information, Ms. Sharma and other family members of the deceased requested for the repatriation of the mortal remains. “Shockingly, on February 18, the petitioner [Ms. Sharma] was informed that the body of her husband has been buried in Saudi Arabia while the family members were waiting for the mortal remains in India,” the petition said. “The officials in the Indian consulate explained that it was due to a mistake committed by its official translator in Jeddah who wrongly mentioned his religion as ‘Muslim’ in the death certificate,” it said. “They also shared a letter of apology tendered by the official translating agency of the consulate with the petitioner herein. It is pertinent to mention that the petitioner or any member of the family of the deceased has never given their consent to bury the body of Mr. Kumar in Saudi Arabia,” the petition added. Subsequently, Ms. Sharma requested the officials of the consulate to request the local authorities to exhume and send the mortal remains to India for performing the last rites as per the faith of the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/saudi-likely-to-send-mortal-remains-of-indian-centre/article34331155.ece
16 April 2021||Islamabad,||‘Clear India’s doubts in Jadhav case’||The Islamabad High Court on Thursday asked the Foreign Office to clear India’s “misunderstanding” about the court’s jurisdiction to hear the Kulbhushan Jadhav case to implement the verdict of the International Court of Justice (ICJ). Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav, and also grant consular access to India without further delay. The ICJ, in its 2019 verdict, had asked Pakistan to provide a proper forum for appeal against the sentence given to the retired officer by the military court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clear-indias-doubts-in-jadhav-case/article34331722.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Time for India to have a woman CJI’||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday said time has come for India to have a woman Chief Justice of India. Heading a Special Bench, Chief Justice Bobde, however, said women lawyers refuse offers of High Court judgeships citing familial responsibilities. “Chief Justices of High Courts have stated that many women advocates, when invited to come as judges, declined the offer citing domestic responsibilities about children studying in Class 12, etc.,” the CJI said. The court was hearing a plea by the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association that talented women advocates are sidelined for judgeships. Chief Justice Bobde, addressing advocate Sneha Kalita, for the Association, said, “Why just High Courts? Time for a woman Chief Justice of India has come.” Advocate Kalita highlighted the fact that even the Memorandum of Procedure for Appointment of Judges does not make a mention of women judges. To illustrate her point, she said there is only one woman Chief Justice in all of the 25 HCs — Chief Justice Hima Kohli leading the Telangana High Court. “We have the interest of women in our mind. We are implementing it in best way possible. No attitudinal change is required. Only that we need capable candidates,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/time-for-india-to-have-a-woman-cji/article34331725.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. cannot shift blame to people: CPI(M)||The Central government cannot abstain from its responsibility of managing the COVID-19 pandemic by blaming people for not following the protocol, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) said on Thursday. In a statement, the CPI (M) Polit Bureau urged the Narendra Modi government to step in urgently to provide relief in form of direct cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 per month to needy families, free food grains and expand the scope of MNREGA scheme to alleviate the economic hardships that people are once again facing due to erratic curbs in various States. “The Central Government cannot abstain from its responsibility by blaming the people for not following the protocol, or, shifting the blame on to the State governments. The Central government must immediately ban mass congregations of all hues,” the Polit Bureau said. The party said all election meetings should be strictly regulated according to the COVID-19 protocol. The government should organise special trains for free passage of all migrant workers to their homes. There is also an urgent need to intensify mass vaccination and to augment health facilities. The party urged the government to release extra resources and all funds collected under the PM CARES for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-cannot-shift-blame-to-people-cpim/article34331177.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC imposes campaign ban on Dilip Ghosh||The Election Commission on Thursday imposed a 24-hour campaigning ban on West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh over his statement that the firing by Central forces in Sitalkuchi on April 10 was “just the beginning”. The Commission had issued a notice to Mr. Ghosh on Tuesday, finding his statement at a rally in Barangar, North 24 Parganas, to be in violation of the model code of conduct. “Where did so many naughty boys come from? Those naughty boys were shot at yesterday in Sitalkuchi. These naughty boys will not be there in Bengal. This is just the beginning. Those who thought that the Central forces’ rifles were meant to be just for show have well understood now the power of cartridges. And this will be carried on throughout Bengal,” Mr. Ghosh said, according to the notice. The EC said it found his remarks “highly provocative and inciteful”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-imposes-campaign-ban-on-dilip-ghosh/article34331726.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Allow scribes to get vaccine: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India urged the Centre on Thursday to declare journalists as frontline workers and allow them to take COVID-19 vaccinations on priority. It said news media had been considered an essential service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allow-scribes-to-get-vaccine-editors-guild/article34331186.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Centre clarifies on vaccine applications||India’s drug regulator will take a decision on applications seeking approval for restricted emergency use of foreign-produced COVID-19 vaccines within three working days from the date of submission, the government said on Thursday. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), headed by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), will process applications for registration certificates (registration of overseas manufacturing sites and products) and import licences within three working days from the date of approval of restricted use in an emergency situation. The Union Health Ministry on Thursday issued regulatory pathways for foreign-produced COVID-19 vaccines, according to which the CDSCO has prepared detailed guidelines. Applications for the grant of approval may be submitted to the CDSCO and the application can be made by the foreign manufacturer through its Indian subsidiary or through its authorised agent in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-clarifies-on-vaccine-applications/article34331187.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Monuments to stay closed till May 15||All Centrally protected monuments and historical sites would remain closed till May 15 due to the rising COVID-19 cases, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Thursday. As many as 3,693 monuments and 50 museums will be closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monuments-to-stay-closed-till-may-15/article34331191.ece
16 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Manipur HC sets aside BJP MLA’s election||The Manipur High Court on Thursday set aside the 2017 election of BJP legislator Okram Henry, a Minister in the N. Biren Singh government, for filing incorrect information in his election affidavit. The court declared that the petitioner, Yumkham Erabot, of the BJP, is duly elected as a member of the 15-Wangkhei Assembly constituency. As a Congress candidate in 2017, Mr. Henry defeated Mr. Erabot by 4,336 votes. He later defected to the BJP and was appointed a Minister. The petitioner said Mr. Henry had furnished incorrect educational qualification and didn’t give details of a criminal case and a case of smuggling narcotics against him in the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-hc-sets-aside-bjp-mlas-election/article34331179.ece
16 April 2021||Kolkata,||A tight contest on the cards||In the fifth phase of the West Bengal Assembly election on April 17, 45 Assembly seats spread across six districts of the State will go to the polls. Of the 45 constituencies, 13 are in north Bengal and 32 in south Bengal. This is the highest number of seats going to the polls in any of the eight phases of the Assembly election. In north Bengal, 13 seats are spread across three districts — five in Darjeeling, seven in Jalpaiguri and one in Kalimpong. In south Bengal, 16 seats are spread across North 24 Parganas, and there are eight each in Nadia and Bardhaman districts. Key candidates The seats stretch from the northernmost point of the State in the Darjeeling hills to Basirhat Uttar and Basirhat Dakshin in the Sunderbans. Elections are being held in the tea gardens of the Dooars and also in the urban and rural settlements of North 24 Parganas, Bardhaman and Nadia. A total of 1.13 crore voters are eligible to cast their votes to decide the fate of 342 candidates. Key candidates include senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and Siliguri Mayor Asok Bhattacharya, contesting from Siliguri, State Minister Bratya Basu, who is contesting from Dum Dum on the northern fringes of Kolkata, and State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya from Rajarhat’s Gopalpukur seat in North 24 Parganas. In north Bengal, one of the key poll issues is the suffering of tea garden workers labouring under poor wages both in Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri, while agrarian distress continues to be the main issue in Bardhaman and other rural areas of the State. Both the BJP and the Trinamool have sparred over the benefits of the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM KISAN) and the State government’s Krishak Bandhu scheme, respectively. In districts such as North 24 Parganas and Nadia, the contest will be centred on the inroads made by the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the subsequent resistance of the Trinamool Congress. Heavy campaigns In many of the 45 seats, both the ruling Trinamool and the BJP are evenly poised. In some pockets in north Bengal and Bardhaman, the Samyukta Morcha comprising the Left, the Congress and the Indian Secular Fund (ISF) can make a difference. The BJP ensured that all its heavyweight campaigners, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, party president J.P. Nadda and actor Mithun Chakraborty, addressed several public meetings. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee have campaigned in areas going to polls. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also campaigned in Darjeeling district at the eleventh hour for Samyukta Morcha candidates. Changed dynamics A lot has changed since the previous phase of the ongoing Assembly election was held on April 10. The death of four persons on polling day at Sitalkuchi after Central forces opened fire, and the Election Commission of India barring Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and State BJP leaders Dilip Ghosh and Rahul Sinha, from campaigning for a period, has added a new dimension to the fifth phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-tight-contest-on-the-cards/article34331176.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In a new high, 7,987 people test positive in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu registered another new high in daily COVID-19 cases on Thursday as 7,987 people tested positive. Nearly half of the fresh cases were reported from Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. The State recorded 29 deaths (14 at private and 15 at government hospitals), of which eight were registered in Chennai, four in Kancheepuram and three in Nagapattinam. So far, 12,999 people have succumbed to the infection. Seven of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. Among them was a 43-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on April 13 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Two people in their 30s also died. A 38-year-old man with morbid obesity from Cuddalore died within two hours of admission to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Cuddalore, on April 13. He had complaints of fever, cough for 10 days and difficulty in breathing for three days, and died owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Chennai continued to top the table with 2,558 fresh cases, while the cases surged in its neighbouring districts — Chengalpattu 685, Tiruvallur 473 and Kancheepuram 203. There were 534 cases in Coimbatore. A total of 241 people tested positive in Tiruchi, 234 in Madurai and 233 in Tiruppur. Twelve districts had 100-plus cases. These included Salem 195, Cuddalore 179, Tirunelveli 171, Thoothukudi 169, Thanjavur 166 and Krishnagiri 162. The fresh cases, which included 41 returnees, took the State’s tally to 9,62,935. It pushed the active case-load to 58,097. A total of 4,176 people were discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours, 95,387 samples were tested. For the first time since the vaccination programme started on January 16, Tamil Nadu vaccinated over two lakh people on Thursday. The State had intensified vaccination as part of the vaccine festival. A total of 2,17,666 people, including 1,15,970 people aged 45-59 with co-morbidities and 85,111 senior citizens, were vaccinated at 4,408 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-a-new-high-7987-people-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article34331311.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With sufficient storage, city may escape water shortage this summer||Every summer brings with it scorching heat and concerns over water shortage in Chennai. This year, however, the city may escape scarcity as there is sufficient storage to supply drinking water till the onset of the northeast monsoon in October. After many years, the reservoirs that meet the city’s needs are brimming with water this summer. As the five reservoirs have 75% of their capacity, the Water Resources Department (WRD) plans to seek Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh only in May. Another reason is the ongoing work to reconstruct the lining of the Kandaleru Poondi Canal on a vulnerable stretch of 4 km. About 50% of the work, executed at a cost of Rs. 24 crore, has so far been completed. “We plan to approach the Andhra Pradesh government in May for Krishna water release for the next spell. The quantum to be discharged for the city’s needs and the period of release will be decided after a meeting with the Krishna River Management Board. We will be able to maintain storage at the same level in the reservoirs here once water is released from the Kandaleru reservoir upstream for the next spell and save water for the next year, too,” said an official of the WRD. Though water discharge exclusively for Chennai has been reduced, the Kandaleru Poondi Canal at the State border continues receiving a minimum of 35 cubic feet per second (cusecs). Water released to areas in Andhra Pradesh for irrigation travels to the Tamil Nadu border. This minimal flow has helped to offset the storage lost in evaporation. Officials also recalled that Krishna water had built the storage in the reservoirs, besides the rainwater that flowed from the catchments last year. The fifth reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai filled up in its very first year of inauguration. An anicut, or a storage structure, across the Araniar crossing the Kandaleru Poondi Canal near Uthukottai taluk overflowed recently, a rare sight in summer. Since September last, Chennai has received 7,638 mcft, the third highest quantum of Krishna water since 1996. “We are still receiving water from Kandaleru. We may surpass the highest amount of 8,198 mcft discharged during 2011-12,” the official said. Metrowater plans to continue supply of 830 million litres of water a day (mld) in the city. While it has reverted to the daily supply in the core areas, the added areas where the piped network is functional get water on alternate days. “We have reduced supply through tankers to 4,200 daily trips and engaged 460 lorries. Trips on payment have also come down to 1,500 as the water table and the piped supply have improved. We want to focus on distribution through pipelines and to restrict mobile supply to unserved streets and the payment mode,” said an official. The agency has kept water stored in abandoned quarries and other lakes as there is adequate storage in the reservoirs. As the WRD has let Veeranam tank dry up for improvements, Metrowater is drawing 96 mld from mine fields, the Paravanar and the desalination plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-sufficient-storage-city-may-escape-water-shortage-this-summer/article34331769.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need a free hand to manage the second wave of COVID-19’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday urged the Election Commission of India to fully relax the restrictions under the model code of conduct with regard to the pandemic to give the authorities a free hand in tackling the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the State. He also appealed to the Union government to allow an uninterrupted supply of Remdesivir to the State. Excerpts from an interview:  The Advocate-General has informed the Madras High Court that the second wave is getting out of control. How serious is the situation? It is still possible to control the spread of the virus with active public participation and cooperation. But we need a free hand to manage the second wave. Though the Election Commission has permitted COVID-19-related meetings and tours, they are subject to the norms under the model code of conduct, and we need clearances. Unless we undertake extensive field visits and meet the public, it will not be possible to understand the ground realities... Considering the larger interest of public safety and the rising number of infections, I request the Election Commission to completely relax the norms in respect of activities relating to pandemic management. How prepared is the health machinery to handle the sudden increase in cases? Beds are getting full at all government hospitals... Yes, the beds are fast filling at all major government hospitals. We are opening COVID-19 Care Centres to accommodate asymptomatic cases. The State has already created adequate infrastructure, including beds, oxygen pipelines and ventilators, to handle such emergencies. The doctors, paramedical staff and technicians appointed on an urgent basis during the first wave are in service, and we intend to induct more healthcare professionals. But as I have already said, fighting this pandemic is impossible without full public participation. I am worried to see people not wearing masks or maintaining physical distance at many places. Is the second wave more dangerous than the first? Is Tamil Nadu heading to a lockdown or a night curfew? I would not compare the first and second waves. Both have their own characteristic features. The fact that the infections are increasing is a cause for concern. But one difference between the first and second wave is that the doctors are now trained to handle the situation effectively. They know the treatment protocol well and how to go about other aspects of pandemic management. Experts are saying the virus is smart and we have to get smarter to beat it. As for a lockdown or a night curfew, there is no such plan now. Do we have sufficient supply and stock of antiviral drugs and vaccines in the State? The Central government has ordered all manufacturers of Remdesivir to divert stocks to Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. We have placed an order for 2 lakh doses of the anti-viral drug through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited. The vendor is under pressure to divert stocks to other States. I am taking it up with the Union Health Minister to ensure an uninterrupted supply of Remdesivir to Tamil Nadu. We have some stock of the antiviral drug now, but we definitely need to maintain the supply... Cases are rising steadily here.  I am taking it up with the Union Health Minister to ensure an uninterrupted supply of Remdesivir||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-a-free-hand-to-manage-the-second-wave-of-covid-19/article34331315.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu pushes for vaccination of differently abled, athletes, traders||Tamil Nadu is pushing for the vaccination of the differently abled persons, athletes, shopkeepers and persons who have undergone organ transplantation, regardless of their age, said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. “It is important to give priority to differently abled persons, athletes and shopkeepers as well as persons who have undergone organ transplant without any age limitation. We have requested the Centre to allow us to vaccinate such persons. It is the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), of which Tamil Nadu was a member, that will decide depending on the vaccine availability. We are definitely pushing for it,” he said, in reply to a question on demands from differently abled associations for vaccination. Now, permission was granted for vaccinating expatriates above the age of 45, he told reporters. He added that the forms for COVID-19 vaccinations would be made available in Tamil. On the Centre’s vaccine festival (Tika Utsav), he said it was primarily aimed at creating awareness. The aim was to vaccinate at least 2 lakh persons a day, he added. On the occasion, actor Vivek and his team received COVID-19 vaccines at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. The Health Secretary said that with the surge in COVID-19 cases, social influencers like Mr. Vivek helped in creating awareness against rumours on vaccination. The actor stressed on the importance of wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and practising hand hygiene as well as vaccination that could help in saving lives. R. Jayanthi, Dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, was present.  The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, of which Tamil Nadu is a member, will decide depending on the vaccine availability||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-pushes-for-vaccination-of-differently-abled-athletes-traders/article34331319.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Restore leaders’ names to Chennai roads, says DMK||The DMK on Thursday sought the intervention of the Chief Secretary to take steps to restore the names of leaders like Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar E.V. Ramasamy to roads in Chennai, whose names “have been changed recently”. In a memorandum to Chief Secretary Rajiv Ranjan, DMK organisation secretary R. Bharathi, party MP P. Wilson and senior advocate N.R. Elango urged him to take up the issue with the appropriate authorities, including the Centre. They complained that while the name of the Poonamallee High Road, named after Periyar, had been changed to Grand Western Trunk Road, roads bearing the names of former Chief Ministers C.N. Annadurai and K. Kamaraj had also been changed. “It is quite apparent that the changes have been done to please the ideologies of the AIADMK’s masters from the north, whose dislike for the Dravidian movement and its icon Thanthai Periyar is well known,” the party said in the memorandum. ‘Aim to Sanskritise’ It also alleged that the aim of the BJP was to “Sankritise” and “saffronise” everything. “The action of changing names of roads and the sheer disrespect to Tamil icons cutting across parties have caused unrest in the State and this may even lead to agitations,” the DMK warned.  It is quite apparent that the changes have been done to please the ideologies of the AIADMK’s masters from the north DMK’s memorandum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-leaders-names-to-chennai-roads-says-dmk/article34331766.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC imposes restrictions to contain spread of COVID-19||Acceding to a request made by the State government to reduce the footfall in the Madras High Court building as part of the measures to contain the second wave of COVID-19, the court administration on Thursday decided that it shall conduct its proceedings only through virtual mode to the extent possible. It clarified that government lawyers alone would be allowed to appear in person for hearing of bail petitions and other urgent cases. The decisions were taken by the court’s Administrative Committee, comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justices R. Subbiah, M. Sathyanarayanan, N. Kirubakaran, M.M. Sundresh, T.S. Sivagnanam and M. Duraiswamy. A subsequent official notification issued by Registrar General P. Dhanabal stated that all lawyers’ chambers, situated inside the High Court campus, would also remain closed from Saturday until further orders. The libraries in all Bar associations would have to be closed and the restrictions would apply to the Madurai Bench of the High Court as well, the notification clarified. It stated that the restrictions would continue till April 23 and that the situation would be reviewed on April 22. Earlier, in the day, the Chief Justice wanted to know from Advocate General Vijay Narayan as to whether the government had come up with any advisory for public buildings. In reply, the A-G said he would ask Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan to meet the Chief Justice and apprise him of the situation. The law officer also said that the second wave of COVID-19 was far worse than the first wave. He ruled out the possibility of second wave having become severe in Tamil Nadu solely because of the Assembly election and said the situation was worse in other States like Maharashtra and Delhi where there were no elections at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-announces-curbs-to-contain-virus/article34331778.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bed occupancy is less than 10%, says Health Secretary||Though the COVID-19 case-load has crossed 50,000 in Tamil Nadu, bed occupancy is less than 10% across the State. In Chennai, 20% of the beds are occupied, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Thursday. “Tamil Nadu has a robust healthcare system. Right now, we have 412 30-bed primary health centres that have not been put to use for COVID-19 management, and more than 50,000 beds at government medical college hospitals and 303 secondary-care hospitals. People should not delay seeking medical help,” he told reporters at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. Dr. Radhakrishnan noted that some people had expressed difficulties in getting beds at places, such as Chennai and Coimbatore, as they were directly approaching hospitals and said a control room was being set up at the Directorate of Medical Education to guide people visiting the screening centres. This would be in addition to the round-the-clock service functioning at the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. “We are also taking measures to enlist private medical college hospitals that are receiving fewer non- COVID-19 patients for COVID-19 management,” he said. India recorded almost 2 lakh cases on Wednesday, with Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh recording a large number of cases. “Tamil Nadu, too, is experiencing a surge. It recorded 7,819 cases. People need not panic. The State’s mortality rate stands at 1.35%. Those who are eligible — persons above 45 years — should get vaccinated... It is important to break the chain of transmission, for which wearing masks is crucial,” he said. Dr. Radhakrishnan pointed out that people should not panic on seeing the number and then go out without masks. “People should understand the reason for the number. If one person is infected, 10 others can be affected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bed-occupancy-is-less-than-10-says-health-secretary/article34331307.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on liver care tomorrow||A webinar will be organised by the Kauvery Hospital on liver-related ailments and caring for the liver. This webinar, which is part of ‘The Hindu Wellness Series’ is to be held on Saturday from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. The webinar will focus on liver-related ailments. It will focus on fatty liver, its symptoms and dietary habits to be followed for a healthy liver. The webinar will also focus on liver transplantation, liver donation and liver cancer. K. Elan Kumaran, senior consultant, Liver Transplantation and Hepatobiliary Surgery and head of the Liver Diseases and Transplantation Centre, Kauvery Hospital, Chennai; Murali Jayaraman, consultant surgical gastroenterologist and advanced laparoscopic surgeon, Kauvery Hospital, Hosur, and T.S. Chandrasekar, Padma Shri awardee and chairman and chief gastroenterologist, MedIndia Hospitals, will be the panelists for the discussion. Senior reporter Pon Vasanth B.A. will moderate the session. Those wanting to take part in the webinar can scan the QR Code or log on totinyurl.com/KauveryTHto register for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-liver-related-ailments-tomorrow/article34331304.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students won’t be allowed to clear arrears without taking online exams, govt. tells HC||The State government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that students from arts and science colleges would not be allowed to clear arrears without appearing for online examinations. It said 2,66,339 students from 10 different universities in the State had already appeared in the first schedule of the examinations conducted since October 2020, and the rest 1,93,370 students would be made to appear in the second schedule. Defending the State before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate-General Vijay Narayan said the government had on August 26, 2020, decided to cancel the arrear examinations of arts, science, engineering and MCA students in the State, considering the threat posed by COVID-19. It had decided to award marks to them by moderating the external scores in the last appearance and the internal marks. The University of Madras, Annamalai University, Madurai Kamaraj University, Bharathidasan University, Bharathiar University, Mother Teresa Women’s University, Alagappa University, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Periyar University and Tiruvalluvar University adopted the government’s decision. Accordingly, they had declared 4,55,370 students as having passed the exams based on the moderation of marks, and 5,345 as having failed. However, Anna University, the Board of Technical Education and the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Education University had refused to adopt the government’s decision, and, hence, it was not applied to engineering, polytechnic and teacher education students. In the meantime, Anna University’s former vice-chancellor E. Balagurusamy and advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan had approached the High Court with the present cases, challenging the government’s decision. Passing interim orders in the case on December 1, 2020, a Division Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan had ordered that no university should declare its students “all pass”, without the conduct of written examinations, either through the online or the offline mode. Pursuant to the court order, all universities conducted supplementary examinations and it was taken by 2.66 lakh students for improving marks already awarded to them based on the moderation of internal scores. Since the first Bench led by the Chief Justice too had on April 7 this year disapproved of the government’s decision to permit the students to clear arrears without writing an examination, the Higher Education Department had decided to make the rest of the 1.93 lakh students too take up the second schedule of the supplementary exams, the A-G, assisted by special government pleader (higher education) E. Manoharan, said. “No student will be awarded a degree without writing the examinations,” he told the Bench. After recording his submissions, the judges directed the High Court Registry to list the cases in the second week of July so that the government could, by then, come up with a further report on the second schedule of the exams. They also ordered that those who had already written the exams be issued with the certificates as expeditiously as possible. When it was brought to the notice of the court that there were certain anomalies in the online exams conducted by the universities and that the artificial-intelligence system had declared students to have indulged in malpractices even when they moved their bodies, the judges said it would not be appropriate for the court to interfere in such issues that should otherwise be left to the best judgement of the academicians concerned.  The judges ordered that those who had already written the exams be issued with the certificates as expeditiously as possible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-wont-be-allowed-to-clear-arrears-without-taking-online-exams/article34331381.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State may go in for micro-containment||Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan will meet Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan and other senior officials on Friday to consider whether further restrictions are required in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. A senior official told The Hindu on Thursday that the State might go in for a micro-containment strategy rather than a partial lockdown. “Micro-containment might work better...,” the official said. The meeting will also discuss strengthening COVID-19 Care Centres and augmenting the capacity of medical institutions and examine the restrictions now in place. As for the complaints of people not getting their second vaccine dose because of non-availability, the official said they could go to another vaccination centre nearby. “We have 4,000 vaccination centres. They can go to the nearest one. The other problem is that our vaccine wastage is around 11%. We have been urging our officials to ensure that this wastage is cut and the vaccine is used properly,” the official said. The official said people were initially reluctant to get themselves vaccinated, but the State vaccinated almost two lakh persons on Thursday alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-may-go-in-for-micro-containment/article34331317.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRIHER ties up with medical e-portal||The Sri Ramachandra University has tied up with online medical portal RAAonline. The Chennai-based RAAonline Medinfo provides e-learning facilities in several streams of medicine. On Thursday, it launched apps for multi-dimensional medical education, e-learning and NEET preparation in English and Tamil. Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University Sudha Seshayyan took part in the event. S. Thanikachalam, director, Cardiac Care Centre at the Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), and S. Bhaskar Raju, former State Law Secretary, were present. B. Ranjith Karthikeyan, founder-director of RAAonline, spoke on the need for online portals and apps. SRIHER Vice-Chancellor P.V. Vijayaraghavan announced that the institute and the Sri Ramachandra Hospital would tie up with RAAonline to offer web-based and app-based critical medical courses to medical students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sriher-ties-up-with-medical-e-portal/article34331765.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demand dips for private water tankers||The demand for private water tanker supply in the core areas has declined sharply this summer. Lorry owners say the demand has dropped by 40%-50% this April compared with the same period last year. Only 2,000-2,500 lorries are being operated. The groundwater table has improved at many places, bringing down the demand from domestic consumers in the core areas. The daily tanker trips have halved to about 5,000 compared with last year. S. Murugan, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Private Water Tanker Lorry Owners’ Association, attributes the dip in the demand to many hotels, malls and large companies not working in full strength for the past year because of the pandemic. Many of the lorries are sourcing water from nearby wells as the groundwater table has increased, he says, pointing out that tankers had to travel more than double the distance last year to places such as Karanodai, Red Hills and Tiruvallur in search of sources. But the lorry owners have increased the cost of the tanker loads, citing the fuel price rise. While a 12,000-litre load costs Rs. 1,000-Rs. 2,000, a 24,000-litre load is priced at Rs. 1,700-Rs. 2,400. Mr. Murugan says, “We have increased the price by Rs. 100 to Rs. 300, based on the distance, since last month. But we often agree with some customers seeking more time to pay the additional amount as they, too, have suffered losses during the lockdown.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-dips-for-private-water-tankers/article34331770.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modi should work as PM for whole country, not just BJP, says Alagiri||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Thursday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must stop looking at the COVID-19 crisis from a political viewpoint and start working as the Prime Minister for the whole country instead of being a “PM for the BJP” alone. Mr. Alagiri questioned Mr. Modi’s statement while imposing the lockdown last year that the Mahabharata war took 14 days, and the COVID-19 war will be won in 21 days. “But what is the situation in India today? 1.38 crore people have been affected by COVID-19 so far and 1.72 lakh peole have lost their lives. Is this the benefit got by the country from the Prime Minister’s anti-COVID strategy?” he asked. In a statement, he also accused the Central government of being extremely biased in the distribution of vaccines to the States and claimed the Centre was following one rule for Opposition-ruled States and one for BJP-ruled States. Mr. Alagiri said the Centre was showing hesitancy in providing financial assistance to the two companies — Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — which are manufacturing the vaccines in India. “They are unable to ramp up capacity without adequate financing. The Centre should help these companies with the required financial assistance and enable them to increase the vaccine manufacturing capacity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-should-work-as-pm-for-whole-country-not-just-bjp-says-alagiri/article34331313.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attacking woman||Personnel attached to the Pallavaram police station on Thursday arrested two persons who had attacked a pregnant woman and snatched her gold chain last Friday. They were caught after a video of the attack went viral. After scrutinising the CCTV camera footage, a special police team arrested the duo, also involved in other robberies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-attacking-woman/article34331761.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ASI monuments, museums to remain closed for a month||All the monuments, sites and museums coming under the control of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will be closed with immediate effect for one month till May 15. An order to this effect was issued by N.K. Pathak, Director (Monuments) on Thursday. The order said the decision was taken due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the country. Around 250 centrally-protected monuments coming under ASI exist in Tamil Nadu, according to the information available on the organisation’s website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asi-monuments-museums-to-remain-closed-for-a-month/article34331797.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor lodges complaint against sub-inspector||Actor Radha, who has acted in the film Sundara Travels , has lodged a complaint alleging that a sub-inspector threatened and abused her. Ms. Radha, 38, is estranged from her husband, and has been living with her family in Saligramam. She said she had been married to the sub-inspector and that both of them had become close while he was working in Thiruvanmiyur. Already married Though he already had a family, he married her, she said. He had been living with her for the past year, she claimed. She said that the sub-inspector came to her house at 3 p.m. on Wednesday and assaulted her, besides threatening and abusing her. Her complaint was received at the Virugambakkam police station and personnel have summoned both sides for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-lodges-complaint-against-sub-inspector/article34331775.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M to host industry conclave||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) is hosting an industry conclave to improve partnership between industry and academia. The event will be held virtually over the weekend and is open to public. It intends to showcase cutting-edge technology, research, innovation and start ups from the institute’s ecosystem. It is being organised by the corporate relations cell of the International and Alumni Relations Student Council. Interested persons can register athttps://www.airmeet.com/3/f c847460-99c8-11eb-be0d-9 b9d27d56e19to view the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-to-host-industry-conclave/article34331763.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for sexual assaults||Personnel attached to the Thirumangalam all-women police station have arrested two offenders in connection with the sexual assault of a minor girl and a boy reported from two different places. A couple living in the Anna Nagar police station limits lodged a complaint against a 55-year-old man who frequently visited their tea shop. The police nabbed P. Jayapal, of Anna Nagar West, who allegedly sexually assaulted their child. The police also arrested Nithyaraj alias Saravanan, 35, who sexually assaulted a 17-year-old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-sexual-assaults/article34332030.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMC performs complex procedure||A team of doctors of Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, performed a complex transcatheter procedure to implant an artificial valve in a patient suffering from severe leakage of the tricuspid valve. According to a press release, the patient was a middle-aged woman suffering from a congenital disorder called Ebstein’s Anomaly. This led to abnormalities of the tricuspid valve, a right sided heart valve, and heart rhythm disturbances. Earlier, she had undergone surgery elsewhere to repair the abnormal valve (surgical tricuspid ring placement), and had also undergone a permanent pacemaker implantation for heart block. However, she had to be operated on again as the pacemaker leads were infected and had to be removed surgically. She came to CMC with worsening breathing difficulty and tiredness. An echocardiography revealed torrential tricuspid valve leakage with features of an impending failure of the right heart. The patient was considered unfit for re-surgery. So, doctors of the heart valve and structural heart interventions unit performed a transcatheter (non-surgical) replacement of the valve. Post implantation of the new valve, leakage has stopped completely. Doctors said this was the first time in India that a successful transcatheter replacement of the tricuspid valve was done in a previously implanted complete surgical ring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmc-performs-complex-procedure/article34331976.ece
16 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries step up vaccination drive||Industry associations here are looking at vaccinating more number of workers aged 45 and above. The Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association conducted a camp on Thursday on its premises, jointly with the District Industries Centre, the civic body and Health Department. As many as 233 persons were vaccinated and from Friday the number will be increased to 500 a day. The three-day camp started on Thursday and so far 1,300 have registered. If needed, the camp may be extended for two more days. “We have already registered more than 1,000 people and finalised the camp. We hope to vaccinate all those who are registered in the next two days,” said P. Nallathambi, president of the Association. The five-day camp held at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex jointly by the DIC and industry associations vaccinated nearly 4,500 people and concluded on Thursday. It vaccinated 1,205 persons on Thursday. Sources said that while efforts are on to vaccinate maximum number of industrial workers, there are concerns about availability of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-step-up-vaccination-drive/article34331786.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Atmanirbhar Yatra’ reaches INS Agrani||‘Atmanirbhar Yatra,’ a motor car expedition by the Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, to commemorate its 50th anniversary, arrived at INS Agrani here on Wednesday. The motor expedition was flagged off by Vice Admiral K. Srinivas, Project Director, Ship Building Center, Visakhapatnam, on March 30 this year. The expedition is planned to cover a total distance of about 5,000 km across south India in over 20 days. According to a release issued by INS Agrani, the expedition team visited Lakshmi Technology and Engineering Ltd, Coimbatore, a company that provides engineering solutions in the field of aerospace industry. The team also interacted with members of the Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association. Discussions on upcoming prospects with respect to ventures in the fields of naval engineering for the ships and submarines of the Indian Navy were also conducted, the release said. Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, flagged off the onward journey of the expedition to Bengaluru, on INS Agrani premises on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atmanirbhar-yatra-reaches-ins-agrani/article34331349.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Widespread summer showers in Coimbatore, Tiruppur||Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts received widespread summer showers on Wednesday, which brought temporary relief from the soaring temperatures. In the 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Thursday, Aliyar received the maximum rainfall of 67.6 mm, the district administration said. Sulur recorded 39 mm rainfall, Valparai taluk 25 mm rainfall, Annur - 23 mm, and Pollachi 20 mm rainfall. Within the Coimbatore Corporation limits, Coimbatore South received 18 mm, Airport recorded 15.4 mm rainfall and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University recorded 3 mm rainfall in the given period. Tiruppur district received an average rainfall of 45.09 mm in the 24 hours that ended at 7 a.m. on Thursday, according to the officials. Kangeyam recorded the highest rainfall of 107 mm, followed by Avinashi with 78 mm and Vellakoil with 70 mm rainfall. Within the Tiruppur Corporation limits, Tiruppur South received 63 mm rainfall, Tiruppur North - 54 mm and the District Collectorate on Palladam Road recorded 50 mm rainfall. Meanwhile, DMK leader and incumbent Singanallur MLA N. Karthik on Thursday condemned the Coimbatore Corporation for its alleged irregularities following the collapse of a wall near Periyakulam tank in Karumbukkadai that was allegedly built under the Smart Cities Mission works. No injuries were reported following the collapse, which occurred in the early hours of Thursday. President of Makkal Needhi Maiam Kamal Haasan also condemned the wall collapse. In a statement, he alleged that the wall was built only six months ago and questioned whether any action was initiated against the contractors and officials following its collapse. “All government constructions done in the past five years must be subjected to a strict evaluation,” Mr. Haasan demanded, adding that this initiative will help in preventing loss of lives in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-summer-showers-in-coimbatore-tiruppur/article34331787.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘EC did not consider pandemic while announcing poll’||The Election Commission of India (ECI) “committed a mistake” by not considering the COVID-19 pandemic while announcing the Assembly election, due to which the State is now facing a surge in cases, charged Puthiya Tamilagam president K. Krishnasamy here on Thursday.  “They (ECI) have acted in a mechanical manner and have not applied their mind at all,” he told mediapersons. The Assembly election must have been postponed by three to six months in view of the pandemic, he added. “It is not my intention to blame anyone, whether Central or State government. Everyone together committed a mistake and now the people are suffering,” Dr. Krishnasamy said. He proposed formation of all-party committees at the State and district levels to oversee the COVID-19 regulations and vaccination process. “I do not think that the present government can take up this challenge alone,” he claimed. The Governor of Tamil Nadu must appoint two advisers to monitor these all-party committees to tackle the second wave of COVID-19, he suggested. The State government must actively focus on vaccination as it is the “the only way to prevent morbidity and mortality,” Dr. Krishnasamy said. Instead of levying fines on people not wearing masks, the government must issue masks free of cost, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ec-did-not-consider-pandemic-while-announcing-poll/article34331356.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||10-year jail term for emu farm owner||A special court in Coimbatore on Thursday sentenced an emu farm proprietor to undergo 10 years of imprisonment for cheating 11 depositors of Rs. 15.58 lakh in 2012. A.S. Ravi, judge of the Special Court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act cases, awarded the punishment to T. Eswaramoorthy (49), a native of Alanthuranpatti in Dindigul district. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 15 lakh on him. According to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), Coimbatore, Eswaramoorthy started Sabari Andavar emu farm at Thangam Nagar at Nachipalayam in Tiruppur district in 2011. The firm offered two schemes to investors and 11 people from Tiruppur and nearby areas invested Rs. 15,58,800 in the firm. The Central Crime Branch of Tiruppur police registered a case against the firm and its proprietor under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC after one of the investors namely G. Sakthivel from Mookambigai Nagar in Tiruppur complained that he was cheated. The case was later transferred to the EOW, Coimbatore, which investigated it and filed a chargesheet. The judge issued a non-bailable warrant against Eswaramoorthy who did not appear before the court on Thursday. The judge ordered the EOW police to execute the warrant immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-jail-term-for-emu-farm-owner/article34331383.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions in Maharashtra expected to affect textile mills in Tamil Nadu||The spread of COVID-19 in Maharashtra is expected to affect the textile mills in Tamil Nadu as nearly 40 % of the yarn produced here is sold to the weaving units in Maharashtra. Industry sources said the Maharashtra government has not restricted movement of vehicles and has not asked the powerloom units to stop production. However, fearing the spread of the pandemic, several migrant workers at the weaving clusters in Maharashtra are returning to their home State. This is likely to affect production in the weaving units. Tamil Nadu, which is the largest yarn producer in the country, sells 40 % of the yarn to weaving clusters, such as Bhiwandi and Ichalkaranji, in that State. The sources pointed out that Maharashtra has 12 lakh powerlooms as against 6.5 lakhs in Tamil Nadu. Hence, its demand for yarn is huge. With the spread of COVID-19 and worker shortage in Maharashtra, the textile mills in Tamil Nadu are likely to see 10 % to 20 % impact for a couple of months. Any restriction to control the spread of the pandemic should be introduced in a phased manner so that the workers and businesses are not affected, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrictions-in-maharashtra-expected-to-affect-textile-mills-in-tamil-nadu/article34331347.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in elephant attack||A 55-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant within the limits of Ulandy forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as P. Vannathai, a resident of Koomatti tribal settlement. According to ATR authorities, the incident happened when she was collecting firewood from the forest area. On information, field staff of Ulandy range rushed to the spot along with medical officer of Topslip primary health centre. However, the woman was dead. The body was shifted to the Government Hospital at Vettaikaranpudur. The Forest Department handed over Rs. 50,000 to the family of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-elephant-attack/article34331782.ece
16 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant calf found dead in forest||A female elephant calf was found dead in a reserve forest area of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Wednesday. The Forest Department said that the elephant calf was aged between two and three years and it could have died of a fall from a height. Its carcass was spotted by frontline staff of the Forest Department in the Nilgiri eastern slope reserve forest coming under Uliyoor beat of Sirumugai forest range on Wednesday. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, autopsied the carcass on Thursday. As per the post-mortem findings, the carcass was about two days old and it did not have external injuries. During the autopsy, internal injuries were found in the right upper thoracic region and in the right lateral abdomen. The heart and the lungs were congested. The elephant had undigested fodder in the stomach, semi digested fodder in the small intestine and digested fodder in the large intestine. The veterinary surgeon said that the elephant could have died of stress caused by a fall from a height, possibly after being pushed by another elephant in a fight. The carcass was left in the wild for scavengers after the autopsy. The calf was the seventh elephant to have died in Coimbatore Forest Division this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-calf-found-dead-in-forest/article34331352.ece
16 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Adhere strictly to COVID-19 protocol’||District COVID-19 Monitoring Officer Gagandeep Singh Bedi has appealed to the people to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocol, like compulsory wearing of masks and maintaining physical distancing, on a war-footing to break the chain of transmission in Cuddalore. Addressing mediapersons after a review meeting in Cuddalore on Thursday, he said that several States, including Tamil Nadu, were witnessing a rise in the number of positive cases. Mr. Bedi said that there was a lapse in wearing masks. The district administration and the Police Department should slap fines to ensure everybody wears a mask. About 9.1 % of people aged above 45 years have been vaccinated in Cuddalore district so far. The Health Department should also improve vaccination percentage since 90% of people aged above 45 years in the district were yet to be vaccinated, he said. Mr. Bedi urged the people aged above 45 years to come forward and get themselves vaccinated at the nearest primary health centres, government hospitals and special camps conducted by the Health Department in the next 10-15 days. Mr. Bedi also directed the district administration to adopt a scientific method of testing through fever camps. Contact tracing of all those who might have been affected is highly-needed to break the chain, he said. Around 3,000 beds have been kept ready in government hospitals and other hospitals and the bed strength could be increased to 8,000 to 10,000 based on demand, he said. There is also adequate stock of medicines, testing kits and oxygen facilities at hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients, he added. Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri and Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-strictly-to-covid-19-protocol/article34331969.ece
16 April 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects vaccination camps||Collector S.P. Karthika inspected vaccination camps at Periyampatty and Kottur here on Thursday. Ms. Karthika warned of action against establishments failing to enforce physical distancing and masks among workers. Warning of action against the violators, the Collector urged the public to take responsibility for the health of self and family and ensure following of COVID-19 safety protocols. Vaccines were readily available at all primary health centres and government hospitals. Therefore, all those above 45 years of age, government officials, and frontline workers, who were yet to be vaccinated, should get themselves vaccinated to stem the spread of the virus, Ms. Karthika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-vaccination-camps/article34331359.ece
16 April 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||College converted into COVID-19 care centre||The health department has set up more number of fever clinics and erected tin sheets on some streets, which had a higher number of COVID-19 cases here on Thursday. The city health officer Lakshiya Varna and her team of health inspectors declared some streets (or stretches) in Nagal Nagar, Muniappan Temple Lane, Round Road, Narayana Das Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar as containment zones. Tin sheets were installed as a barricade to prevent residents from moving out and ensure that outsiders or unauthorised persons did not go inside these zones as a precautionary measure. The officers disinfected the streets and referred positive patients to get admitted in government or private hospitals. Persons, who were asymptomatic but had symptoms were advised to go for self-isolation in their dwellings. The MVM Government Women’s College here has been converted into a COVID-19 care centre. Officials said that 150 beds have been kept ready for patients. Apart from the Government Hospital in Dindigul and Palani, the district administration had identified care centres at select locations to admit patients. Collector M Vijayalakshmi said patients would be given food at the COVID-19 care centre like in the GH. She asked the residents to cooperate by staying indoors and not to move around unnecessarily in public places. The officials said that they had declared Valluvar Colony in Chinnalapatti as a containment zone after a family of four tested positive. An official said preliminary information revealed that the family had got in touch with a few people who had recently returned from Mumbai. Disinfection was under way and fever clinics were opened in the colony. 30 test positive in Rameswaram The district administration intensified measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus after 30 cases were reported from Rameswaram municipal limits on Thursday. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and officials from health and municipal offices here supervised erection of tin sheets in a few stretches, where the residents had tested positive to the virus. The entire street in the particular ward was disinfected using fire tenders. He urged the residents to stay indoors and help the machinery fight the virus. He also urged the people above 45 years of age to get vaccinated in the nearby designated vaccine centres at the earliest. The officials said that the entry points to the pilgrim town of Rameswaram had been brought under watch. The district, which has 239 active cases as on Thursday, had so far 6,885 persons tested positive and 6,508 among them had been discharged. Among the 10 districts in south Tamil Nadu, Ramanathapuram stood at the bottom with the lowest number of active cases. However, the administration had stepped up the vigil in the wake of the sudden rise in Rameswaram municipal limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-converted-into-covid-19-care-centre/article34331322.ece
16 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rainfall across Erode district||Widespread rainfall in the district during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday brought down the temperature during the day on Thursday. Most of the areas in the district, except Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar blocks, received good rainfall that started around 11 p.m. on Wednesday and continued till 1 a.m. on Thursday. Rain accompanied by thunderstorms disrupted power supply in many areas. Heavy rain in the city led to stagnation of water at many spots on Perundurai Road, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road and on the outskirts. Also, vehicles had to wade through the stagnated rainwater at the limited use subway at Vendipalayam and the railway underpass on Chennimalai Road. Rain brought much respite to people who were facing hardship due to soaring temperature in the past two weeks. The district received a total rainfall of 929.2 mm while Varattupallam received the maximum of 104.6 mm. Rainfall recorded at various places were Kodumudi 100.6 mm, Bhavani 89 mm, Nambiyur 85 mm, Chennimalai 76 mm, Erode 70 mm, Talavadi 60 mm, Perundurai 55 mm, Kavundapadi 52.2 mm, Modakkurichi 45 mm, Ammapettai 48 mm, Gunderipallam 40 mm, Elantha Kuttai Medu 29.4 mm, Bhavanisagar 28.2 mm, Sathyamangalam 18 mm, Gobichettipalayam 16 mm and Kodiveri 12.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rainfall-across-erode-district/article34331367.ece
16 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on conductor assaulting passenger||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognisance of a media report over a recent video that showed a conductor of a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus assaulting an elderly passenger on a bus here on April 11. The commission called for a detailed report from the Managing Director, TNSTC, Coimbatore, within three weeks. The video that went viral on social media showed conductor Kumar (35) assaulting passenger Ganesan (73) of Chithode on board a bus from Sathyamangalam to Rasipuram via Erode. Kumar had assumed that Ganesan was in an inebriated condition and had entered into an altercation with him. The conductor was placed under suspension on April 12 after the video clip taken by a co-passenger went viral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-seeks-report-on-conductor-assaulting-passenger/article34331350.ece
16 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bid to loot ATM fails||Efforts by unidentified persons to break open the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) of a private bank branch at Teachers Colony in the city failed after the alarm went off on Thursday. The ATM is without a security person and when miscreants attempted to break open the machine at 2 a.m., the alarm went off. On hearing the sound, a few people in the area started to arrive and the miscreants fled the spot. People alerted the police and the branch manager and the footages in the ATM centre were reviewed by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-loot-atm-fails/article34331362.ece
16 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shortfall in kerosene allocation||Collector C. Kathiravan said family cardholders will receive less quantity of kerosene in ration shops this month month than the usual quantity. In a release, he said that 384 kilo litres of kerosene was allotted to the district last month which dropped by 30% to 264 kl this month. Hence, ration cardholders would be given less quantity of kerosene than the normal level, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortfall-in-kerosene-allocation/article34331365.ece
16 April 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer urges textile units to follow SoPs||COVID-19 Monitoring Officer C. Vijayarajkumar on Thursday urged industrial and textile units in Karur to strictly follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) on COVID-19 prevention. Speaking at a review meeting held at the Collector’s Office, he said that a large number of textile, bus body building and mosquito manufacturing units were functioning in and around Karur. Hence, it was important for the management to ensure that workers wear masks while on duty. The management and the owners should collect details of workers above 45 years so as to ensure that they get vaccinated immediately. Mr. Vijayarajkumar said that health officials should conduct special camps at workplaces to inoculate the targeted groups. The industrial units should cooperate with the officials in their attempts to check COVID-19 cases. Action would be taken against the units violating SOPs. Prashanth M. Wadnere, Collector, said that sufficient beds were available at the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treating COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-sops-textile-units-in-karur-told/article34331291.ece
16 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 1 lakh persons vaccinated in Krishnagiri’||There needed to be a balance between protecting lives and livelihood and economic lockdown was not a solution, said Beela Rajesh, District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 management, and Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration, here on Thursday. On the sidelines of a review meeting on COVID-19 management, Ms. Rajesh spoke about the rising cases in the district and the need to push awareness as a ‘people’s movement’. “This involves physical distancing, masks, handwash, home quarantine, and caution with regard to people with co-morbidities. There is a great deal of information compared to the first wave, and preparation including use of oximeters at home to monitor, and early admissions will help prevent morbidities,” she said. According to her, early detection, hospital admissions of those with co-morbidities, and protection from an infection would help contain the spread. There were 773 active cases in the district, and of these, 191 patients were hospitalised. Among those, 53 persons were under oxygen support, Ms. Rajesh said. As of date, there were enough oxygen-supported beds in the hospitals in the district. There were 724 beds at present, and the capacity to add an additional 1,341 beds. A total of 1,13,055 persons had been vaccinated in the district and 9,180 doses of vaccines were available, which may further be increased as and when the need arose, Ms. Rajesh said. The focus was currently on the vaccination of those above 45 years of age. The district had vaccine covered 83% of the frontline workers and the remaining were pregnant women and lactating mothers, Ms. Rajesh said. According to Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy, even as the district shared borders with two States, there was no bar on vehicles entering from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. “As per the State guidelines, vehicles from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Puducherry do not require e-pass and that remains.” The vehicles were being vetted and passengers randomly thermal scanned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1-lakh-persons-vaccinated-in-krishnagiri/article34331358.ece
16 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers allege GAIL has begun works in Kelamangalam||Farmers opposed to GAIL’s KKMBP pipeline project staged a sit-in protest at the Collectorate here on Thursday alleging that GAIL was undertaking project works in parts of Kelamangalam in contravention of the State government’s resolution passed in the Assembly. The pipeline (KKMBP – Kochi - Kootanadu – Mangaluru - Bengaluru pipeline Project) is being laid from Kochi to pass through Tamil Nadu via Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem, Dharmapuri ,and Krishnagiri to Bengaluru to carry natural gas. The project conceived a decade ago has seen vehement opposition amongst farmers of the Western region. According to the farmers’ collective objecting to the passage of the pipeline through the farmlands, GAIL is undertaking works in parts of Kelamangalam on farmlands. This is in violation to the resolution passed by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa-led government that no pipeline shall be allowed to pass through farmlands. The farmers, underlining their support to the project if the pipelines are laid along the highway, said the pipelines were being laid without affecting the farmlands in Kerala and Karnataka. However, farmlands were proposed to be taken over in the Tamil Nadu stretch. The protesters called for a reiteration of the resolution earlier passed by the government as a confidence-building measure among farmers. The affected farmers of the Irugur-Devanakondhi Pipeline project of BPCL also joined the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-allege-gail-has-begun-works-in-kelamangalam/article34331361.ece
16 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp on at Chamber building||Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan and Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan inaugurated a COVID-19 vaccination camp for those aged above 45 at Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) building on Kamarajar Salai here on Thursday. The camp was organised jointly by the Corporation, TNCCI; and C and I Medical Association. The free camp will be held for three days from Thursday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. said Chamber president N Jegadeesan. The Commissioner said that compared to last year, the new COVID-19 positive cases were increasing rapidly in the second wave. Vaccination was one of the precautionary measures that would help contain the spread of COVID-19. The public will be administered free COVID-19 vaccination at 31 Urban Primary Health Centres, nine mini clinics and other government hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-on-at-chamber-building/article34331903.ece
16 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chithirai festival begins||The annual Chithirai festival began with flag-hoisting ceremony at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple here on Thursday. Devotees were not allowed to participate in the ceremony due to restrictions imposed because of the rapid spread of COVID-19 positive cases. The flag-hoisting ceremony is one of the main events of the 12-day Brahmotsavam festival. During the 12-day festival, the devotees will be allowed to have a darshan inside the temple at scheduled time frames in the mornings and evenings. A release from the temple said that devotees will be allowed to enter the temple for free through the East Tower entrance, and by buying ticket through the South Tower. On the day of Meenakshi Thirukalyanam alone, devotees are not permitted for morning darshan. The wedding will be live telecast through television and online platforms. All devotees must compulsorily wear face masks. Children aged below 10 years, pregnant women, and senior citizens aged above 65 years will not be allowed to enter the temple as part of COVID-19 precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chithirai-festival-begins/article34331378.ece
16 April 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of two fishermen brought back, buried||The bodies of two fishermen, who were among the three killed in a mid-sea collision of a mechanised boat and a merchant vessel off Mangaluru in the early hours of Tuesday, were brought to Colachel on Thursday and buried. The victims Alexander, 38, and his father-in-law Dasan, along with 12 others were fishing 55 nautical miles off the Mangaluru coast when a Singapore merchant vessel rammed their boat. All of them drowned due to the impact. The ship crew managed to rescue Velmurugan of Ramanathapuram and Sunil Das of West Bengal but could only retrieve the bodies of Alexander, Dasan and Manik Das of West Bengal. Efforts were on to locate and rescue the nine missing fishermen, including Denson of Manappad in Thoothukudi district. The wife of the missing fisherman, D. Rani, along with her two daughters, submitted a petition to Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj seeking his intervention to expedite the rescue operation. “Since the catch was very poor in the Manappad area, my husband moved to Kerala, from where he was going for fishing in the mechanised boat. The Collector should take up our case with the governments of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka to expedite the search operation,” said Ms. Rani. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi sent an e-mail to Union Home Ministry and the Defence Ministry to take steps to rescue the nine missing fishermen.  The Collector should take up our case with the governments of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and KarnatakaD. Rani,Missing fisherman’s wife||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-two-fishermen-brought-back-buried/article34331312.ece
16 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Youth should create awareness on COVID-19 pandemic’||Collector K. Megraj appealed to youth and students to create awareness among the public on the COVID-19 pandemic. In a release, Mr. Megraj said the district was reporting positive cases in single digit until recently and now the number of positive cases increased manifold and the situation forced reopening of COVID-19 care centres. Mr. Megraj appealed to the students and youth to create awareness about the pandemic among their relatives and the public and advised that COVID-19 protocols should be strictly adhered to by the public to contain spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-should-create-awareness-on-covid-19-pandemic/article34331372.ece
16 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Counting centre inspected||Collector and District Election Officer K. Megraj inspected the counting centre for Assembly constituencies here on Thursday. Mr. Megraj visited the premises of a private college in Tiruchengode where the strong rooms for all six Assembly constituencies in the district have been set up. He reviewed the security arrangements. According to a release, Indo-Tibet Border Police, Tamil Nadu Special Police and district police are being deployed in shift basis for security at the centre. CCTV cameras had been installed outside the strong rooms, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-centre-inspected/article34331370.ece
16 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Newborn’s body exhumed||In a suspected case of female infanticide, the body of a 10-day-old girl that was buried in Erumapatti without the knowledge of the police and revenue officials was exhumed and an autopsy carried out on Wednesday. Surya and Kasthuri were married for seven years and have a six-year-old and four-year-old daughters. Kasthuri delivered a female baby at the District Headquarters Hospital in Namakkal on April 4. As the couple had three girl children, doctors asked her to undergo family planning to which the couple refused. Kasthuri was staying in her mother’s house at Pottireddipatti. On April 13, claiming that the newborn had died of illness, they buried the baby at a graveyard in their village. On suspicion, health officials, who were monitoring her, lodged a complaint with the Erumapatti police. On Wednesday, a doctors’ team, in the presence of revenue officials and police, exhumed the body and conducted a post-mortem on the spot. Samples of vital organs were lifted for laboratory tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborns-body-exhumed/article34331363.ece
16 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Truck driver dies in accident||A truck driver died during the late hours of Wednesday after the truck fell into a gorge. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Sabeshan (25), a native of Kolli Hills. During the late hours of Wednesday, Sabeshan was driving down Ghat road and while negotiating the 70th hairpin bend, he lost control of the vehicle and the truck slipped into an over-10ft-deep gorge. He died on the spot, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/truck-driver-dies-in-accident/article34331375.ece
16 April 2021||P. A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate shooting up in Madurai||There has been a significant rise in COVID-19 positivity rate in Madurai district in the last 10 days. While the positivity rate in district stood at 5.12% on Wednesday. It was, however, 8.14% on Monday. The district recorded 234 fresh cases on Thursday, as per the bulletin released by the public health department. The active cases in Madurai are 1,719. The positive cases have been rising from the last week of March during the second wave of the pandemic. Health officials have also increased the number of samples lifted every day since April - 4,299 people were tested for COVID-19 on April 13 alone. Former Director of Public Health K. Kolandaisamy said the rise in cases and positivity rate indicated how bad the spread of COVID-19 was in the district. A comparison of the number of positive cases recorded in proportion to the population showed that the situation in Chennai and Madurai were equally bad. Compared to last year, more number of vulnerable persons were being infected by coronavirus. This will increase the need for hospital admission, especially oxygen requirement. Crowded places and closed spaces without proper ventilation were the major risk spots for COVID-19 cases. In large textile showrooms, supermarkets, shopping complexes, and commercial establishments, proper ventilation must be ensured. In hospitals, only one attendant must be allowed to be with the patient and visitors should not be allowed inside hospitals. Crowding must be avoided at marriages and funerals as these were spots from where COVID-19 could spread in a big way. Meanwhile, officials are insisting the residents wear face masks when they are in public places and to avoid crowded places. The streets with more than three positive cases are identified as containment streets. The officials are carrying out complete disinfection in residences of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-shooting-up-in-madurai/article34331901.ece
16 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3,934-cr. Vote-on-Account Budget passed||With the Legislative Assembly kept in suspended animation and Puducherry under President’s rule, a Vote-on-Account Budget, covering expenditure for a period of five months from April to August 2021, for a total expenditure of Rs. 3,934 crore, has been passed in Parliament recently to keep the fiscal situation afloat. Presidential assent has also been provided for the Supplementary Demand for Grants of Rs. 256.04 crore submitted by the government for certain timeline-critical expenses over the next few months. Of this, the capital expenditure component works out to Rs. 97.25 crore and revenue expenditure to Rs. 158.78 crore. The Vote-on-Account Budget has been passed against the backdrop of fiscal indicators for the Union Territory pointing to a debt to GSDP ratio of 21.99% against the permissible limit of 25% of the GSDP, while the fiscal deficit was 2.07% against the permissible limit of 3% of GSDP. Recently, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the Supplementary Demands for Grants for the Union Territory of Puducherry for 2020-2021 and Vote-on-Account Budget for the Union Territory of Puducherry for 2021-2022 for five months, pointed out that the regular budget for the year 2021-22 would have to be presented after assumption of office by the new government in the Union Territory of Puducherry. “I would like to add that the process of finalising the regular budget, including the time required for scrutiny and approval of MHA/ MoF normally takes a minimum of two months time,” Ms. Sitharaman stated while presenting the Vote-on-Account Budget for the Union Territory for 2021-22. Reference was also made to the Legislative Assembly of Puducherry having been placed under suspended animation until the constitution of the 15th Legislative Assembly. And, as per the Presidential notification promulgated on February 25, the reference to Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory in Sections 23, 27-31, 48 and 49 of the U.T. Act 1963 required to be construed as reference to Parliament. Accordingly, the Government of Puducherry submitted a proposal for Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2020-21, which is required to be sanctioned by Parliament in view of the Legislative Assembly being kept under suspended animation. The Supplementary Demands for Grants were necessitated by urgent requirements, such as settlement of land acquisition compensation for the Western Bypass Road in Karaikal Collectorate, and Indira Gandhi Arts and Science College, additional request of funds for the conduct of election to the Legislative Assembly through to the counting of votes scheduled for May 2 and the provision of additional funds for COVID-19-related expenditure. The supplementary grants were also needed for settlement of pending power purchase due to discoms/power generating stations and other unavoidable committed expenditure of the Government of Puducherry, an official said. Following passage in Parliament of two Appropriation Bills, the bills received the assent of the President in the final week of March, leading to promulgation of the Puducherry Appropriation (Vote on Account) Act, 2021, that authorises payment and appropriation of certain sums from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the Union Territory of Puducherry for five months of the fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-3934-cr-vote-on-account-budget-passed/article34331971.ece
16 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G directs officials to ensure proper maintenance of statues||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan directed the administration to maintain the statues of national heroes properly. Ms. Soundararajan on Thursday took a walk from Raj Nivas and went up to the statue of poet Bharathidasan. The Puducherry Thinkers Forum had submitted a representation to the Lt. Governor complaining about poor maintenance of the poet’s statue. List of instructions Ms. Soundararajan gave instructions to the authorities to maintain the statue of the poet properly. The Lt. Governor also directed the authorities to provide proper lighting facility and ensure maintenance of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s statue in front of the Legislative Assembly. She also wanted proper upkeep of statues of all national heroes.  The Lt. Governor directed the authorities to provide proper lighting facility and ensure maintenance of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s statue in front of the Legislative Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-directs-officials-to-ensure-proper-maintenance-of-statues/article34331975.ece
16 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘People with symptoms should get tested’||People should get themselves tested for COVID-19 immediately if they have any symptoms of the disease, Secretary (Health) T. Arun said here on Thursday. Testing and protocols In a press release, he said people should not delay a test if they had symptoms like fever, respiratory distress or cough. Any delay would increase the mortality rate, he added. Testing and following the protocols alone would bring down the number of cases, he said, warning the public against laxity in following the directions. People should compulsorily wear masks, practice hand washing and maintain physical distancing, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-with-symptoms-should-get-tested/article34331973.ece
16 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||413 fresh cases reported in Union Territory||The Union Territory reported 413 new cases and 176 recoveries on Thursday. The toll stood at 699, with one death reported in Mahe. The region-wise deaths are: Puducherry (560), Karaikal (82), Yanam (45) and Mahe (12). Of the new cases, which were confirmed from 2,811 tests, 340 were in Puducherry, 30 each in Karaikal and Mahe and 13 in Yanam. The test positivity rate shot up to 14.69%, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.52% and the recovery rate 91.35%. The number of active cases stood at 3,268, of which 606 were in hospitals and 2,662 in home isolation. In Puducherry, the bed occupancy was 266 in IGMCRI and 191 in JIPMER. Of an estimated 7.16 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department till date, over 6.53 lakh have returned negative. Meanwhile, another 8,493 members of the public, 64 healthcare workers and 71 frontline staff took the first shot of the COVID-19 vaccines in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of people immunised so far stands at 1,30,564 — 84,150 members of the public, 29,491 healthcare workers and 16,923 frontline personnel. Cuddalore district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 179 new cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 27,157. Two men, aged 38 and 70, died of the infection, taking the toll to 298. The district saw 25,775 recoveries, while there were 715 active cases.  In Villupuram district, 45 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 16,173. Kallakurichi district reported 41 cases, taking the tally to 11,280.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/413-new-cases-in-union-territory/article34331299.ece
16 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public should exercise caution for next two weeks: Collector||Collector S.A. Raman appealed to the public to exercise caution for the next two weeks as COVID-19 spread is expected to be intense during the period. In a release, Mr. Raman said intensive containment measures were in place. He advised the public not to venture out of their houses unnecessarily. He appealed to them to wear mask and follow COVID-19 safety protocols such as maintaining physical distance and hand sanitisation in public. Mr. Raman advised the public to visit the nearest hospital in case of any symptoms and asked all aged above 45 to take COVID-19 vaccination. Till date, Rs. 1.25 crore had been collected from the public as fine for not wearing mask, the release said. Officials said 1.93 lakh persons had received the first dose of Covishield vaccine and 32,935 persons received second dose till date. As many as 28,166 received Covaxin first dose and 871 persons received second dose. Mr. Raman said that there was sufficient stock of vaccines in the district. Health officials said they had planned to intensify the vaccination drive. S. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, said block level medical officers had been advised to identify industries, apartments and other places in their area where mass vaccination could be organised. Dr. Subramani said sufficient stock of vaccines was available and new supply was expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-should-exercise-caution-for-next-two-weeks-collector/article34331374.ece
16 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wedding hall operators seek relaxation in restrictions||Wedding hall operators and other events-related businesses petitioned the Collector on Thursday requesting the State government to relax restrictions on conducting events and temple festivals. Livelihood affected In the petition, members of Tamil Nadu Tent Dealers and Decorators Welfare Association said about five lakh persons were dependent on this sector for livelihood across the State. They lamented that their livelihood was affected due to the lockdown last year. The petitioners demanded that similar to other businesses, wedding halls should also be permitted to be operated with 50% capacity instead of restricting crowd to 100 persons. They also demanded that temple festivals should be conducted with restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wedding-hall-operators-seek-relaxation-in-restrictions/article34331376.ece
16 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Famed wall artist dies||Salem’s famed wall artist A. Pasupathinathan, who was known for his awareness slogans written on walls across the city, died reportedly due to electrocution here on Thursday. Pasupathinathan (64) was known for his motivational writings in the name ‘MMM-Corner’ at various parts of the city. Sources said his writings inspired many. The artist’s father M.K. Arthanari Pillai was a freedom fighter and Pasupathinathan considered him as his role model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/famed-wall-artist-dies/article34331371.ece
16 April 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Teak woods stolen from construction sites||Unidentified persons stole teak wood logs worth Rs. 58,000 from various construction sites at Erumapalayam during the late hours of Wednesday and early hours of Thursday. The men also stole logs of teak and sal wood worth Rs. 1 lakh from another construction at Kitchipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teak-woods-stolen-from-construction-sites/article34331351.ece
16 April 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Eight idols missing||Idol Wing Criminal Investigation Department booked a case of theft of eight idols from Aatkondanathar temple, an ancient Lord Shiva temple in Iraniyur here, on Thursday. A statement said that the temple in Tiruppathur taluk was renovated by the Nagarathar administration between 1941 and 1948. During a recent audit of the temple properties, it was found that idols that of Somaskandar, Skandar, Priyavidai Amman, Ambal, Gnanasambandar, Sundaramoorthi, Nithiya Urchavaswamy and Nithiya Urchava Ambal were missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-idols-missing/article34331325.ece
16 April 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Bathing in falls banned||Widespread rain in upper Kodaikanal resulted in floods at Kumbakarai falls here on Thursday. Officials in Devadanapatti here have banned tourists from bathing at Kumbakarai Falls, eight km from Periakulam. The tourists can visit the falls but should not take bath. The widespread rain overnight in the hill station had led to sudden downpour here. Sometimes, there is flooding. Parts of Theni district including Thevaram experienced showers. Natham in Dindigul district had good showers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bathing-in-falls-banned/article34331326.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi city accounts for 70% of cases||With the number of COVID-19 cases surging in the central region over the past few days, Tiruchi city has accounted for 70 % of the cases in Tiruchi district. Nagapattinam district topped among the central districts in positivity rate. Over 1,200 patients tested positive for the virus during the last seven days in Tiruchi district. On an average, 180 patients are diagnosed with the virus daily in the Tiruchi district. According to sources, rural areas of Tiruchi continued to record fewer cases than Tiruchi urban. While the rate of fresh cases accounts for about 30 % in rural areas, it is 70 % in Tiruchi Corporation limit. “As far as cases in rural areas are concerned, fresh cases are fewer than Tiruchi city. The cases are spread in 14 panchayat unions. Since the affected people are in villages, we are able to identify them as well as their contacts quickly,” says S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi. In terms of positivity rate, Nagapattinam remains on top among the eight central districts. It was 9.9 % on Wednesday, next only to Chennai. The positivity rate was 5.5% in Tiruchi district. As per the current trend, out of about 1,000 samples, close to 100 samples turn out to be positive for the virus in Nagapattinam district daily. “Higher positivity rate means that we are able to test many asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptom. It will ultimately enable us to bring them into the direct observation of health workers,” says A. Liakath Ali, District Epidemiologist. He said the patients, who tested positive, had been admitted to the hospitals in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai. A section of them had been taking treatment in private hospitals in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur. But for the testing, they would have been in their homes as usual and spreading the virus unknowingly to their relatives, friends and neighbours. Their hospitalisation would ultimately curtail the spread of the virus. Mr. Ali said that though the available beds in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai were sufficient to meet the current requirement, it had been decided to identify hostels and lodges in Nagapattinam, Vedaranyam and other towns to convert them as COVID care centres to meet the requirement, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-city-accounts-for-70-of-cases/article34331292.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ensuring compliance by distributing free masks||Amid surge in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi, the City Police embarked on an awareness drive besides distributing masks to those who were found without masks in public places here on Thursday. Teams of Traffic Police personnel positioned themselves at various vantage points all over the city distributing masks free of cost to those who were found not wearing them. The free distribution of masks were carried out places, including Mambazha Salai, Anna Statue near Chinthamani, Main Guard Gate, Kohinoor Theatre Junction, Puthur Four Road, near Railway Junction, Central bus stand, Othakadai and Mannarpuram. The awareness drive and the free distribution of masks were done on the instruction of the Commissioner of Police, said police sources. Field-level police officers said people found in public places without wearing masks were advised to wear it in the wake of the surge in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the State so as to guard themselves from getting infected. Shamianas were installed at vantage points where the need to strictly adhere to safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining personal distancing at public places and hand washing were being driven home to the general public besides the symptoms of COVID-19 as part of awareness creation, the officers further said that awareness was also being created through public address system and distribution of pamphlets . The City Police on Wednesday alone had booked cases against 1,174 persons who were found not wearing masks in public places and realised Rs. 2.34 lakh as fine from them. Sixty-seven cases were booked separately against those who did not adhere to personal distancing with the fine amount collected from them being Rs. 33,500, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensuring-compliance-by-distributing-free-masks/article34331294.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Let us function at Gandhi Market with regulated working hours’||With retail vegetable traders reluctant to move to G. Corner ground as directed by the authorities in the wake of the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has appealed to the district administration to allow the retailers to function at the Gandhi Market with regulated working hours. Last week, district officials, after a meeting with representatives of the traders, decided to temporarily shift the retail traders of the market to G. Corner ground near Golden Rock. Wholesale traders were allowed to function at the market. However, most retail traders have not moved over citing poor sales at G. Corner. In a statement issued here on Thursday, Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the Peramaippu, observed that though the move was justifiable in the wake of the rapid spread of COVID-19, there were certain practical difficulties in ensuring the availability of perishable commodities such as vegetables to the public. The Gandhi Market catered to Tiruchi and 10 neighbouring districts. Vegetables are supplied from here for retail markets in entire Tiruchi district. Since vegetables are fresh and cheap at the market, most hotels, restaurants, retailers and consumers prefer to procure vegetables from here. The supply chain works smoothly as the wholesale and retail traders operated side-by-side. If retail and wholesale trader were to be segregated and made to function from two different places, it results in waste of fuel and time. Besides, when sale was allowed at both places, retail traders suffer loss of business, he contended. In order to avert this problem, both retail and wholesale traders can be allowed to function at Gandhi Market by following COVID-19 safety protocol and with regulated working hours. While wholesale dealers can be allowed to function from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m., retailers may be allowed to set shop between 5 a.m. and 11 a.m., Mr. Govindarajalu suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-us-function-at-gandhi-market-with-regulated-working-hours/article34331298.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||821 new cases recorded||Central districts on Thursday recorded 821 new cases of COVID-19 and three deaths on account of the virus. All three patients, who died of COVID-19 related implications, were from Nagapattinam district. A 61-year-old female,who was admitted to the Government Periyar Hospital in Mayiladuthurai on April 9 died on Wednesday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. She had no co-morbidities. Similarly, a 72-year old male from Nagapattinam with type-II diabetes mellitus, who was admitted to the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam on April 2, died on Wednesday. He also died of acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. The third person, who died due to COVID-9 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, was a 68-year old male from Nagapattinam. He was admitted to the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam on March 31. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, 821 new cases were reported in central districts on Thursday. Tiruchi district topped the list with 241 patients testing positive for the virus followed by 166 cases in Thanjavur district. It was 134 in Nagapattinam, 125 in Tiruvarur districts. Karur and Ariyalur districts reported 53 and 29 new cases. There were 62 new cases in Pudukottai district. Perambalur district recorded 11 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/821-new-cases-recorded/article34331300.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Six held for kidnapping lorry owner||Six persons were arrested by the Kumbakonam Taluk police in Thanjavur district on charge of kidnapping a lorry owner a few days ago near Kumbakonam and reportedly demanding a ransom of Rs. 10 lakh for his release from his wife. The police seized a car that was allegedly used for the abduction and rescued the kidnapped lorry owner Basheer Ahmed (48) from Karakottai near Mannargudi and got the accused remanded to judicial custody. Basheer Ahmed, a resident of Chettimandapam near Kumbakonam, was allegedly kidnapped by Sekar (45) who was involved in arranging vehicles on contract basis to transport liquor bottles to TASMAC outlets from a private liquor manufacturing unit near Mannargudi. It is said that Sekar had engaged a lorry belonging to Basheer on rent to transport liquor bottles to Ramanathapuram a year ago. The lorry met with an accident and is said to have caused loss to Sekar. Basheer Ahmed, it is alleged, had hoarded at Nannilam some liquor bottles which did not get damaged in the accident and reportedly conveyed to Sekar that all bottles had got damaged. It is also alleged that Basheer Ahmed had resorted to illegal sale of the liquor bottles that were hoarded following which the Nannilam police based on information seized the bottles. A case against Basheer was booked by the Nannilam Police in this regard. In the meantime, Sekar is said to have blamed Basheer for the loss caused to him in the wake of the accident and demanded money from him. Basheer refused to pay money to Sekar and allegedly threatened him. Angered over this, Sekar and five of his accomplices went to the house of Basheer Ahmed and allegedly kidnapped him in a car on April 13 and reportedly demanded a ransom of Rs. 10 lakh from the lorry owner's wife over phone. Acting on a complaint from Basheer Ahmed's wife, the Kumbakonam Taluk Police registered a case and arrested Sekar and his accomplices on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-kidnapping-lorry-owner-for-ransom/article34331295.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Efforts to ramp up oxygen capacity at Tiruppur GH under way||Amid the sharp increase in the COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district, the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital will be installing another liquid oxygen tank apart from the existing three tanks to supply oxygen for its patients. According to the Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, the hospital currently has one liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 3.5 kilolitres (kL) and two smaller tanks with 1 kL capacity each. With over 20 COVID-19 patients from across the hospital being admitted every day, works are under way to install a fourth liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 6 kL, she said. The installation works are expected to be completed within three weeks, following which the availability of liquid oxygen in Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital would increase from 5.5 kL to 11.5 kL, according to Dr. Valli. Adequate manpower Of the 190 beds earmarked in the hospital for COVID-19 patients, around 150 have already been utilised by patients and by those undergoing treatment for influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) awaiting their COVID-19 test results. The bed capacity will be increased as per the requirement, the Dean said. “We have adequate manpower for now,” she said, adding that more healthcare staff would be deputed at the hospital, if required. Some of the COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment are “severe cases,” she said, noting that the severity of the infection has not come down in the second wave. Only the administration of both doses of COVID-19 vaccine would help in significantly reducing the severity of the symptoms, according to Dr. Valli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-to-ramp-up-oxygen-capacity-at-tiruppur-gh-under-way/article34331796.ece
16 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Compensation sought for construction of transmission towers on farm land||Around 50 farmers engaged in a heated argument with officials demanding compensation for the construction of transmission towers on agricultural land near Palladam in Tiruppur district on Thursday. Sources said that the officials from the Revenue Department and the Power Grid Corporation of India visited Vavipalayam village to commence construction of transmission towers when the farmers visited the site alleging lack of compensation. Palladam Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Sriramachandran visited the site and held talks with the farmers, following which they dispersed, the sources said. A revenue official said that the district administration has already allocated the compensation amount to 11 farmers and will provide the amount once they produce land records and their bank account details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-sought-for-construction-of-transmission-towers-on-farm-land/article34331788.ece
16 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris administration to increase testing following rise in cases||The number of people in the Nilgiris who will be tested for COVID-19 in the coming week is set to increase, with District Collector J. Innocent Divya stating that the administration is set to ramp up testing due to the increase in the number of confirmed cases. The Collector, who inspected the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market, the farmers’ market and public spaces such as the bus stand, said that more than 1,200 people are being tested for COVID-19 each day on an average, with the positivity rate at around 2.7%. Due to the steady increase in the number of cases, culminating in a recent-high of 38 on Wednesday, Ms. Divya said that COVID-19 care facilities are being set up in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur to treat patients. If the numbers continued to surge, patients will be treated at the newly set up facilities, she added. Officials from the district administration have launched a sensitisation drive among traders and merchants and markets across the Nilgiris, especially among those who are above 45 years of age to get vaccinated. Ms. Divya said that enough COVID-19 vaccine was available in the district, and urged merchants and people above 45 years to get vaccinated. The district administration has also formed teams to monitor crowded public spaces like the markets, bus stands and popular tourist places to ensure that people maintain personal distancing, wear masks and use hand sanitisers before and after entering shops and tourist locations. Fines are being imposed on violators, officials said. They said that the number of people visiting those areas was especially high during the weekends and on public holidays, due to people going shopping for essential items or visiting tourist places. Monitoring of crowds would be strict on those days, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-administration-to-increase-testing-following-rise-in-cases/article34331794.ece
16 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||First-ever transwomen-run Aavin tea stall struggles to stay afloat||A year after the district administration spearheaded an initiative to provide employment for a group of transgender women here, business has slumped due to a combination of the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and discrimination against people working at the tea stall. The Aavin tea stall in Charring Cross was inaugurated in February of 2020. The initiative was designed to provide sustainable livelihoods for a group of transgender women who are part of the Nilgiris district transgenders self-help group. The group, which had five members at the time, has grown to include more members of the transgender community over the last year. The Aavin booth was the first of its kind with the management being handled entirely by transwomen. However, despite the best efforts of the members working in the tea stall, business has slumped with income barely covering overheads, the members of the self-help group said. Viniya, who has studied up to Class 10 and whose first job has been at working at the tea stall, said that a combination of factors had led to poor patronage. “We are extremely thankful to the government and the district administration for their efforts to find us livelihoods. However, they can only offer us a platform. It is up to the public to support people from the LGBTQ community and their businesses,” said one of the members. “Many of the people who came to the tea stall were either college students from nearby Government Arts College or were tourists. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, business was hit hard as the number of tourists has dwindled,” said Viniya. Ms. Viniya believes that existing prejudice against transgender persons was also playing a part in people not coming to the tea stall. “Many people see me and think I am a cis-woman. It’s only when they speak to me that they realise that I am a transwoman. Though I have not directly had anyone say anything to me or insult me, I can certainly feel that many people feel uncomfortable to visit out shop,” she added. When contacted, Project Director of the Tamilnadu State Rural Livelihoods Mission (Mahalir Thittam), P. Babu, who was another key official instrumental in supporting the SHG set up the tea stall last year, said that the district administration would speak to the members and try to come up with a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-ever-transwomen-run-aavin-tea-stall-struggles-to-stay-afloat/article34331354.ece
16 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||141 fresh cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 22,624 with 141 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 21,500 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 765. The death toll is 359. In Ranipet district, 101 cases were reported and the total stood at 17,273. In Tirupattur district, 63 new cases were reported on Thursday, and the total number of positive cases stood at 8,244. In Tiruvannamalai district, 90 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 20,531. Of this, 19,595 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 648.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/141-cases-in-vellore/article34331972.ece
16 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Hospital beds reserved for select patients||The district administration has reserved hospital beds for patients who need life-saving treatment to reduce fatalities. “Earlier, hospital beds were allocated to all positive patients, including asymptomatic patients. This has led to shortage of beds to those who really needed closer medical attention,” said District Joint Director for Health Services R. Manoharan. While those with least infection occupied the beds, patients who required oxygen and those with co-morbidities had to be sent to other districts. “Now, we are advising people who test positive but without symptoms to undergo home quarantine or institutional quarantine at COVID-19 Care Centres. The beds are reserved for the people with health complication. Thereby, patients who need life-saving treatment are admitted to hospitals in order to reduce fatalities,” he said.  Apart from 230 beds in Government Medical College Hospital, the district has another 520 beds in other hospitals across the district. These beds have got oxygen supply and ventilator facilities. The Health Department has permitted 12 private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients. These hospitals have 150 beds. The hospitals that have intensive care units, separate entry and exit for COVID-19 patients, good reporting system were allowed to give treatment for COVID-19, he said. Meanwhile, the district saw the highest single day jump of 2021 cases when 79 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday. The number of active cases rose up to 365 after 15 patients got discharged from various hospitals. The total number of positive cases till date increased to 17,420 and the number of discharged patients stood at 16,821. COVID-19 related deaths in the district till date was 234.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-beds-reserved-for-select-patients/article34331328.ece
16 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||One killed in fire||A woman worker was killed and three others sustained burns in a fire reported at Rajesh Fireworks unit under Vachchakarapatti police station near here on Thursday afternoon. P. Adhilakshmi (22), who sustained 100% burns, succumbed to injuries at Government hospital in Sivakasi late in the night. R. Senthi (35), who suffered 90% burns, and T. Sundarapandi (40) and R. Muthumari (37), who suffered 70% burns, were referred to a private hospital in Madurai. Fire and Rescue Services personnel, led by District Fire Officer, K. Ganesan, rushed to the spot near Sadanandapuram. The victims were involved in packing crackers when friction triggered a huge ball of fire but there was no explosion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-fire/article34331327.ece
16 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||One killed, three injured in fire||A woman worker was killed and three others, including two women, sustained burns in a fire accident at Rajesh Fireworks unit under Vachchakarapatti police station near here on Thursday. Police said that P. Adhilakshmi (22), who sustained 100% burns, died at Government hospital in Sivakasi late in the night. R. Senthi, 35, T. Sundarapandi, 40, and R. Muthumari, 37, who were grievously injured, were referred to a private hospital in Madurai. Fire and Rescue Services personnel, led by District Fire Officer K. Ganesan, rushed to the spot near Sadanandapuram. However, before the firemen could arrive, the workers put out the flames that was confined to a room. The victims were involved in packing bijili crackers when friction triggered a huge ball of fire that engulfed them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-three-injured-in-fire/article34332029.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CRPF jawans screened for COVID-19||The Central Reserve Police Force personnel (CRPF), who are deployed in the district for the last one month as part of the security arrangements for the Assembly election, were screened for COVID-19 on Thursday. Post-election, the personnel have been deployed at Government College of Engineering on Nagercoil Highway, where the electronic voting machines are kept in strong rooms. Tirunelveli City Police Commissioner T.S. Anbu has made arrangements for screening of 92 jawans for the viral infection. “Based on the outcome of the tests, further course of action will be decided,” said police sources here. Steps have also been taken to vaccinate jawans who are yet to receive the shot. Disinfection of the Office of Chief Educational Officer was taken up on Thursday after an employee tested positive. Thirteen residents of Anu Vijay Township — residential quarters of engineers, employees and Russian technocrats of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project — have tested positive. They have been isolated and kept in hospital there for treatment. The Department of Public Health has proposed to organise a screening camp in the township on Friday. The Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve administration has indefinitely banned the visit of tourists to Nambi Temple in Thirukkurunkudi and Thalaiyanai in Kalakkad in view of the sharp increase in number of COVID-19 cases. The ban comes into force from Friday (April 16). In Tenkasi district, spot fine was slapped on 576 persons who did not wear masks and did not maintain physical distancing while visiting public places and Rs. 1.31 lakh was collected from them as fine on Thursday. So far, Rs. 38.30 lakh has been collected as fine from violators. In Thoothukudi, Rs. 43.78 lakh has been collected as fine till April 14 from violators. Following a sudden surge in the number of fresh cases during the second wave, the number of persons volunteering for vaccination in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital has risen to 400 a day. It was only 50 earlier. Similarly, the number of persons getting vaccinated in the three urban primary health centres has also risen from 50 to 70 in each PHC. After Collector K. Senthil Raj’s announcement that private firms should vaccinate their employees, senior officials of several private companies in and around Thoothukudi are in touch with Corporation and Health officials for conducting vaccination camps for their workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crpf-jawans-screened-for-covid-19/article34332026.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||55 mobile phones recovered||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Thursday returned 55 mobile phones, which were reported missing or stolen, to their owners after recovering them through a special drive conducted by the Cyber Crime police station. Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam handed over the phones to their owners at his office in the presence of Additional Superintendent of Police (Cyber Crime) C. Sangu and Special Branch Inspector P. Loganathan. Mr. Selvanagarathinam said that 1,641 missing mobile phones, which were reported missing and stolen, were recovered and handed over to their owners in 2020. This year, 55 mobile phones were recovered so far and they were handed over to their owners on Thursday. According to the SP, the Cyber Crime police station was in the efforts to recover around 400 mobile phones. The Cyber Crime police station which is currently functioning on the premises of the SP office. A team headed by Inspector S. Jayadevi, Sub Inspector M. Mahendran, head constables M. Velusamy, O.A. Mahesh Kumar and M. Vijay Kumar traced the missing mobile phones. Mr. Selvanagarathinam lauded the team and urged public to make use of the services of the Cyber Crime police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/55-mobile-phones-recovered/article34331791.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Coimbatore reports 534 new cases, two deaths||Coimbatore district reported 534 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. According to the Health Department, the district has 4,438 active cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. The Health Department said that there were 75 containment zones in the corporation limits. The department said that 643 persons from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Thursday. The district’s death toll increased to 705 after two persons died of the disease on Tuesday. While a 45-year-old woman died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, an 80-year-old man succumbed to the disease at a private hospital, said the Health Department. The daily COVID-19 caseload continued to rise in Tiruppur district as 233 new cases were reported on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 21,427 cases. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the overall toll remained at 231. As many as 1,573 patients were active cases in the district. A total of 19,623 patients have recovered since the beginning of the pandemic, of which 114 were discharged from various treatment centres on Thursday. In the Nilgiris, 39 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 9,065. The number of deaths in the district stood at 51 while 266 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-coimbatore-reports-534-new-cases-two-deaths/article34331792.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||195 new cases in Salem||As many as 195 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Thursday, the highest in recent times. According to officials, all cases were indigenous and 110 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Two persons aged 51 and 52 died of the disease. In Namakkal, 96 cases were reported. Twelve patients returned from Rajasthan, Karnataka, Erode, Chennai, Salem, and Tiruchi. Erode district reported 144 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 16,437. While 30 persons were discharged, 820 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, taking the toll to 152. Krishnagiri reported 162 fresh cases, and 22 recoveries. The total number of cases stood at 914 cases as of Thursday. A total of 9,649 cases were reported. Dharmapuri reported 83 fresh cases, and 25 persons were discharged. The total number of cases was 527. As of date, a total 7,372 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/195-new-cases-in-salem/article34331369.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for petrol bomb attack||Four persons on Thursday were arrested in connection with a recent petrol bomb attack on a cinema hall. Police said five persons, who were under the influence of alcohol, came to a cinema theatre in Boldonpuram around 10 p.m. on Tuesday to watch the ‘second show’. They were denied entry as per management policy. Their ticket fare was returned and the five men left the premises. They returned around midnight and lobbed petrol bombs inside the theatre even as the ‘second show’ was going on. No one was injured. But the incident triggered panic in Boldonpuram, a sensitive area. Based on a complaint from the theatre management, Thoothukudi South police collected CCTV footage to establish the identity of the culprits — Michael Antony Aravindan (fisherman), Antony Raj (painter) and Marudhanayagam (ITI student), all 20 years old. The remaining two were found to be Sugumar alias Chandru, a car driver of Pallapuram in Lalgudi in Tiruchi district, and Rajapandi. While Rajapandi absconded, all others were arrested on Thursday. Police seized three bikes used during the attack. Hunt is on to nab Rajapandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-petrol-bomb-attack/article34331379.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard attacks family in Gudiyatham||It was taken to a forest on the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border to be released. According to sources, Prema, 40, and her children Manohar, 20, and Mahalakshmi, 14, were sleeping in the house at Kalarpalayam, Erthangal village, Gudiyatham taluk. They had left the main door open for ventilation. It is suspected that around midnight, the leopard entered the house. In panic, the three ran out and closed the main door and the animal was trapped inside. On information, the police and Forest Department officials rushed to the spot. A special team of the Forest Department from Hosur later came to the village. “Since the animal was hiding in one of the rooms, the Forest officials tried different methods to make it come to the hall so that they could shoot it with the tranquilliser. Even a battery-operated toy car was used for this purpose. Finally, they drilled a small hole in the rear of the house and the animal, probably scared of the noise, ran into the hall. It was then tranquillised,” said a police officer. Forest officials checked its condition and carried the animal out on a stretcher. “They transferred it into a cage and kept some water for it to drink. The animal was then taken to the forest near Sarangal, and will be released after its health is checked once again,” added the officer. Residents said this was the first time a wild animal had entered a village in the taluk. “Five years ago, a deer came into Gudiyatham town. These animals stray into our village from the Mordana forest,” said Mahalingam, a resident of Erthangal.  Since the animal was hiding in one of the rooms, the Forest officials tried different methods to make it come to the hall so that they could shoot it with the tranquilliser||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-attacks-family-in-gudiyatham/article34331309.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man robbed of Rs. 8 lakh cash||The Tiruppur City Police are on the lookout for two miscreants, who attacked a senior citizen and stole Rs. 8 lakh outside a bank on Thursday. According to the police, Venkatachalam (62) from Palladam visited a bank on Palladam Road in Veerapandi around 2 p.m. After withdrawing Rs. 8 lakh, he walked out of the bank when a man attacked him from behind, sprayed chemical on his face and stole the bag containing the cash. The robber escaped from the spot along with another man in a two-wheeler, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-robbed-of-rs-8-lakh-cash/article34331789.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Commerce and Management, webinar on Career opportunities in State and Central governments, N. Hariharan, Founder and Director, Shine IAS Academy and Shine School of Banking, Coimbatore, guest speaker, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34331364.ece
16 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hectic activity as public campaigning ends in Belagavi||The last day of public campaigning in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency saw hectic activities by political parties on Thursday. BJP leaders were engaged in aggressive campaigning, while the Congress used it mostly for door-to-door campaigning. Congress candidate Satish Jarkiholi was in Maski campaigning for his party. His children Priyanka and Rahul were touring villages in Yamakanamaradi and Gokak. BJP leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis addressed a rally in Hindalga village. He asked the people to reject the Congress and Shiv Sena which, he said, were appeasing Muslims. “The coalition government in Maharashtra is printing Urdu calendars in which Bal Thackeray, the Hindu hero, is referred to as Janab Bal Thackeray. Maharashtra government is also planning to celebrate Tipu Sultan jayanti,” he said. “The Congress is shooting at Hindus by placing its guns over the shoulders of Maratha voters. But I appeal to you not to allow such things in Karnataka,” he said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a roadshow in the city, though he had to cut it short due to ill health. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who has been with Mangala Angadi, the party candidate since the first day, was seen holding meetings and rallies in Belagavi Rural constituency. Other leaders Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, Minister Umesh Katti, MP Eeranna Kadadi were seen either during the Chief Minister’s roadshow or at other rallies. An interesting aspect was added to the campaign when Shiv Sena extended its support to MES candidate Shubham Shelke. Sanjay Raut, MP, participated in a roadshow with Mr. Shelke and addressed a rally. He addressed a press meet where he said that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had personally appealed to the people of the constituency to support the MES candidate. All parties are gearing up for door-to-door campaigning from Friday.  Addressing a rally in Hindalga village, BJP leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis asked the people to reject the Congress and Shiv Sena which, he said, were appeasing Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hectic-activity-as-public-campaigning-ends-in-belagavi/article34331392.ece
16 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sadashiv Rao Bhosle passes away at 101||Sadashiv Rao Bhosle, freedom fighter, former MLA, veteran Gandhian and close associate of Vinoba Bhave, died on Thursday. He had celebrated his 101st birthday a few months ago. He died peacefully of natural causes in Kadoli village of Belagavi district, his family sources said. Influenced by Vinoba Bhave, he donated nearly 100 acres of his ancestral land among the landless and lived in a house he and his wife built on an one-acre plot on the outskirts of the village. He spent his entire life promoting Khadi, simple living and sustenance farming. He was a member of the Assemblies in 1946 from Belgaum South and in 1952 from Bagewadi. He resigned in 1954 saying that the elected governments were not doing enough for the poor. Fondly called Bhosle Dada by villagers, he went around his chores silently. “Till last year, he continued to spin on his Box Charkha. Till 2015, he rode his bicycle in the villages to meet friends and fellow Gandhians,” recalls long-time associate Dilip Kamat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sadashiv-rao-bhosle-passes-away-at-101/article34331393.ece
16 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Visit cut short||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday could not hold canvass as per his itinerary as high fever and exhaustion forced him to cut short his programmes. He left the roadshow in Belagavi halfway. However, before that, he addressed around 70 seers who had congregated at Hukkeri Hiremath in Belagavi. The Chief Minister sought the seers’ blessing for party candidate Mangala Angadi and for making KarnatakaCOVID-free soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/visit-cut-short/article34331425.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite steep increase in caseload, CFR for Karnataka remains at 1.2%||While the number of deaths in the State has seen a steep rise over the last few days — 66 on Thursday — the average case fatality rate (CFR) for Karnataka remains 1.2% as on April 15. In fact, the CFR has reduced from 1.3% on March 1 to 1.2% as on April 15. This despite the total caseload shooting up by more than 1.5 lakh since March 1. The highest CFR during the first outbreak was around 1.6%. At 2.8%, the highest CFR was recorded in Dharwad on March 1 followed by Bidar at 2.3%. Bengaluru Urban, which contributes to nearly half of the total deaths in the State had a CFR of 1.1% then. This trend continues more than a month after the second wave began in the State. Currently, while Dharward continues to have the highest CFR at 2.7%, Dakshina Kannada follows with 2%. The CFR in Bengaluru Urban has reduced to 1% as on April 15. Late reporting The total fatalities now stand at 13,112. State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads the State’s Critical Care Support Unit, attributed the rise in deaths to late reporting and self-medication. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said the current CFR may be low but it is nothing to rejoice about. “Usually, fatalities will appear 14 days after the surge in cases. Today’s deaths are of the cases that were reported on March 30-31 who subsequently developed complications,” he said, citing the example of Maharashtra. Reiterating that late reporting is one of the main reasons for fatalities, Dr Ravi said: “Over 90% of patients are asymptomatic this time and are opting for home isolation. But who is monitoring them? Most are reporting late to hospitals after their oxygen saturation dips.” Scarcity of oxygenated and ventilator beds apart from critical drugs such as Remdesivir is adding to the problem, he added. Numbers in ICU C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it is too early to say if Karnataka will maintain the low case fatality rate. “With more than 500 cases being treated in ICUs, we have to wait for at least two weeks to exactly know the CFR of the second wave. It will definitely not be less than that reported during the first wave,” he said. Anoop Amarnath, member of Karnataka’s CCSU, who heads the department of Geriatric Medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said the CFR is in proportion to the huge spike in the caseload. “Apart from cautioning against late reporting and late referrals, the CCSU has been reiterating that the basic criteria of clinical, biochemical and radiological evaluation should be the standard treatment protocol,” he said. It is not just symptoms but vital markers such as D-Dimer, Ferritin, LDH, IL6 and high resolution chest CT that will help in assessing disease severity and decide on hospitalisation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-steep-increase-in-caseload-cfr-for-karnataka-remains-at-12/article34331747.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice on plea questioning nominations to wildlife board||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice on a PIL petition questioning the legality of nominating nine people, including the son of an MLA not having suitable qualification as per the Wildlife (Protection), 1972, as members of the State Board for Wildlife. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on the petition, filed by one Boja Raju G.M., city-based environmental engineer. The nine people nominated to the board either have links with the ruling BJP or were recommended by Ministers and MLAs, the petitioner stated based on the information secured under RTI, while pointing out that one of the members, Alok Vishwanath, is the son of S.R. Vishwanath, Yelahanka MLA. Legal sanctity Interestingly, the petition, filed through advocate Sreeja Chakraborty, also questioned the legal sanctity of the board’s decision taken in January 2021 to reject the proposal to declare 5,100 acres of land from Hesaraghatta lake and grassland as “Greater Hesaraghatta Grassland Conservation Reserve”. The petitioner contended that the rejection was influenced by the presence of Mr. S.R. Vishwanath, who was invited to the meeting chaired by the Chief Minister as a “special invitee.” The others whose nominations are under challenge are: Chetan B., professional rugby player; Somasekhar A.R., professor of paediatrics; Naveen J.S., aide of Revenue Minister R. Ashok; Vinod Kumar B. Naika, journalist; Dinesh Singhi, miner; K.S.N. Chikkeruru, retired IPS officer; Thyag Uttappa, coffee planter; and Joseph Hoover, journalist and activist. The petitioner also questioned the nomination of one Siddharth Goenka as representative of a non-government organisation called ‘Banneghatta Wildlife Association’. It was contended in the petition that it could not find such a NGO, while pointing that Mr. Goenka was a trustee of Bannerghatta Nature Conservation Trust, and was serving as Rajya Saanchalak-Gau Samrakshana Prakosth, BJP Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-on-plea-questioning-nominations-to-wildlife-board/article34331407.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls with high stakes in troubled times||The byelections to Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency and Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly constituencies on Saturday come at a time when the BJP government is grappling with challenges on many fronts — management of COVID-19, strike by road transport corporation employees, and the alleged CD sex scandal involving party MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi. Pulling off victories in at least two constituencies would likely help beleaguered Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa consolidate his position within the party and the government. Defeat in these constituencies, which have a strong presence of the Lingayat community, to which Mr. Yediyurappa belongs, would further strengthen those leading the chorus for a change in leadership. With the Assembly elections two years away, the stakes are equally high for the Congress. Victory in the two Assembly seats would enable the party step up its attack on the government for its alleged failures on many fronts and would also boost the morale of the cadre under the leadership of D.K. Shivakumar. It is a matter of prestige for the BJP to retain the Belagavi constituency, the epicentre of politics of the Jarkiholi brothers. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi, who played a pivotal role in the formation of the BJP government in the State, has stayed away from the campaigning, following his alleged role in CD scandal. His brother and Congress MLA Satish Jarkiholi is locked in a straight fight with the BJP’s Mangala, wife of the late Suresh Angadi, Union Minister who succumbed to COVID-19. The BJP is banking on the support of Lingayats and Marathas, for whose welfare the government has set up corporations and made budgetary allocations. The Congress is aiming to garner support from members of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, OBC communities, apart from minorities. Switched loyalties The bypoll in the reserved Maski constituency is seen as a referendum on former MLA Pratapgouda Patil switching parties. The BJP has fielded the disqualified MLA, who had won in 2018 on Congress ticket but defected to the BJP in 2019. The Congress nominee, Basanagouda Turvihal, had contested on BJP ticket in 2018 and lost by a margin of just over 200 votes. The Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra has strategised the BJP’s campaign in Maski, apparently with huge resources. His influence in the party and the government would grow further if the party wins in Maski. It is a multi-cornered contest in Basavakalyan, with Congress candidate Mala B. Narayana Rao, wife of former MLA the late Narayana Rao, having the sympathy factor on her side. The BJP votes are likely to be split between rebel candidate Mallikarjun Khuba and official nominee Sharanu Salgar. The minority votes are likely to be divided between the Congress and the JD(S) candidate Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri. Congress leaders, particularly former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, have stayed in this constituency for long and campaigned intensively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypolls-with-high-stakes-in-troubled-times/article34331419.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTCs operate over 4,000 buses even as strike continues||While the employees of the State road transport corporations (RTCs) are adamant about continuing the bus strike till their demands are met, the corporations are managing to run more buses every day. On Thursday, all four RTCs together operated over 4,000 buses. Officials claimed that more number of buses plying on the roads was an indication that more employees were reporting back to work every day. Among the corporations, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated more than 2000 buses on Thursday. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) operated around 700 buses, up from 372 on Wednesday. The North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) and North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) operated 747 and 628 buses, respectively. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, MD of KSRTC, said, “At the depot level, senior officials are interacting with the bus crew so that more people report back to duty in the coming days. The State government has made it very clear that there will be no talks unless they call off the strike. Going on strike in the time of a pandemic is causing a lot of inconvenience to the general public.” Meanwhile, the corporations have continued to take action against employees for remainingabsent and taking part in the strike. The BMTC has suspended around 495 employees. From April 7 to 15, the KSRTC has suspended as many as 15 employees and dismissed 85.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtcs-operate-over-4000-buses-even-as-strike-continues/article34331415.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karaga procession cancelled this year too||For the second consecutive year, the civic body has decided to cancel the annual Bengaluru Karaga procession. “With a surge in cases, especially near the temple, it was unanimously agreed that the procession cannot be taken out,” said Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Thursday. However, a decision on the puja and other formalities, to be held between April 19 and 27, has yet to be taken. The festival committee, which was constituted to look into whether celebrations should be restricted to a puja within the temple complex, has recommended a low-key Bengaluru Karaga celebration this year. “The members of the Tigala community want to carry out some rituals at the BBMP head office and Sampige Kere,” said Mr. Gupta, and added that the festival committee will meet once again and take a decision in two days. Last year, during the first wave of the pandemic and the subsequent national lockdown, no procession was taken out and the celebrations were restricted to within the temple. It was said to be the first time in the history of the Karaga that the procession had been cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karaga-procession-cancelled-this-year-too/article34331749.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea in High Court seeks CBI probe into fake stamps and franking case||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the instances of registration of documents using fake stamps and franking in various sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru city. The petitioner, S. Narayana, has alleged that the Halasuru Gate police have been unable make any noteworthy progress in the criminal case registered in this regard in December 2020 based on a complaint by the sub-registrar of Gandhinagar. Though the police registered an FIR on January 4, 2021, based on the complaint lodged on December 22, no swift action appears to have been taken by them though it appears that the State exchequer might have been cheated of crores of rupees using fake stamps and franking, the petition has alleged. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj adjourned further hearing on the matter while asking the State to respond to the plea for transfer of probe to the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-in-high-court-seeks-cbi-probe-into-fake-stamps-and-franking-case/article34331418.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS services for sportspersons||Athletes residing in the 34 sports hostels in the State will soon get guidance from health experts on nutrition, fitness and health. The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), Bengaluru, on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding with the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports to provide quality healthcare services to resident sportspersons. University officials said this was mainly for the benefit of those from rural areas, to help them take care of their nutrition and fitness. Sportspersons may contact the authorities at the district sport hostels, who can then reach out to specialised doctors at medical colleges in their districts. Through this project, health experts and sports medicine experts will guide sportspersons to keep healthy and fit by maintaining a balanced diet. They will also suggest activities that can be personalised for each athlete. It will also include daily health check-ups as well as raising awareness on the kinds of sports injuries, the field of sports medicine, treatment methods, and the best practices.“There is no dearth of talent in our country, but when we look at the number of medals we are winning at the Olympics, it is not enough for a country like India with such a large population,” said Health Minister K. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-services-for-sportspersons/article34331427.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Engineering students urge VTU to put off exam||Thousands of first-semester engineering students enrolled in colleges affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) have urged university officials to put off the examination scheduled to begin in three days. Students have started a campaign on Twitter with the hashtag #postponevtuexams. Citing the surge in COVID-19 cases, many have also submitted requisitions to the principals of their colleges. Parents, too, have joined the chorus and requested varsity to put off the examination, scheduled to be held from April 19 to May 3. The other reasons students cited include the ongoing bus strike and the students’ struggle with grasping key concepts that were taught online. “The university has not taken any measures to trim the syllabus despite the pandemic, our inability to attend classes on campus, and poor access to infrastructure for online classes,” said one student. ‘No change’ However, a senior official of the university said the exam would be held as scheduled. Colleges have been directed to follow the SOP strictly and sanitise classrooms after every session. “Arrangements for thermal scanning and washing of hands will be made. All safety protocols will be followed during the exam,” said the official. Engineering colleges that are doubling as exam centres have been asked to organise separate classrooms for students who have tested positive for COVID-19. On the problem posed by the bus strike, VTU officials said they have asked colleges to provide buses for students, if required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engineering-students-urge-vtu-to-put-off-exam/article34331428.ece
16 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Testing must for Kumbh returnees||Pilgrims returning from Kumbh Mela in Haridwar to Karnataka will have to compulsorily undergo COVID-19 testing and be in home isolation until the results are available. Health Minister K. Sudhakar said they can resume normal activity only after they receive the test results. This is being done as a precaution to prevent further spread of the infection in Karnataka, which is already witnessing high caseload.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-must-for-kumbh-returnees/article34331745.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Action against pvt. hospitals not reserving 50% of beds’||While private hospitals have been requested to reserve 50% of beds for COVID-19 patients, most have reserved only 15-20%, Health Minister K. Sudhakar said, warning them of strict action. “The government will consider it as a serious lapse,” he told reporters. Dr. Sudhakar said 400 doctors have been transferred from the Medical Education Department to the Health Department to handle the situation and the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases has been kept reserved for SARI and ILI related cases. The Minister said only critical non-COVID-19 patients, who need hospitalisation, should be treated in hospitals and private hospitals can arrange Covid Care Centres at hotels. The Technical Advisory Committee will submit a report on increasing cases. “The report will be handed over to the Chief Minister and he will take decisions after the all-party meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-against-pvt-hospitals-not-reserving-50-of-beds/article34331405.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested as CCB unearths currency racket||The special enquiry cell of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police has busted an inter-State fake currency racket and arrested three people who were transporting ink, papers, a printer, and other equipment in an SUV. “They were headed to Kerala, where they were planning to print fake currency,” said a senior police officer, adding that four others who were part of the racket escaped during the raid. After receiving a tip-off, a police team arrived at the service road opposite the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike office in Hoodi. A few minutes later, they intercepted an SUV and caught three people, Shehab, 23, from Kannur, Ashraf, 27, from Kasaragod, and Adul Khadar, 48, from K.G. Halli. When they searched the vehicle, the police recovered papers, ink, printing and cutting machines, a copier, a computer monitor, glue bottles, and a currency counting machine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-as-ccb-unearths-currency-racket/article34331422.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four arrested for dealing in drugs||The Central Crime Branch on Tuesday arrested four people, two of whom are foreign nationals, for allegedly dealing in drugs, and seized ecstasy pills and MDMA powder worth Rs. 20 lakh from them. . The accused are Ajah Francis (34) and Charles Chima (29) from Nigeria and their associates Malang Pasha (30) from Bengaluru and Jasir Thancheri (33) from Kerala. The police recovered five mobile phones, two motorcycles and weapons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested-for-dealing-in-drugs/article34331424.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Horatti writes to Minister||Legislative Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti on Thursday wrote to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar asking him not to postpone or cancel the class X SSLC and second year pre-university exams. He requested the Minister to conduct the exams as per schedule and ensure that all SOPs and precautions are followed. Not conducting the exam will affect the morale of the students, he stated in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-writes-to-minister/article34331423.ece
16 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Preetham Gowda, Hassan MLA, tests positive||Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda has tested positive for COVID-19 infection. In his social media post on Thursday, the BJP MLA appealed to friends and the public, who came in his contact in the recent days, to get tested for the infection. “I have tested positive for COVID-19. As per the doctor’s advice, I am in self-isolation, though I have no symptoms. Those who came in my contact recently, get tested for COVID-19 and take care of your health. I am confident that I will recover soon with the blessings of Hasanamba Devi and the people”, he said in his post. The MLA has been involved in the election campaign at Maski for the last few days. Now he has moved to Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preetham-gowda-hassan-mla-tests-positive/article34331400.ece
16 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||155 fresh cases in Hassan||As many as 155 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Hassan on Thursday, increasing the total number of cases to 31,138. Among the infected 1,232 are under treatment, while 29,421 have recovered so far. Since the last year, 485 people have died due to the infection in the district. At present 16 are in the intensive care unit. Among the fresh cases, the highest of 70 has been reported in Hassan taluk, followed by 32 in Arsikere taluk, 23 in Sakleshpur, 13 in Channarayapatna, six in Arkalgud, and four in Holenarsipur. District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar has appealed to all those aged above 45 years to get vaccinated, assuring them that there would not be any side-effects. He also asked the public to maintain social distance and wear face masks to avoid the spread of the infection.  DC holds meeting Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has instructed the officials to increase the number of COVID-19 tests on a daily basis and to motivate more people to take the vaccination. He held a meeting with officers in Hassan on Thursday. All people aged above 45 years should get vaccinated. The tahsildars and officers at the panchayat level should identify people above 45 years and ensure that they get vaccinated. “All the taluk hospitals should be in good condition to handle the cases. The cases can be referred to the district hospital only in case of emergency. The hospital staff should ensure beds, ventilators and other facilities are available”, he said. The officers should spread awareness on the vaccination and the measures necessary to avoid the spread of the infection. ASHA workers should be involved in awareness programmes. “The number of positive cases is increasing every day. The officers should impose a penalty on those who violate the COVID-19 guidelines. Those who do not wear a face mask and ignore social distance should be made to pay the fine,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/155-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article34331399.ece
16 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||International Film Fest in Hubballi put off to Nov.||In the wake of a second wave of COVID-19, the Karnataka International Film Festival 2021 scheduled to be held in Hubblli from May 21 to 23 has been put off to November this year. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, president of the Nava Karnataka Film Academy, Dharwad, M.A. Mummigatti said that the decision to postpone the film festival, the first ever of such kind in North Karnataka, was taken in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases. “The film festival has been postponed to November and it will be held on 19, 20 and 21 of that month,” he said. Mr. Mummigatti said that the academy had been set up with three main objectives namely conducting international film festivals on an annual basis, ensuring the establishment of a film city and also a film institute. He said that the academy was looking for around 50-100 acres of land in the region and had also sought help from investors for the project. “We have information on availability of suitable land required for the film city and after the film festival, we will be working on the film city project,” he said. Mr. Mummigatti said that the academy had held the first round of discussions with the Maldives Government for having a collaboration for building a film industry there. “Recently, I had been to Maldives and had a discussion with the Minister for Culture there. After the second round of discussions, we will sign a memorandum of understanding,” he said. At present, Maldives was being used for shooting films and the film industry there was in a nascent stage. They wanted the academy to have a collaboration with them to promote their film industry, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/international-film-fest-in-hubballi-put-off-to-nov/article34331396.ece
16 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals voluntarily offer 50% beds||In the wake of the second wave of COVID-19, 20 private hospitals in Hubballi and Dharwad have come forward to voluntarily reserve 50% of beds. Chairing a District Health Task Force meeting in Dharwad on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil appreciated the decision of the private hospitals for extending a helping hand voluntarily in a time of crisis and said that the move would ease the pressure on the district administration in tackling the second wave of the pandemic. Mr. Patil said that the district administration had made elaborate arrangements for patients, including beds, ventilators and liquid oxygen, in government hospitals. However, as patients with aggravated conditions from other districts too were coming to Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, the load was heavy. He said that apart from KIMS and Civil Hospital in Dharwad, 50 beds each had been reserved in the taluk hospitals of Navalgund, Kundgol and Kalghatgi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-voluntarily-offer-50-beds/article34331395.ece
16 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Gangubai Hangal’s son lodges complaint against his daughter||Nonagenarian Baburao Hangal, the eldest son of legendary vocalist Gangubai Hangal, has lodged a complaint against his daughter Anita and son-in-law Mahesh Talakad for breaking open the music museum containing the prized possessions of his late mother. On Monday evening, Mr. Baburao Hangal along with his son Arun Hangal and another daughter Madhavi Joshi addressed a press conference to explain the shock delivered to him by his daughter and son-in-law who he said broke open the museum doors. Mr. Baburao Hangal said that following mediation, they had agreed to lock the museum and hand over the keys back to him. He had also said that if they failed to do as promised, he would be forced to lodge a complaint. Now, in a press release issued by him, Mr. Baburao Hangal has said that Ms. Anita and Mr. Talakad had failed to hand over the keys to him. He also had found out that the exhibits at the museum, with which they shared an emotional attachment, were being handled carelessly by the couple. He has said that as the couple had failed to act as per their promise, he had lodged a complaint with the Hubballi Suburban Police Station. He has said that in connection with the same complaint, he had to wait in his car for nearly seven hours in front of the police station on Tuesday. “I have spent my whole life in Hubballi and now, at 90, I am facing a position where I can’t even stay in my own houseMr. Baburao Hangal said in the press release. Through the press release he has also urged the Commissioner of Police to direct the officials concerned to act on his complaint. Mr. Baburao Hangal has also said that Ganga Lahari, where his mother lived till her death, has a history of its own as several legendary musicians had visited it and stayed in the house. “Most of the family members do not want the holy house to be used for commercial purposes. So I urge upon the government to take a decision to declare it as a monument,” he has said in the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gangubai-hangals-son-lodges-complaint-against-his-daughter-son-in-law/article34331397.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||Telangana cancels exam||The Telangana government has decided to pass all class X students without any ex ams for the second year in a row, keeping in view the surge in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/telangana-cancels-exam/article34331750.ece
16 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Remdesivir: Bommai warns of legal action against hoarders||Sending a clear message to those hoarding Remdesivir, one of the promising drugs used in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that stringent legal action would be initiated against those who stock the medicine to create artificial scarcity and then sell it at inflated prices. “Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar has made it clear that there is no dearth of Remdesivir in the State. Yet, there are complaints that some are stocking the drug to create artificial scarcity and sell it for a higher price. Our government has considered the allegations seriously. We will take stringent action against them,” Mr. Bommai told presspersons in Humnabad, Bidar district, on Thursday. The Home Minister was on his way to Basavakalyan to take part in the party’s byelection campaign. “Our government faced a lot of problems last year during the outbreak of COVID-19. Now, we have taken precautionary measures to contain the spread. Our hospitals are better equipped to handle the crisis. There is no scarcity of drugs for treating COVID-19 patients either... We will convene a meeting of senior police officers in Bengaluru on Friday to discuss steps to be taken to protect the police force from the pandemic and also the services that the Police Department could offer in curbing the disease. We will come up with detailed guidelines for police personnel,” he said. When asked, Mr. Bommai said night curfew, which was in force in a few districts that had reported a high number of COVID-19 cases, would be extended to other districts if the cases went up there. Next step soon “We have already taken lockdown-like steps, including imposition of night curfew in certain districts. If the need arises, we will extend it to other districts. The pandemic is widespread in Maharashtra and we have asked officers to keep a close vigil on the border and check people entering the State from there. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will hold an all-party meeting on Sunday on steps to be taken to curb the spread. After taking opinion from the other parties, we will finalise our next step,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remdesivir-bommai-warns-of-legal-action-against-hoarders/article34331410.ece
16 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP, Cong. hold roadshows in Basavakalyan||Basavakalyan in Bidar district saw intense political activity, including roadshows and public meetings by political parties and candidates, on the last day of public campaigning on Thursday. The BJP held a roadshow from Basava Mantapa Cross to the tahsildar’s office. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Housing Minister V. Somanna, BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP SC Morcha State vice-president Ambaraya Ashtagi and other leaders accompanied the party candidate Sharanu Salagar in the emotionally charged rally. Party workers burst crackers, raised slogans and waved flags throughout the rally. Traffic movement was hit for over two hours during the rally. Earlier in the day, the BJP leaders campaigned in the rural areas. “The good work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would ensure my victory. I too have worked a lot for the constituency for the last three years and I am sure that people would elect me with an impressive margin,” Mr. Salagar said just after finishing the roadshow. The Congress also held a roadshow from Basavakalyan Fort to the tahsildar's office in the morning. Party leaders Priyank Kharge, Sharan Prakash Patil, Ajay Singh, Vijay Singh, Rajashekhar Patil and others accompanied party candidate Mala B. Narayana Rao. Thousands of party workers participated in the march. BJP rebel candidate Mallikarjun Khuba, who is in the fray as an Independent candidate, held a massive public meeting at Akka Mahadevi Grounds in the town. He alleged that the BJP was distributing money to lure voters. “If Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had worked for the development, the BJP wouldn’t have resorted to luring the voters with money. Since there are no visible development initiatives from the government, the BJP leaders are distributing money to voters,” Mr. Khuba charged in the public rally. Janata Dal (Secular) did not hold any public event. Its leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy made it clear in a press meet that his party had not organised any rally owing to COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-cong-hold-roadshows-in-basavakalyan/article34331402.ece
16 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||HDK takes exception to holding rallies||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy criticised the political parties and candidates contesting Basavakalyan byelection for holding rallies and violating the COVID-19 guidelines in Basavakalyan on Thursday. “For BJP leaders, getting more votes in the byelection is more important than the lives of the people. COVID-19 is spreading fast and I am surprised to hear that the BJP leaders have organised a huge rally. People are participating in the rally without wearing face masks and maintaining social distance,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. He was addressing a media conference in Basavakalyan, Bidar district, on Thursday. Referring to the all-party meeting scheduled for Sunday to discuss the measures to be taken for controlling the spread of COVID-19, the former Chief Minister alleged that the BJP government was going to hold the meeting to cover up its failure in containing the spread of the pandemic. “The government has completely failed to control the pandemic. There is no stock of medicines required for treating COVID-19 patients. Hospitals don’t have enough beds. The government has enough time to make preparations. But, it neglected the recommendations made by the expert committee and wasted time. Now, they [BJP leaders] have called an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. The meeting is a bid to cover up their failure under our [the Opposition parties] shadow. There is no use in participating in the meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-takes-exception-to-holding-rallies/article34331403.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water may be impounded at new dam by year-end||With work on foundation, piling and erection of piers completed almost for two thirds of the length of the Adyar-Harekala Vented Dam-Cum-Bridge within four months of commencement of the project, the Minor Irrigation Department is now confident of impounding water in the dam by December this year. The 520-m-long dam-cum-bridge with 51 piers and 52 vents is an initiative of the former Minister and Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader to provide drinking water to towns and villages in his constituency as well as to offer connectivity to the hinterland with the mainland through the bridge. While the dam length is 520 m, foundation, piling and pier construction is nearing completion with one one-third each portions from the northern and southern banks of the Netravathi from Adyar and Harekala sides. Work on the middle portion is pending. Assistant Executive Engineer of the department’s Mangaluru Sub Division Vishnu Kamath told The Hindu that coffer bunds have been erected for the entire length of the river-bed as there was no inflow from the Thumbe Vented Dam. Work on foundation, piling and pier erection would be taken up in the middle portion shortly and it be completed by May 20, before the onset of monsoon, he said. Once the piers are up, work on the top portion, including launching of girders, casting concrete slabs and construction of guard walls, could be executed even during the rainy season, Mr. Kamath said. The project has so been designed that concrete mix could be pumped to the top portion of the dam from both sides. Every third pier would be taller by about 5 m from the rest to accommodate girders for the bridge, he added. He said that the department will ensure that the coffer dams are dismantled once the foundation and pier works are completed so as to facilitate free flow of the Netravathi downstream. Everything is going as planned, he said and added at the present pace, water impounding should be possible by the year-end. When completed, the dam can store 18.73 million cubic metres of water as against a demand of 8.5 million cubic metres of water. The bridge will be 10 m wide with a 7.5-m wide carriageway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-may-be-impounded-at-new-dam-by-year-end/article34331917.ece
16 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Vivek Gowda’s photographs on display from tomorrow||Mangaluru Chapter of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) has organised an exhibition of photographs by Vivek Gowda from April 17 to 21 at Kodial Guthu Centre for Art and Culture, G.G. Road, Ballal Bagh in the city. The exhibition will be inaugurated on Saturday, April 17 at 5 p.m. in the presence of eminent photographer Guruduth Kamath Udupi, Bharatanatyam artist Vani Rajagopal Chennai and poet, lyricist and editor of Arso Konkani monthly Wilson Kateel. The exhibition remains open to the public on all days till April 21 between 11 am and 7 pm. Admission is free. The event is supported by Mangaluru Horse Riding Academy, Blink Films, Craft Zilla and Art Kanara Trust, said a release. Mr. Gowda is a cinematographer and photographer who conveys stories and conditions of human life through videos and images. His areas of expertise are in the genres of video editing, cinematography, people and documentary photography. Mr. Gowda was declared as the “FIP Photographer of the Year 2020” by the Federation of Indian Photography (FIP) for his photo story of Intha Fishermen in Myanmar. He has received the “Best Editor” award from Hamsa TV in 2017, won many international awards and accolades in different photography contests of various countries. He has also bagged AFIP (Artist FIP) distinction from Federation of Indian Photography. He runs a company named “Blink Films,” where he mainly focuses on shooting advertisements, feature films, weddings and filming corporate events. Mr. Gowda is a resident of Mangaluru. For details on the exhibition, contact Mr. Gowda, 9740644511/vivekphotography2011 @gmail.comor Rajendra Kedige, 94800 14812/artkanaratrust @gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vivek-gowdas-photographs-on-display-from-tomorrow/article34331926.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Weekend getaway?||With no project of this magnitude in the vicinity, the 520-m-long Adyar-Harekala vented dam-cum bridge appears to be having all the potential of becoming a weekend getaway if developed suitably. Already, people from Harekala and surrounding areas are using the coffer dam connecting the northern and southern banks of the Netravathi for their regular commute; it becomes difficult to regulate traffic at times, said Minor Irrigation Department’s Assistant Executive Engineer Vishnu Kamath. The bridge, once completed, will save about 45 km of a round trip for people from the Harekala region to reach areas around Mangaluru and National Highway 75. With the availability of the dam’s backwater, the area could be developed into a tourist attraction, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-getaway/article34331914.ece
16 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fire safety drill in Udupi||The Fire and Emergency Services Department in association with Konkan Railway Corporation conducted a fire safety drill at Udupi Railway Station on Thursday. The safety drive meant to highlight prevention of fire and the proper procedure of using a fire extinguisher was conducted as per instructions of District Fire Officer Vasanth Kumar, said a communiqué. Leading Fireman M. Keshav and his team conducted the exercise. KRCL area officer Rajesh Shetty, RPF Inspector Santhosh, Senior Section Engineer Vinod and others were present. As many as 35 personnel participated in the exercise even as passengers of the Matsyagandha and Madgaon trains witnessed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-safety-drill-in-udupi/article34331919.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Underground drainage system in Udupi city to be revamped||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Thursday said that the district administration has planned revamping of the underground drainage system in Udupi city at a cost of Rs. 400 crore. Revamping the system, Mr. Jagadeesha said, would help contain water pollution in the Indrani rivulet passing through the city. The Deputy Commissioner was speaking at the “Monthly Media Interaction” organised by Udupi District Working Journalists Association along with Udupi Press Club in Udupi. Mr. Jagadeesha said that the administration was concerned about the pollution of the rivulet and has decided to focus on plugging sewage flow into the Indrani. A proposal to revamp the obsolete underground drainage system was already sent to the government, he said. When approved, the existing system that has faulty design would be fully changed. To a query on the deplorable condition of the Indrani, Mr. Jagadeesha said that the routine exercise of removing silt from the rivulet bed was being taken up every year before the onset of monsoon. It would be done this year too. When the administration was planning to elevate Udupi and Manipal into Smart Cities, the rivulet passing through the city cannot be left to remain polluted, he said. There was also a need to rejuvenate fallow agricultural land in the district to make them fit for cultivation to enhance water holding capacity of the land. The administration has planned to increase paddy cultivation by one thousand hectares a year taking lead from neighbouring Kerala where 25,000 hectares of fallow land was being rejuvenated under the Subhiksha Keralam scheme, he said. The administration would approach land owners, motivate them and provide incentives to take up farming on fallow land to make the district self-reliant in foodgrains production. The administration would also reserve 10 acres of land in every taluk to promote food processing industries, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/underground-drainage-system-in-udupi-city-to-be-revamped/article34331920.ece
16 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fire destroys files at Income Tax office||Fire broke out in a part of the Income Tax Department in the Central Revenue building in Attavar here on Thursday morning damaging files. According to the police, the fire was noticed in the air conditioner duct of the TDS section of the Income Tax Department. It was reported at around 10 a.m. Many files kept in section were burnt. The impact of the fire damaged the switch board and a few other appliances in the adjoining room. The fire was put out at around 11 a.m. Meanwhile, in another case, an electrical short circuit led to a fire accident at a hypermart in Ballalbagh in the early hours of Thursday. Fire and Emergency Services personnel put out the fire at around 2 a.m., the personnel said.  In another incident, electrical short circuit resulted in a fire accident at a hypermart in Ballalbagh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-destroys-files-at-income-tax-office/article34331923.ece
16 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tourist guides in despair as second wave hits travel sector||The second wave of pandemic sweeping across the country has put paid to the fate of tourist guides who were on the verge of recovery after last year’s crippling blow dealt by COVID-19 to the tourism industry. With the daily new cases having breached the 2 lakh mark, its cascading affect has begun to impact the travel sector once again. Tourist guides, whose livelihood is entirely dependent on the fee paid by a discerning visitor to learn more about the place of interest and monument, are overcome by a sense of despair as the tourist footfall is on the decline. Devaraj, a guide at the historic Keshava temple at Somnathpur temple in Mysuru district, said there were hardly 30 visitors during weekdays since the last few days and it is down from about 100 visitors per day which was the norm till a few days ago. During weekends the monument would receive around 200 visitors of whom about a handful would prefer the services of a guide. But that number is again falling due to the second wave of the COVID-19, he said. “There are 8 guides at Somnathpur and we have formed two batches of 4 guides each and work on alternate days. We pool our earnings and share it amongst ourselves so that nobody goes hungry’’, said Mr. Devaraj. There is a similar arrangement among the guides at Belur Chennakeshava temple. There are 24 guides who have formed two batches of 12 guides each and pool their earnings. “The scenario was improving but with the daily cases breaching the 2 lakh mark, we are not optimistic and the future appears grim again’’, said B.N. Satyanarayana Gupta, a senior guide at Belur. He said after the first wave there was a recovery with domestic tourists providing the traction. But it back to square one now as the footfall is on a decline. At the Mysuru palace the daily records also show a perceptible decline. About 3,500 t0 4,000 tourists had visited the palace daily till the first week of April. But it is around 1,100 to 1,800 since April 5. The fear of the pandemic has also brought about a change in the attitude of many tourists who have begun to avoid engaging guides. This stems from the belief that guides are exposed to many tourists and hence could be potential carriers of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourist-guides-in-despair-as-second-wave-hits-travel-sector/article34331934.ece
16 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Daily surge increases Mysuru’s active case tally||In a span of three weeks, more than 2,000 cases have added to the active case tally in Mysuru, which is reporting an average of 300 cases daily since the past few days. The active cases were less than 300 on March 19 but the new infections spiked afterwards and the active cases climbed to 2,508 as on Thursday. Even as health authorities are not ruling out further surge in cases with the current infection spreading at a much faster rate than the previous wave, they are however gearing up to combat the resurgent pandemic putting all the resources together. Though they have ruled out any shortage of beds at this stage because of the recommendation of more number of asymptomatic cases for home isolation, the patients’ recovery is equally fast with an average of 200 patients being discharged daily. Barring cases that require hospitalisation, with problems in breathing and those with multiple symptoms, asymptomatic patients and patients with mild symptoms are recommended either home isolation or admission in COVID-19 Care Centres. The decision is left to the patients’ discretion. A total of 596 patients are under home isolation. Meanwhile, 327 cases were reported on Thursday besides five deaths. The death toll has touched 1,098. As many as 199 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the number of recoveries to 56,142. Sources in the health department said, “unlike the previous wave when the primary contacts of the infected used to dilly-dally to get tested, the situation has changed now and the contacts are volunteering for the tests.” More testing With more number of persons being subjected to the tests, the cases are going up. The testing and tracing of the contacts had been restructured and the highest number of positive cases reported daily were among the contacts of the infected and not the new cases entirely. Out of 327 cases reported on Thursday, 258 are the contacts of the infected. At the district hospital which is a designated COVID-19 hospital, patients are categorised and admitted based on their symptoms and severity of infection. “There are about 60 patients who are being treated with admission in the wing having oxygenated beds though the hospital has nearly 288 patients as on Thursday. The hospital was built to accommodate 250 in-patients but the capacity is being expanded to accommodate more cases,” sources said. Other cases However, the SARI and ILI cases continue to be treated in K.R. Hospital, which has set aside nearly 400 beds for COVID-19 patients. COVID-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms will remain in the designated COVID-19 facility on KRS Road and all critical cases are moved to the K.R. Hospital for handling those patients who may require other medical interventions and investigations. K.R. Hospital is now equipped with a 13 kl liquid oxygen tank providing uninterrupted oxygen supply to beds for patients with respiratory complications. The hospital has around 400 beds with centralised oxygen supply for the treatment of patients with breathing problems and 50 ventilator beds.  As many as 327 cases were reported on Thursday. With five more deaths, the toll touched 1,098. As many as 199 patients recovered on Thursday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-daily-surge-increases-mysurus-active-case-tally/article34331411.ece
16 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rain in Kodagu||Kodagu district has received 9.99 mm of rains in the last 24 hours, reducing the temperature considerably. The rainfall was widespread across the district. Madikeri kasaba received 37 mm of rainfall, Napoklu 10 mm and Bhagamandala 17.40 mm. The other centres include Virajpet kasaba (22 mm), Ponnampet (9.20), Ammathi (15), Somwarpet kasaba (8.4), Shanivarsanthe (5), Shantalli (15), Kudlipet (2.4), Kushalnagar (1) and Suntikoppa (3.2 mm). The cumulative rainfall in the district since January 1 is 122.56 mm as against 17.01 mm received during the same period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-in-kodagu/article34331935.ece
16 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Library: Bank account opened||A bank account has been opened for the collection of cash donations towards construction of a library at Rajiv Nagar in Mysuru where the library set up by Syed Ishaq was burnt last Friday. An official statement said a Savings Bank account has been opened in the name of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner and Deputy Director of City Central Library, Department of Public Libraries. Donors can send their contributions to SB account number 40137132558, State Bank of India’s Mysuru Medical College branch, Irwin Road. The IFSC code is SBIN0040875. The funds already collected and the contributions made in future will be used for constructing a library as per the desire of Mr Syed Ishaq, the statement said. Books, furniture, computers and other material donated will be kept in the office of Deputy Director, City Central Library, Sayyaji Rao Road, till the work on the construction of the library is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/library-bank-account-opened/article34331937.ece
16 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Cong., BJP trade charges in Maski||Stating that men belonging to the BJP were distributing money luring voters in Mattur village in Maski Assembly Constituency on Thursday, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has said that his party workers caught them red-handed with the money and handed them over to officers concerned for further action. He was addressing a press conference in Maski on Thursday. Mr. Shivakumar said that a team of youth, who, according to him, has come from Shivamogga and Hassan, has been distributing money to voters, with the support of officials. But, the Congress workers foiled their bid to reach voters with the money. He continued to attack the BJP and said that “both Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra have been inducing BJP workers to lure the voters by distributing money”. However, the people of Maski will reject their money and they will definitely vote for the Congress candidate to defeat the misuse of the power, he said. On the other hand, BJP MLC N. Ravikumar has said that BJP workers caught red-handed Congress workers while they were distributing money to voters. He was addressing a press conference in Maski after the allegations against his party came from Mr. Shivakumar. When The Hindu called him, he said that the Congress started distributing money to voters soon after Mr. Shivakumar came to the constituency. “He [Mr. Shivakumar] came here to Maski with huge money only to lure voters,” Mr. Ravikumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-bjp-trade-charges-in-maski/article34331394.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||10 new COVID-19 Care Centres in 3 days||In an attempt to ease the city’s medical infrastructure, which is straining under the surge of COVID-19 cases, the BBMP will establish 10 more COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) that will be made operational in three days. With this, there will be over 1,500 additional beds available for people who cannot isolate themselves at home. The two operational centres at Haj Bhavan and HAL’s Ghatage Convention Centre, which have 200 beds each, are filling up fast. According to civic officials, these two centres have reported 70% occupancy even though many patients are opting for home isolation. As on April 14, of the 63,167 active cases, 88.13% have opted for home isolation, and 11.80% have either been shifted to CCCs or hospitals. Though the Koramangala Indoor Stadium with over 200 beds is ready, the BBMP is unwilling to open it. Senior officials said that this was because the structure emits a lot of heat. “It is not suitable to admit patients there. We are keeping this facility as the last option,” an official said and added that unless air coolers or fans are installed, the facility cannot be operationalised. Closer to home BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta has directed officials to identify locations for smaller CCCs, with 50-bed capacity, in the eight different zones. “Last year, big facilities were opened. However, we found that people were not willing to travel to a facility far away from their residence. Hence, it was decided to have smaller facilities in each zone,” an official said. Hotels to step in again Several private centres are likely to be set up soon. These facilities are being set up by hotels in association with private hospitals. According to P.C. Rao, president of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association, by Saturday, 10 private CCCs will be ready. “Already, four CCCs are ready to be opened and six hotels are in the process of tying up with private medical establishments. Depending on demand, more hotels may come forward to convert their facilities into CCCs,” he said. Last year, following the outbreak of the pandemic, many hotels had been converted into CCCs and quarantine facilities for travellers from other States and countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-new-covid-19-care-centres-in-3-days/article34331739.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP launches helpline in tie-up with Bescom||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has set up a helpline – 1912 – to receive complaints and grievances related to COVID-19. The helpline aims to help citizens with bed allocation and hospital-related issues, apart from giving general information related to COVID-19. It has been set up with assistance from Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), and will function from its call centre. “An additional 15 lines are being added to the call centre. In all, there will be 30 lines in the helpline,” said BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. The helpline is in addition to the existing Aptamitra helpline (14410), ambulance facility (108) and the eight zonal war rooms. Citizens may call the new helpline for COVID-19 related queries, testing centres, vaccination centres, medical advice on symptoms, and direct assistance on hospital bed blocking and admission, CCC bed blocking, availing BBMP’s ambulance service and home isolation support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-launches-helpline-in-tie-up-with-bescom/article34331743.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||7 crematoriums reserved for pandemic victims||With ambulances outside crematoriums becoming the norm, the civic body has reserved seven of the 13 electric crematoriums in the city solely for COVID-19 related deaths. The BBMP is also working towards organising at least two ambulances in each ward and one advanced life support ambulance with oxygen supply for every Assembly constituency. These services will be free for citizens. At each of the seven crematoriums reserved for COVID-19 cremations, there are two furnaces adding up to a total of 14 furnaces. Responding to reports of long queues at crematoria, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said he has instructed officials to ensure even distribution of work load across all seven crematoria to avoid pile-ups. Mr. Gupta also said that salaries of workers at crematoria had been held up at the zonal level due to technical issues. “I have ordered that all payments be made within a day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7-crematoriums-reserved-for-pandemic-victims/article34331744.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain brings some relief to Mysureans||The minimum temperature was 21.2 degrees C which was normal. Bogadi and surrounding areas reported hailstones though there were mild showers bordering on light drizzle in other parts of the city. The rural hinterland too received heavy rain and this is expected to bring down the temperature considerably. The forecast till April 21 is temperature in the range of 35 degrees C but with cloudy conditions with one or two spells of thunder showers. The all-time high temperature for Mysuru in the month of April is 39.9 degrees C recorded on April 25, 2016. But otherwise the temperature hovers around 35 degrees with the lowest in the last 10 years being 34.9 degrees C recorded on April 2, 2011. The highest temperature in the month of April last year was 35.9, recorded on April 6, 7 and 23, as per IMD data. The lowest temperature last year was 21.3 degrees C and the all-time low for April was 14.9 degrees C recorded on April 1, 2002. But the summers in neighbouring Kodagu is relatively mild and the maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 29 degrees C. The minimum temperature was 19.6 degrees C which was 2 degrees above normal. The all-time high record for April in Kodagu was 34.2 degrees C recorded on April 7, 1998, as per IMD data and the highest temperature last year was 32 degrees C. The lowest temperature in April last year was 14.8 degrees C and the all-time low for April is 10.6 degrees C recorded on April 16, 1955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-brings-some-relief-to-mysureans/article34331939.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to form village task forces to curb spread||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that village task forces will be constituted to avoid the spread of COVID-19 infection in rural areas. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Thursday, the Minister said the government had issued guidelines for the rural task forces. The forces would involve gram panchayat presidents, vice-presidents, members, village accountants, beat police, health workers, anganwadi workers, ASHAs, a local doctor, and panchayat development officer. A direction had been issued to constitute such task forces at the gram panchayat and village levels. Keep track The members will identify people aged above 65 and keep a track of their health. They will ensure those enrolled for a job under MNREGA are divided into small groups and if any of them develop symptoms, necessary measures will be taken. Anganwadi workers and ASHAs will identify people with symptoms and take them to the nearest hospitals, Mr. Eshwarappa said. The Minister said task forces had to follow the guidelines strictly and avoid gathering in large numbers near public wells, tanks and other waterbodies. They will keep a vigil on rumours being spread about the infection, the Minister said. Mr. Eshwarappa said ahead of monsoon, the gram panchayats will take up work related to conserving rainwater under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. The Prime Minister had instructed to take up work water conservation works for 100 days from April 1. The panchayats will make use of the time to rejuvenate traditional waterbodies. He said daily wage under the programme had been increased from Rs. 275 to Rs. 299. The workers would get payment within 15 days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-form-village-task-forces-to-curb-spread/article34331408.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mango yield to be 30-40% of normal year||Given the low yield, the prices of mangoes are expected to remain high this season. “The early varieties that have come to the market — Raspuri, Sindhura and Totapuri — have been trading on a higher scale today, which is expected to continue through the season. Those who have sold their produce till now have mostly sold a kilo at over Rs. 160 levels,” Dr. Nagaraju said. A silver lining is that unlike last year, international flights and ship traffic seems unaffected for now, raising hopes of good business in the exports sector. Order mangoes You can now order mangoes directly from farmers online and it will be delivered to your doorstep via India Post. The KSMDMCL, which started the programme during the lockdown last year, opened for orders from Thursday on its website: https://www.karsirimangoes.karnataka.gov.in/. Consumers need to order in multiples of three kilos. “The programme was a big success last year. We sold over 100 tonnes of mangoes through our portal,” said Dr. Nagaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-yield-to-be-30-40-of-normal-year/article34331740.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dog’s best friend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dogs-best-friend/article34331421.ece
16 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Panel to prepare environmental plan||A meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander on Thursday constituted a special committee to prepare an environmental plan for the demolition of the illegally constructed villas of Kapico Kerala Resorts Pvt. Ltd on Nediyathuruthu Island on Vembanad Lake. The committee is led by Subcollector S. Ilakkiya and Environmental Engineer B. Biju. The Town Planner, Irrigation Executive Engineer, Public Works Department Executive Engineer, and a representative of the Geology Department are members on the committee. It has been asked to submit the plan in a month. Besides, the Public Works Department (Buildings wing) has been asked to prepare a detailed project report to demolish constructions in the resort. No explosion Mr. Alexander said he had received directives to prevent debris from falling into the lake during demolition. He said in view of the fragile ecosystem, an explosion would have to be avoided. A meeting involving the resort owner and experts would be convened soon, the Collector said. The Supreme Court on January 10, 2020 dismissed the appeal by Kapico against a Kerala High Court order banning the construction of resorts and removal of structures on the backwater island. The court had observed that the constructions violated coastal and environmental regulations. Although the responsibility of demolishing the structures lies with the Panavally grama panchayat, the local body has sought the help of the district administration citing its lack of expertise and finance to carry out the task. Kapico constructed 54 villas, a main block, among other facilities, over a period of six years from 2007. In March 2013, the Kerala High Court ordered the demolition of Kapico resorts along with the illegal structures constructed by Vaamika Island (Green Lagoon Resort) on Vettila Thuruthu, also on Vembanad Lake. The High Court had ordered the removal of unauthorised structures within three months. Following this, Vaamika moved the Supreme Court. Its petition was dismissed by the court stating that Vembanad Lake was an ecologically sensitive area. While dismissing the appeal filed by Kapico, the court noted that “we do not know how this finding can be held to be applicable only to Vettila Thuruthu Island”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-prepare-environmental-plan/article34331504.ece
16 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed in a road accident at Padanilam, near Kayamkulam, on Thursday. The dead were identified as Thomas, 61 (Joykutty), of Pattoor and his daughter Jossy Thomas, 20. The police said the two-wheeler they were riding was hit by a lorry around 12.45 p.m. Although they were rushed to a hospital, their life could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-accident/article34331505.ece
16 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man held with fake currency||The police have arrested a 38-year-old man and seized counterfeit currency notes of the denomination of Rs. 200. The arrested was identified as Ratheesh, 38, of Aryad. The police said the accused had used to regularly buy lottery tickets worth Rs. 40 after giving fake notes of Rs. 200 to lottery agents in Mannancherry and Alappuzha north police station limits. Based on suspicion, one of the agents recently lodged a police complaint that led to his arrest. “On the pretext of buying a lottery ticket of Rs. 40, he would hand over a counterfeit currency note of the denomination of Rs. 200. He would then get the real banknotes worth Rs. 160 for the rest of the amount,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-with-fake-currency/article34331498.ece
16 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Revenue officials thwart encroachment bid in Munnar||Encroachers are on the prowl in Munnar with two government plots coming under encroachment recently. However, revenue officials thwarted the attempts and cases had been registered in this regard. According to a revenue official, encroachers become active on holidays and during general functions when officials are busy with other duties. This time a resort group encroached on two cents of an anganvadi at Munnar Colony and constructed a concrete retaining wall. According to Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan, the resort owner illegally constructed the retaining wall on the premises of the anganwadi. The anganwadi teacher was not present as she was on election duty and noticed the encroachment only on Monday. On being informed, the Revenue Divisional Office at Devikulam took action and demolished the wall. Office vandalised In another incident, encroachers broke open the special revenue office at Ikka Nagar and vandalised the office. They had also locked the door with another lock. The officer in charge was out of station and it was noticed when he came back. Revenue officials reached the spot and broke open the lock. Land records kept at the office were found misplaced and strewn all over. In 2008, the Revenue Department had resumed over 50 cents of encroached government land and the building was made a special revenue office in 2014. It was suspected that encroachers broke open the door on Saturday or Sunday night. Mr. Premkrishnan said the special revenue office had been shifted to the RDO office at Devikulam and the building was being converted to a guest house. A case had been registered in connection with the incident, he said. A revenue special squad would be monitoring the area, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-officials-thwart-encroachment-bid-in-munnar/article34331499.ece
16 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Farmers in Idukki find the going tough||Even as the government announced steps to increase production of cool-season vegetables, farmers in Kanthallur and Vattavada in the district face lack of a proper marketing system to sell their produce. They claim the prices they receive are often below one-third the market prices and that there is no proper procurement of vegetables by the Horticorp. Also, there is a lack of timely payment to the two societies to which the farmers sell their produce. Many farmers who had abandoned vegetable cultivation returned to it during the pandemic. There was a government scheme to uproot grandis cultivation and promote vegetable cultivation in the two villages. However, it appears that the farmers prefer grandis cultivation as it is less risky. Sojan P.G, secretary, Kanthallur cool-season vegetable cultivation farmers’ marketing society, said the Horticorp had not paid Rs. 11 lakh due for the three-year period till 2020. The society paid the money from its own funds to the farmers and had to stop procuring vegetables from the farmers. There are nearly nearly 700 farmers under the society. “What we demand is payment once in six months. Otherwise, farmers are forced to undersell the crops to middlemen from the Udumalpet market,'' he said. Vegetables from the two villages are known for minimal use of chemical pesticides and hence have lower shelf life, he said. Government agencies, including the VFPCK (Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam), are required to regularly procure the vegetables, he said. Horticorp According to K. Jayaprakash, president of Vattavada cool-season vegetable cultivation farmers' marketing society, the Horticop not only failed to procure vegetables but also made a long delay in the payment. Unless the payment was not made in time, the farmers had no option but to undersell the produce to middlemen, he said. There are nearly 1,100 farmers under the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-in-idukki-find-the-going-tough/article34331517.ece
16 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki to strictly enforce pandemic protocol||In the wake of the rise in COVID-!9 cases, the district administration has decided to enforce the pandemic protocol strictly. District Collector H. Dinesan on Thursday said all those coming from across the State border would have to undergo COVID-19 testing. He said more tests would be done in areas with clusters. As many as 10,000 COVID-19 tests would be conducted in two days. The Chitra Pournami festival at the Mangaladevi temple inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve would not be held this year too, he said. Shops would be asked to adhere to the pandemic protocol. An online meeting would be held with representatives of the merchants association on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-to-strictly-enforce-pandemic-protocol/article34331506.ece
16 April 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Summer rain brings cheer to farmers in Wayanad||Summer rain in the past four days has brought cheer to farmers, especially coffee farmers in Wayanad, a major Robusta coffee and ginger growing region in the State. “The prolonged dry spell had caused moisture depletion in the soil and it was leading to a drought-like situation,” K. Ajith Kumar, Associate Director of Research, RARS, told The Hindu . However, the pre-monsoon rain that the district received is quite good for all crops, especially perennial crops like coffee, tea, pepper and rubber, he said. The IMD had forecast an average of 22.25 mm rainfall in the district till Sunday, he added. “Back-up showers during the period are crucial for the formation of coffee beans. Coffee plants in most parts of the district bloomed after summer rain by the middle of February,” said Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers Association. The showers will also help in the rejuvenation of pepper vines, an inter-crop. “Usually, this is the time to complete the works for ginger cultivation, especially the cultivation on plains, but owing to the delay in summer rain, the cultivation also delayed in many a part of the district,” farming sources said. The rain will facilitate planting of ginger rhizomes on hill slopes and provide adequate moisture for crops such as elephant foot yam, planted on the plains a month ago. Unfortunately, heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds adversely affected plantain and vegetable crops in the plains, resulting in heavy loss to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-rain-brings-cheer-to-farmers-in-wayanad/article34331445.ece
16 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Stringent steps adopted to contain pandemic||The Wayanad district administration has adopted stringent steps to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the wake of the increasing number of positive cases in the district during the second wave of the pandemic. District Collector Adeela Abdulla on Thursday temporarily banned trainings and tournaments in turf courts and playgrounds till April 30. But no restrictions were imposed on individual physical exercises such as walking and cycling, Ms. Abdulla said. The number of people attending ceremonies such as marriages and house warming have been restricted to 100 and the duration of the function should not exceed two hours. Moreover, prior permission should be obtained from the nearest police station for the purpose. The COVID protocol should be adhered to for the functioning of tuition centres, Ms. Abdulla said. District Medical Officer R. Renuka said that 45 centres had been set up in different parts of the district to administer vaccines to people above 45 years old. Meanwhile, the district administration decided to convene an all-party meeting at the APJ Abdul Kalam memorial hall at the collectorate here at 10 a.m. on Friday to discuss measures to contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-steps-adopted-to-contain-pandemic/article34331442.ece
16 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Shortage of vaccine hits mass inoculation drive in State||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Thursday said there was a shortage of vaccine in the State and the government had requested for more vaccines from the Centre. After attending an emergency online meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Ms. Shylaja told the media that there was a worrying situation in the State due to the shortage of vaccines and that localised lockdown might be required in areas where the disease was severe. The Minister said more vaccines were expected from the Centre. However, if there was a shortage in supply, it would be difficulty to carry out the mass vaccination drive, she added. Vaccination camps in the State were in a state of disarray due to acute shortage of vaccines, which were in stock only for three days, she said. The State had started mega vaccination camps to curb the spread of the disease. The goal was to vaccinate 2.5 million people a day. The matter was brought to the notice of the Union Health Minister and the Health Secretary. The State had asked the Centre to supply 25 lakh doses each of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines to Kerala, but received only 2 lakh doses of Covaxin. Vaccination would be completely discontinued if no more vaccines were received before April 20, said Ms. Shylaja. More vaccine expected Chief Secretary V. P. Joy said in the capital that 54.96 lakh had been covered with at least one dose of the vaccine. The State had zero wastage of vaccine. On Thursday, 2,05,228 doses were administered across the State (CoWin statistics). The State’s target population under 45 years is approximately 1,15,000 individuals, which meant that another 65 lakh had to be delivered the first vaccine dose. The State’s actual requirement to fully vaccinate the entire 45-plus group was over a crore. However, the current stock was just about 7,25,300 doses, which has been distributed to districts. With dwindling stock, on Thursday most districts had to massively cut down on the vaccination sites and mega vaccination camps. The State expected to receive two lakh doses of Covishield vaccine on Friday.  (With input from Thiruvananthapuram bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shortage-of-vaccine-hits-mass-inoculation-drive-in-state/article34331519.ece
16 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Two more held in murder case||The State Crime branch investigation team on Thursday arrested two more persons in connection with the murder of the Muslim Youth League activist Mansoor in Peringathur, Kannur, on April 6. The police arrested Vipin, who allegedly threw a bomb on Mansoor, and Sangeeth, the third accused in the case. They were hiding near the Monthal bridge, which is between Kannur and Kozhikode. With this, the number of those arrested in the case has increased to seven.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-held-in-murder-case/article34331441.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||COVID situation in Ernakulam serious||Testing for COVID-19 will be ramped up in the next two days, and people who participated in the election process will be tested, District Collector S. Suhas said on Thursday. A minimum of around 31,000 tests will be done over the next two days, and 10 mobile testing units will be deployed from Friday onwards, the Collector said. Besides those who participated in the polling process, inpatients and outpatients at hospitals, contacts of COVID-19 patients, people with influenza-like illness, people over 45 years who have not taken the vaccine, and people in containment zones and falling within clusters, will be prioritised for testing. All available resources will be deployed to identify people with the infection. The test positivity rate (TPR) has been over 14% for two days now. The TPR was at 14.2% on Wednesday and 14.36% on Thursday. The situation in the district is becoming increasingly serious, Mr. Suhas warned. Of the 214 ICU beds in the district, 104 are occupied. The occupancy is at 50% in the government sector and 48% in the private sector. Of the 126 ventilators, 48% are in use in the government sector and 20% are being used in the private sector. For the third consecutive day, the district recorded over 1,000 new COVID-19 cases, with 1,267 people testing positive. Two health workers were among those who were infected. With 55 newly infected persons, Thrikkakara continues to report the highest number of cases. Palluruthy recorded 45 new cases, followed by Rayamangalam with 41, Thripunithura with 33, and Elamakkara with 27. For testing, 8,823 samples were collected. The source of infection could not be ascertained in 25 cases. A total of 337 people tested negative on Thursday, and the active caseload has grown to 9,277. Of those recovering from the infection, 6,799 are at home, 363 are FLTCs and SLTCs, 540 are at private hospitals, 260 are at COVID treatment centres at government hospitals, and 48 patients are recovering at the naval hospital INHS Sanjivani. While the COVID treatment centre at PVS Hospital is now running with around 20 ICU beds, the facility will soon be upgraded to house 60 ICU beds, and the 100-bed COVID care centre at the Aluva District Hospital will begin functioning immediately, the Collector said. There is however, a limit to infrastructure upgrades, he pointed out. Local bodies have been directed to prepare action plans to reduce the spread of infection within their limits, and the police have been asked to step up enforcement of the COVID protocol. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said the COVID spread in the district was faster than expected, and that strict vigil was necessary. The number of patients has grown exponentially over the past week, and most critically ill patients are in the 40 to 60 age category, it said. Serious cases of infection have been reported even among younger patients. The death rate is likely to rise if the health system is unable to handle the caseload, it noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-situation-in-ernakulam-serious/article34331891.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Boat operators seek relief from fishing ban||All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators’ Association president Peter Mathias and general secretary Joseph Xaviver Kalapurackal have said that imposing a fishing ban for 61 days between June 1 and July 31, 2021, on the west coast of the country would bring great difficulties to the fishing community as a whole. They said that the fishing community was already suffering from the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19. Imposing more restrictions in the coming days would only deepen their problems, they said. More than 3.5 lakh people depend on the fishing sector directly and indirectly for making a living. Long-term restrictions on their activities would deepen the economic crisis among them, they added. The association highlighted that though the same length of period was notified last year, the appeal from the fishing community to the central government had resulted in reducing the period to 47 days. Tangible signs With the second stage of the pandemic tightening its grip, there is tangible signs that thousands who solely depend on sea resources for their livelihood will be affected. Under these circumstances and in the background of global warming and erratic climatic conditions the fishers need to be protected, they said. The association also said that the spiralling price of diesel had put the sector in great trouble. With such uncertainties in the catch, fishing expeditions had become unprofitable and the situation could be mitigated if fishing is permitted during the monsoon season. The price of retail fish selling too had been affected due to the changes in consumer habits during the pandemic. Consumers who have been affected by the restrictions are not in a position to pay more for their daily necessities and the situation has had its impact on the fishing sector too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boat-operators-forum-seeks-relief-from-fishing-ban/article34331443.ece
16 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||First lot of petrochemicals flagged off from BPCL refinery||The first parcel of petrochemicals produced at the new propylene derivatives complex of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s Kochi refinery was flagged off by N. Vijayagopal, Director (Finance), BPCL, on Thursday. The event marks a milestone in the petrochemical sector in the country as niche petrochemicals are being produced and marketed in world-scale economic-size capacity for the first time in the country, claimed a communication from the company here. The first parcels of acrylic acid are being transported in ISO containers to Gujarat and Maharashtra for industrial users. Mr. Vijayagopal said in a press release that the petrochemical initiative would go a long way in helping the country to narrow the demand gap for niche petrochemicals. “The Propylene Derivatives Petrochemical Complex at the BPCL Kochi refinery marks the first major endeavour in India, either in the public or private sector, to produce niche petrochemicals, which are mostly imported now. The new petro complex would save Rs. 4,000 crore of foreign exchange, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had dedicated the propylene derivatives complex at the Kochi Refinery February 14, 2021. The cost of setting up the complex was Rs. 6,000 crore approximately. The complex uses 250,000 tonnes of propylene a year and produces butyl acrylate, ethyl hexyl acrylate, acrylic acid, ethyl hexanol and normal butanol. The acrylic acid unit is the largest single-train unit in the world (160,000 tonnes a year), the communication said. Both acrylic acid and acrylates units are the first in the country. Technology for the products has been sourced from Air Liquide Global E &amp; C Solutions, Germany, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Japan &amp; Johnson Matthey Davy Process Technologies, United Kingdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-lot-of-petrochemicals-flagged-off-from-bpcl-refinery/article34331524.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Acute vaccine shortage in district||The availability of the two vaccines for COVID-19 in the district has dwindled, and stock is available only for sessions on Friday. While additional stock was initially expected to arrive on Thursday, no fresh supply was provided, and there is no clarity yet on when more doses can be expected, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health Officer and nodal officer for immunisation. The district just has around 30,000 doses available for the vaccination drive on Friday, he said. On Thursday, the target was to administer around 31,000 doses, and a total of 171 vaccination sites were operational on the day, including mass vaccination centres, Dr. Sivadas said. While some private hospitals might not have been able to conduct sessions on Thursday, the vaccination sites at government facilities were all functioning, he added. District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing that the district had sufficient stock of the vaccine for Thursday and Friday, and fresh supply is expected soon. Some private hospitals in the district were not able to conduct vaccination sessions on Thursday owing to a shortage of doses, said Dr. Junaid Rahman, former president of the IMA Kochi chapter. “We were informed that additional stock might be made available on Friday, though there is no clarity yet,” he said. Regular sessions were held on Monday and Tuesday, and only limited doses were administered on Wednesday on account of Vishu. Only a few centres were operational on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/acute-vaccine-shortage-in-district/article34331889.ece
16 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||28-year-old case settled by KSRTC at adalat||The cash-strapped Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) settled 121 long-pending cases seeking compensation at a recently concluded national Lok Adalat. The settled cases included one which was booked 28 years ago. The settlement was possible after the corporation and the complainant reached an understanding to drop the interest part of the compensation that was awarded to the complainant, according to those at the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KELSA), who organised the event. In the settled case, an interest of Rs. 50,600 was allowed along with the award of Rs. 22,400. However, both the parties reached an understanding to waive the interest and the KSRTC agreed to transfer the compensation to the complainant next week. The corporation will thus pay a total compensation of Rs. 88 lakh in the 121 cases next week, KELSA officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/28-year-old-case-settled-by-ksrtc-at-adalat/article34331880.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cyclothon propagating fire safety in city today||Two teams drawn from the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and the Kerala Civil Defence Force pedalling their way from Thiruvananthapuram to Kozhikode propagating the theme of the National Fire Safety Week will reach Thrikkakara and Eloor fire stations on Friday evening. The ‘cyclothon’ was flagged off on the morning of Vishu coinciding with National Fire Safety Day. The day was observed by holding commemoration parades at all fire stations across the State. Both the teams will then converge at the Gandhi Nagar fire station on Saturday morning. This will be followed by B. Sandhya, Director General, Kerala Fire and Rescue Services, offering floral tribute at the martyrs column in honour of firefighters who heroically laid down their lives during missions. The Home Ministry has chosen the ‘Maintenance of fire safety equipment is key to mitigate fire hazards’ as the theme for this year’s National Fire Safety Week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyclothon-propagating-fire-safety-in-city-today/article34331882.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||E-challan for vehicle checking soon||The Ernakulam Rural police are set to introduce e-challan for hassle-free vehicle checking and collection of fine. The system will enable vehicle owners or drivers to pay fine instantaneously using debit or credit cards or through online payment gateway at the vehicle checking site itself. It will also enable the police to gather details of vehicles as well. The e-challan system was developed by the National Informatics Centre as part of the national e-governance project. The Treasury Department, Federal Bank, and Pine Labs are also associating with the project. Officers from all five sub-divisions within Ernakulam rural will be trained in its operation in batches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-challan-for-vehicle-checking-soon/article34331883.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ban on visitors at collectorate||Restrictions on visitors will kick in at the district collectorate from Friday on account of the COVID-19 spread. Accordingly, entry will be restricted to collectorate staff alone for the next fortnight. Those with emergency matters may be allowed conditional entry subject to special permission. District Collector S. Suhas urged the public to avail online services as much as possible. Separate boxes for various departments have been arranged at the main entrance for submitting complaints and other communications. People can leave their messages and complaints in these boxes. Direct entry to offices will remain banned. Those who want to directly interact with officials should secure prior approval from security officials who in turn will pass on the message to the officials concerned. Entry will be allowed only through the main entrance. Collectorate staff have also been asked to strictly comply with the COVID-19 protocol. They should wear masks and maintain physical distancing and should always carry their official identity cards. All assemblages inside the collectorate and the compound have been banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-visitors-at-collectorate/article34331892.ece
16 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police intensify probe||The Ernakulam Rural police have intensified probe into the incident in which a little girl from Assam ended up at the Institute of Child Health (ICH) of the Kottayam Medical College with serious injuries. Recently, medical experts had designated her as a “battered child”, defined as a child subjected to abuse by adult caregiver. The District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) has drawn up a special investigation team (SIT) by roping in the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Muvattupuzha. The police have sought a detailed report from the medical board and are also planning to record the statements of the child’s parents afresh. Probe is also under way into the frequent visitors to their rented home at Perumattom in Muvattupuzha. The child continues to convalesce in the intensive care unit, and her condition has improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-intensify-probe-into-abuse-of-girl/article34331887.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Couple held on charge of swindling money||The Palarivattom police on Thursday arrested a couple who were allegedly into robbing young girls, taking advantage of their aspiration to act in movies. The arrested are Athira Prasad aka Ammu, 27, of Udumbanchola and Gokul M.S. aka Unnikannan, 26, of Chembu in Kottayam. Another accused, a taxi driver who goes by the name Ambady, is absconding. According to the police, the accused allegedly abducted and robbed two young girls in a space of a few hours on the eve of Vishu. In the first incident, a girl was allegedly duped into reaching a spot near the Kaloor metro station following which the couple forced her into their car and then robbed her of the gold chain weighing 1.50 sovereigns worth Rs. 40,000 by threatening her to attack her with pepper spray. Later, she was dropped at an isolated place near Palarivattom. Shortly afterwards, they robbed another girl of Rs. 20,000 in a similar manner at the Vyttila hub before abandoning her as well. A team led by Palarivattom Inspector N. Gireesh, Sub Inspectors Sabu K.B., Suresh, and Anilkumar and civil police officers Mahin, Siji Vijayan, and Beevathu made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-held-on-charge-of-swindling-money/article34331881.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rural police tighten restrictions||The Ernakulam Rural police have tightened restrictions in public places in the wake of the surge in COVID-19 cases. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik has warned of strict action against those who do not wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Sanitisers have been made mandatory at shops and other establishments. Round-the-clock check Special squads and patrolling units will be deployed across all the five sub-divisions for enforcement of the COVID-19 protocol. They will be out on the road round-the-clock. Steps will be taken to ensure that only permissible number of people are attending public functions. Those found violating the protocol will be slapped with charges under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. Vehicles will also not be spared. Ever since the new restrictions kicked in, the rural police have registered 462 cases and made 142 arrests. Eleven vehicles have been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-tighten-restrictions/article34331888.ece
16 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: don’t attribute negligence over helmet||The Kerala High Court has held that a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) cannot attribute contributory negligence to a deceased or injured two-wheeler riders and deduct compensation on that count simply because the rider did not wear a helmet at the time of the accident. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan made the observation recently while disposing of an appeal filed against a Tirur Motor Accident Claims Tribunal order deducting a certain amount from the compensation awarded to the legal heirs of a deceased pillion rider on contributory negligence grounds. The court, however, added that this verdict did not give licence to riders to drive motorcycles without wearing a helmet and observed that the authorities concerned should see that Section 129 of the Motor Vehicles Act (compulsory wearing of helmets) was complied with in letter and spirit. Violation The court observed that simply because there was a violation of Section 129 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 by a victim in an accident, there was no presumption that there was contributory negligence on the part of the person who was not wearing the helmet. It was to be decided in the facts and circumstances of each case. There was no doubt that Section 129 was mandatory. Admittedly, the deceased who was a pillion rider had not used a helmet at the time of the accident. Therefore, there was a violation of Section 129. Claims tribunal The tribunal could not fix contributory negligence while assessing compensation in such circumstances. It was the duty of the claims tribunal to assess compensation arising out of an accident. Besides, the consequences of the non-wearing of a helmet by rider or pillion rider could not be a reason for their vehicle being knock down. The apex court had observed that for attracting contributory negligence, there must be either a casual connection between violation and accident or a casual connection between violation and impacts of the accident upon the victim, the court pointed out. Finding set aside The court set aside the finding of the tribunal regarding contributory negligence attributed on the part of the deceased rider.  High Court verdict no licence to riders to drive motorcycles without wearing helmet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-do-not-attribute-contributory-negligence-for-not-wearing-helmet/article34331878.ece
16 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Code of conduct for judicial officers||The judicial officers in Kerala have been advised by the Kerala High Court not to make “offensive, irresponsible or defamatory statements criticising the policies and actions of the governments and their institutions” on social media. The advice is part of the code of conduct introduced for judicial officers, which was drawn up after the Kerala High Court took note of the “growing trend among judicial officers indulging in social media and often posting messages containing unsavoury and unwanted messages.” The code was aimed at regulating the involvement and intervention of judicial officers in social media and other public platforms, according to the official memorandum issued by P.G. Ajithkumar, Registrar (District Judiciary). Violation of etiquette The High Court has also noted that the many of the judicial officers had violated the “standard and etiquette to be followed by the judicial officers” as laid down by the Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct, adopted at the 2002 Chief Justices’ Conference. The officers have also been advised not to make derogatory comments against Ministers, officials, heads of government departments, judges, political leaders, and social activists. Earlier, the High Court had directed its staff and the district judiciary also not to use social media for criticising the policies and actions of the government and its institutions. Social media accounts The officers have been asked to declare their email address and Internet/social media accounts and not to make and use fake IDs and accounts. “The code advises the officers to be “very careful while expressing or propagating any opinion on social media, which may offend any cultural, ethnic, social or religious groups.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/code-of-conduct-for-judicial-officers-introduced/article34331879.ece
16 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Testing to be intensified in districts as cases spurt||In view of the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, as many as 20,000 persons in Kottayam would be subjected to RT-PCR tests over the next two days. District Collector M. Anjana said as many as 2,603 persons tested positive for the disease in the district over the past four days. The sharp rise in the number of patients may affect the treatment capabilities in the long run and hence people should volunteer themselves for testing, she said. Meanwhile, samples will be collected from those residing in vulnerable areas and those having a wide public contact. People with symptoms such as fever, chills and sore throat should compulsorily attend the drive, said the Collector. The district has 226 micro-containment zones across 66 local bodies. On Thursday, the region reported 751 fresh cases, including 78 children. With 131 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pampady with 40 and Vaikom with 28 cases. At the same time, 253 patients were tested negative. In Pathanamthitta As many as 10,000 people will be subjected to RT-PCR tests in Pathanamthitta over the next two days. According to District Collector Narasimhugari TL Reddy, five centres have been set up in the district for free testing and each of these centres will collect 200 samples a day. This is in addition to the samples being tested in other government hospitals, including the district hospital in Kozhencherry and the taluk hospitals. The Collector also issued a directive to open more FLTCs in the district. The testing drive will be followed up with a vaccination campaign. Meanwhile, the district on Thursday reported 395 fresh cases and of this, 346 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. while the source of infection in 11 cases remains unknown. At the same time, 51 people recovered from the disease. Pathanamthitta has reported 63,060 positive cases so far, and of this, 56,936 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. The number of persons who recovered stood at 60,286 At present, 3,446 people, who had contact with the positive cases, are under observation in the district. Currently, a total of 9,141 people are under observation in the district. Government labs and private labs in the district on Thursday received 4,374 samples for testing and the result of 2,275 samples were pending. In Alappuzha The district reported 345 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Of the new cases, 340 contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of one person remains unknown. Meanwhile, 117 people who were undergoing treatment in the district recovered from the disease. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 3,244. ( With inputs from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-to-be-intensified-in-districts-as-cases-spurt/article34331508.ece
16 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Church wants minority welfare under Chief Minister||Even as the LDF government continues to grapple with the crisis triggered by the resignation of K.T. Jaleel from the Cabinet, the Syro-Malabar Church has come up with a demand that the Minorities Welfare Department be handed over to the Chief Minister from the next government onward. A statement, issued by the Public Relations-Jagratha Samiti of the Changanassery archdiocese on Thursday, said the demand was being raised after holding a detailed review of the department’s operation under the two previous governments. It further called for steps to ensure transparent and indiscriminate operations of the department under the next government. Number of issues “A number of issues such as the 80:20 ratio set for the formulation, implementation and utilisation of funds for minority welfare schemes, the amendments enacted in the Minorities Commission Act, 2017 in connection with the appointment of its members, and lapses in recruitment of officials have been under discussion for some time now,” it noted. Meanwhile, the archdiocese centre handed over letters raising the demand to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, and the conveners of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the LDF. While Church sources held that the move had nothing to do with the resignation of Dr. Jaleel, observers regarded it as an expression of unhappiness by the Church on the recent developments within the department.  A statement by the Public Relations-Jagratha Samiti of the Changanassery archdiocese says the demand is being raised after holding a review of the department’s operation under the two previous governments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-wants-minority-welfare-under-cm/article34331500.ece
16 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Amrut projects moving at a snail’s pace||The execution of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) projects, one of the flagship programmes of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, in various cities and towns in the State appears to be moving at a slow pace for various reasons. As of April 13, only 48.96% of the funds have been spent in the State. That translates to 653 out of the 1,005 completed projects in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Thrissur, Guruvayur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur in five sectors. Previously, the State had submitted three State Annual Action Plans(SAAPs) approved by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for a total outlay of Rs. 2357.69 crore for water supply; sewerage and septage management; stormwater drainage; urban transport and greenspace and parks during the mission period 2015-2021. Many of the projects were submitted only in 2018 through an Annual Action Plan for 2017-2020. The contribution of civic bodies is 20% while the State government shares 30% and the Centre contributes 50% of the remaining funds for the projects. Many reasons Multiple factors such as local opposition to schemes, successive floods, COVID-19 pandemic and local body polls and the alleged lethargic attitude of officials have contributed to the delay in the tardy implementation of the schemes in cities and municipalities. The expenditure figures for each civic body are: Thiruvananthapuram (50.55%), Kollam (26.82%), Alappuzha (67.82%), Kochi (45.15%), Thrissur (46.41%), Guruvayur (59.94%), Palakkad (51.15%), Kozhikode (38.33%), and Kannur (56.51%). Tenders awarded Kollam and Kozhikode corporations are the worst performers while Alappuzha municipality and Kannur corporation top the list. However, the comforting prospect is that tenders for nearly 979 projects have been awarded. The completion of schemes differs in all civic bodies with Thiruvananthapuram topping the chart with the capital city executing 201 out of the 270 projects. Likewise, the others are Thrissur (74/110), Palakkad (82/153), Kozhikode (38/50), Kannur (23/38), Kollam (30/58), Kochi (70/98), Guruvayur (11/34), and Alappuzha (124/195). Most projects have been implemented in water supply (64.83%) and stormwater drainage sectors. Sewerage and septage management and urban transport remained low with expenditure at 13.10% and 37. 67% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amrut-projects-progressing-at-a-snails-pace-in-state/article34331436.ece
16 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mass COVID-19 testing drive begins today||The two-day mass testing drive planned by the Health Department as part of intensifying the fight against COVID-19 will begin in the district on Friday. Arrangements are in place to organise special camps in public places, including malls, markets, bus stands, and hospitals, in such a way to cover 40,000 people in two days. The main aim of the drive, which was announced by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao during an online meeting with medical officers and Local Self-Government Department secretaries here on Thursday, is to find out the maximum number of virus carriers, ensure their quick quarantine and proper treatment. It also aims at reducing death rates. During the two-day special drive, health squads will ensure that all those who actively took part in election campaigns make use of the service. Apart from reaching out to elderly citizens and those suffering from various other ailments, the drive will cover Kudumbashree workers, professional college students, and teachers. 10,000 tests Owners of commercial establishments and institutions will be responsible for facilitating COVID tests of their staff members on regular intervals. Taxi drivers and hotel employees also will have to undergo such tests facilitated by their employers. Health Department officials point out that the total number of tests conducted in Kozhikode district a day is now 10,000. Mr. Rao, who called upon local administrators and health workers to step up vigil against the pandemic, also issued a special directive to local body secretaries to strengthen the activities of ward-level Rapid Response Teams. Apart from improving crowd control measures, more first-line treatment centres would be set up to meet the challenge, he said. The district administration came up with a quick action plan noticing a dangerous spike in the number of positive cases within the last two weeks. According to Health Department officials, the test positivity rate scaled up in a short time. Though there was a considerable drop in the number of such cases, it was found increasing after the elections, as people were reluctant to follow safety measures and health protocol, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mass-covid-19-testing-drive-begins-today/article34331451.ece
16 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||VACB planning to quiz Shaji||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) is planning to interrogate Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji in connection with a case registered against him for allegedly amassing wealth beyond his lawful sources of income. It is learnt on Thursday that the VACB would serve a notice on Mr. Shaji for questioning him shortly. As he is an MLA, prior notice is required for his interrogation. Meanwhile, the VACB submitted a report to the Kozhikode Vigilance Inquiry Commissioner and Special Judge on Thursday in connection with the two-day raid carried out at his houses in Kozhikode and Kannur on Monday and Tuesday. The report said Rs. 47,35,500 and about 60 sovereigns of gold ornaments had been seized from his house in Kannur and Rs. 30,000 and 475 gm of gold ornaments from his house in Kozhikode. VACB sources said the gold ornaments and foreign currencies from different countries seized from his house were returned to Mr. Shaji. The gold was not an enormous quantity. Besides, the foreign currency and coins were considered part of his personal collection. 77 documents The report said 77 documents were recovered from both houses. Details about the immoveable and moveable property of his wife Asha Shaji were mentioned in the report. The VACB has registered a case against Mr. Shaji under Section 13 (criminal misconduct by a public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 13 (attachment and forfeiture of property) of the Prevention of Corruption Act ( Amendment)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-planning-to-quiz-shaji/article34331515.ece
16 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Collecting scrap materials to build ‘homes of love’||They are on the field again with a fresh challenge. This time, they call it a “scrap challenge”. For these National Service Scheme volunteers, the mission is to collect maximum quantity of scrap materials from households and mobilise money for building their third dream home for a landslip victim at Kattippara. Financial crisis is hardly a concern for these higher secondary school students as they have been dealing with it consistently by selling tea, hand sanitisers and masks for the poor. They have already built two “homes of love” and handed them over to two families in Kattippara “With the support of benefactors, our volunteers have already completed two houses, each worth Rs. 7 lakh. The new challenge is to mobilise another Rs. 7 lakh to construct one more such house for a needy woman,” says S. Sreechith, NSS District Coordinator, Kozhikode. He hopes that the students will be able to complete the task by the end of next month. Memories of landslip Memories of Kattippara landslip, which took place in 2018 claiming 14 lives, are still haunting the villagers. Despite voluntary contributions from various organisations, individuals and the State government, the completion of the rehabilitation process continues to be challenging. The NSS team makes its entry with an aim to reach out to the worst-affected who have been knocking at doors for support. According to Mr. Sreechith, nearly 7,400 students under 144 NSS units are now part of the door-to-door scrap collection, which was launched two weeks ago. “They are getting a huge stock of old newspapers, plastic items and steel scrap. We are sure to mobilise the required fund within a week’s time,” he adds. NSS volunteers associated with the collection drive say they have already managed to mobilise Rs. 4 lakh for the new home by selling various products and saving some amount from the previous projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collecting-scrap-to-build-homes-of-love/article34331503.ece
16 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,062 new cases reported in Kozhikode||On Thursday, the Health Department confirmed COVID-19 in 1,062 more persons in Kozhikode district. Of the newly confirmed cases, 1,033 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source remained unknown in 26 cases. Though no Non-Resident Keralites figured in the new list, there were three persons from other States who tested positive for the viral infection. On Thursday, the Health Department screened 6,455 persons. It also confirmed the discharge of 410 persons who were undergoing treatment in various first line treatment centres and hospitals. As of now, there are 8,929 Kozhikode natives currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in the district. The number of such persons from other districts is 168 now. The cases continue to be on the rise within the Kozhikode Corporation, where 385 cases were confirmed on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1062-new-cases-reported-in-kozhikode/article34331452.ece
16 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Rs. 503-crore budget for MES||The annual budget of the Muslim Educational Society (MES) for the financial year 2021-22 has envisaged an income and expenditure of Rs. 503 crore. A press release said here that a general body meeting of MES held in Perinthalmanna last week decided to set aside Rs. 12 crore for humanitarian activities. MES president P. A. Fazal Ghafoor presented the budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-503-crore-budget-for-mes/article34331437.ece
16 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Open sky policy hits exporters||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) recent changes to India’s Open Sky Policy has impacted the vegetables and fruit exporters from the State, especially Kozhikode. The policy that came into effect last year limited non-scheduled and ad hoc cargo flights by foreign carriers to Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. “The export cargo of vegetables and perishables moving from Kerala airports have been affected. It has become a burden for exporters to move their cargo to the nearest major airport such as Bengaluru and Chennai. This has led to high transportation costs and thereby losing Middle East and European Markets,” Munshid Ali, head of the Export Grievance Cell of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said. He said that the Calicut Chamber had urged the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation to restore these flights in Kozhikode, Kochi, and Thiruvananthapuram but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/open-sky-policy-hits-exporters-in-kozhikode/article34331438.ece
16 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||14,000 to be tested every day in Malappuram||The Health Department will organise a mega COVID-19 testing drive in the district on Friday and Saturday. Health officials said that 14,000 tests would be done each day. All government and private hospitals in the district will have facilities to conduct COVID-19 tests on Friday and Saturday. Testing is a vital step in preventing the spread of COVID-19. As people can be infected without showing any symptoms, the spread of COVID-19 becomes easy and uncontrollable. Health officials warned here on Thursday that the second wave of the pandemic could be faster and more dangerous than the first one. “Patients can be more serious, and there can be more deaths,” said District Medical Officer (DMO) K. Sakeena. She said detecting the disease would be more important, especially as it could prevent the disease from worsening. Isolating the infected can prevent the spread of the disease, she said. Those testing positive for COVID-19 without showing any symptoms and those showing minor symptoms would be quarantined at their homes. Dr. Sakeena requested all those having COVID-19 symptoms, those who interacted with COVID-19 patients, those who interacted with the public, auto, cab, and bus drivers, collection agents, shopkeepers, trauma care volunteers, police personnel, those above 45 years of age who are not yet vaccinated, those who had election duty, all patients seeking treatment in hospitals and their bystanders to undergo the testing on Friday and Saturday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said here that all those seeking treatment for any disease in hospitals should test for COVID-19. 744 new cases Meanwhile, 744 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Thursday, raising the number of infected cases currently under treatment to 4,562. When 693 of those tested positive on Thursday were infected through direct contact with COVID-19 patients, the source of infection could not be identified in 27 cases. As many as 23 persons who returned from other States too confirmed positive. Dr. Sakeena said that 623 infected persons had succumbed to the disease since March 2020 in the district. However, the number of those who recovered from COVID-19 in Malappuram was 1.24 lakh. While 21,090 people were isolated in the district, 4,562 were under treatment. While 197 of them were in special COVID-19 hospitals, 127 were in first line treatment centres and 101 in second line treatment centres. Health officials reiterated that people should maintain physical distancing and wear mask whenever they go out. For any information or help, the district control cell can be contacted on 0483- 2737858, 2737857, 2733251 or 2733252.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14000-to-be-tested-on-day-1/article34331454.ece
16 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||SFI stages protest against activist’s killing||Activists of the Students Federation of India (SFI) staged protest demonstrations in different parts of the district on Thursday, condemning the killing of 15-year-old SFI worker Abhimanyu at Kayamkulam allegedly by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) workers on the Vishu day. SFI district committee member A. Gopika, K.P. Sharat, and K.M. Rafi addressed a rally taken out here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sfi-stages-protest-against-activists-killing/article34331449.ece
16 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Abdul Wahab to file RS nomination papers today||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) treasurer P.V. Abdul Wahab will file his nomination on Friday as United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate for the Rajya Sabha election. IUML State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal had announced Mr. Wahab’s candidature for the Rajya Sabha polls along with the declaration of the party candidates for the Assembly elections. It will be Mr. Wahab’s third term in the Rajya Sabha. He was first elected in 2004 and then in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abdul-wahab-to-file-rs-nomination-papers-today/article34331525.ece
16 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Seat vacant||A Scheduled Tribe (ST) seat is vacant in BSc Botany at MES Ponnani College, Ponnani. Eligible students can attend an interview at 11 a.m. on Saturday. Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates will be considered if no ST student turns up. For details, contact: 8078020908.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seat-vacant/article34331447.ece
16 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Engineering college hands over food kits||M.E.A. Engineering College, Perinthalmanna, distributed Ramzan-Vishu food kits to 170 families. The college management said that the food kits helped many who were devastated by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/engineering-college-hands-over-food-kits/article34332015.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strict norms for shops, establishments||The district administration has introduced stringent guidelines for shops and establishments given the COVID-19 scenario in the district. The administration has directed shops and supermarkets to avoid mega sales and offers for two weeks and ensure strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. Commercial establishments have been asked to prevent crowds within their premises. Shops should down shutters by 9 p.m. The takeaway counters of hotels and restaurants can function till 11 p.m. The decisions were taken at a meeting convened by District Collector Navjot Khosa with representatives of trade organisations here on Thursday. Seating in restaurants has been restricted to 50% of the capacity. Shops and establishments have also been asked to encourage online booking and home delivery of goods. Clothing stores have been told not to permit customers to try on clothes. Visitors’ register As part of preventive measures, the district administration has asked shops and establishments to maintain a register in which the names and phone numbers of the customers should be entered. Thermal screening should be made compulsory at the entrance to the establishments. Employees of such establishments should possess a COVID-19-negative certificate from an RT-PCR test or the vaccination certificate, the district administration said. RT-PCR every 15 days All employees below the age of 45 should undergo the RT-PCR test once every 15 days and ensure they are COVID-19 negative. Mobile test units will be deployed for the purpose at market places such as Chala and Palayam. Trade organisations can contact the mobile test facilities or the primary health centres in their respective regions for carrying out the tests. Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) G.K. Suresh Kumar, nodal officer for the sector magistrates B. Aneesh Kumar, and representatives of various trade organisations were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-norms-for-shops-establishments/article34332002.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Concern over safety of cracker units||The destruction of a firecracker-manufacturing unit at Palode in a lightning-triggered explosion on Wednesday, in which two were killed, has raised concerns over the perils associated with handling inflammable raw materials in makeshift facilities. The weather condition that prevails in the district poses a graver threat for these units, authorities fear. Lightning had struck the open shed where Sylus, 67, of Meenmutty, near Nanniyode, operated a firecracker-manufacturing unit on a rubber plantation at Choodal around 3.30 p.m. on Vishu Day on Wednesday. One of his workers, Susheela, 58, of Choodal, died on the spot, while Sylus who sustained high-degree burns died at the Government Medical College Hospital here around 10.30 p.m. Ran to safety Susheela’s husband Sukumaran had a miraculous escape after he ran away from the shed when the lightning struck. The casualty would have been much higher had the other six workers turned up for work on the fateful day. They could not report for work owing to the heavy downpour that lashed the region. Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) G.K. Suresh Kumar said the incident was being viewed as a ‘natural calamity’ on the basis of a preliminary assessment. Due to lightning The mishap was caused by a premature initiation of explosives by lightning. While no violations had come to light yet, a probe was under way to ascertain whether explosives beyond the permissible limit were stored. Licensed unit Sylus possessed a valid licence for manufacturing firecrackers until March 31, 2023, according to Nedumangad tahsildar Suresh Babu. Many such units operated in the Nedumangad taluk, especially in hilly areas such as Palode and Pacha. While four others also were licensed, applications submitted by six units awaited approval from the Kerala Police, Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and the Revenue Department. However, sources claimed that some unlicensed enterprises too were engaged in manufacturing firecrackers for commercial use. Nanniyode is widely regarded as a firecracker manufacturing hub in the district. Pointing out that many of these units functioned from open sheds where the explosives lay exposed, Mr. Babu said such manufacturers would be advised to adopt precautions under the present weather conditions to prevent the explosives from going off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-safety-of-cracker-units/article34332008.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR shoots up to 13%, cases surge to 8,126||Kerala added 8,126 new cases of COVID-19 to its tally on Thursday when 60,900 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) remained high at 13.34%. Kerala’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began now stands at 11,97,301cases. The active case pool has 63,650 patients. Ernakulam, where disease transmission has been intense, has 9,277 active patients. The district has surpassed Kozhikode, which has 9,158 patients, followed by Kannur (6,816). The active case load is swelling fast in Thiruvananthapuram too, which now has 5,280 patients. With 2,700 recoveries being reported on the day, the cumulative recoveries touched 11,28,475. New hospital admissions in the State on Thursday rose to 1,479. On the day, 15,221 people were newly added to the pool of people in home or institutional quarantine. A total of 1,85,893 persons are now in quarantine. The addition of 20 new deaths that took place in the past few days to the official list of fatalities on Thursday took the toll till date to 4,856 deaths. Kannur and Kottayam reported four deaths each, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, three each, while two deaths each were reported from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kozhikode. The number of critically ill COVID patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State rose to 699 on Thursday, according to official reports, while the number of patients requiring ventilator assistance is 199. Among districts, cases are surging in Ernakulam, which reported the maximum number of cases at 1,267, followed by Kozhikode 1,062, Thiruvananthapuram 800, Kottayam 751, Malappuram 744, Thrissur 704, Kannur 649, Palakkad 481, Kollam 399, Pathanamthitta 395, Alappuzha 345, Idukki 205, Wayanad 166, and Kasaragod 158.  Minister positive again Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has been admitted to Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital after he was tested positive for COVID-19 for the second time. His son Niranjan Krishna too tested positive for the pandemic. The Minister was tested positive for the first time on September 23. He was waiting for the vaccination on April 15.  New hospital admissions in the State rise to 1,479 and 15,221 people put in either home or institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-shoots-up-to-13-new-cases-surge-to-8126/article34331523.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown steps being strengthened||Along with declaring several wards in the district containment zones, District Collector and District Disaster Management Authority Chairperson Navjot Khosa has annulled the existing lockdown relaxations and enforced strict measures in the notified wards as part of COVID-19 management. City corporations’ Chettivilakam, Kinavoor, Kudappanakkunnu, Kalady, Kadakampally-Valiya Udeswaram Temple to Chathanpara main road and VURVA main road to Mukakad Lane, Kuriyathy, Karikakom-Vayanasala Junction to Tharavilakam, Karikakom High School to Punnakka Thoppu and Karikakom High School to Mathil Mukku, Sasthamangalam, Pattom, and Kowdiar have been declared containment zones as per Sections 26, 30 and 34 of the Disaster Management Act. Panangode in Vilavoorkal grama panchayat, Kuduvazhanoor in Pulimath grama panchayat and Puipara, Manacode, Pangode, Pulikara, Leninkunnu, Kochalamoodu, Uliyankodu and Pazhavila in Pangode grama panchayat have also been declared containment zones. The District Collector said the wards adjoining the containment zones would be treated as areas which needed special attention in a public health perspective. Only essential activities would be allowed — shops selling essential groceries, medicines and food items like milk, vegetables, meat, fish; essential services, including police, health, revenue, LSG, electricity and water supply; and other essential Central and State government establishments — in containment zones. Also, strict perimeter control would be enforced. Curbs on movement The District Collector said movement of persons in or out of the containment zones would not be permitted, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services. The Incident Commander and tahsildar of the taluks concerned have been asked to ensure strict containment activities. The Station House Officer concerned has been asked to ensure proper barricading of the containment zones to regulate the movement of persons. The officer will have to ensure perimeter-control and crowd-control activities. The District Police Chiefs (City and Rural) have been asked to ensure that all guidelines issued by the Union and State governments regarding the containment zones are complied with in letter and spirit. The Medical Officers/Superintendents of public health centre (PHC) Chettivilakam, Urban PHCs at Attukal, Chalai, Nanthencode and Muttada, family health centres (FHC) at Vilavoorkal and Kadakampally and AVCH, Poojapura, have been asked to coordinate with the police, revenue and local self government institutions for planning containment activities and quarantining contacts for 14 days. Surveillance Besides, they have to conduct house to house surveillance, list vulnerable, symptomatic persons and those with high social contacts and screen them in association with the help of Block PHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-steps-being-strengthened/article34331997.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Opposition finds fault with inoculation drive in city||The Opposition took potshots at the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation during a council meeting on Thursday alleging various drawbacks in the ongoing vaccination drive. Shortly after Mayor Arya Rajendran briefed the council of the efforts being undertaken by the local body to contain the COVID-19 spread, councillors M.R. Gopan and V.G. Girikumar raised the issue of vaccination camps organised by the councillors being called off at short notice, even while “parallel camps” by residents’ associations and other organisations went ahead as planned. They alleged that the councillors who had been at the forefront of the COVID-19 management efforts and running community kitchens were being increasingly sidelined. ‘Without notice’ Pointing out that vaccination camps were planned on the basis of directions from the District Medical Officer, Mr. Gopakumar said they were called off without providing adequate information. He attributed such instances to the alleged lack of coordination between the Corporation and the Health Department. Mary Pushpam A. of the Congress alleged that colony dwellers were provided less opportunity to take the COVID-19 vaccine, despite facing a higher chance of contracting the disease. ‘Involve ASHA workers’ ASHA workers should be roped in to ensure that all residents of colonies in the cities were vaccinated. The Mayor informed the council that while the residents associations had been supplied with the required quantity of vaccine earlier, a mega camp planned by the Corporation had to be called off owing to persisting shortage of vaccines. While more batches of the vaccines were expected in the coming days, the local body had also requested the government to ensure a greater proportion of vaccine distribution for the capital district. Pensioners re-engaged The ruling front also had to fend off allegations that several pensioners and ineligible persons were being hired for the Corporation’s waste management activities. Following a request made by health standing committee chairperson P. Jameela Sreedharan to ratify the wage disbursal of 394 workers engaged in the functioning of the Thumboormuzhy aerobic bins in the city, Thirumala councillor K. Anil Kumar alleged several people who had retired from the Corporation were re-engaged in various positions. He also claimed that numerous people who hailed from other districts were being provided jobs, while those from Thiruvananthapuram should be given priority. Details sought Congress councillor Johnson Joseph demanded that the Corporation Secretary divulged the details of pensioners to ensure they were not preferred over other eligible candidates for various jobs.  ‘Colony dwellers provided less opportunity to take COVID-19 vaccine’   Mayor says civic body has requested govt. to ensure more vaccines ‘More batches of vaccine expected in the coming days’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-finds-fault-with-inoculation-drive-in-city/article34331998.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Experts fear double mutant variant driving spike in Kerala||Kerala is reeling under the surge of new cases in the second wave of COVID-19 and the fast pace of disease transmission has taken everyone by surprise. Public health experts believe that given the similarities in the manner in which cases, hospitalisations and deaths have been soaring in Kerala as it is in Maharashtra, there is a high likelihood that the “double mutant variant” or the SARS-CoV2 lineage B.1.617 found predominantly in that State could be driving the disease transmission here too. “People gathering in huge numbers is one of the primary reasons for the rise in cases. But the pace of transmission is what makes us fear that an additional factor may be at play here. However, we need molecular data to reach a conclusion,” a member of the State’s expert committee on COVID-19 said. Genomic sequencing Genomic sequencing of virus samples from Kerala during December-February had found the presence of the variant N440K in 11 districts. But till date there has been no epidemiological link to connect the variant to the transmission pattern here. On January 30, the State had 71,469 active cases and this was rapidly brought down to 23,883 by March 23. But since then, cases have soared and in the next 22 days Kerala added 33,362 cases to its active case pool. In Maharashtra, 61% of the virus samples have been found to be the B.1.617 variant. On Thursday, the Union government said the same variant had been found in Delhi, West Bengal, Gujarat, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh too. The B.1.617 lineage is defined by two spike protein mutations, E484Q and L452R, which are involved in immune escape (which renders the virus capable of escaping the immune system’s response) as well as increased infectivity. According to a pre-print in biorxiv.org, L452R can reinforce the affinity to viral receptor ACE2, increase viral replication and escape even cellular (T cell) immunity. Kerala facilities Though virus samples for genomic sequencing have been sent to the National Institute of Virology and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, the gravity of the situation in Kerala has encouraged the expert committee to recommend that the State’s own scientific institutions can be utilised for this work. “Current local samples from Kozhikode will be sent to the multidisciplinary research lab at Government Medical College Hospital, which can amplify the virus’ spike protein gene alone and check for mutations. The sooner we have information about what is happening on the ground, the faster we can act,” he said. Public health experts point out that if B.1.617 variant is indeed playing a role in disease transmission in the State, then it is quite likely that the current wave will be much more prolonged than the first wave.  The same variant has been found in Delhi, West Bengal, Gujarat, Karnataka and M.P. too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-fear-double-mutant-variant-driving-spike-in-kerala/article34331513.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||22,600 to be tested in two-day drive||With the number of new COVID-19 cases steadily rising in the district, the district administration is planning to intensify tests on Friday and Saturday. The administration plans to cover 22,600 individuals in the campaign, which is being conducted as part of a State-level special drive, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. People who were part of election-related activities will be covered in the campaign. This includes COVID-19 front-line workers, people in areas where the infection is quickly spreading, and people employed in public transport, tourism, hotels, shops, markets and service centres and delivery executives. Mobile RT-PCR units Mobile RT-PCR testing units would be deployed in regions with a high transmission rate and in markets, the Collector said. Thirty mobile RT-PCR units would be deployed in the district. Each mobile team would test 100 people a day. Primary health centres would cover 25 persons each daily, community health centres 50 each and taluk hospitals, 100 each. The district and general hospitals would cover 250 people each. Tests would also be conducted at ayurveda hospitals, homoeo hospitals, private hospitals and private medical colleges. Arrangements had been made to test 11,300 people a day, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/22600-to-be-tested-in-two-day-drive/article34332000.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ISRO case resurfaces to haunt Congress||The impending probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged conspiracy that led to the "malicious prosecution" of former space scientist Nambi Narayanan in the infamous 1994 ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) spy scandal case has arguably threatened to open old wounds in the Congress in Kerala. The Supreme Court (SC) had appointed Justice D. K. Jain to examine the circumstance that led to the "unjust condemnation" of Mr. Narayanan as a "spy and traitor". The CBI had earlier found that the Kerala Police had falsely arraigned the scientist, who was then a rising start in the ISRO, in the spy case. The SC upheld the CBI's finding. It tasked the Jain committee to examine the law enforcers responsible for "the fabrication and their motive" to bring them to justice. On Thursday, the SC accepted the committee's recommendation to task the CBI to probe the matter. A lethal mix of sensational journalism and political score-settling in the then ruling party had catalysed the scandal that resulted in tarnished reputations and shattered careers. Several people, including two Maldivian nationals, faced harsh interrogation and humiliating incarceration. Congress feud The so-called spy scandal had erupted when factional feuding in the Congress was at its peak. The then Chief Minister K. Karunakaran, who headed the ‘I’ group, faced a mutiny within his party. The ‘A’ group led by Oommen Chandy allegedly used the case to bait Karunkaran, leading to the latter's resignation. Karunakaran's son K. Muraleedharan, MP, welcomed the CBI inquiry. The accusations had pained Karunakaran. He would reveal more after the CBI completed the probe. BJP State president K. Surendran said Mr. Narayanan was the victim of the factional fighting in the Congress. The Congress had sacrificed the security interests of the nation and retarded its ambition of emerging as a space power. The CBI would expose Mr. Chandy's role, he claimed. Former State Police Chief Raman Srivastava, who Karunakaran was accused of shielding, welcomed the probe. Former Director General of Police Siby Mathews and Superintendent of Police S. Vijayan, who had investigated the case initially, said the Jain committee had not sought their version. They hoped the CBI would probe the matter fairly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isro-case-resurfaces-to-haunt-congress/article34331894.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID curbs cut a swathe through sectors||The restrictions imposed to contain the second wave of COVID-19 in the State have hit hotels, travel trade, event management companies, bus operators, and the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation that have been limping back to normality post lockdown. The travel trade, expecting a good footfall during summer months, is the worst hit. “Inquiries have stopped reaching reservation desks of hotels and resorts. Almost all hotels and resorts are deserted now. The limiting of stay of tourists to seven days and insistence on RT-PCR tests by over a dozen States for those returning from the State have played spoilsport,” says former president of the Association of Tourism Trade Organisations, India, Anish Kumar P.K. Similarly, the directive to close down shops and restaurants by 9 p.m. and encourage packaged food and home delivery has come in for flak. The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) is up in arms against the curbs. “It was caused due to the flouting of the COVID-19 guidelines during elections by politicians,” the KHRA said, urging the government to allow them to keep open the units till 11 p.m. “The restrictions have come at a time when business has been picking up. Small units are the worst hit. There is a 60% dip in business during daytime due to Ramzan fasting. We make up the loss by keeping the units open at night,” says KHRA general secretary G. Jaypal. Weddings Those who have fixed weddings and receptions are confused as only 100 people will be allowed for indoor functions and 200 for outdoor functions and over serving of food for invitees. Private bus operators and the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation are aghast at the decision to carry passengers only in allotted seats. “Already, the police and Motor Vehicles Department officials have started checking. The revenue that has been picking from the fleet up will fall drastically,” a KSRTC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-curbs-cut-a-swathe-through-sectors/article34331522.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train services to be regulated till April 24 for essential works||Train services will be regulated on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 to expedite essential safety-related track maintenance works on the Wadakkanchery yard, under the Ernakulam Junction-Shoranur Junction section. Train 02625 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Daily Superfast Express leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will be regulated en route for one hour 20 minutes, a railway release said. Train 02639 MGR Chennai Central-Alappuzha Superfast Daily Special leaving MGR Chennai Central on April 15, 16, 22 and 23 will be short-terminated at Palakkad Junction. Train 02640 Alappuzha-MGR Chennai Central Superfast Daily Special scheduled to leave Alappuzha on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will commence its service from Palakkad Junction. Starting point shifted Train 06307 Alappuzha-Kannur Daily Special scheduled to leave Alappuzha on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will commence its service from Shoranur Junction instead of Alappuzha. Train 06308 Kannur-Alappuzha Daily Special leaving Kannur on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will be short-terminated at Shoranur Junction. Train 06306 Kannur-Ernakulam Junction Daily Special leaving Kannur on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will be short-terminated at Shoranur Junction. Train 06791 Tirunelveli-Palakkad Junction Daily Special leaving Tirunelveli Junction on April 15, 16, 22 and 23 will be short-terminated in Thrissur. Train 06792 Palakkad Junction-Tirunelveli Junction Daily Special scheduled to leave Palakkad Junction on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will commence its service from Thrissur. Short-terminated Train 06018 Ernakulam Junction-Shoranur Junction MEMU Special leaving Ernakulam Junction on April 16, 17, 23 and 24 will be short-terminated at Mulankunnathukavu, according to Railways.  Train 02625 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Daily Superfast Express leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central will be regulated en route for one hour 20 minutes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-regulated/article34331501.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local gang suspected in dacoity||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police, which claim to have closed in on the suspects in the Pallipuram dacoity case, say the crime was the handiwork of a “local quotation gang.” A day after the police detained five people from nearby areas, including Mangalapuram and Perumathura, the investigation team was yet to record the arrests of the suspects. However, a senior police officer said some of the perpetrators were under custody. Based on information received during questioning, efforts were on to nab the other members of the gang that is believed to number over 10 people. The police had initially considered the possibility of the involvement of an inter-State robbery gang.  The case took an unexpected turn when the investigation team recovered Rs. 75 lakh from the Maharashtra-native jeweller. Mr. Sampath had apparently handed over the cash, which had been kept in a concealed chamber within the car, to a relative in Attingal before alerting the police of the burglary. The cash was seized after the relative who figured in the complainant’s call detail record around the time of the crime was questioned. While the police have informed the Income Tax Department, they have handed over the cash to the Attingal court. The complainant has not been able to produce proper documents for the source of the money yet, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-gang-suspected-in-dacoity/article34332010.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Officials to oversee enforcement||The district administration has put in place a mechanism to enforce COVID-19 norms in view of the steep rise in the number of cases. While District Collector Navjot Khosa will supervise the activities, Thiruvananthapuram and Nedumangad Subcollectors have been tasked with ensuring that the pandemic norms are closely followed. Treatment centres The District Development Commissioner has been entrusted with monitoring Domicile Care Centres (DCCs), COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs), COVID-19 second-line treatment centres (CSLTCs) and the COVID-19 hospitals in the district. The District Medical Officer will oversee various activities, including COVID-19 testing, contact list preparation, quarantine, patient management and vaccination, while the Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) will coordinate the activities of the Health and Local Self-Government Departments and the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-to-oversee-enforcement/article34331999.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Diabetic foot specialty clinic launched at MCH||A diabetic foot specialty clinic has started functioning at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram. For diabetics The clinic specialises in the treatment of diseases affecting the legs of patients with diabetes. The clinic will function from 12 noon to 2 p.m. on Thursdays. Government Medical College Hospital superintendent M.S. Sharmad inaugurated the clinic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diabetic-foot-specialty-clinic-launched-at-mch/article34332006.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe on into burglary at jeweller’s house||The Museum police have launched efforts to trace the whereabouts of a person who was caught on camera while allegedly stealing ornaments and cash from the house of a prominent jeweller at Kowdiar in the early hours of Wednesday. The burglary took place at the house of B. Govindan, chairman of Bhima Jewellers, around 1.30 a.m. CCTV visual In visuals captured by a CCTV camera in the house, one person was seen removing his mask. However, the police were yet to identify the suspect. It was also yet to be ascertained if he had any accomplice. According to a complaint received by the police, gold and diamond ornaments worth Rs. 2.15 lakh and cash amounting to Rs. 80,000 were stolen from Mr. Govindan’s daughter’s bag. She was apparently scheduled to leave for Bengaluru. Efforts were on to gather visuals of vehicles that passed by the house around the time of the incident. Fingerprint experts have also found five sets of fingerprints, including a foreign one, that could possibly belong to the intruder, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-burglary-at-jewellers-house/article34332009.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power supply regulation||Power supply in several areas under the Vattiyurkavu electrical section limits will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday due to repairs on the transformers at Kanjirampara, ITC, St. Antony’s, Secretariat colony, Beacon flat and JJ Vista flat, the Kerala State Electricity Board said. Supply to Kannetumukku under the Thycaud section limits will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday due to repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-regulation/article34332011.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Daily cases in capital touch 800 mark||The COVID-19 graph in the district continues to rise, with 800 new cases reported on Thursday. This is the first time since October 24 last year that the daily caseload is touching the 800 mark. The toll in the district, as of Wednesday, touched 905. 512 recoveries The district also reported 512 recoveries on Thursday and the active case pool is now standing at 5,280. Of the new cases reported on Thursday, local transmission accounted for 587 cases. A total of 1,940 people were quarantined in the district on the day, taking the total quarantined population to 21,663.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-cases-in-capital-touch-800-mark/article34332004.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Wards declared containment zones||The district administration has declared more local body wards containment zones as part of measures for containing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Melamcode, Estate, Punchakkari, Poonkulam, Thiruvallam, Vanchiyoor and Pettah in Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation; Sivagiri in Varkala municipality; and Chullimanoor in Anad panchayat have been declared containment zones. Other areas Ramachandra Nagar in Kazhakuttam, Kizhakkumbhagam, near Chanthavila, Valiyasala gramam and Kanthalloor Nagar have been declared micro-containment zones by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wards-declared-containment-zones/article34332005.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K. Madhavan is president of Walt Disney India||K. Madhavan has been named president of The Walt Disney Company India and Star India. The decision was announced on Thursday by Rebecca Campbell, chairman, International Operations and Direct-to-Consumer, The Walt Disney Company. He will drive the strategy and growth of the company for the Disney, Star and Hotstar business and operations spanning entertainment, sports and regional channels and direct-to-consumer, a pressnote said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-madhavan-is-president-of-walt-disney-india/article34332013.ece
16 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Sharp increase in cases in Thrissur||In the wake of a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases in the district, Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital has imposed restrictions for patients and treatments. “The surgeries, which are not emergencies, will be avoided. Considering the safety of people, bystanders of patients should take COVID vaccination. Admission will be restricted according to the number of beds. The same bystander at the time of admission should continue till discharge of the patient. Visitors have been strictly prohibited,” said principal of the medical college in a press release. Steady increase The district has been reporting a steady increase in cases in the last two weeks. In all, 704 cases were reported on Thursday. There are 4,199 active cases in the district. As many as 77 people from the district were undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 1,09,735 cases have been reported from the district. On Thursday, 691 people contracted the disease through contact. The patients include 93 people above the age of 60 and 39 children below the age of 10. There are 2,707 people under home care. In all, 4,66,388 people have taken the first dose of vaccine in the district, while 51,389 people have taken the second one. As Thrisur Pooram, which attracts a huge number of people, is nearing, the Health Department as well as the police have raised concerns about possible hike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sharp-increase-in-cases-in-thrissur/article34331964.ece
16 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Nod for Pooram fireworks||The pyrotechnic display of the Thrissur Pooram can be conducted by maintaining the COVID-19 protocols. The Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO) has given permission for sample fireworks and main fireworks. The Pooram festival is on April 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-pooram-fireworks/article34331520.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A spectacle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-spectacle/article34331511.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||When the heavens open||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-the-heavens-open/article34331440.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Left to nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/left-to-nature/article34331885.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Marking a festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marking-a-festival/article34332017.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-times/article34331967.ece
16 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children queue up for COVID tests at Anantapur GGH||Parents in the Anantapur district got alerted with six more schoolgirls testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The number of positive cases has been increasing exponentially for the past week. From a mere 40 to 50 a day seven days ago, it reached 334 on Thursday. On Wednesday, it was only 197 positive cases. Five students of KGBV, Roddam, tested positive on Wednesday. In Kurnool district, the number of positive cases got doubled within a day and reached 626 on Thursday with two deaths reported both from Anantapur and Kurnool districts taking the cumulative toll to 613 and 505 respectively. The Bukkapatnam Tahsildar along with the Medical Officer and the Mandal Education Officer visited the Girls High School and ordered for testing all other students in the school. The girls were given treatment and given medical kits by sending them for home isolation. Their condition is stable, the Tahsildar said. Meanwhile, in the Government General Hospital, Anantapur, a large number of young schoolchildren queued up at the out-patient registration counter, where the COVID-19 tests were done. They said they were all returning to their hostels in the city, but had been asked to get the RT-PCR test done before entering their respective hostels. The parents accompanying some students said the government should have arranged for the tests at their hostels or schools. No vaccines At the Immunisation Centre in the GGH, there was a large gathering wanting to take the jab, but there was no stock left, after vaccination was done on a mission mode on Wednesday inoculating more than 36,000 persons all over the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/children-queue-up-for-covid-tests-at-anantapur-ggh/article34331248.ece
16 April 2021||BELAGAVI/ KALABURAGI/YADGIR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders woo voters on last day of campaign||With the deadline for public campaigning ending on Thursday evening, leaders of major political parties spent the day holding roadshows and rallies in a bid to woo voters in the three constituencies of Belagavi, Maski and Basavakalyan, which will see bypolls on Saturday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was in Belagavi to campaign for the BJP candidate. Although he was to participate in various programmes, his ill health forced him to cut short the campaign in the afternoon itself. However, other party leaders, including Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Minister Umesh Katti, continued on. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar held continuous rallies in rural pockets. Mr. Shettar’s son is married to the daughter of BJP candidate Mangala, wife of the late Suresh Angadi. In Belagavi, the Congress seemed muted in comparison as the party candidate, Satish Jarkiholi, who is also Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president, was busy campaigning for the party’s candidate at Maski. In an interesting turn of events, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut landed in Belagavi to support Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) candidate Shubham Shelke and took part in a roadshow with him. Mr. Raut also held a press conference to convey that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had personally appealed to the people of Belagavi to support Mr. Shelke. In Basavakalyan Assembly constituency, both BJP and Congress leaders landed in good numbers to campaign. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai were among the leaders who held roadshows with party candidate  Sharanu Salgar. On the other hand, Congress leaders Priyank Kharge, Ajay Singh, and Sharanu Prakash Patil participated in the campaign of Mala B. Narayana Rao. The BJP’s rebel candidate Mallikarjun Khuba held a public meeting and made a fervent appeal to defeat the “outsider” BJP candidate to uphold the “self-respect” of Basavakalyan. Maski constituency saw hectic campaigning by Congress leaders, with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah leading the show. Party candidate Basanagouda Turvihal was joined by Mr. Satish Jarkiholi. Interestingly, there were not many BJP leaders in Maski. BJP legislator N. Ravikumar and local leaders canvassed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leaders-woo-voters-on-last-day-of-campaign/article34331201.ece
16 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain brings relief to scorched Chittoor||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Chittoor district on Thursday, bringing the much-needed relief to the denizens from the scorching heat. Mercury levels at many places in the district hovered above 40 degrees Celsius in the first week of April. Downpour preceded by heavy winds and lightning was reported in 59 of the total 66 mandals in the district, while seven mandals witnessed normal rain. The total rainfall received on Thursday stood at 1831.2 mm, when compared to the monthly normal of 1,162.2 mm. Agriculture Joint Director N. Vijay Kumar said that after dry spell prevailed between the last week of March and the first week of April, the Thursday’s rain brought a big relief to farmers. ‘No damage to paddy crop’ “We are nearing the harvesting season of paddy in the district, particularly in the eastern mandals. The downpour did not result in any damage to the paddy crop. Moreover, the district at present has no dry crops, except for mangoes. This excess rainfall in April will help sustain the groundwater table,” he said. Heavy gales in the early hours of the day were reported in the western mandals, while some mango growers complained of crop loss. The horticulture officials said the mandal levels teams would enumerate the losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-brings-relief-from-scorching-heat-in-chittoor/article34331944.ece
16 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspended magistrate held||The Madanapalle sub-division police on Thursday arrested suspended magistrate Ramakrishna on charges of making aggressive statements against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during a TV debate a couple of days ago. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said Mr. Ramakrishna during a TV debate allegedly made vicious talk about the Chief Minister, saying that “he would decapitate the Chief Minister and would even bring down his government.” The police officer said as the remarks were very serious in nature, the suspended magistrate was arrested under Section 153-A of IPC. Ramakrishna was reportedly on the way to Madanapalle from B. Kothakota mandal for taking COVID-19 test, when he was arrested by the police. After conducting medical tests for him at government hospital in Piler, he would be produced before the area court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspended-magistrate-held-for-aggressive-remarks-against-cm/article34331250.ece
16 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor turns farmer, wins award||A doctor and a chief executive officer turns into a farmer and bags a special award for innovation in farming. Y. Sambasiva Reddy, the Chief Executive Officer of Sai Bhaskar Hospitals here, owns 15 acres of orange plantation at Kunkalagunta village in Narasaraopet mandal. In his free time, Dr. Reddy began working on a farm implement with which farmhands could dig a wider pit. “The innovation cost me just Rs. 500 with which farmhands could dig a wider pit in the farms. The small tool is an attachment to a tractor and a wider blade made it easier for farmers to dig a pit,’’ said Dr. Reddy. Dr. Reddy won the Ugadi Puraskaram for his innovation. The award was to be presented by the Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy, but due to COVID-19 restrictions, the award was presented by the Vice-Chancellor of Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University Adala Vishnuvardhana Reddy. ‘Take up farming’ “I urge youngsters to take up farming in case they have fields. Farming teaches you a lot, besides making you a healthy person. Do farming on weekends instead of binging with friends,” advises Dr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-turns-farmer-wins-award/article34331252.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus surges will continue periodically, says expert||COVID-19 infections will rise and abate at periodic intervals due to ‘transient herd immunity’ (pool of protected individuals in the population) that each wave of the infection brings, in the absence of an effective vaccine covering a significant proportion of the population. The only way to reduce the risk is adherence to strong governmental monitoring, surveillance and a permanent change in people’s risk behaviour, explain public health experts. The infection was previously high in August-September 2020 and October-November 2020, when a significant proportion of the population was infected. While some studies had reported about more than a third of the population having antibodies, the actual number of infected may have been much higher taking into consideration the asymptomatic and mild cases, explains Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI)-Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), Hyderabad, Director G.V.S. Murthy Immunity duration This may have led to the tipping point or ‘transient herd immunity’ with the virus not finding enough susceptible people to infect. As viruses search for hosts to infect for their survival, they mutate to adapt to the environment. Studies have also shown that the infection induced immunity may not last more than 6-9 months. In fact, a study in Denmark showed that the drop-off of antibodies in the older population is up to 60% in six months. It means more of the population becomes susceptible due to reduced antibodies leading to a surge, in the absence of vaccination, he says. “This trend will become persistent with surges every 5-6 months as the pool of people susceptible to be infected increases. This could also be a reason why there is a surge in cases in March-April 2021, coupled with other reasons. Worry is COVID-19 is likely to have two seasons — spring (March-April) and autumn (October-December) — annually, then there will be heavy price to pay in the future in the absence of high vaccine coverage,” warns Dr. Murthy. Increased mingling Elections, festivals with internal migrations of even migrant workers, lowered vigilance and surveillance, non-existent contact tracing, opening up of cinemas with full capacity, gatherings for social events — all contributed to the current surge. “As we speak, millions are attending the ‘Kumbh Mela’, once infected at such events, the infected persons are carrying the virus back home and infecting other family members. Clusters of whole families being infected has been observed very commonly in recent months,” points out the director. The onus is on the political leadership, he said. Role models “Though people were disregarding physical distancing, masks and washing hands, they alone cannot be blamed for dropping their guard as they learn from the practices of the political and social leadership. Leaders have to become role-models for others to follow suit. Similarly, punitive measures like fines, if protocols like masks are not adhered to, also goad people to act positively,” he affirms. Part of the surge could also be attributed to mutations making the virus more infectious, but “mutation monitoring systems are weak and inadequate sampling and lack of adequate genetic laboratories only compounds the problem,” laments Dr. Murthy.  Worry is COVID-19 is likely to have two seasons — spring (March-April) and autumn (October-December) — annually, then there will be heavy price to pay in the future in the absence of high vaccine coverage” G.V.S. Murthy Director Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI)-Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), Hyderabad,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-surges-will-continue-periodically-says-expert/article34331844.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No school, no fees’||“No school, no fees” was the logic Rajesh used to stop paying school fee for his five-year-old son in Class I in a neighbourhood school in Nalanda Nagar. Countless other parents of children studying budget private schools have taken a similar decision to stay away from online classes and stop paying the fee. The result is a chaotic mess. “In my online class I have only seven students while the class strength is 45. I don’t know whether I should assume the attendance is low or the class strength has dipped,” says a school owner in Hyderabad. In this dilemma of the school owner is the key whether many of the private schools survive the closure of physical classes due to the pandemic and its aftermath. “Nearly 65% of educational facilities are in the domain of budget private schools where the parents earn between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 40,000. Many parents have pulled out their children from schools or have stopped paying the fees,” says Uma Maheswara Rao of Telangana Recognised Schools Management Association (TRSMA). The Telangana government issued a GO No. 46 that asked the schools to collect only the tuition fee and warned the private institutions against raising the fee or collecting money under other heads. According to sources, many private schools are on the verge of shutting down unable to bear the rental cost of hired buildings, teacher salaries and stoppage of income from fees. “Schools will shut down. They are not revealing the information as otherwise their dues will get further affected,” says Mr. Rao. “Parents have taken advantage of the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic and are not paying fees. We conducted online classes but parents didn’t pay the fees, while we had to pay salaries to teachers,” says Arshad Peerzada who runs a school in Toli Chowki area. While corporate schools and government schools have not been affected as much by the pandemic, the private budget schools will impact the education of a generation, warns Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-school-no-fees-say-parents/article34331847.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana govt. cancels SSC examinations||As expected, the Telangana government has decided to pass all the 10th class students without any exams for the second year in a row, keeping in view the surge in COVID-19 cases, and about 4.60 lakh students studying in 10th class will heave a sigh of relief. Similarly, the first year students of Intermediate Board (11th class) will be promoted to the next class without exams while the second year exams will be held at a later date. Results of the 10th class students will be prepared on the basis of an objective criteria to be developed by the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Board at a later date. If the candidates are not satisfied with the allotted marks, they will be given an opportunity to take the exams when the conditions are conducive. The decision was taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao after a review meeting with senior officials. Last year too, the Chief Minister took a surprise decision to cancel the SSC exams and declare all the students passed. Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramchandran, in an order, said the government decided to cancel the exams to be held from May 17. The decision of the CBSE to pass all the 10th class students apparently made the move easier for the government. Inter backlogs With regard to backlogs of second year students, they will be given minimum pass marks since the first year students are being promoted. About 1.92 lakh students who failed in first year exams in various subjects stand to benefit from this. Given the changes in the award of marks, the government has also decided to scrap the 25 per cent weightage of Intermediate marks considered for ranks in engineering and medical and agriculture allied courses filled through EAMCET. Ranks are calculated taking into account the EAMCET score and 25% of the Intermediate marks. On the conduct of exams for second year students, a review meeting in the first week of June will take a call and decide the dates. Students will get the dates of the exam 15 days in advance so that they can prepare accordingly. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi Vidyarthi Vibhagam (TRSV) thanked the Chief Minister for the gesture. In a statement here, Kishore Goud of TRSV said this would go a long way not only in containing the virus but also reduce unnecessary tension among parents and students. The Telangana Intermediate Eduction JAC chairman P. Madhusudhan Reddy and secretary general Kalinga Krishna Kumar also welcomed the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-cancels-exam/article34331412.ece
16 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT team inspects Tyche pharma unit||A five-member joint committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday inspected the safety mechanism in place at a pharma unit of Tyche Industries Limited on the outskirts of Kakinada city. On March 11, two supervisors were killed on the spot and four on-duty workers survived with injuries after a 3,000-kg reactor blew up at the pharma unit. The NGT took the cognisance of the case on a suo motu basis later. The committee led by MoEFCC scientist P. Suresh Babu and Central Pollution Control Board (Chennai) scientist T. Mahima inquired about the incident during the interaction with the company management.  Report on April 30 Kakinada Revenue Divisional Officer A.G. Chinni Krishna, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (Kakinada) Environmental Engineer A. Ramarao Naidu are the other members of the committee. The committee will submit its report by April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-team-inspects-tyche-pharma-unit/article34331253.ece
16 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crude oil stolen from ONGC pipeline||The East Godavari police on Thursday seized nearly 500 litres of crude oil reportedly stolen by a gang from the pipeline of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) at Valasatippa area under Uppalaguptam police limits. The police swang into action after the locals residents alerted them about the theft. “The gang had stolen nearly 500 litres of crude oil. ONGC authorities have lodged a complaint and a probe is on, Uppalaguptam SI K. Suresh Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crude-oil-stolen-from-ongc-pipeline/article34331202.ece
16 April 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine shortage hits Kerala||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said on Thursday that there was a shortage of vaccine in the State and the government had requested the Centre for more supplies. After attending an emergency online meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Ms. Shylaja told the media that there was a worrying situation in the State due to the shortage of vaccines and that localised lockdowns might be required in areas where the disease was severe. If there was a shortage in supply, it would be difficulty to carry out mass vaccination drive, she added. She said that State could not afford to buy the vaccine directly. The Central government must give permission for the purchase of vaccines in the private sector. This would speed up vaccination, said the Minister. A.P. runs out of stock Andhra Pradesh had exhausted its stock of COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday and only about 24,672 doses could be administered before the vaccine centres shut doors. Of the 6.4 lakh doses received by the State, 6.28 lakh were used on a single day on Wednesday, the last day of ‘Tika Utsav’, according to the Health Department. So far, according to CoWIN dashboard, 45.96 lakh doses of vaccines were administered in the State. Only 5.93 lakh persons got two doses of the vaccine while 40.03 lakh got the first dose of the vaccine Karnataka has used nearly 63.5 lakh of the 76 lakh doses of vaccine received so far. Karnataka Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said there is no shortage of vaccine in the State as of now. “So far, we have been able to manage the demand-supply. We have received a total of ten lakh doses since Wednesday,” he said. State Deputy Director (Immunisation) Rajani Nageshrao said currently the State has a stock of 12.5 lakh doses. “With the available stock, we can push our vaccination drive without any hitches for another five days. The Centre has promised us more stocks as and when required and the next tranche is expected in the next few days,” she said.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-vaccine-shortage-hits-kerala-andhra-pradesh/article34331214.ece
16 April 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain douses threat of forest fires||Moderate to heavy rains in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries during the last 24 hours has brought relief to the denizens of the forests from the searing heat that was sweeping the region. The Forest Department is also relieved as the rains have extinguished the threat of forest fire that looms large during summer and lasts till the onset of monsoon. Bandipur Tiger Reserve was the biggest beneficiary, consequent to which the local authorities have said that the threat of fire for the current year has been fully doused. It is customary for the Forest Department to recruit fire watchers from the local tribal communities during the onset of summer. In Bandipur 435 people from the local villages were recruited to keep a watch this year. But moderate to heavy rains covered the entire Bandipur landscape spread over nearly 874 sq km and moistened the vegetation. As a result the forest watchers, recruited on an ad hoc basis for the fire season, will be relieved. The adjoining Nagarahole tiger reserve has also received rains. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said most of the fire-prone ranges have received good rains and the threat of any major fire has diminished by 75 per cent. ‘’However, it was not as heavy and intense as in Bandipur. But we expect a few more spell of rains during the month after which we can confidently say that the fire season is over at Nagarahole.’ At MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, which turns into a tinder box during summer, there were heavy rains on Wednesday and the Meteorological Department has forecast more rains in the days ahead. V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, MM Hills, said rains lashed MM Hills, Palar, Ramapura, Kollegal and Hanur ranges while Hoogyam and PG Palya remain dry. “Major fires are a remote possibility now. A few more spells of rains has been forecast after which the fire season for the current year can be said to have ended. But the temporary fire watchers recruited from the local villages will be relieved only after April 30 once the fire threat is fully diminished.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-douses-threat-of-forest-fires/article34331200.ece
16 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curtains come down on campaigning||Curtains came down on a high-pitch campaign for the April 17 byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat on Thursday evening. Nellore District Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu told the media here that all arrangements have been completed to ensure a fair and free polling by enforcing prohibitory orders under Cr.Pc.144. Twenty-three companies of Central forces and three of APSP personnel would be pressed into service in the constituency comprising the Assembly segments of Sarvepalli, Gudur, Sulurpeta and Venkatagiri in Nellore district and Satyaveedu, Srikalahasti and Tirupati in Chittoor district, the Collector said along with SP Bhaskar Bhushan. Though 28 candidates are in the fray, the contest will be mainly among the nominees of the YSRCP, TDP, the JSP-backed BJP and the CPI(M). Confident of a five lakh plus margin of victory in the bypoll, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy skipped campaigning in person for the party nominee M. Gurumoorthy, a political novice. The ruling party projected the bypoll as a referendum on the party’s two-year rule, as it had implemented 90% of the poll promises as put by party poll in-charge and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy. Naidu leads campaign On the other hand, TDP president N. Chandrababu personally led the campaign for party nominee former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi and harped on the injustice meted out to the State post bifurcation by the ruling BJP at the Centre and the YSRCP failing to fulfil its poll promise to secure the Special Category Status for the State. Another Union Minister and Congress candidate Chinta Mohan dug a lone furrow and tried to impress upon the voters by stressing that the Congress alone could provide an alternative to the BJP at the national level. Exposing the ‘dismal performance’ of the YSRCP MPs in Parliament, BJP candidate K. Ratna Prabha sought a positive vote for development of the State in general and the constituency in particular with liberal Central funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curtains-come-down-on-campaigning/article34331952.ece
16 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers’ Mahapanchayat in Ongole on April 19: Vadde||A sustained campaign will be undertaken across the nation to mobilise the support of all sections of the society, including farmers and labourers, to protest the ‘anti-farmer and anti-labour’ policies of the Central government, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) State convenor Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao has said. As part of the campaign, a farmers’ Mahapanchayat will be organised at the ABM College grounds in Ongole on April 19 to press for repeal of the three farm laws, statutory backing to minimum support price and scrapping of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill intended to phase out the subsidies. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikiat, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national president Ashok Dhawle and other farmer leaders would prepare the farmers, workers and other sections of people for a protracted struggle against the ‘corporate-friendly’ economic policies of the NDA government, said the former Agriculture Minister. Similar ‘Mahapanchayats’ would be organised across the country to pressure the Centre into giving up ‘suicidal economic policies’, said Mr. Sobhandreswara Rao, who had extensively studied the impact of WTO regime on domestic farmers. “The three farm laws will accentuate the downfall of the Narendra Modi government, which is adamant on implementing them against the wishes of farmers,” he said, adding that nothing short of repeal of the three farm laws is acceptable. Farm subsidy He said that at a time when developed countries are subsidising the farm sector in a big way, the NDA government is phasing out subsidies and doing away with safety cushions such as market intervention when the prices of farm produces fall. “Farming will be viable only when the government will implement the recommendations of the National Farmers’ Commission,” he opined. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to broadbase the movement by roping in different sections of the society affected by the ‘poor economic measures’, said All India Kisan Sabha national vice-president Ravula Venkaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-mahapanchayat-in-ongole-on-april-19-vadde/article34331946.ece
16 April 2021||Special Correspondent VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP to train students for Civil Services exams||The VIT-AP University has signed an MoU with AKS IAS Academy to help students who are interested in cracking the Civil Services examinations, prepare well and make them ready for Civil Service and other allied positions by the time they graduate from the institution. The agreement was signed at the University’s administrative office in Hyderabad on Thursday. Dual degree University Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said the collaboration will benefit students who were looking for a career-based graduation programme. “Along with a dual degree of BA and MA in Public Services, students would now be also trained in IAS preparation,” he said. AKS IAS Academy CEO Shashank said the Academy was founded with the vision of establishing a bench-mark institution to achieve excellence in one of the toughest competitive exams in the country, the Civil Services exam. The collaboration would help the aspiring students to start early. “The strong academic base provided by the VIT-AP complemented by the AKS Academy guidance for this innovative Dual Degree of BA and MA in Public Services plus IAS programme would guarantee an enriching and fruitful learning experience to the aspirants,” he said. University Registrar C.L.V Sivakumar, Dean incharge, VIT-AP School of Social Sciences and Humanities Susmitha Shyamsundar, and AKS IAS Academy director, Sudha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-to-train-students-for-civil-services-exams/article34331254.ece
16 April 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Educational institutes, hospitals must maintain fire safety equipment’||Srikakulam District Fire Officer Chintada Krupavaram on Thursday asked all educational institutions and hospitals to ensure installation and maintenance of fire safety equipment on their premises. Mr. Krupavaram said that many organisations were installing the equipment as per norms but were failing to maintain them properly. As part of the Fire Safety Week, the Disaster Response and Fire Services Department launched awareness programmes in Palakonda, Ranasthalam, Tekkali and other places and they would continue till April 21, he said. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Krupavaram said that hospital managements and schools and colleges can approach the department to get help from experts on maintenance of the equipment. “We are planning to organise an awareness camp in Pydibhimavaram industrial zone on Saturday to enable the industries to follow safety norms and understand rescue procedures in case of an emergency,” he said. Assistant District Fire Safety Officers B.J.D.S. Prasanth Kumar and K. Srinu Babu monitored the awareness programmes on gas leakages and response procedures. They said that people, particularly homemakers, should not panic in the event of a gas leak as they can be controlled easily by following simple techniques.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/educational-institutes-hospitals-must-maintain-fire-safety-equipment/article34331980.ece
16 April 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases cross 3,000 in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram||The second wave of COVID-19 is spreading rapidly in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, say health officials. In Srikakulam district, 568 positive cases were recorded on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 2,721 in the district. Of these, 373 are undergoing treatment at hospitals and COVID Care Centres. In Vizianagaram district, 248 cases have been recorded, taking the number of active cases to 927.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-cross-3000-in-srikakulam-vizianagaram/article34331978.ece
16 April 2021||Staff REporter Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS police foil Sharmila’s procession bid||The Hyderabad police on Thursday foiled attempts by Y.S. Sharmila, sister of YSRCP chief Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, to take out a procession. After undertaking a fast demanding issuance of notification for government jobs for unemployed youths by the Telangana government, Sharmila along with her followers decided to take out a procession but was stopped. They assured the police that they would disperse after marching a certain distance but they did not do so and as they continued with their march, police prevented them from further taking out the procession. According to a senior police official, Sharmila had sought permission for a three-day fast, but she was granted permission for only one day from 10 am to 5 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-police-foil-sharmilas-procession-bid/article34331211.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala fixes 9 p.m. curfew for shops||Kerala on Thursday announced a raft of restrictions to arrest the post-Assembly election surge in COVID-19 cases. The measures ranged from closing of bars, restaurants, cinema halls, malls, shops and commercial establishments at 9 p.m. to limiting indoor and outdoor events to 75 and 150 people respectively, the Chief Secretary, V.P. Joy, said. Larger functions would require recent COVID-19 negative certification. No prior permission was required for weddings or social events, but local police should be informed. Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) jumped from 3% to 13% over the past two weeks. The government started a 14-day testing, vaccination and enforcement campaign to flatten the infection curve. The strategy was to identify positive persons via extensive testing, treating them and preventing further infection. Hotels were urged to shift to home delivery, and shops should follow suit. Kerala added 8,126 new cases on Thursday with a TPR of 13.34%. Cumulative cases were 11,97,301, and active cases 63,650. With 20 deaths added as COVID fatalities on Thursday, the overall toll was 4,856 deaths. Kannur and Kottayam saw four deaths each, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam three each, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kozhikode two deaths each. In Andhra Pradesh, a record 6.28 lakh people were vaccinated on Wednesday, and the target should be at least six lakh daily, said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday. The Chief Minister instructed officials to fix the charges at which private hospitals treat COVID-19 patients. Hospitals empanelled inthe Aarogyasri programme and private hospitals should record beds available. Treatment charges and cost of medicines should be displayed at hospitals. The State reported 5,086 infections and as many as 14 deaths on Thursday. The daily TPR was 14.23%, the highest in seven months, from 35,741 samples. Chittoor again reported five deaths, the highest, and highest single-day infections at 835. The Karnataka High Court said COVID-19 norms notified under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020 were cognisable and non-bailable and the DGP and IGP must ensure FIRs were registered for violations. The court directed the DGP and IGP to educate the police on enforcement and to monitor FIRs and investigation of violations like not wearing masks, failure to maintain social distancing, and gathering in large numbers. Karnataka reported its sharpest spike of 14,738 fresh cases and 66 fatalities, bringing total infections to 11.09 lakh and the toll to 13,112 on Thursday. A few corporate hospitals in Hyderabad resumed hotel isolation for patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. Telangana recorded 3,307 cases on Wednesday, a new high. For the second day, eight more patients died.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-fixes-9-pm-curfew-for-shops/article34331209.ece
16 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nambi Narayanan welcomes SC order||Former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan on Thursday welcomed the Supreme Court order asking the CBI to look into the Justice D.K. Jain Committee report, saying that “we are approaching close to the truth.” “I have a feeling that we will get the truth out of it and I am happy about it,” Mr. Narayanan said, reacting to the development. He pointed out that the contents of the report were being kept confidential on the instructions of the court. “I am not aware of what is in the report, but the court has accepted it, and they have also directed the CBI to consider it as a preliminary report and proceed with the case and identify the culprits. That way, it is a step forward,” said Mr. Narayanan, who was falsely charged in the infamous ISRO espionage case of 1994. Acquitted in 1998 The CBI had dismissed the charges against him and the Supreme Court acquitted him in 1998. He subsequently launched a tenacious battle seeking compensation and action against police officers responsible for his “malicious prosecution.” In 2018, the Supreme Court had appointed the three-member panel for finding “ways and means to take appropriate steps against the erring officials.” Mr. Narayanan had appeared before it in December last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nambi-narayanan-welcomes-sc-order/article34331204.ece
16 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP accuses Pinarayi of violating COVID protocol||The BJP on Thursday accused Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of wilfully disregarding the COVID-19 protocol and endangering public safety. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan alleged that Mr. Vijayan had contracted COVID-19 on April 4. However, he had concealed his medical condition and campaigned on April 5. On April 6, the Chief Minister and his family had turned up with an entourage of party workers and neighbours to vote. When diagnosed with COVID-19, Mr. Vijayan travelled to the hospital in a group. Mr. Vijayan repeated the pattern when hospital authorities discharged him. Mr. Vijayan’s wife, who was COVID-19 positive, travelled in the same car with him home, Mr. Muraleedharan alleged. Meanwhile, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said in Kannur that Mr. Vijayan did not violate the protocol. He was discharged from hospital after turning negative. He did not participate in any functions and would remain in quarantine, she added. ( With inputs from Kannur bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-accuses-pinarayi-of-violating-covid-protocol/article34331203.ece
16 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six held, red sanders logs seized||The task force police on Thursday took six persons into custody on charges of smuggling red sanders and seized eleven logs that were kept ready for transportation. The police also seized two motorcycles and a cash of Rs. 1.5 lakh from the possession of the accused. Meanwhile, unconfirmed sources said that one among the detained was reportedly associated with the SVBC and the police are trying to ascertain the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-held-red-sanders-logs-seized/article34331246.ece
16 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteers kept away from poll process: Collector||Ahead of the byelection to the Tirupati (SC) Parliamentary Constituency, Chittoor District Collector M. Hari Narayanan has announced that the volunteers have been kept away from the poll process. In a videoconference with State Election Officer K. Vijayanand, he said the village or ward volunteers would not be used in the process of conducting elections, as per the Election Commission of India guidelines. As outsiders were not allowed to stay in the constituency limits, he appealed to those staying in the purview of the parliamentary constituency to move out or face action. “Check-posts will be in place in the entry points into the constituency, where central forces, state armed reserve forces would stand guard. Webcasting will be implemented in all polling stations”, he explained. The EVM randomisation process had been conducted thrice and the machines would be sent to their respective polling stations on Friday, he added. Later, at a media conference along with Deputy Inspector-General of Police Kanthi Rana Tata and Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, he gave a call to the public to exercise their franchise without fear, as all measures had been taken to ensure free and fair polling. There are 1,056 polling stations with 7.40 lakh voters in Tirupati, Srikalahasti and Satyavedu Assembly segments, falling under Chittoor district, while the remaining are in Nellore district. Mr. Narayanan appealed to the voters to download ‘Know your polling station’ mobile app on Play Store to get details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteers-kept-away-from-poll-process-collector/article34331955.ece
16 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank manager ‘manhandled’ by landlord in Srikalahasti||A bank manager was assaulted in full public view by a man who had leased out his premises to the bank, in Srikalahasti town of Chittoor district on Thursday. The branches of Union Bank of India and Andhra Bank are running out of the same premises under One Town police limits in Srikalahasti. With the merger of the two banks recently, the authorities concerned had decided to wind up certain branches that are in close proximity. However, the landlord, identified as M. Prasad, got angry with the decision and allegedly disconnected the electricity and water connections to the bank office. On Thursday, the bank officials were reportedly trying to restore power connection to the branch office with the help of the APSPDCL. Mr. Prasad barged into the premises on Thursday and allegedly manhandled the security guard and the bank manager, M. Rakesh Varma. Case registered The Srikalahasti police have registered a case. Measnwhile, Union Bank of India’s Deputy General Manager (Tirupati Circle) P.D.V. Sarma said the officials would meet Tirupati Urban Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu and seek criminal action against the landlord and security cover for the bank employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-manager-manhandled-by-landlord-in-srikalahasti/article34331947.ece
16 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, YSRCP rule detrimental to people: Chinta||The BJP rule at the Centre and the YSR Congress Party rule in the State are much against the interests of the people and hence there is a need to dethrone the incumbent governments, cautioned CWC member and former Union Minister Chinta Mohan. At a press conference here on Thursday ahead of the byelection to Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, he said the voters should show their resentment against the ‘anti-people attitude’ of the State and Central governments and ‘stamp them out of power’. He accused the YSRCP and TDP of having planned to distribute Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500 respectively to voters of Gudur Sssembly segment. “The ruling and Opposition parties have spent Rs. 30 crore and Rs. 20 crore respectively so far, but the Congress has spent only Rs. 3 lakh,” he claimed. Recalling the days of the late Indira Gandhi, he said politics should mean sacrifice and service and not corruption and untrustworthiness as shown by the present regimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-ysrcp-rule-detrimental-to-people-chinta/article34331953.ece
16 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sunil Deodhar alleges injustice to Hindu SCs||BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar, who is also co-in-charge of the A.P. affairs, has threatened to wield the disqualification weapon against the “non-Hindu candidates who got elected with Hindu SC certificate.” Addressing the media here on Thursday ahead of the byelection to the Tirupati (SC) parliamentary constituency, Mr. Deodhar said the party would not mind taking up the cudgels on behalf of the Hindu SCs, who, he said, had been consistently losing out to their Christian counterparts in the elections. Former bureaucrat K. Ratna Prabha is contesting the election as BJP – Jana Sena candidate. Targeting State Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Sullurpet MLA K. Sanjeevaiah, and YSRCP candidate M. Gurumoorthy, the BJP leader said the party would file a case for disqualification of these persons “in view of the religion they are practising.” Meanwhile, JSP president Pawan Kalyan called for “adherence to secular values,” but warned of action “if Dharmic values are compromised.” In a statement, he appealed to the people to vote for the BJP to show their resentment against the attack on temples and also the insult to Hindu values by a section of politicians, especially those ridiculing the holy ‘Srivari Namam’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sunil-deodhar-alleges-injustice-to-hindu-scs/article34331956.ece
16 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outcome will have far-reaching impact on State, says Naidu||Opposition leader and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has termed the result of the byelection to the Tirupati parliamentary constituency as having a far-reaching impact in deciding the future course of action for Andhra Pradesh. “The election is not limited to Tirupati. This is an opportunity to safeguard the future of Andhra Pradesh. Tirupati voters should take advantage of this ‘vajrayudham’ (a mythological weapon with divine powers) and dethrone the government. They need to remember what happened during the two-year-rule of YSRCP,” he said at a media conference meant to wind up the party’s marathon election campaign on Thursday. Recalling the lack of development, Mr. Naidu said several industries had evinced interest in his ‘Sunrise State’ call and reached A.P. with investment, adding that the situation was not congenial any more. As the Green Tribunal had granted a stay on sand mining, the sand mafia owing allegiance to the ruling party had been digging up to 70 feet in the river between Uthukota and Surutupalli on the Tamil Nadu border, expressing fear that it could lead to desertification. He accused Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy (Kadapa) of being behind such illegal practices. On the stone-throwing incident, he ridiculed the police officials asking the TDP to provide evidence for the same. He also sought to know the status of the fictitious ‘pink diamond’, which the Tirumala chief priest had made an election issue ahead of the 2019 polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outcome-will-have-far-reaching-impact-on-state-says-naidu/article34331958.ece
16 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP will win hands down, says Peddireddi||The YSRCP has rubbished the allegations made by TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son and party general secretary Lokesh as frivolous. On the final day of the campaign for the byelection to the Tirupati parliamentary constituency here on Thursday, Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said the TDP had conceded defeat much before the election by not accepting his “resignation challenge.” Mr. Reddy had earlier dared the TDP to get its four MPs resigned if YSRCP candidate M. Gurumoorthy won the election, and agreed for the resignation of the 21 YSRCP MPs if TDP candidate Panabaka Lakshmi got elected. “Mr. Naidu has not responded to my challenge, which means he has already accepted defeat,” he remarked. Reacting to the allegations of stone-pelting at Mr. Naidu’s public meeting and disruption of power during the TDP roadshows in Nellore district, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said his party had no need to stoop so low, as it was way ahead in campaign for a “positive vote.” He sounded optimistic on the party winning the election hands down, thanks to the implementation of the Navaratnalu schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-will-win-hands-down-says-peddireddi/article34331960.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily cases tally crosses the 5,000-mark||The State’s single-day tally crossed the 5,000-mark for the first time in six months, as it reported 5,086 new infections and 14 deaths due to COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The rate of increase of cases by the day was rapid. In the second wave of COVID infections, it took only two months for the State to see over 5,000 cases a day since February 15 when only 30 infections were reported. During the first wave, which began on March 12, 2020, it took 130 days for the daily tally to cross 5,000. On July 19, 2020, for the first time, the State reported 5,041 infections in a day. Meanwhile, the cumulative tally increased to 9,42,135 and the death toll reached 7,353 with a death rate of 0.78%. Even as 1,745 patients recovered in the past day, the number of recoveries increased to 9,03,072 and the recovery rate came down to 95.85%. Meanwhile, the number of active cases also crossed the 30,000-mark and reached 31,710 as of Thursday morning. The daily positivity rate of the samples tested in the past day was 14.23%, the highest in seven months, as only 35,741 samples were tested. The overall positivity rate of 1.557 crore samples tested was 6.05%. Chittoor has again reported five more deaths, the highest among the districts and its death toll reached close to 900. Anantapur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam reported two new deaths each while Guntur, Krishna and Kadapa reported one new death each in the past day. Chittoor also reported the highest single-day tally of 835 infections and was followed by Kurnool (626), Guntur (611) and Srikakulam (568). Districts with less than 500 new infections include East Godavari (450), Visakhapatnam (432), Krishna (396), Anantapur (334), Vizianagaram (248), Prakasam (236), Nellore (223), Kadapa (96) and West Godavari (31). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,27,556), Chittoor (97,008), West Godavari (94,893), Guntur (84,128), Anantapur (70,415), Visakhapatnam (66,425), Nellore (66,025), Prakasam (64,592), Kurnool (64,339), Kadapa (57,667), Krishna (53,927), Srikakulam (49,680) and Vizianagaram (42,585).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-cases-tally-crosses-the-5000-mark/article34331950.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for Tirupati bypoll tomorrow: poll official||Andhra Pradesh Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand has called upon the electorate in the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency to exercise their franchise without any fear from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on April 17. Addressing the media along with additional DGP (law and order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar at the Secretariat on Thursday, Mr. Vijayanand said that arrangements were been to ensure a peaceful byelection. Stating that 28 candidates were in the fray, he said there were 17,11,195 voters in the constituency spread over Chittoor and Nellore districts. In all, 2,470 polling stations were set up, he added. Keeping in view the threat of COVID-19, one polling station was arranged for every 1,000 voters against 1,500 previously. Mr. Vijayanand said elaborate arrangements were made in Tirupati, Srikalahasti and Satyavedu Assembly segments in Chittoor district and Gudur, Sarvepalli, Sullurpeta and Venkatagiri in Nellore district. Ward and village volunteers were being kept out of the election duty as per the instructions from the Election Commission of India (ECI). The volunteers were also prohibited from acting as polling agents for the candidates, he said. Postal ballot Mr. Vijayanand said there were 24,698 differently-abled voters, 22,743 voters aged above 80 (postal ballot facility has been provided to them and papers were already collected from them at their homes by mobile teams), 497 service voters and 216 third gender voters. As far as security is concerned, he said 23 companies of central security forces had been deployed and 877 polling stations were identified as sensitive. Thirty-seven flying squads would keep a watch on the polling. The ECI deputed Dinesh Patel, Rajeev Kumar and Anand Kumar as the general, police and expenditure observers respectively. Fifty-two checkposts were set up at the constituency borders. In the run-up to the election, cash, liquor and other material valued at Rs. 4.73 crore were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-tirupati-bypoll-tomorrow-poll-official/article34331961.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court asks Centre to explain its stand on strategic sale of VSP||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justices J. Bagchi and M. Ganga Rao, issued a notice to the Union government on Thursday directing it to file a counter affidavit on the proposed strategic sale of its stake in the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in response to a PIL filed by CBI former Joint Director V.V. Lakshminarayana. The petitioner’s argument was that the Central government could not take a unilateral decision to divest its stake from a public entity without ensuring compliance with the promise of jobs made to the land oustees, and send them for negotiations with a private party. Appearing for Mr. Lakshminarayana, senior counsel B. Adinarayana Rao said the court was bound to look into the Central government’s decision since it was affecting the fundamental rights of not only the land oustees but also a large number of others who were employed in the PSU directly and indirectly. The court observed that an “unwise or unpopular decision ought to be taken up for debate elsewhere and not in a courtroom unless a statutory violation is pointed out and it warrants the court's interference.” Representing the Andhra Pradesh government, Advocate-General S. Sriram said the court was entitled, within the limited space of judicial review, to scrutinise whether the Central government took the decision to divest its stake in VSP after considering the available alternatives. He pointed out that the State had addressed two letters to the Union government suggesting alternatives (reducing the input cost by providing captive mines, monetising the land bank etc.) for making the plant commercially viable. The Central government could, therefore, be asked to explain its stand on the matter. After recording the submissions, the court issued a notice to it (Central government) to answer the above, while keeping the question of maintainability of the writ petition open. The case was adjourned by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-asks-centre-to-explain-its-stand-on-strategic-sale-of-vsp/article34331963.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteers awarded||Best performing ward volunteers under the Vijayawada East constituency were felicitated by Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Mayor Rayana Bhaghya Lakshmi and VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh here on Thursday. The volunteers were given away Seva Vajra, Seva Ratna and Seva Mitra awards. Five – Joshua Daniel, K. Lakshman Prasad, Ch. Mani, G. Prasanthi and G. Ishak – were given Seva Vajra, V. Revathi Seva Ratna and 916 were given Seva Mitra for their performance since induction. Seva Vajra winners were given a certificate, badge and Rs. 30,000 cash prize while Seva Ratna and Seva Mitra winners were given Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 10,000 each respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteers-awarded/article34332036.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ union seeks solutions to long-standing issues||Vexed with “government apathy”, leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers' Federation (APTF) have decided to launch a sustained agitation in a phased manner to build pressure on the authorities concerned to solve their long-standing issues. The leaders called upon teachers to identify their pressing local issues and submit representations on them at the Mandal Education Offices on April 19, while on April 26, they should take out rallies and stage dharnas at the Collectors’ offices. In a statement on Wednesday, the federation leaders alleged “gross indifference” on the part of the government towards the community. Citing some of their key issues, they said while Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to repeal the controversial Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) immediately after coming to power, he had not done so even after completing two years in power. Teachers being deprived of DA and non-implementation of the Pay Revision Commission recommendations were other perennial issues, they said. Demands They said teachers who were transferred had not received their salaries in last three months, there were irregularities in the promotions, and introduction of several new apps in their day-to-day work had only worsened the situation. They said initially teachers were asked to deal with apps related to classroom lessons and exams but now, they were having to deal with apps relating to the number of eggs received by their schools as part of mid-day-meal scheme or even the toilets being constructed under Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu programme. Their main demands include repeal of the CPS and restoration of the old pension scheme, declaration of the PRC and its implementation from July 1, 2018, solution to the issue of joint service rules and steps to fill the nearly 20,000 vacant teacher posts in the State. This year, the government schools witnessed an additional 4 lakh admissions, thus creating the need for 14,000 more teachers. The federation wanted the government to sanction these extra posts and recruit eligible candidates. It said teachers should be spared the non-teaching activities and posts of watchmen, attender, scavenger, sweeper, record assistant, library assistant, lab assistatn, junior assistant and computer operator be sanctioned and recruitments made for the same. The federation leaders said the teachers would not relent until their key demands were met by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-union-seeks-immediate-solutions-to-issues/article34331255.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets heart transplant under Aarogyasri scheme||A 62-year-old farmer from Chittoor district successfully underwent a heart transplantation under the State’s YSR Aarogyasri scheme at a hospital in Bengaluru. Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust CEO Dr. A. Mallikarjuna, in a release, said the beneficiary, M. Krishna Reddy, a poor farmer from the Punganuru municipality, was suffering from a heart disease for the past four years. The surgery was performed at M.S. Ramaiah Narayana Hrudayalaya Heart Care Centre on April 12 and the cost of the treatment, Rs. 11 lakh, was provided by the State government under the scheme. Second surgery Dr. Mallikarjuna said that the State government had facilitated treatment in hospitals in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and other cities under the scheme in November 2019 and many were benefiting from it. He said this was the second such surgery conducted in Bengaluru. Mr. Reddy and his family thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for extending the scheme to multi-speciality hospitals in other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-heart-transplant-under-aarogyasri-at-bengaluru/article34331249.ece
16 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State runs out of vaccines||The State’s COVID vaccine stock exhausted on Thursday and only about 24,672 vaccines doses could be administered before the vaccine centres shut doors. Of the 6.4 lakh doses received by the State, 6.28 lakh were used on a single day on Wednesday, the last day of Tika Utsav, according to the Health Department. So far, according to national CoWIN dashboard, 45.96 lakh doses of vaccines were administered in the State. Only 5.93 lakh persons got two doses of the vaccine while 40.03 lakh got the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-runs-out-of-vaccines/article34331893.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of family found dead at upscale apartment||Four members of an NRI family were found dead under suspicious circumstances in their fifth-floor flat at an upscale gated residential community at Midhilapuri VUDA Colony in Madhurawada in the early hours of Thursday. S. Bangaru Naidu (50), his wife Nirmala (46), and their sons Deepak (22) and Kashyap (19) were all found dead in their flat at Aditya Fortune Towers at 5 a.m. on Thursday. The victims died of burn injuries and asphyxiation in a fire that broke out inside their flat, say police sources, adding that initial investigation points to murder. Neighbours said they heard shouting from the victims’ flat at around 2 a.m., after which they alerted security guards at the gate. The guards, who also reportedly heard some sounds, came to the flat but later left after reportedly debating whether or not to intervene as it was quite late in the night. Later, neighbours saw smoke billowing out of the victims’ flat and saw a fire at 4.11 a.m., and alerted the Fire Department. A fire vehicle soon arrived at the gated community, and firefighters rushed up to the flat to find the door bolted from inside. They then broke open the door and forcibly entered the flat to see Bangaru Naidu, Nirmala and Kashyap dead with stab injuries. Bangaru Naidu was lying on the floor near the main door, while Nirmala was found in the hall. Kashyap’s body was found in the bedroom. Upon a further search of the apartment, firefighters found the elder son Deepak lying dead in the attached bathroom of a second bedroom. There were no injury marks on his body and he was dressed in a suit and tie. A post-mortem would reveal the cause of his death, a police officer said. Family dispute? A sniffer dog squad, CLUES team and a forensic expert visited the crime scene and examined it minutely. According to the police, circumstantial evidence suggested that there was a dispute between the family members which led to a heated argument. The elder son is suspected to have stabbed his parents and younger brother to death in a fit of rage. It appears that the elder son then set fire to the apartment in a bid to erase evidence of his crime and hid in the bathroom to avoid being burnt to death, but died soon after due to smoke inhalation, said a police officer. Well-secured premises Entry of outsiders into the gated community is heavily restricted as the compound is well-protected and secured. Security guards man the gate round the clock and there are CCTV cameras installed all around the campus, sources said. Analysis of CCTV footage has revealed that no outsiders entered the flat the entire night. The last person to enter the flat was the father himself who entered the flat at 8.56 p.m. on Wednesday night. An investigation is on, police officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-family-found-dead-in-vizag-flat/article34331206.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mudasarlova park proposed to be developed with an outlay of Rs. 50 crore||Officials from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will be issuing Request for Proposal (RFF) to develop Mudasarlova park in the city with an estimated budget of Rs. 50 crore, soon. The corporation is mulling to give the old park a grand facelift and develop it as a good theme park to attract the tourists in the coastal city, which is touted to be the new Executive Capital of the State. The proposal to develop this park was put before the members of new council in the first corporation meet which was held on Friday and the council members have approved it. The park, spread over 20 acres near Arilova area, has been one of a good outing destination for the citizens for the last five decades. It is a major destination for number of citizens during picnic seasons. However in the last few years, no development activity was taken up. Though there were plans to develop it by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) with a budget of about Rs. 40 crore, plans did not materialise due to technical reasons. Finally the GVMC has decided to take up the project with its own funds and develop it as a theme park. “Earlier, we had plans to give it to VMRDA for its facelift, but we again came up with an idea, to take it up and develop as a theme park. We have decided to issue RFP for the project. The project may also be taken under Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. If the project works out well, it may also generate good revenue for the civic body in future,” GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said in the council meet. According to GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao, since the proposal was approved in the council, the GVMC would issue RFP seeking consultancies to come forward with ideas for the project. “Among their ideas, we will pick the best and unique model covering all amenities for the tourists,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mudasarlova-park-proposed-to-be-developed-with-an-outlay-of-rs-50-crore/article34332043.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees unrelenting increase in COVID cases||COVID-19 infections are on a relentless rise in the district. From 414 cases on Wednesday, the district recorded 432 cases on Thursday taking the total caseload to 66,937. Two deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 564. Meanwhile, 205 persons affected by the virus recovered and tested negative, taking the total number of recoveries to 62,931 and active cases to 3,442. Testing affected Meanwhile, even as cases are rising rapidly, the district has been hit by a double whammy of a shortage of vaccines on one hand and testing being stopped at a few private labs due to shortage of reagents. ‘No COVID testing’ boards were seen at a few testing centres in the city. After receiving 55,000 vaccine doses on Tuesday, the district is yet receive fresh stocks as the vaccines were used up after the ‘Tika Utsav’. Second dose critical The critical aspect in the vaccination programme is the second dose. If a person is unable to take the second dose after the end of the waiting period after having taken the first dose, there might be problems with the efficacy of the vaccine. However, there is a ‘grace period’ of five to seven days between which the second vaccine dose can be taken in order to ensure its efficacy, said a senior doctor from King George Hospital (KGH).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-unrelenting-increase-in-covid-cases/article34332048.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reopen COVID hospitals, isolation centres: CPI(M)||The District Committee of the CPI(M) has appealed to Collector V. Vinay Chand to increase testing, reopen COVID-19 hospitals and isolation centres and take up vaccination drives in rural areas to check the rapid spread of the second wave of the pandemic. In a letter to the Collector on Thursday, the party’s District Committee secretary K. Lokanadham said that experts have already warned that the virus was spreading rapidly in the second wave, and called for urgent measures to contain the spread, failing which Visakhapatnam district and Andhra Pradesh might become another Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. He noted that COVID-19 patients in the district were facing untold hardships. The test centres were confirming that the patients were ‘positive’ for COVID-19 but were refusing to admit them to hospitals till a message was received from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The COVID Centre, opened at Araku Valley in the past, was now closed. The staff who had served there were not even paid their salaries, he said. The COVID hospitals and isolation centres that functioned in the past have to be reopened to accommodate the increasing number of patients, Mr. Lokanadham said, disputing the claims of authorities that there was no shortage of beds or equipment at the hospitals. Patients waiting outside COVID hospitals due to non-availability of beds indicates the gave situation. Mr. Lokanadham also called for greater awareness among people in rural areas on the need to get vaccinated. The vaccine should be made available free of cost to all eligible persons, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reopen-covid-hospitals-isolation-centres-cpim/article34332044.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Howrah-Hyderabad special trains soon||Special trains will be operated between Howrah and Hyderabad in view of the public demand. Train 08646 Hyderabad-Howrah special will leave Hyderabad daily from April 16 to 30 at 8 a.m. which will reach Visakhapatnam at 9.10 p.m. and leave at 9.30 p.m. to reach Howrah at 2.40 p.m. the next day. Train 08645 Howrah-Hyderabad special will leave Howrah daily from April 18 to May 2 at 11.30 a.m. which will reach Visakhapatnam at 3.35 a.m. (early hours of the next day) and depart at 3.55 a.m. to reach Hyderabad at 5.30 p.m. the next day. These trains will have halts at Bhadrak, Baitarani Road, Jajpur Keonjhar Road, Dhanmandal, Cuttack, Barang, Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Nirakarpur, Kalupara Ghat, Balugaon, Khallikote, Chhatrapur, Brahmapur, Ichchapuram, Sompeta, Palasa, Naupada, Srikakulam Road, Chipurupalle, Vizianagaram, Kottavalasa, Simhachalam,Visakhapatnam and Duvvada stations. The rake comprises one 2nd AC coach, three 3rdAC, 12 Sleeper class coaches, three Second Class coaches, two Second class-cum-luggage coaches and a parcel van. Timings revised Due to technical reasons, the departure timings of the 02869 Visakhapatnam-Chennai Central weekly special train, leaving Visakhapatnam on Mondays, are being revised with effect from April 19. The revised timings of the departure of train 02869 at Visakhapatnam would be at 7 p.m. (instead of 7.05 p.m.), according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Passengers are requested to note the changes and act accordingly to avoid inconvenience. The passengers are requested to strictly follow all the safety protocols before and during the journey in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/howrah-hyderabad-special-trains-soon/article34332034.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prabhata bheri’ opposing VSP sale held||A ‘Prabhata bheri’ protest was oganised by VARWA and Nivas, seeking protection of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and other public sector industries on Wednesday. The participants took out the rally from HB Colony to the Maddilapalem bus complex and back via Dr. VS Krishna Government College. Dr. P. Rama Rao, a retired DM & HO, who inaugurated the rally, said that PSUs like Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), Visakhapatnam Port Trust, Hindustan Shipyard Limited, HPCL, LIC and public banks have created tremendous job opportunities and paved the way for development of ancillary industries and businesses. Selling of PSUs and their lands in the city would result in a crisis, he said. Thousands of acres of precious land was given by the surrounding farmers and many lives were sacrificed for the establishment of the steel plant, which is why the VSP should never be sold to private firms, he said. The protesters raised slogans condemning the privatisation proposal and demanded captive mines for the steel plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prabhata-bheri-opposing-vsp-sale-held/article34332035.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 patient jumps to her death at KGH||A COVID-19 patient, who was undergoing treatment at King George Hospital (KGH), jumped to her death from the fourth floor of the CSR Block on Thursday. The deceased woman was identified as Venkata Ramani (50). She, her husband and her mother-in-law, hailing from Kotturu near Anakapalle, had tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to the CSR Block at KGH a few days ago. Her husband and mother-in-law recovered quickly and doctors told them that they would be discharged on Thursday. Ramani was reportedly worried that she would be left alone with no one to take care of her, and resorted to the extreme step in a fit of desperation. A probe is on, police said. Helpline Those struggling with suicidal thoughts and depression are urged to call the 100 helpline for free counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-patient-jumps-to-her-death-at-kgh/article34332037.ece
16 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relay hunger strikes for VSP enter 63rd day||The relay hunger strikes, being organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee in opposition to the proposal to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and the ‘anti-labour, anti-farmer’ policies of the BJP-led Central government, entered the 63rd day, at Kurmannapalem here on Thursday. Committee member Y. Mastanappa inaugurated Thursday’s fast, in which a number of workers from the RMHP and RMD departments participated. Mr. Mastanappa alleged that the Centre was not acting in the best interests of the Public Sector Units (PSUs). Mr. Mastanappa alleged that the farmers, who were waging struggles in Delhi for the past four months, were an inspiration to the VSP workers. Though 300 farmers had lost their lives in the agitation, the other farmers have continued their protests, Mr. Mastanappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relay-hunger-strikes-for-vsp-enter-63rd-day/article34332046.ece
16 April 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Award for city writer||T. Mahadev Rao of Visakhapatnam bagged the Yashpal Sahitya Samman 2021 in the national poetry competition organised under the joint aegis of Sahitya Sudha Manch, Yash Group and Vinay Vani of New Bongaigaon in Assam. The programme was held online. Mr. Mahadev Rao, Srijan founding secretary, is an author in Hindi literature and was chosen for the award from 240 entries from across the country, said Neerav Kumar Varma, president of Srijan, Vizag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/award-for-city-writer/article34332045.ece
16 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP asks volunteers to ‘enhance govt.’s image’||Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar on Thursday asked volunteers to “strive towards enhancing the image of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government by achieving 100% satisfaction among people in their respective wards and divisions”. Along with Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu, Mr. Chandrasekhar felicitated volunteers who had shown dedication in their work in Bobbili constituency. The MP said that the flagship programmes of the State government, including ration distribution and disbursement of pensions, should be done as per schedule. Mr. China Appala Naidu said that opposition parties were unable to come to terms with the effective implementation of the volunteer system in the State. “Many State governments are keen on implementing the welfare schemes and volunteer system instituted by the Andhra Pradesh government,” Mr. China Appala Naidu said. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal was present in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-asks-volunteers-to-enhance-govts-image/article34331982.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wake-up call!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wake-up-call/article34331258.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Precarious profession||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/precarious-profession/article34331984.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Living on the edge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/living-on-the-edge/article34332051.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deadlock continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deadlock-continues/article34331213.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Higher demand for government isolation centres||There is heavy demand for the Telangana isolation centres from people who have mild or asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. Around 150 people a day occupy beds only at COVID Care Centres in Hyderabad — Nature Cure Hospital, Begumpet, and Ayurveda Hospital. While it is open for anyone, it is especially of use to people who do not have space at home and cannot afford isolation at hotels. Senior officials from the State Health department said people from all classes opted for the services at the government centres. Besides, separate rooms are available for family who want to isolate themselves, or for mothers along with their children. Nature Cure Hospital at Begumpet is sought by many. State’s Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that the COVID Care Centres are like mini-hospitals. “Doctors and nurses monitor health of the people admitted there. Medicines and food too are provided. They are sent to nearest hospital if their condition needs higher medical attention. Specialist doctors too visit the centres if need be,” Dr. Ramesh said. As per the daily media bulletin,there are 33 COVID Care Centres of government. However, officials said the number is higher and more are going to be opened. Apart from people not having required space for isolation at home, elderly with co-morbidities who are concerned about their health after getting detected with asymptomatic or mild COVID-19, too opt for the services.  Walk-in patients Some patients who do not know about the facilities walk-in to government hospitals where COVID-19 patients are admitted. Their medical condition is evaluated at triage. After the assessment, doctors decide if a patient needs admission at hospitals or the isolation centres. “Hospital beds are for moderate and severe cases. In these times, hospital beds are precious, which should be reserved preserved for patients who need critical care. Medical condition is monitored at the hospitals and the COVID Care Centres,” the Director of Medical Education said. Another senior official said that some tests needed for COVID-19 patients too are offered, such as D-Dimer. “Duty doctors number is pasted on a wall. They send us medicines upon calling the number. An egg, rice, curry, curd, rasam is served for lunch. Rotis, rice, rasam, is served in dinner,” said one of the patients admitted in Nature Cure Hospital. The centre at Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital is going to open in a few days. Superintendent of the hospital V. Rajalingam said that they have already started to received queries about it.  Open for all Any patient with asymptomatic or mild COVID can get admitted at government COVID Care Centres Migrant workers, people without homes, children from orphan homes, and others got admitted  Separate rooms provided for whole family with COVID, or for mothers with children   List of COVID Care Centres available in https://covid19.telangana.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/higher-demand-for-govt-isolation-centres/article34331841.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Golconda fort preservation lackadaisical, says High Court||Observing that the response of State and Central governments over preservation of Golconda fort was “lackadaisical”, the High Court on Thursday instructed them to immediately form a joint committee of officials to chalk out a comprehensive plan for preservation, restoration and development of the fort. State government’s Secretary for Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture Development would head the committee and convene a meeting with all other members to chalk out blue print for the development of the fort, Qutubshahi tombs and 27 other historical monuments in the fort’s vicinity. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed these instructions, expressing displeasure over the response of the State and Central governments to the order it had passed during the previous hearing. When Assistant Solicitor General (ASG) of India Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao informed the court that the Centre had filed its affidavit on April 12, the Chief Justice asked him how did he expect the HC Registry to upload it since the next day was Ugadi. While ASG tried to explain contents of the affidavit, the Chief Justice told him that it becomes irrelevant when the affidavit was filed late giving little or no time for the Registry to upload it for the bench’s perusal. Mr. Rao said the Centre had already identified some works for the development of the fort which are likely to be completed. In that case, execution of the whole development plan would take a decade, the CJ remarked. The bench asked the ASG and Special Government Pleader Harender Pershad appearing for the State if both the governments had some joint action plan or wished to take “stand alone” actions. Mr. Rao told the bench that he had found lot of illegal constructions had sprung up in the vicinity of the fort during his recent visit. He said that the Centre had lodged 153 complaints about such unauthorised strictures since 2003 to the State government but not action was taken. Turning to the SGP, the CJ said “your colleague is praising you sky high” and sought what plans the State government had to check illegal structures there. The bench said the committee should have State Archaeology Deputy Director, Superintendent Archaeologist of Archaeological Survey of India, GHMC Commissioner, Road and Buildings Chief Engineer, Head of Department of Architecture of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University and a member of Aga Khan Trust as its members. The committee should meet on April 22 to chalk out a comprehensive re-development plan for the fort and all historical monuments located within its radius. The blueprint should focus on removal of unauthorised structures, shifting of animals roaming around and illumination of the area. The first meeting should be followed by subsequent meetings to discuss matters connected to the issues. “The report should come before a week of next hearing. We will make sure there will be coercive action if the directions are not followed,” the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/golconda-fort-preservation-lackadaisical-says-high-court/article34331853.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks status report on missing children in State||The High Court on Thursday instructed the State government to file a comprehensive status report on missing children in the State. Hearing a batch of PIL pleas on missing children, the High Court wanted to know what steps the government was taking against child traffickers. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the government to explain how it was dealing with the issue. Noting that the State Legal Services Authority had a critical role to play in the matter, the bench directed that it be impleaded in the PIL petitions. How the Juvenile Justice Boards, Child Welfare Committees and Legal Services Authority were co-ordinating with one another was also crucial. The bench noted that the State should first have data of number of missing children from each police station jurisdiction. “How many of them were traced and reunited with their families,” the CJ asked the government. The government should monitor the status of the children who got reunited with the families. This was important in the backdrop of the findings in some instances that rescued children had disappeared again. “This could be due to the approach of the parents and families of the missing children,” the bench observed. The bench felt that the police department should use the latest version of the tracking software to trace the missing children. Government counsel sought time to furnish police station-wise details of missing children and those traced. The court directed that the Union of India be impleaded in the PIL petitions. Status report on loan apps Hearing a separate PIL petition on loan app companies, the bench instructed the Director General of Police to file a fresh status report having taken on record the report presented on Thursday. The bench said the police should explain in the next status report the action initiated against two loan app companies which continued their operations without registering with the Reserve Bank of India. The DGP, in his report, stated that information furnished by Google Playstore was analysed. The 180 mobile phone numbers used by loan app operators were identified. Two Chinese nationals, who had partnered with Indians, to operate the apps had fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-seeks-status-report-on-missing-children-in-state/article34331869.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases touch another daily high in Telangana||Telangana recorded 3,307 positive COVID cases on Wednesday, which is the highest on a single day in the State so far, and also marked the third time that the infections crossed 3,000 mark this month. There were 3,187 cases on April 10 and 3,052 on April 12. With surge in cases, a new high in the pandemic is being recorded as days pass by. Wednesday’s tally of 3,307 cases was the highest since March 2 last year when the first case was detected in the State. On second consecutive day, eight more patients died which is highest in a day from October 17-2020. While 1,06,627 samples were put to test, results of 3,715 samples were awaited. On Wednesday, the highest of 446 cases were from GHMC, followed by 314 in Medchal Malkajgiri, 279 from Nizamabad, 277 from Rangareddy,155 from Jagtial, 153 from Sangareddy, 148 from Nirmal, and 128 in Kamareddy. The lowest of 10 were from Mulugu, followed by 11 each in Narayanpet and Jayashankar Bhupalapally. From March 2, 2020 to April 14 of this year, a total of 1,13,60,001 samples were examined and 3,38,045 tested positive for coronavirus. Of the total, 27,861 were active cases, 3,08,396 have recovered, and 1,788 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-touch-another-daily-high-in-ts/article34331835.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospitals offer facilities in hotels for asymptomatic patients||In the past week, a few corporate hospitals in Hyderabad have started hotel isolation facilities for COVID-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. These services were provided last year too. Since the patients who don’t need active medical attention too were seeking admission in the second wave of the pandemic, hospitals have resumed the services. Isolating such patients in hotels helps to keep the hospitals beds for patients who are critical, or those who need oxygen, mechanical ventilator support, or other forms of medical intervention. Apart from consultation by physicians, consultation by dieticians is provided. Nurses too attend to them. Charges range from around Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 7,000 a day or more depending on the hospital. Along with medical attention, luxuries or comfort is made available for those who can shell out money. On April 6, Telangana’s Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao has suggested managements of corporate hospitals to open COVID Care Centres for patients with mild symptoms. The hotel isolation facilities are currently provided by Aster Prime Hospitals and Apollo Hospitals. The management of Continental Hospitals said that they too would provide the facilities in a few days. Anxiety main reason Though people are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, they seek admission as the patients have co-morbidities and with a hope medical attention will be immediately available if their condition were to deteriorate. Anxiety is also one of the main reasons. Besides this, Tarun Kondabolu, assistant manager, Apollo Hospitals. Jubilee Hills, said that admission is also sought by people with mild symptoms of COVID-19 or those who are asymptomatic as a precautionary step to avoid spreading the virus to family members. Regular check-up People who have maids at home to take care of daily chores also seek the services as food and other facilities are taken care of during isolation at hotels. Nurses check oxygen saturation levels twice a day. He said that the demand for the hotel isolation is as high as the demand for ICU beds. CEO of Aster Prime Hospitals Devanand K.T. said that apart from the COVID patients, they also offer quarantine facility for patients who are suspected to have COVID-19 or those who are waiting for RT-PCR test results. Continental Hospitals CEO Riyaz Khan said that they too are planning to start such services soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospitals-offer-isolation-facilities-in-hotels-for-asymptomatic-patients/article34331839.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Secretary directs officials to make more beds available for patients||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the Health department officials to take steps to increase bed strength for COVID-19 patients in government hospitals, private medical colleges so that the administration can be geared up to meet the requirement in case of increase in the number of cases. The Chief Secretary held a review meeting with senior officials for taking stock of the situation arising out of increasing number of COVID-19 cases being reported from different parts of the State. The meeting assumes significance as a huge number of over 3,300 cases were reported from across the State on Wednesday.  Ramp up testing He wanted the officials concerned to instruct the district collectors to ramp up testing, intensify vaccination and focus on enforcing orders on COVID appropriate behaviour, including wearing of masks, which had been made mandatory. The number of COVID care centres in the districts should be doubled and private hospitals should be sensitized on judicious use of oxygen. Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi, Public Health Director Srinivas Rao, Medical Education Director Ramesh Reddy and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-directs-officials-to-make-more-beds-available/article34331846.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Retirement age of power staff hiked||In tune with the decision of the State government to enhance the retirement age of its staff from 58 to 61 years, the Transmission Corporation of Telangana also issued an order on Thursday hiking the retirement age of its own staff to the same level. As a result, the age of retirement of all employees of TRANSCO in Classes I and II and workmen in Class III has been raised from 58 to 61 years. The age of retirement of general service employees in Class IV has been raised from 60 to 61 years, the order said. The Transco employees who retired after March 30, the date on which the government issued gazette notification on age hike, were asked to report for duty within two days for issue of reposting orders. The period from the date of re-induction to the date of reporting will be treated as compulsory wait and ‘on duty’. The employees who were reinducted into service will get protection of all service benefits, including seniority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/retirement-age-of-power-staff-hiked/article34331871.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ACB arrests TSSPDCL DE||Gajawada Manohar, divisional engineer (Commercial), TSSPDCL Corporate office, Hyderabad, was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday for accepting a bribe for showing official favour. The accused demanded and accepted Rs. 35,000 from a complainant, Bollaram Bal Narsimha, an electrical contractor, to process the file pertaining to sanction of extension of 5 KW non-domestic load under LT Category-II for a real estate venture at Bibinagar. Manohar was produced before the principal special judge for SPE and ACB cases, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-arrests-tsspdcl-de/article34331850.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Illegal structures must be razed: High Court||The less number of demolitions vis-a-vis the large number of illegally constructed buildings in different parts of the State capital suggested that GHMC officials were hand in glove with persons erecting such unauthorised structures, Telangana High Court said on Thursday. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy made this observation after perusing the details of the buildings identified as unauthorised and the demolitions carried out by the civic body. The bench perused statistics furnished by GHMC Zonal Commissioners of Secunderabad, Khairatabad and Kukatpally. Zonal commissioners of L.B. Nagar, Charminar and Serilingampally failed to present details despite the bench’s direction issued during the previous hearings. The bench had gone through the separate reports filed by the three zonal commissioners. They were presented before the court as per the bench’s directions issued while hearing a batch of PIL petitions on illegal structures in GHMC area. Citing Secunderabad zonal commissioner report, CJ Hima Kohli said the authorities demolished only 28 out of the 139 illegally constructed buildings in the zone spread over different GHMC circle office jurisdictions. Referring to the finding of the report that lower courts issued interim orders in the remaining 111 illegal structures, the bench sought to know what action the authorities had initiated to get the court orders vacated. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy drew the attention of the CJ to the fact that in one GHMC circle area, courts had issued status quo orders in 42 out of 46 illegally constructed buildings. The judge also observed that in the guise of demolition of unauthorised structures, the authorities are only make holes on the buildings facilitating owners of the buildings to go ahead with the construction. The CJ made it clear to the government that once a structure is identified as an illegal one, the officials must ensure that it is razed and reduced to rubble. The bench said that expenses of the demolition of illegal buildings should be collected from the pockets of the respective owners. “Why we should not think that you are turning a Nelson’s eye to illegal buildings,” the CJ said. Referring to the interim or status quo orders issued, the bench directed the lower courts to finalise the petitions pertaining to unauthorised structures expeditiously in reasonable time. The court said that GHMC should have a system to monitor and streamline all court cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/illegal-structures-must-be-razed-high-court/article34331851.ece
16 April 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former Minister Chandulal dead||Former TRS Minister A. Chandulal died during treatment at KIMS Hospital in Hyderabad late on Thursday night. He was ailing for a long time. Chandulal lost the last Assembly election from Mulugu constituency in erstwhile Warangal district at the hands of Congress MLA Sitakka. He won from the same constituency in 2014 and became Tribal Welfare Minister in the TRS government. Chandulal had been a Minister in the past TDP government headed by N.T. Rama Rao in 1980s. He sailed with the TDP till joining TRS during the separate Telangana movement. He also served as an MP representing Warangal Lok Sabha constituency twice. He was MLA of Mulugu thrice. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao condoled his dealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-minister-chandulal-dead/article34331876.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Some sections in Telangana State Archives sealed off||As many as four members of staff of the Telangana State Archives and Research Institute in Tarnaka tested positive for the novel coronavirus, prompting authorities to seal parts of the repository of lakhs of documents. According to sources, it was on Thursday that the issue came to light. Staff aware of the development said that those who have tested positive belong to different categories of employment. The library, and two research rooms, one on the ground floor, the other on the first floor, where PhD candidates, and others are engaged in retrieving and archival documents, were sealed off. They will be off limits for the next fortnight. “The researchers and some staff members were caught unawares. They were informed to leave and the research room was vacated. The premises will be opened after sanitisation,” a source said. While it is unclear as to how the four employees contracted the novel coronavirus, another source said that COVID–19 protocols were followed strictly within the premises. “The premises is large and very well ventilated. The ceilings are high and there is a lot of open space. We did not have trouble maintaining social distancing,” an employee said. The TSARI also deal with requests for access to archival material from not only researchers, but other individuals, many of whom reach Hyderabad from neighbouring states such as Karnataka and Maharashtra, where cases are alarmingly high. “There are between 30 and 50 applications we get. On other days, they would come inside and submit their applications. But for the past fortnight or so, we put a desk at the entrance where they are asked to submit their applications. They are not allowed to come inside,” another source said. After the several sections were closed, staff was directed not to report to work, another source said. “There are 46 people who work here. Around 35 have been asked not to come. These include case workers, assistant archivists, and archivists. Only officers will come to the Archives,” another source said. Officials are working with district administration to ensure the infected employees are taken care of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sections-in-state-archives-sealed-off-as-staff-test-positive/article34331842.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forest staff told to get vaccinated||Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy has asked all the forest staff to get vaccinated against the COVID-19 infection in view of the spread of the second wave of the pandemic. During a review meeting with Forest department higher officials on Thursday, Mr.Indrakaran Reddy has directed PCCF R. Sobha to ensure that all the staff starting from higher officials to the lowest level workers are vaccinated. He enquired for the details of the vaccination so far, how many employees had been infected, and how many have breathed their last. He issued instructions for deployment of two nodal officers to monitor the health status of COVID-19 patients in the department, and vaccinations. Ms. Sobha informed the Minister that a total of 236 employees have been infected since last year, and 11 of them died. Mr. Indrakaran Reddy expressed his condolences for the deceased, and assured support for the employees in relation to health and medical issues. Ms. Sobha, in a video conference, asked all the district level forest officials to adhere to masking and physical distancing without fail, and ensure that all persons who have completed 45 years of age are vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/forest-staff-told-to-get-vaccinated/article34331848.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sharmila picked up by police, dropped at home||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of former (united) Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister late Y.S Rajasehkara Reddy was taken into preventive custody by the police on Thursday for breaching the time window permitted by law enforcement agency for a day-long hunger strike demanding job notification for unemployed youth. She requested the city police to grant permission for a three-day fast to highlight the problems of unemployment in the State, but authorities gave her permission for only one day from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. to protest at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park. Despite getting permission for one day, she wanted to continue her protest for two more days and sought extension, which was denied. Later, she marched towards the Secretariat with her followers, but the mob was stopped at Katta Maisamma temple where a scuffle ensued with police. Joint Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P. Viswa Prasad said, “Initially they requested us for a procession till Katta Maisamma temple, and our people followed her. Further, without any undeclared plans, she took out a procession till Telugu Talli flyover, which is illegal,” he said. Sharmila was picked up near the flyover when she insisted on continuing to walk till her home at Lotus Pond in Jubilee Hills. Her followers were dispersed and she was dropped at her house at Lotus Pond in a police vehicle. She continued her protest on a raised platform outside her house and expressed her resolve not to touch even drinking water until her supporters were released by the police. She warned police that she will not tolerate if anyone touched her again. Raising anti-KCR slogans, she claimed she will become Chief Minister of Telangana one day. Her fast will continue for 72 hours as planned earlier. At the Dharna Chowk during the day, Ms. Sharmila referred to abundant recruitment in government jobs during the tenure of her father as Chief Minister. The notifications for teachers recruitment were issued in 2004, 2006 and 2008. On the last occasion, about 58,000 teachers were recruited, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sharmila-picked-up-by-police-dropped-at-home/article34331855.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DGP inaugurates three -day training programme||Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy on Thursday inaugurated a three-day training programme for the police personnel on crime against women and children. The objective of the programme, which is being organised by the Women Safety Wing, is to ensure that the investigation officers are versatile with cyber crime investigation procedures (process and technical) with respect to most occurring crimes in the society and in corporate world, against women and children which would enhance the investigation officer’s ability to carry out the investigations efficiently. “The programme aims to provide an understanding of the various types of cyber crimes with respect to women and children to have a fair idea of technology elements and their functioning in cyber crimes, be able to examine the correctness of chain of custody of evidence, online investigating methods, be able to identify relevance of intermediaries and their legal obligations, evaluate the relevance of presented evidences, apply the legal provisions to the electronic evidences to confirm its tenability,” an official release from Mr. Mahender Reddy’s office informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dgp-inaugurates-three-day-training-programme/article34331991.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five held for killing woman||Five persons, who were involved in the murder of a 42-year-old woman, were arrested by Saidabad police here on Thursday. On April 12, the accused went to the house of victim, Kanodia Manjula, demanding repayment of a hand loan taken by her husband K Parmimal, who was at large, and stabbed her to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-held-for-killing-woman/article34331856.ece
16 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Schedule for polls to civic bodies out||The stage is set for conduct of elections to two municipal corporations and five municipalities in the State. The State Election Commission issued schedule for the elections to these urban local bodies on Thursday and 11.26 lakh voters — 5.53 lakh male, 5.72 lakh female and 236 others — would exercise their franchise. Elections are scheduled to be held for 248 wards in Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation and Khammam Municipal Corporation as also to Atchampet, Nakrekal, Siddipet, Jadcherla and Kothur municipalities. Notification for the election would be issued on Friday and filing of nominations would commence the same day. The last day for filing of nominations would be April 18 and this would be followed by their scrutiny the next day. Aspirants whose nominations were rejected could file appeals before the election authorities concerned and these appeals would be disposed of the next day. The last day for withdrawal of nominations is April 22 and April 30 is the date of election. Repolling, if need be, would be held on May 2, and counting of votes would take place on May 3. Results of the elections would be declared the same day evening. The SEC also announced election to fill casual vacancies in eight wards in as many municipal bodies and Lingojiguda in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation which fell vacant following the death of the sitting corporator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/schedule-for-civic-polls-out/article34331870.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Monuments closed till May 15||The Central government on Thursday issued orders to shut down all Centrally protected monuments, sites, and museums in the country in view of the rising COVID-19 cases across the country. The Salar Jung Museum, Golconda Fort and the Charminar are the three sites which will be out of bounds for citizens. According to an Archaeological Survey of India order, the initial period of closure is till May 15. This is for the third time that the national monuments and museums are being shut down due to COVID-19. Visitors and tourists did not have access to Golconda Fort and Charminar for six months between March and September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monuments-closed-till-may-15/article34331992.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Senior radiation oncologist passes away (with photo)||Kalluri Subrahmaniyam, a senior radiation oncologist in Hyderabad, died of massive heart attack on Wednesday. He was professor and head of the department of oncology at Osmania Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-radiation-oncologist-passes-away-with-photo/article34331858.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Odisha fugitive held in City||A fugitive from Odisha was arrested by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force sleuths here on Thursday. The accused, Shaikh Hyder, 60, was accused of killing one Rashmi Mohaparta. Recently, he abducted a marble trader and demanded Rs. 2 crore ransom and escaped from the custody of Orissa. He has been absconding since the last one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/odisha-fugitive-held-in-city/article34331861.ece
16 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mayor to attend global conference||Hyderabad city Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi will attend the virtual global conference of mayors on ‘Advancing a Carbon-Neutral, Resilient Recovery for Cities and Nations’ to be organised on April 16 by the United Nations Secretary General. Mayors from 40 cities around the world are participating in the online conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayor-to-attend-global-conference/article34331863.ece
16 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Dozens of decades-old trees axed||Taking up cudgels against alleged illegal axing of dozens of trees by miscreants in their village, a section of the aggrieved villagers, including several nature-lovers, of Chimmapudi in Raghunadhapalem mandal are running from pillar to post seeking urgent intervention of the authorities to save the remaining tree canopy in their village. The mass chopping of more than 45 fully grown tamarind trees, some of them a few decades old, by unidentified persons on the periphery of the village a few days ago, left the nature-lovers shocked. Veteran green crusader Padma Shri Daripalli Ramaiah, who had won wide acclaim for his unique social forestry initiatives, was virtually moved to tears by the ghastly scene of the leftover tree stubs at the site, hitherto a flourishing tamarind grove, during his visit to the village on Wednesday. Peeved over the huge loss of a vast tree cover in their village, a group of villagers submitted memoranda to the mandal level Revenue and other officials seeking tough action against those responsible for destroying the tree cover. The role of an elected representative of the gram panchayat is under the scanner for facilitating the tree chopping on the pretext of making arrangements for construction of additional two-bedroom (2BGK) houses at the site, according to the aggrieved villagers. “Our village has lost a huge tamarind tree grove that provided shade to farmers and cattle grazers,” said M Karunakar Reddy, a young farmer of Chimmapudi. Dozens of decades-old tamarind trees were axed in an overnight operation by some miscreants at the behest of some influential persons five days ago, he charged, alleging that the chopped tree trunks and branches were transported in heavy vehicles to some undisclosed location for sale. The indiscriminate axing of mature trees had negated the State government’s efforts to increase the tree cover, said Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) district joint secretary Ramesh, who hails from Chimmapudi. The authorities should take stringent action against those responsible for chopping of trees in flagrant violation of norms and prevent recurrence of such incidents, he demanded. “The government is spending huge amounts to nurture and protect every sapling planted under the Haritha Haram and it is an irony that miscreants brazenly axed fully grown trees,” Mr Ramesh said. Khammam Forest Range Officer Radhika said it was found during their field investigation in the village on Thursday that around 40 tamarind trees were cut down at old Chimmapudi village. A detailed report would be submitted to higher authorities and a case under Water, Land & Trees Act would be registered against those responsible for axing of trees, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dozens-of-decades-old-trees-axed/article34331995.ece
16 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||60 wards are for women in Khammam||Half of the total 60 wards of the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) have been reserved for women including 16 (general women), 10 (BC women), 3 (SC women) and one (ST women). The reservations were decided through a draw of lots by Collector and the District Election Authority R V Karnan in the presence of representatives of the recognised political parties. As per the schedule released for as many as 60 divisions in KMC, 20 wards reserved for BCs , 30 for general, seven SCs and three STs, sources said. The KMC will go to the polls on April 30 and results will be declared on May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/60-wards-are-for-women-in-khammam/article34331993.ece
16 April 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Cases rise in Medak||The second wave of coronavirus infection has been spreading fast and the number of infections is rising to alarming levels. As many as four deaths — Manne Srisailam (50), S. Anand Paul (65), B. Baalagangaiah (68) and M. Venkatesham (50) — were reported due to COVID-19 in Medak district on Thursday alone. In addition, 325 positive cases were reported in the district with highest number of 39 cases reported at Reddyapally primary health centre (PHC) centre followed by 36 at Kowdipally, 27 cases at Community Health Centre at Ramayampet and 25 cases at PHC Chegunta. No deaths Coming to Sangareddy district a total of 153 positive case were reported with zero deaths. More corona cases are being reported in Narayankhed area. According to sources some families attended a marriage function in neighbouring Maharashtra resulting in the increase of number of positive cases being reported from that area. Meanwhile, some 4,000 people have got vaccinated across Sangareddy district on Thursday, according to District Medical and Health Officer Gayatri Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-rise-in-medak/article34331989.ece
16 April 2021||NAGARJUNASAGAR,TELANGANA||Fierce campaign ends for Nagarjunasagar byelection||Hundreds of SUVs and khadi-clad non-local leaders made their way out of Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency as campaign bells for the bypoll fell silent on Thursday. The bypoll, necessitated by the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narismhaiah, will be held on April 17, with a total 41 candidates in the fray. The constituency, comprising seven mandals — Gurrampode, Tirumalagirisagar, Peddavoora, Nidamanuru, Madgulapalli, Tripuraram and Anumula — has an electorate of 2,19,745 voters, of which 1,10,838 are women voters. The polling on Saturday will be held through 346 polling stations. The candidates Congress’ seven-time legislator K. Jana Reddy’s candidature was the first to be finalised in early March. The BJP gave the ticket to a local tribal Ravi Kumar Naik, keeping aside its earlier candidate here, who had already filed the nomination without the party’s approval. Although permutation and combination was rife in picking the TRS candidate, its president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao gave the Form-B to Nomula Bhagat, son of deceased sitting legislator Narsimhaiah, a day before the closing of nominations. But the TRS already had an edge with KCR announcing a degree college for Haliya, and had also visited to lay foundation stones for lift irrigation schemes for decades-old unirrigable lands in the ayacut, just before the poll schedule was announced. And like clockwork, legislator in-charges for the seven mandals and their teams reviewed statuses down up to habitation-level, conducted meets and reworked strategies on a daily basis. Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Srinivas Goud, Jagadish Reddy, Dayakar Rao, who almost made the constituency their home, were in the field in the scorching heat. A home and stronghold for Jana Reddy, facing up to the election juggernaut TRS was not easy, but soon the Congress bandwagon joined. His two sons Raghuveer Reddy and Jaiveer Reddy, working with TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, organised daily campaigns. Senior leaders A. Revanth Reddy, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, Jeevan Reddy and others did the microphone and legwork. For the BJP, Ravikumar Naik was sure in striking the chord with tribals who number about 52,000 in the constituency. Its leader and MoS (Home) G. Kishan Reddy was here for just a two-day schedule, and its State leaders Bandi Sanjay, D.K. Aruna, Jitender Reddy, Vijayashanti, Raghunandan Rao and others furthered the campaign. In all the campaigns, before the schedule and during, development was the watchword. TRS leaders stuck to “zero development by Jana Reddy in 35 years for Nagarjunasagar”. On the other, Jana Reddy addressed a public meet, cited reports and figures to explain what he and the Congress party did for the country, the State and the constituency. He also gave his slogan ‘save democracy’ and appealed to all contestants for a no-campaign challenge. Dog was a popular animal in the month-long campaign. It was on February 10, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao addressing the ‘Thanksgiving meet’ addressed a group of protesters, “Dogs like you…” And soon the Opposition identified the group as tribals protesting for resolution of Podu lands issue. On April 13 too, Energy Minister Jagadish Reddy called out a youth who asked about notifications and unemployment allowance, “Many dogs like you.. We will trample you.” The context in both the situations created furore. But KCR’s second visit to Haliya, harping on development in the seven-year TRS government, brought more promises to the constituents – local leaders, Muslims, tribals, sheep-rearing Yadavs, farmers and students. And surprising everyone, despite the rough patch, the TRS did not fail to garner support from various quarters. The CPI(M)-CPI Left combine offered support to TRS, reportedly rejecting Congress’ request, and said its cadres would vote for car symbol. Backward Classes Welfare Association national president R. Krishnaiah also extended support and requested all BCs and the unions to vote for TRS candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fierce-campaign-ends-for-sagar-byelection/article34331864.ece
16 April 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Give a chance to BJP: Bandi Sanjay||“Although people of Nagarjunasagar elected Congress’ Jana Reddy seven times, development could not be achieved. Dejected, people also gave a chance to Telangana Rashtra Samithi, but it failed. People should now give a chance to Bharatiya Janata Party to witness development,” said BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay. Addressing press persons on the final day of campaigning on Thursday, he said BJP contestant Ravi Kumar Naik received a good response from voters in the fortnight-long campaign across the constituency. However, he observed, major contestants Congress and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) were associated in an agreement to stop Bharatiya Janata Party from winning, and in addition, they were distributing cash and liquor for votes, he alleged. “There is no Sagara Samaram, this is Sagara Sangamam,” he said. Mr. Sanjay said the BJP-led Centre had thus far given Rs. 398.54 crore to the constituency, Rs. 105.56 crore under PM’s Kisan Samman Nidhi, and in the past six years the total allocations had been Rs. 618 crore. “And what did KCR and do for Nagarjunasagar? SLBC tunnel project works are pending, Chief Minister is the cause of Podu lands issue and he also did not condole the deaths of the unemployed here,” he said. Mr. Sanjay said his party would not support caste-based reservations. “Nagarjunasagar election is now a fight between peddalu (elders/rich) and pedalu (poor),” he said, appealing people to vote for Ravi Naik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-a-chance-to-bjp-bandi-sanjay/article34331866.ece
16 April 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Jana seeks vote ‘to save democracy in Telangana’||Congress senior leader and contestant K. Jana Reddy likened the Nagarjunasagar bypoll to the Telangana Peasants Armed Struggle and urged people to use their vote as a weapon to defeat “undemocratic TRS” and make history. “This is an election between the arrogance of the ruling party and the self-respect of Nagarjunasagar. I also request the 39 other contestants, groups and organisations who are disgruntled by TRS ways, to make me your symbol, in my attempt to teach the government a lesson,” he said. Mr. Jana Reddy addressed press persons on Thursday, to make his final appeal to voters on the last day for campaigning. He said the Congress had sacrificed its very prospects in the two Telugu States in the interest of separate Telangana, vis-à-vis Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who often says “ Chavu notlo thala petti Telangana sadhinchina ” (achieved separate Telangana in a near-death experience), he said. He asserted that Telangana was achieved by everyone – martyrs, employees, all leaders, including from BJP, through the Telangana Joint Action Committee. “But the separate Telangana, which aspired for a new political system, better democracy and social equality, is being harmed. Promises are failed and democracy is being murdered by TRS,” he said. Rebutting KCR’s statements on Wednesday, Mr. Jana Reddy contended that he had never stooped or lobbied in his four-decade political career. And for Nagarjunasagar, he said he had created an irrigation potential of 1.65 lakh acres in addition to the 45, 000 acres, taking the total acreage to more than 2 lakh, the highest by any constituency. He cited other development indices like electricity, roads and administrative reforms as his achievements. He reiterated that his victory was not to enjoy the echelons of power, but to save democracy.  Telangana was achieved by all leaders, including from BJP, through the Telangana Joint Action Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jana-seeks-vote-to-save-democracy-in-telangana/article34331868.ece
16 April 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Welfare measures will help TRS’||Beneficiaries of various welfare measures of the government will ensure victory for Telangana Rashtra Samthi candidate Nomula Bhagat in the bypoll on April 17, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy expressed confidence. “People have understood how Prime Minister Narendra Modi is deceiving people, BJP will not even get the deposit. On the other hand, Jana Reddy’s words and deeds are hollow. TRS’ welfare benefits reaching every family will give us the victory,” he said. Joined by senior TRS leaders Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, B. Lingaiah Yadav, T. Ravinder Rao and N. Bhaskar Rao, Mr. Reddy said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s public meet on Wednesday has filled the cadres with enthusiasm and termed it a grand success. According to Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy, it was “zero development in Nagarjunasagar under Jana Reddy,” and only with TRS government, he said the Nagarjunasagar town was made a municipality. TRS by poll in-charge T. Ravinder Rao alleged that Congress contestant K. Jana Reddy was attempting to influence voters with liquor and cash, evident from the recent seizures, he said. He alleged that his sons were indulging in personal and physical attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/welfare-measures-will-help-trs/article34331867.ece
16 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||20-year RI in POCSO case||K Papaiah, an accused in a case of raping a minor, was awarded 20 years’ imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 1,000 by Second Additional District and Sessions Judge of Special Court for POCSO cases J. Maithreyi. He was convicted under Section 5(m) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-gets-ri-for-rape/article34331873.ece
16 April 2021||siddipet,TELANGANA||Rs. 110 crore sanctioned to develop Ranganaiksagar||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 110 crore for development of Ranganaiksagar. Orders were issued on Thursday. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao had appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during his visit in December, 2020, to sanction funds for development of Ranganaiksagar. Responding to his request, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao promised to release the fund and, in keeping the promise, the amount was released. With the funds sanctioned, the Ranganaiksagar would be developed into a tourist destination. This is three tmcft capacity reservoir, and is part of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme (KLIS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-110-cr-for-ranganaiksagar/article34331872.ece
16 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram court to hear only urgent matters||Cases of only urgent nature, such as bail and stay matters, would be heard in the Gurugram District and Sessions Court till April 30 and staffers’ strength will be reduced to 50% to contain the spread of COVID-19, said an order by the office of District and Sessions Judge on Thursday. The 14-point order said that undertrials would be produced through videoconferencing only. However, the court concerned should pass specific orders in case physical hearing is required for a particular undertrial. The filing of fresh cases is allowed only till 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-court-to-hear-only-urgent-matters/article34331827.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants time to farmer’s kin to seek experts’ opinion on autopsy||The Delhi High Court on Thursday granted time to the family of a 25-year-old farmer, who died after his tractor overturned during the farmers’ protest rally on the Republic Day, to seek opinion of experts on his post-mortem and X-Ray reports. Justice Yogesh Khanna also asked Delhi Police to allow the family to view the CCTV footage of the spot where the incident took place, whenever they want to. The court listed the matter for further hearing on July 26. The high court was hearing a plea by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather, Hardeep Singh, claiming that the victim suffered gunshot injuries to his head. His post-mortem was conducted at Rampur district hospital in Uttar Pradesh. However, both the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Police had told the court that Navreet Singh did not suffer any gunshot wounds. During the hearing, advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, representing Hardeep Singh, said the family needs time to seek experts’ evaluation of the material provided to them by the police which included post-mortem report and video and X-ray report of the deceased. The court had earlier directed the Delhi Health Secretary to constitute a board of medical and forensic experts and also a radiologist to examine the X-Ray report of Navreet Singh. It had also asked the doctors of Maulana Azad Medical College here to prepare the X-Ray report from the original X-Ray plate which has been received by Delhi Police from the Uttar Pradesh Police. Delhi Police had earlier said that according to the post-mortem report the young farmer died due to a head injury as a result of the accident and all his injuries were possible in a road accident. The petition has sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death of the young farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-grants-time-to-farmers-kin-to-seek-experts-opinion-on-autopsy/article34331829.ece
16 April 2021||Mumbai,||Jaslok Hospital to be dedicated COVID-19 facility||Jaslok Hospital will now be a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Thursday. The decision was taken in view of the current surge in positive cases and the need to increase the number of beds with advanced critical care in Mumbai. The civic body has also decided that patients who do not require emergency medical intervention in private hospitals will now be shifted to step-down facilities, which will be set up in four- or five-star hotels that will be jointly identified by the BMC and private hospitals. According to the guidelines issued by BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, such step-down facilities can be set up with the active participation of private hospitals as an integral part of these hospitals. The general instructions issued by the civic body said that private hospitals would provide 24x7 doctor consultations, nursing care, medicines, biomedical waste management and ambulance transfer in these facilities. These facilities can charge a maximum of Rs. 4,000/per day/bed to be paid by hospitals. Hospitals can charge extra for medical expenses, doctor visits and other incidental charges. In case of close relative sharing two beds, the charge will be Rs. 6,000. The duration of stay in such facilities will be decided on medical advice. Only those patients who do not require oxygen, ICU and ventilator can be transferred to step-down facilities. The facilities are to admit patients referred only by hospitals with whom they have tied up. They will be responsible for providing round-the-clock hospitality services and catering, and can charge the actuals from patients for extra services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jaslok-hospital-to-be-dedicated-covid-19-facility/article34331494.ece
16 April 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC to govt.: reply to plea to allow Jain community to collect food from temples||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government to reply to a petition seeking permission for the Jain community to take away parcels of boiled food from their temples during the Ayambil fast. A Division Bench of Justices S.C. Gupte and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by two Jain trusts — the Shree Trustee Atma Kamal Lab Labdhisurishwarji Jain Gyanmandir Trust, and the Sheth Motisha Religious and Charitable Trust. They were seeking permission to “take away pious boiled cooked food from the premises of the religious trust” for nine days starting April 19. The plea urged the court to allow 48 other trusts to open Jain temples with standard operating procedures (SOPs) under the ‘Break The Chain’ drive on April 13. The advocate, appearing for the trusts, told the court that restaurants were allowed takeaways, but religious trusts were not. Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan opposed the plea and said home delivery through online orders was allowed, but no one was allowed to go personally. “Devotees cannot come... The idea behind the SOP is to avoid congregations,” the court said. The matter has been posted to be heard on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-to-govt-reply-to-plea-to-allow-jain-community-to-collect-food-from-temples/article34331490.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||New COVID cases fall by 3% as testing dips by 23%||The city reported 16,699 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours — the second-highest since the beginning of the pandemic, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The total number of cases stood at 7,84,137. Also, 112 deaths were reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 11,652. A total of 82,569 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said, which is less by 23.9% compared to 1,08,534 tests, as per Wednesday’s bulletin. The highest number of new cases was reported on Wednesday — 17,282. The positivity of new cases was 20.22% on Thursday, which is the highest in months. This means that 20 out of 100 people taking the tests are testing positive for the virus. Of the total cases, 7,18,176 people have recovered and there are 54,309 active cases. Bed availability Out of the total 14,918 beds for COVID-19 treatment, 67.9% were occupied. Only 166 of the 1,250 ventilators were vacant as on Thursday evening, as per a Delhi government website. A total of 71,030 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city in the last 24 hours, as per the bulletin. Compared to 2,790 new cases April 1, the number of daily cases has increased by 498.53%. Also, in the same period the number of new deaths has increased by 1,144% from nine to 112. Serological survey Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said as per the last serological survey and considering the floating population of Delhi, approximately 40- 50% of the population was not infected at the beginning of the present spike. “Now a considerable percentage of this population has to get infected for this wave to peak and show a downward trend. Considering the sharp spike we are witnessing, I think, it would happen in a week or two,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-covid-cases-fall-by-3-as-testing-dips-by-23/article34331488.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nobody should be turned back from hospitals, CM orders officials||Nobody should be turned back from hospitals, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal instructed officials on Thursday at a review meeting on the current COVID-19 situation in Delhi. He asked officials to ensure adequate health infrastructure for the treatment of patients. Three-tier arrangement He added that the focus should be on a three-tier arrangement of health infrastructure in Delhi, of which first is home isolation, second is Covid Care Centres, and third is an increase in beds and facilities in hospitals. Mr. Kejriwal directed that the two civic body hospitals — Hindu Rao and Swami Dayanand Hospital — be declared as fully COVID, which will lead to an increase of 900 beds for the treatment of patients in Delhi. He also asked for full cooperation and no politics in  the matter. In a statement after the meeting, Mr. Kejriwal said: “I came across a situation recently where when an asymptomatic patient was turned back from admission to the hospital, the patient created a ruckus. This situation should never happen. We must issue an order to allow directing the patients to our COVID Care Centres (CCCs) to make the patient feel safe and in the care of the doctors. More and more patients should be shifted to these centres to cater to very critical patients in the hospitals.” The Chief Minister directed officials to ensure that all helpline numbers of hospitals should remain fully functional and they must provide an adequate flow of information on the real-time availability of beds. Govt. to Centre The government said it has requested the Centre to make 2,700 additional beds from its hospitals available for the treatment of COVID patients. “Currently, around 15,048 beds have been made available, of which over 5,000 beds are empty. The availability of more beds will further increase the capacity in Delhi to around 20,000,” the government said. Addressing the shortage of Remdesivir injections in Delhi, the government said it is expected that 18,000 injections will be made available in Delhi by April 18. The Chief Minister directed officials to prepare an action plan to ensure that there is no dearth and no stocking of injections at any facility in Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal also said if labs, where the tests are being conducted, are facing problems, orders must be made to reduce the sample size to enable them to issue results within 24 hours. The health officials also apprised the Chief Minister  that vaccine stock is available for the next 6-7 days, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nobody-should-be-turned-back-from-hospitals-cm-orders-officials/article34331480.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Take precautions: police chief to officers||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Thursday released a video message asking the force to take adequate precautions, maintain social distancing and wear N-95 or three-ply surgical masks to protect themselves. Mr. Shrivastava said that the officials must follow the Standard Operating Procedures as the new wave of COVID-19 was “far more serious” in nature than the previous one. “In the last few days, some of our personnel have been infected and the number is increasing which is a cause of worry,” he said. Mr. Shrivastava asked the officers to take precautions while discharging all their duties, including verification drive, issuing challans, at picket duty or during hospital visits to minimise the chances of getting infected. He said if any officers are found positive, they can contact their senior so that proper treatment can be ensured and beds can be made available for them in the hospital. The Commissioner asked the personnel to wash hands regularly and take immunity boosters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/take-precautions-police-chief-to-officers/article34331478.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 300 policemen tested positive in April||Amid a sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in the city, around 390 policemen tested positive in April, said asenior police officer on Thursday. He said in 24 hours (on Wednesday), 87 policemen tested positive. In February and March, only 33 and 24 policemen got infected respectively. In January this year, the figure was 73. “The surge in cases when all policemen have been vaccinated as per the protocol for front-line workers. More than 8,000 personnel have tested positive so far since the beginning of pandemic,” said the officer. He added that all district DCPs have been instructed to review the status of COVID cell formed in each police districts during lockdown. All SHOs have been instructed to take care of police staff and provide masks and sanitisers to officials on field duties. However, the recovery rate is impressive, as most of the policemen have recovered and resumed their duty. “We have lost 36 men in a fight against COVID. The policemen who died were carrying out their responsibilities during the fight to contain the pandemic,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-300-policemen-tested-positive-in-april/article34331489.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bidhuri pulls up govt. for lack of healthcare facilities||Leader of the Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday accused the Kejriwal government of failure to ramp up healthcare facilities at government hospitals during the past one year. “We have seen no concrete steps being taken or announced by the Delhi government to increase facilities in government hospitals. Long queues for testing are being witnessed outside testing centers and it is taking days to get tests done or to get results. It is high time that the number of testing centers should be increased to deal with the unprecedented situation,’’ Mr. Bidhuri said. He added that facilities in government hospitals were not up to the mark and the pace with which the virus was taking roots in Delhi, the current level of preparedness was completely inadequate. “It is not as if people do not want to go to government hospitals, but the problem is that they feel secure and safe in private hospitals due to the pathetic condition of government facilities,” he said. Mr. Bidhuri said five-star hotels and banquet halls are being enrolled as extended hospitals but questioned how the middle-class, poor and marginalised sections would manage to pay the hefty bills. He suggested the use of government schools as medical facilities by providing adequate supply of oxygen, ventilators, and medical staff so that people could be treated at these places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bidhuri-pulls-up-govt-for-lack-of-healthcare-facilities/article34331483.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. reply sought on contempt plea for not complying with order||The Delhi High Court Thursday sought response of the AAP government on a plea, seeking contempt action against the authorities for not adhering to the earlier direction to take action against online health service aggregators, which are operating illegally and collecting samples for COVID-19 tests. The plea by a doctor urged the court to allow the application and restrain the illegal online health service aggregators, which are not authorised to collect diagnostic samples for COVID-19 tests, from further committing contempt of order passed by the court last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-reply-sought-on-contempt-plea-for-not-complying-with-order/article34331474.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||SOS messages on Twitter||A man desperate to find a hospital bed for his “extremely weak” 60-year-old mother, another looking for Remdevisir and a woman looking for a plasma donor for a relative fighting for his life —the grim COVID-19 situation in Delhi triggered a flurry of SOS posts on Twitter on Thursday. Some claimed that while the Delhi Corona app showed that beds are available in certain hospitals, the situation on the ground is different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sos-messages-on-twitter/article34331477.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccinate scribes on priority basis: Delhi govt.||The Delhi government on Thursday wrote to the Central government to consider journalists as front-line workers who need to be vaccinated on a priority basis. The Delhi government in its letter said that journalists are a group of workers that have been in the forefront with the health workers in the most difficult times. “Going out in the field, visiting hospitals to gather information, interviewing patients, attendants and their treating healthcare providers exposes them to the hazard of infection same as the other front-line workers. It is requested that these personnel be placed in the category of front-line workers so that protection of the vaccination can be offered to them,” the letter read. Played active role The Delhi government added that throughout the pandemic and the lockdown, the media has continued to play an active role in keeping the people informed about the disease, its consequences and prevention, efforts of the health and other departments and what people are expected to do to keep themselves safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccinate-scribes-on-priority-basis-delhi-govt/article34331481.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt.’s vehicle scrapping rules challenged||A PIL in the Delhi High Court has challenged the AAP government’s guidelines for scrapping motor vehicles claiming the requirements for a license under these norms would oust small and marginal scrap dealers. “The impugned guidelines are heavily tilted against small and semi-formal automobile scrappers who have been engaged in the business for generations,” the petition has contended. The plea by Delhi resident Inderjit Singh has claimed that such small time scrap dealers were not heard before issuing the Guidelines for Scrapping of Motor Vehicles of Delhi, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govts-vehicle-scrapping-rules-challenged/article34331475.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||JNU extends date for thesis submission by M Phil, M Tech, Ph D students||JNU on Thursday announced extension of the last date for submission of thesis by M Phil, M Tech and PhD students. The university in December last had given an extension of six months till June 30 for submission of thesis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jnu-extends-date-for-thesis-submission-by-m-phil-m-tech-ph-d-students/article34331476.ece
16 April 2021||Pune,||Second-highest surge of 61,695 cases, 349 deaths in Maharashtra||Maharashtra posted its second-highest single-day jump of 61,695 cases on Thursday, taking its active case tally to 6,20,060. A high fatality spike of 349 deaths (211 of which were reported in the last 48 hours, while the rest were from an earlier period) pushed the total death toll to 59,153. A robust number of recoveries — 53,335 — was also reported. The State’s recovery rate stands at 81.3%. While the case tally has reached 35,87,478, the total recoveries stand at 29,59,056. “Of 2,30,36,652 laboratory samples tested thus far, 35,87,478 (with the average case positivity rising to 15.8%) have returned positive, with over 2.34 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. The State’s case fatality rate has incrementally declined to 1.63%. 7,500 new cases in Pune Pune district added more than 7,500 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,89,274. As per State Health Department figures, 59 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 8,695. As per district authorities, the active case tally had marginally dipped to 97,000, while the toll has crossed 10,900. Mumbai reported 8,209 new cases, taking its tally to 5,53,404, of which 84,753 are active. Fifty deaths took the toll to 12,197. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 7,000 cases as its total case tally reached 3,10,835, of which 69,365 are active. The district reported 30 fatalities to take its death toll to 4,415. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported over 1,300 new cases to take its tally to 1,04,310, of which 14,087 are active. No deaths were reported as the total toll remained constant at 1,511. However, Ahmednagar reported 29 deaths and nearly 3,000 cases as its total death toll rose to 1,381 and the total case tally to 1,24,310 of which 15,276 are active. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported a huge surge of more than 3,900 new cases, taking its total tally to 2,36,829 of which 47,117 are active while 24 deaths pushed its toll to 2,518. A total of 35,87,478 people across the State are in home quarantine and 27,273 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/second-highest-surge-of-61695-cases-349-deaths-in-maharashtra/article34331492.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID takes a toll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-takes-a-toll/article34331485.ece
16 April 2021||Washington,||U.S. imposes new sanctions on Russia||The United States announced sanctions against Russia on Thursday and the expulsion of 10 diplomats in retaliation for what Washington says is the Kremlin’s U.S. election interference, a massive cyberattack and other hostile activity. President Joe Biden ordered a widening of restrictions on U.S. banks trading in Russian government debt, expelled 10 diplomats who include alleged spies, and blacklists 32 individuals alleged to have tried to meddle in the 2020 presidential election, the White House said in a statement. Mr. Biden’s executive order “sends a signal that the United States will impose costs in a strategic and economically impactful manner on Russia if it continues or escalates its destabilizing international action,” the White House said. Response ‘inevitable’ The U.S. barrage came the same week as Mr. Biden offered to meet President Vladimir Putin for their first face-to-face talks, suggesting that the summit could take place in a third country. After the White House unveiled its measures, the Russian Foreign Ministry said a response was “inevitable.” “The United States is not ready to come to terms with the objective reality that there is a multipolar world that excludes American hegemony,” spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said. The latest tension comes amid worries both in the U.S. and its European allies over Russia’s recent troop build up on the border of Ukraine. The imprisonment of Alexei Navalny, who is effectively the last open political opponent to Mr. Putin, has further spiked concerns in the West. The White House statement listed in first place Moscow’s “efforts to undermine the conduct of free and fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in the U.S. and its allies and partners.” This referred to allegations that Russian intelligence agencies mounted disinformation and dirty tricks campaigns during the 2016 and 2020 presidential elections, in part to help Donald Trump’s candidacy. The White House said the sanctions likewise respond to “malicious cyber activities against the U.S. and its allies and partners,” referring to the massive so-called SolarWinds hack of U.S. government computer systems last year. The statement also called out Russia’s extraterritorial “targeting” of dissidents and journalists and undermining of security in countries important to U.S. national security. In addition, the Department of Treasury, together with the EU, Australia, Britain and Canada, sanctioned eight individuals and entities associated with Russia’s occupation of Crimea in Ukraine. In Brussels, the NATO military alliance said U.S. allies “support and stand in solidarity with the U.S., following its announcement of actions to respond to Russia’s destabilising activities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-imposes-new-sanctions-on-russia/article34331154.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. climate envoy Kerry in first China visit||In the first significant visit by an official of the Biden administration to China, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry arrived in Shanghai for talks with senior Chinese officials. Mr. Kerry will meet China’s top climate official, Xie Zhenhua, and may also meet with other senior officials including Politburo member and top diplomat Yang Jiechi and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. The first visit from the new administration in Washington follows last month’s dialogue in Alaska, where officials from both sides traded barbs publicly in an unusual exchange played out in front of the cameras. Despite that beginning, the visit underlines the Biden administration does plan to seek a meeting ground with China on some issues, including climate change as well as Iran and North Korea. The U.S. State Department said the visit was aimed at discussing “raising global climate ambition ahead of President Biden’s Leaders Summit on Climate” which will be held virtually on April 22 and 23, to which 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping, have been invited. The climate summit will push for an agreement to keep the 1.5 degrees Celsius-global warming limit “within reach”. Just as Mr. Kerry landed in Shanghai, the White House also announced an “unofficial delegation” to Taiwan comprising former senator Chris Dodd and former deputy secretaries of state Richard Armitage and Jim Steinberg, to send “an important signal about the U.S. commitment to Taiwan and its democracy”. That brought a sharp response from China, with Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian saying on Friday “the Taiwan question bears on China’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and core interests.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-climate-envoy-kerry-in-first-china-visit/article34331147.ece
16 April 2021||Kabul,||Blinken calls on Afghan leaders, reassures them of enduring ties||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken made an unannounced visit to Kabul on Thursday to sell Afghan leaders and a wary public on President Joe Biden’s decision to withdraw all American troops from the country and end America’s longest war. Mr. Blinken sought to assure Afghan politicians that the U.S. remains committed to the country despite Mr. Biden’s announcement that the 2,500 U.S. soldiers remaining in the country would be coming home by the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks. “I wanted to demonstrate with my visit the ongoing to commitment of the U.S. to the Islamic Republic and the people of Afghanistan,” Mr. Blinken told Afghan President Ashraf Ghani as they met at the presidential palace in Kabul. “The partnership is changing, but the partnership itself is enduring.” “We respect the decision and are adjusting our priorities,” Mr. Ghani told Mr. Blinken, expressing gratitude for the sacrifices of U.S. troops. In a meeting with Abdullah Abdullah, who heads the National Reconciliation Council, Mr. Blinken said that “we have a new chapter, but it is a new chapter that we’re writing together.” “We are grateful to your people, your country,” Mr. Abdullah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-calls-on-afghan-leaders-reassures-them-of-enduring-ties/article34331144.ece
16 April 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka Opposition challenges Bill on Chinese-backed Port City||Filing about a dozen petitions at Sri Lanka’s Supreme Court on Thursday, opposition parties, civil society groups, and labour unions challenged a recently-gazetted Bill on the Chinese-backed Port City in capital Colombo, arguing it “directly affects” Sri Lanka’s sovereignty. The petitions are scheduled to be heard by the top court on Monday. The ruling Rajapaksa administration tabled a Bill, titled Colombo Port City Economic Commission’, in Parliament last week, outlining proposed laws for the $1.4 billion-Port City being built on reclaimed land at Colombo’s seafront. Constitutional validity However, Sri Lanka’s opposition parties Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB or United People’s Front), Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), the United National Party (UNP), Colombo-based NGO Centre for Policy Alternatives, and labour organisations have challenged the constitutional validity of the proposed legislation for the Port City, touted by the government as an investment hub for foreign capital. SJB legislator Harsha de Silva said while the party wants the Port City project to succeed, for its potential to “catalyse” the next stage of fintech and high-end knowledge services-driven growth in the country, “a solid legal framework” was key. “For this long-term project to succeed it must be consistent with the Constitution of Sri Lanka. It must not be discriminatory…we see multiple clauses that are inconsistent with the Constitution,” he told The Hindu . Senior lawyer and SJB Legal Secretary Thisath Wijayagunawardane said the Bill seeks to set up a Commission whose powers — in regard to registrations, licensing and authorisation — “interfered” with the provincial authority, and allowed for a team of foreigners, “accountable to none other than the President”, to effectively run the Port City. “The clauses prohibit investment in the Port City in Sri Lankan rupees, which will keep out Sri Lankans…it will be like a forbidden city within Colombo,” he said, adding: “The government claims it stands for ‘one country, one law’, but the Bill allows for running the Port City like a foreign country with special laws.” Terming the project as one of “national importance”, the UNP said the Bill was “inconsistent with Parliament’s control over public finances, allows for the abuse of power and fails to ensure a transparent system of checks and balances”. Eyeing investments The Port City was launched by President Xi Jinping during his state visit to the island nation in September 2014, during former President Mahinda Rajapaksa’s second term in office, months before his poll defeat. The successor government, led by President Maithripala Sirisena and PM Ranil Wickremesinghe, vowed to develop the site into an “Indian Ocean financial hub”, despite an election promise to scrap it, and amid protests from environmentalists and fisherfolk. Following their return to power, the Rajapaksa administration promised to expedite the project, that it says would attract $ 15 billion in investments, and emerge a “leading business, retail, residential and tourist destination in South Asia”. ‘Chinese colony’ However, in addition to the legal challenge, the government also faces sharp criticism from some of its backers, including sections of Sri Lanka’s influential Buddhist clergy. “We will not allow Sri Lanka to become a Chinese Colony,” Chief Incumbent of the Abhayarama Temple in Colombo, Ananda Muruththettuwe Thero, said on Thursday. “It is clear the country is heading on the wrong path,” he said. Months ago, Buddhist monks, among others, fiercely opposed Indian involvement at the East Container Terminal at the Colombo Port, forcing President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to go back on his announcement that the Adani Group would invest in the project, along with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. Subsequently, Colombo offered the West Container Terminal to the Group. Meanwhile the Ceylon Federation of Labour voiced concerns over the Bill exempting employers operating within the Port City from compliance with Sri Lanka’s labour laws. The Union had fought and won a case in the late 1970s when the J.R. Jayawardene government tried to deny labour law protection to workers at the newly established Free Trade Zone. The country’s hard-won labour protective legislation had come under threat again, Federation General Secretary T.M.R. Raseedin said in a statement, cautioning that: “Should this Bill be enacted, we will be going back to an era when ‘hire and fire’ ruled employer-employee relationships.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-opposition-challenges-bill-on-china-backed-port-city/article34331149.ece
16 April 2021||Erbil,||Drone targets U.S. troops at Iraq’s Erbil airport||A drone dropped explosives near U.S. forces stationed at Erbil airport in northern Iraq late on Wednesday, Kurdish officials said, with no immediate reports of casualties. It was the first known attack carried out by an unmanned aerial drone against U.S. forces in Erbil, amid a steady stream of rocket attacks on bases hosting U.S. forces and the embassy in Baghdad that Washington blames on Iran-backed militias. The Interior Ministry of the autonomous Kurdistan regional government, based in Erbil, said in a statement the drone was carrying TNT which it used to target the U.S. forces. It said no one was hurt in the attack. A group that Western and some Iraqi officials say is aligned with Iran praised the attack, but did not explicitly claim it. A barrage of rockets hit the same U.S.-led military base in the Erbil Airport vicinity in February, killing a non-American contractor working for the military.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/drone-targets-us-troops-at-iraqs-erbil-airport/article34331151.ece
16 April 2021||Lahore,||France asks citizens to temporarily leave Pak.||The French Embassy in Pakistan on Thursday advised all of its nationals and companies to temporarily leave the country after anti-France violence erupted in the Islamic nation over the arrest of a radical leader. Saad Rizvi was arrested on Monday for threatening the government with mass protests if it did not expel French envoy Marc Baréty over the depiction of Prophet Muhammed in a French magazine. French Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Agnes Von Der Muhll said about 400 to 500 French nationals live in Pakistan and they will be able to leave via commercial flights. But, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmad said French citizens living in Pakistan were safe and security had been provided to them. The development comes a day after the government announced a ban on the Tehreek-e-Labiak Pakistan party, which is headed by Rizvi. His arrest sparked violent protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-asks-citizens-to-temporarily-leave-pak/article34331152.ece
16 April 2021||Minneapolis,||Chauvin won’t testify at Floyd murder trial||Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin said on Thursday he would not testify at his murder trial for the death of George Floyd as the prosecution and defence rested in the high-profile case. Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill gave the nine-woman, five-man jury a day off on Friday and said closing arguments would be held on Monday. Before prosecutors and the defence questioned a final witness, Mr. Chauvin told the judge he was invoking his constitutional right against self-incrimination. “I will invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege today,” he said. “Is this your decision — not to testify?” the judge asked the ex-police officer. “It is your honor,” Mr. Chauvin said. Eric Nelson, Mr. Chauvin’s defence attorney, asked him if he understood that “neither the state nor the court can comment on your silence as a sign or an indication of your guilt.” Mr. Chauvin, 45, who is white, was recorded kneeling on the neck of Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, for more than nine minutes during his May 25, 2020 arrest for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill. A bystander video of the arrest went viral and sparked protests against racial injustice and police brutality across the U.S. ‘Cardiac arrest’ Mr. Chauvin’s defence claims that Floyd’s death was due to underlying health conditions and consumption of the illegal drugs fentanyl and methamphetamine. David Fowler, a retired forensic pathologist who testified for the defence on Wednesday, said Floyd died from cardiac arrest brought on by heart disease, drugs and other factors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chauvin-wont-testify-at-floyd-murder-trial/article34331150.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||How can India contain the second wave?||After daily new COVID-19 cases peaked on September 16, 2020, during the first wave, new cases and deaths in India began to increase from the third week of February 2021, marking the beginning of the second wave. The rise in daily cases and deaths has been steep since April 1. On April 14, India reported nearly 2 lakh cases. The seven-day average test positivity rate has also been climbing. What will it take to contain the second wave? In a conversation moderated by R. Prasad , Gautam Menon and Giridhara Babu discuss some possible options. Edited excerpts:  When do you think the second wave is likely to peak? And when we see such a peak, what do you think will be the number of daily cases? Gautam Menon:That is very hard to say as you have to know what is the significance of reinfection, what is the level of immune escape that is happening. It’s clear that these new variants are spreading much faster and the reproductive ratio is significantly higher than the reproductive ratio in earlier cases. So far, there seems to be no sign of any point of inflection in the data. So, my guess is that it is going to get a lot worse before it gets better. We may be seeing around 2.5 lakh new cases per day. These are just guesses. The peak will be at the end of this month to the first week of next month. There have been very few restrictions in the movement of people within and across States. Should we restrict such movement to contain the spread? GM:We will probably have to curb inter-State travel at this point. But we can only make that decision when we know how much these new variants have spread. I think the rising cases everywhere are driven by the new variants. If they have already spread sufficiently, restricting inter-State travel would be pointless now. So, we need data. Apart from that we need to worry about closed spaces; masking; the intensity of religious and political events, which we need to maybe forbid altogether. I think we will have to restrict the movement of people both within and across States. Giridhara Babu:I think it’s a bit late. In the first to second week of February, we saw the reproductive number going up and we knew where the localised outbreaks were. That was the time we should have done concurrent genomic sequencing with epidemiological investigations. Even the results of the genomic sequencing were made available in the third week of March. So that won’t be useful in containing the transmission to a limited area. I believe that there are many variants in circulation. It’s a pity that we are guessing that this variant might be there and so let’s restrict people from going from one State to another. This panic is not justified by data. The easiest thing to do right now is strictly enforce containment measures. If you fail there, especially in reducing the overall transmission trajectory in some of the places that have been hit the hardest, we will lose this opportunity also. It’s a bit late to restrict inter-State travel. If it’s a new variant that is possibly responsible for the second wave, why do we see more cases in certain States and not in every State? GM:We are not doing enough genomic surveillance. Even now we don’t know how much Maharashtra has changed between March 24 and today. We know that this variant in Maharashtra has quickly spread to at least 10 States or so. But how those numbers have changed and how much of the spike is in response to that variant we don’t know. What do you think are the reasons for States that went to the polls not seeing a surge compared to Maharashtra? GB:If there is a newer variant in circulation, every State is at risk. Some are at higher risk than others depending on when the variant entered the State. Inefficient testing, especially an inefficient syndromic approach, and review and monitoring of COVID-19 responses getting second priority over elections are definitely the reasons why we might have missed it. GM:In general, an outdoor activity carries less risk than an indoor one. On March 24, 2020 we went into lockdown when the number of cases was less than 5,000. But now, when there are close to 2 lakh cases a day, we are seeing no restrictions even in closed spaces such as restaurants, theatres and gyms. Are we doing the right thing by allowing such businesses to operate? GM:If there is a closed, badly ventilated surrounding, you should not allow people to gather there. But what we have not done is to encourage people to go outdoors. All our messaging has been negative so far — do not do this, do not do that. Psychologically this is a mistake. Because unless people understand or have a sort of framework of behaviour in which they can operate, it becomes hard for them to make decisions, and then they will finally throw caution to the winds. Experts from different fields have to discuss this and see if we can alter the messaging a little. You do need to give people some outlet somewhere and I think this has not been sufficiently discussed, and it needs to be done. GB:These decisions are made based on how much power and influence these sectors have. For example, in Karnataka, there was a rule to allow only 50% attendance in theatres. Due to pressure, there was an immediate reversal of the rule and 100% attendance was allowed for a week. Taking a cue from this, people from other sectors also got relief. Now, if there is competition of sorts of how much relaxation each sector gets, this is not the way we can win over this virus. We’re giving more reasons for the virus to flourish. And then we say, we don’t want a lockdown. Are we carrying out contact tracing and isolating those people who have been found positive in institutional facilities? GB:There are too many generals and few soldiers. No additional manpower has been granted; we have not used the opportunity to step up preparedness but we want the same people to be tackling the second wave, which is more infectious. We need to have a complete relook at the way health manpower is managed in this country. GM:When there is large-scale community transmission, contact tracing becomes a bit irrelevant. The question is whether we should even divert resources to that. Are States really prepared to handle the potentially huge inflow of patients to hospitals? GB:There are inter-regional and intra-regional disparities in health system access and delivery. If you look at Maharashtra, the distribution of hospitals and healthcare workers in Mumbai is different compared to other districts. That’s why those districts face a greater strain on their health system compared to Mumbai. In Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, there is a very poor distribution of health system capacity both in terms of infrastructure and human resources. The worry is that with the reproduction number [R0] almost nearing three, these two States will probably have the highest number of cases. Even if you assume 5% of these people need hospitalisation, we have no beds in those States or in the nearby States. And this is what we need to prevent. We need to be very strategic in helping the States with poor resources. More than 100 million doses have been administered in India. But we have vaccinated just about 6.5% of the population. What can be done to increase vaccine uptake? Is there vaccine hesitancy? GM:Vaccine hesitancy has now decreased. There are genuine vaccine shortages in multiple States which have seen a huge uptick in cases. There are many questions whether Serum Institute of India will be able to provide the number that it had promised earlier and how these will be divided between Indian and non-Indian recipients. GB:Vaccine hesitancy is the least of our problems. We have a complicated list of problems including lack of micro planning, lack of mobilisation, lack of better communication, and lack of a vaccination policy on how to go about vaccination in different phases. Most importantly, in every vaccination campaign, we have had a separate plan for social mobilisation of the minorities. We don’t have that yet for COVID-19. So, it’s incomplete preparation. The private sector has claimed that if allowed, it will exponentially increase the number of vaccines given each day. But it hardly holds 10% of the sessions across India now. What is the reason for this and how can this be scaled up? GB:For nearly four or five decades now, it is the public health sector which has been the main player in vaccination programmes. So, if we are expecting the private health system to outsmart the public health system in coverage of vaccines just for COVID-19, that’s a wrong assumption. The private health system has a definite and clearly identified population that it caters to, but even that is changing both in terms of COVID-19 care and vaccination. There are government health facilities that are saying that for the first time they are seeing rich people coming to them. The kind of cold chain system in the government system is far superior. But if there are more vaccines, and people want to pay for these vaccines, then the public health system cannot get to it. That’s where the strength of the private health system is. I think we need to recognise the trends of each system and see which is the target population for those systems, and work out mechanisms around it. Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech are about to scale up production to meet the demand. Do you think it’s time that the government provides them financial support? GM:Absolutely. This is a time where we and every other country in the world needs vaccines in large numbers. Government intervention and support can make a huge difference in the long term. Do you think the vaccine shortage will be eased now that Dr. Reddy’s lab can import Sputnik V? GB:The shortfall in supply will be reduced to some extent. But I am not confident whether it will completely take care of the demand in terms of covering the eligible population above 45 years. I would imagine that at least 10 million doses are necessary per day to completely vaccinate 30% of the population in the next two months. GM:It’s also important to have a broad base of multiple vaccines, because we don’t know the answers to questions like which vaccine might be better against which variant. This may alter our policy in terms of where to send which vaccine at what time. In general, it will improve the availability of vaccines overall, and will strengthen our ability to at least meet the target of 300 million to be vaccinated by August, which is an important target.  It’s important to have a broad base of multiple vaccines, because we don’t know the answers to questions like which vaccine might be better against which variant. Gautam Menon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-can-india-contain-the-second-wave/article34331141.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On the trail of the second wave’s dynamics||The rapid ascent of the second wave of COVID-19 in India from the third week of February, a major source of concern for the general public, the government, health administrators and the medical profession, needs to be carefully interpreted. A careful analysis of the numbers is instructive. After having reached a nadir by the third week of January and staying there for nearly four weeks, the numbers rose by the third week of February. While the cumulative number at the peak (September 16, 2020) of the first wave was 51,15,893 (reached in six months), infections in the second wave in the last eight weeks are already 29,66,583, or 58% of the numbers at the first peak. Infection dynamics We can speculatively predict the timing of the second peak and the time taken to reach herd immunity threshold as follows. Earlier, we concluded that at the end of the first wave, 60% of the population had been infected (828 million). The uninfected 40% would be 1,380 million minus 828 million = 552 million. According to a recent Indian Council of Medical Research report, the reinfection rate in India is 4.5% — out of 828 million initially infected, 37.26 million are susceptible to reinfection. The total number of susceptible subjects for the second wave would be 552 million+37.26 million = 589.26 million. We calculate the rate of increase of new cases by looking at the daily new cases of the first and second waves at time points when the daily numbers were nearly equal. On June 12, 2020 and on February 16, 2021 the numbers were 11,320 and 11,795, respectively. Over the next eight weeks, the curves differed in acceleration. From June 12, 2020 to to August 7, 2020 the increase (to 61,455) was 5.4-fold. From February 16, 2021 to April 13, 2021 the increase (to 1,85,248) was 15.7-fold. The doubling time of 28 days during the first wave is 2.8 times the doubling time (10 days) of the second wave. The R value of the initial ‘variant’ of the virus of the first wave was 2-3, meaning, one infected person would infect 2-3 others; the variant(s) causing the second wave has a higher R value — we guess it may have doubled, ≥ 4. The herd immunity level required to bring the numbers down to end the second wave (herd immunity threshold) would be about 75%-80%, in contrast to 60% for the first wave — in terms of actual numbers, a maximum of ~471 million (80% of 589.26 million). Of the 828 million infected in the first wave, only 10,904,738 (1.32%) were diagnosed by February 13, 2021. By the same token, only 6.223 million (1.32% of 471.4 million) are likely to be diagnosed by the end of the second wave. At the peak, the numbers detected would be half, namely 3.1 million. Well into the second wave We have already diagnosed 2,966,583 infections in the second wave by April 13, 2021 and the current doubling time is 10 days. Therefore, in the next few days we ought to reach ~3.1 million detected cases, spelling the peak of the second wave. We are already 56 days into the second wave; if the peak occurs within the next four days, the time from base to peak would be 56+4= 60 days. The descent after the peak will take an equal length of time — two months — in a normal bell-shaped epidemic curve. We expect steady low levels of infection (endemic state) will be reached by mid-June 2021. Our estimates assume that the conditions will remain the same throughout the second wave, but with vaccination rates going up, curbs being re-imposed and possibly higher re-infection rates, the timing of the peak may vary by a few days and the cumulative infections detected could differ by one or two million. Our current pace of vaccination (only 1% of the population has completed two doses so far) and the two week interval required after the second dose of the vaccine to confer sufficient immunity to decelerate the second wave, indicate that vaccination may not decelerate the second wave in India. However, we hope that the elderly and vulnerable, who were prioritised for vaccination, will have reduced mortality. Deepened by lapses The faster-spreading U.K. variant was involved in the second wave in Punjab; judging by the tempo of spread, either this variant, other known variants and possibly faster-spreading Indian variants are responsible for the second wave in the country. By early February the fear of the pandemic waned and people lowered their guard, allowing the virus to spread unchecked; had we stayed vigilant and achieved wide vaccination coverage then, the second wave could have been smaller or even averted. Vaccine hesitancy, policy hesitancy and fast-spreading virus mutants all added to the tempo of the second wave. We let our guard down too early — a costly error. A larger number of symptomatic infections in youngsters in the second wave may be attributable to their higher mobility and premature opening up of schools and colleges in the face of highly infectious variants. The weekly average of new cases reported on March 23, 2021 was 42,162 and three weeks later (April 13, 2021) the average of deaths was 844 — a relatively low infection fatality rate of 2%; priority vaccination of the elderly and the vulnerable who stayed cocooned, and clear-cut management strategies for serious cases may have contributed to this. The strategy ahead We should insist on the golden rules of mask wearing, cough etiquette, maintaining physical distance, hand-hygiene and avoiding crowds, and pursue an aggressive vaccination drive to contain the situation without imposing a lockdown, which will hurt the recovering economy and lead to untold public misery. Travel curbs for fully vaccinated individuals are being lifted in the United States. In India, vaccination can be made a pre-requisite for those who come in contact with large numbers of vulnerable people (for example, teachers). Vaccination at offices (started in Tamil Nadu) and persuading staff in the Indian Railways to get vaccinated quickly are innovative steps in the right direction. If vaccination is a pre-requisite for any public assembly, fewer people will gather and more people will seek vaccination. If vaccination is a pre-condition for entry into crowded public places and use of public transport, those who use these facilities will feel safe and the public will accept vaccination readily. Mobile vaccination vans can cover inaccessible rural pockets and reach people unable to reach vaccination centres. Universal mask use, an important and effective preventive measure, despite proven benefits, is practised by only 50% of people in our surveys. This COVID-19 inappropriate behaviour can be addressed innovatively; anyone found without a mask in public may be given a mask and charged for it. If all public figures wear masks in all their public appearances, citizens will get a clear and effective message. The government’s decision to give emergency use authorisation to all World Health Organization-approved COVID-19 vaccines is likely to narrow the demand-supply gap. The mRNA vaccines, which appear to offer greater protection against new variants and other vaccines in the pipeline to cover variants of concern need to be mass produced, tested and commissioned quickly to benefit everyone. M.S. Seshadri, retired Professor of Medicine and Endocrinology, CMC Vellore, is currently Medical Director of the Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. T. Jacob John is retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-the-trail-of-the-second-waves-dynamics/article34331130.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A multipolarity, scripted by the middle powers||The acrimony between the United States and Chinese delegations at the Anchorage conclave on March 19, followed by U.S. President Joe Biden referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin as a “killer” and Mr. Putin’s sharp riposte, and Mr. Biden’s reluctance to rejoin the nuclear agreement with Iran, are positions which make it clear that in respect of three crucial relationships, namely China, Russia and Iran, Mr. Biden is following in the footsteps of his much-reviled predecessor, Donald Trump. Mr. Biden has also extended his firm backing for another of Trump’s priorities: the “Indo-Pacific” as an area of strategic significance for the U.S. and the associated alignment that gives shape and substance to this geopolitical concept — the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad for short. On March 12, Mr. Biden convened an online summit meeting (https://bit.ly/3wXrZVO) of the four Quad members, namely, the U.S., Japan, Australia and India, at which the leaders affirmed their commitment to a “free, open, resilient and inclusive” Indo-Pacific region. New Cold War It is clear that the U.S. continues to view China as its principal adversary on the world stage and that it will use the Quad to challenge China in the Indo-Pacific, possibly as part of a “new Cold War”. This new Cold War was given concrete shape during the Trump presidency when the ravages of the pandemic made the President and his officials demonise China. Then Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called on like-minded nations to curb China’s growth, reduce its influence in international institutions, and “induce China to change in more creative and assertive ways”, a clarion call for regime change. The U.S.’s hostility for Russia goes back to the latter’s war with Ukraine and the occupation of Crimea in 2014, followed by allegations of Russian cyber-interference in the U.S. presidential elections of 2016. Mr. Biden continues this hostility for Russia. U.S. animosity has encouraged China and Russia to solidify their relations. Besides significantly expanding their bilateral ties, the two countries have agreed to harmonise their visions under the  Eurasian Economic Union  sponsored by Russia and China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). This idea has now been subsumed under the ‘Greater Eurasian Partnership’ to which both are committed. Both have condemned the Quad for “undermining global strategic stability”. Thus, the new Cold War is now being reflected in a new geopolitical binary — the Indo-Pacific versus Eurasia. The final shape of this divide will be determined by four nations, namely Japan, Iran, Turkey and India, which, as “middle powers”, have the capacity to project power regionally, build alliances, and support (or disrupt) the strategies of international powers pursuing their interests in the region. On the face of it, their alignments are already in place: Japan and India are deeply entrenched in the Quad and have substantial security ties with the U.S. Iran, on the other hand, has for long been an outcaste in western eyes and has found strategic comfort with the Sino-Russian alliance. Turkey, a NATO member, has found its interests better-served by Russia and China rather than the U.S. and its European allies. So, why the uncertainty? The main reason is that, despite the allure, the four nations are not yet prepared to join immutable alliances. Reluctant allies Japan has an ongoing territorial dispute with China relating to the Senkaku islands in the East China Sea. Thus, the security treaty of 1951 with the U.S. has been crucial for Japan’s interests. But there is more to Sino-Japanese relations: in 2019, 24% of Japanese imports came from China, while 19% of its exports went to China, affirming the adage: Japan depends too much on the U.S. for its security and too much on China for its prosperity (https://fam.ag/3ad40bA). The eight-year prime ministership of Shinzo Abe has instilled in Japan greater self-confidence so that it can reduce its security-dependence on the U.S. and pursue an independent role in the Indo-Pacific. Hence its $200 billion ‘Partnership for Quality Infrastructure’ that funds infrastructure projects in Asia and Africa, though Japan is also willing to work on BRI projects on a selective basis. But these are early days and it remains unclear whether Japan will explore the wide oceans or confine its strategic interests to the East China Sea. India’s ties with China have been caught in a vicious circle: as threats from China at the border and intrusions in its South Asian neighbourhood and the Indian Ocean became sharper, it moved closer to the U.S. It is likely that India’s expanding defence ties with the U.S. from 2016, consisting of massive defence purchases and agreements on inter-operability and intelligence-sharing and frequent military exercises, as also the elevation of the Quad to ministerial level in September 2019, signalled to China that India was now irreversibly in the U.S. camp. With the border stand-off at Ladakh, China is perhaps reminding India that its security interests demand close engagement with China rather than a deepening alignment with its global rival. China has a point: while the Quad has made India a valuable partner for the U.S. in the west Pacific, neither the U.S. nor the Quad can address the challenges it faces at its 3,500-kilometre land border with China. The ‘revenge of geography’ and concerns relating to the U.S.’s intrusive approach on human rights issues ensure that India will need to manage its ties with China largely through its own efforts, while retaining Russia as its defence partner. The crippling sanctions on Iran and the frequent threats of regime change make it a natural ally of the Sino-Russian axis. However, its strategic culture eschews long-term security alignments. This will surely assert itself after sanctions are eased, when the Islamic Republic of Iran will seek to redefine its strategic space and exercise independent options. The “neo-Ottomanism” of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan — celebrating Turkey’s glory through military and doctrinal leadership across the former territories of the Ottoman empire — has been achieved through a steady distancing from its western partners and increasing geopolitical, military and economic alignment with Russia and China. But Turkey still wishes to keep its ties with the U.S. intact, and retain the freedom to make choices. Its “New Asia” initiative, for instance, involves strengthening of east-west logistical and economic connectivity backed by western powers and China. Defining characteristic The four middle powers, whose choice of alignment will impart a political and military binary to world order, are reluctant to make this a reality. While Cold War advocates in home capitals and in the U.S. will continue to promote ever-tighter alliances, these nations could find salvation in “strategic autonomy” — defined by flexible partnerships, with freedom to shape alliances to suit specific interests at different times. These four middle powers will thus make multipolarity, rather than a new Cold War, the defining characteristic of the emerging global order. Talmiz Ahmad is a former Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Oman and the UAE||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-multipolarity-scripted-by-the-middle-powers/article34331132.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from the first wave||India’s second COVID-19 wave is more virulent than the first. Many States have restarted enforcing shutdowns of various scales. Unfortunately, large-scale political, social and religious events are still being held, rendering these restrictions meaningless. Uneven growth Our overall economic trajectory had been on the upswing after the disastrous economic collapse at the onset of the pandemic. The International Monetary Fund projected India’s GDP to grow at 12.5% this year. However, the growth during these times can hardly be described as inclusive. Many sectors, including the technological, pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors, saw record growth. The wealth of our billionaires increased by 35% even during COVID-19 times. However, sectors including travel and tourism and wellness and hospitality, that form the bedrock of economies, receded to historic lows. The pandemic decimated the informal and MSME sector and pushed 75 million Indians into poverty. An unplanned nationwide lockdown last year created the distressing imagery of the exodus by foot of millions of migrant workers desperate to reach their homes hundreds of kilometres away. Meanwhile, a few among us, especially in white collar sectors like IT, consulting and financial services, could stay in the safety of our homes. Even before the second wave, many economists were of the view that India’s revival from the COVID-19-induced downturn would be a ‘K-shaped’ curve where only a segment of our population recovers. COVID-19 has affected the least affluent the most. Introducing even partial lockdowns again will constrain the movement of goods and labourers. It will significantly bring down our industrial productivity and create avenues that will widen our economic and social inequalities. As an alternative, interconnected industries should be aggregated and allowed to function at maximum possible capacity in multiple shifts. Stringent health and safety regulations should be formulated and implemented. Non-essential gatherings should be restricted or banned. Preventing distress Demand contraction has been the biggest contributor towards the economic downturn during the pandemic. Governments will have to account for this and urgently ensure cash stimulus packages at both individual and institutional levels. This will boost consumption and investments. Extra emphasis will have to be given to industries most affected by the pandemic. Additional allocations will have to be made for job stamps, direct cash transfer and employment guarantee schemes. The NYAY scheme formulated by the Congress in 2019 that guarantees a minimum income of Rs. 6,000 to every household is a solution whose time has come. Reports from many States indicate that new COVID-19 mutations are unforgiving even to the younger population. India will have to accelerate vaccine production, procurement and distribution. Vaccination should be opened up for all age groups. This would make it easier for the majority of our labour to be at their workplaces with fewer risks. Students will also be able to attend classes and examinations and participate in skilling programmes without further breaks. As the second wave hits us, our governments share the blame for our health systems to again be caught lacking; and for vaccine shortages. However, since the onset of the pandemic, our health workers and policymakers have had enough time to be familiar with the virus, and design effective treatment and safety protocols. The private sector and NGOs played a big role in rapidly scaling up healthcare infrastructure during the first wave. With political will and public participation, we should now be able to save lives without compromising on our population’s livelihood, or without letting many more fall behind through inadequate safety nets. Anil K. Antony is a National Co-coordinator of AICC Social Media and Digital Communications Department, and National Coordinator of PIIndia.org, a COVID-19 action group. He tweets @anilkantony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lessons-from-the-first-wave/article34331136.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Probing the sleuths||The Supreme Court’s order tasking the CBI to look into the Justice D.K. Jain committee report on the action to be taken against those who implicated space scientist Nambi Narayanan in the ‘ISRO espionage case’ of 1994 is a logical and much-needed step forward in ensuring accountability for the suspected frame-up. Representing a dark, but brief, chapter in the annals of police investigation in the country, the case was based on unfounded suspicion sparked by the arrest of two Maldivian women and the claims they made in their statements to the police. The Kerala Police arrested Mr. Narayanan based on suspicion that he was among those sharing official secrets relating to space technology and missions to foreign agents. After the investigation was transferred to the CBI in a matter of weeks, the central probe agency recommended that the case be closed, highlighting grave lapses in the probe and the complete lack of evidence. When the Supreme Court awarded a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the scientist in 2018, taking into account the damage to his honour and dignity following the arrest on grave charges and the interrogation that followed, it was widely expected that police officers who framed him ought to be proceeded against too. The Court formed a committee headed by Justice Jain, a retired apex court judge, for the purpose. The panel’s report was submitted recently, and the Centre supported the demand for follow-up action. Significantly, the Court has mandated that the report’s contents be kept confidential while being forwarded to the CBI for a decision on how to proceed further. The element of secrecy may seem odd, but avoiding any contestation on its findings, which are to be treated as the outcome of a preliminary enquiry, will indeed be helpful in the agency proceeding on merits. When it awarded compensation, the Court was quite convinced that the initial probe was malicious. “The criminal law was set in motion without any basis. It was initiated... on some kind of fancy or notion,” it had observed. It is rare in India that those falsely implicated or maliciously arrested on grave charges get justice. The police are given to using questionable methods, and treat the gravity of the charge as something that necessitates stronger and more persuasive means of investigation. That Mr. Narayanan has succeeded in the battle for restoring his honour is a matter of relief, but it should be noted that the Kerala government has been resisting calls for disciplinary action against the erring police officers. It opposed the CBI’s closure report and tried to revive the investigation by its own police, but thankfully, the effort was shot down by the Supreme Court. It would be in the fitness of things if there is no further impediment to the CBI in proceeding with its investigation against the officers concerned, and that the process of restorative justice leads to its logical conclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/probing-the-sleuths/article34331123.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Loser Streak||Sport rests on two pivots. The first is the athlete’s desire to win by putting in the greatest endeavour. The second attribute is the fans’ belief that what unfolds on the turf is based on sincere effort. Sport is real and its immediacy also invests it with long-lasting meaning. It is this enduring template that gets torn asunder when cricketers throw matches or athletes consume anabolic steroids and break records. Corruption that taints performance is a poisoned dagger which cleaves sport’s throbbing heart and the latest scandal involving Heath Streak, is a crushing blow to cricket. The former Zimbabwe captain admitted to sharing information with bookies while he was the coach of various teams ranging from Zimbabwe to Kolkata Knight Riders, and has also accepted bitcoins for favours rendered. This breach of trust occurred largely from 2016 to 2018 and on Wednesday, the International Cricket Council (ICC) banned Streak for eight years. It was a fall from grace for one of Zimbabwe’s greatest players. Streak was a crafty fast bowler and a useful batsman as evident in his combined international tally of 455 wickets and 4933 runs during a 12-year career that finished in 2005. Disbelief was the first emotion when match-fixing reared its head in 2000. It was a conflagration that hurt many high-profile cricketers including the late Hansie Cronje, Mohammad Azharuddin and Saleem Malik. The allegations may have failed to gain legal sanctity in long-drawn cases but the whispers remained. The sordid saga had another instalment when spot-fixing hurt the 2013 Indian Premier League forcing a cleansing of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The same despondency was in vogue after the ICC mentioned Streak’s transgressions even if the caveat was that his actions had no bearing on the results of the games in which he was involved as a coach. Streak may not have fixed a contest but in sharing contacts of players with bookies, he was paving the way for a probable underwhelming show. Bookies lure with requests for seemingly innocuous information before they spread the net wide. It may be recalled that in the 1990s, Shane Warne and Mark Waugh confessed to sharing pitch and weather information with a book-maker. Streak’s misdemeanour is also a step back for Zimbabwean cricket, which is returning from a long-drawn administrative crisis that forced the early retirement of the Flower brothers – Grant and Andy — and the exile of Henry Olonga. Streak’s dalliance with greed shows that the ICC’s fight against the scourge of gambling and match-fixing is farfrom over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/loser-streak/article34331124.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Landing in Libya with war clouds looming||As we taxied into Tripoli airport in March 2011, it was clear we had landed in trouble. Instead of making normal announcements about disembarking and the temperature outside, the flight attendant said this would be the airline’s last flight into Libya, and if we wanted, we could stay on board and fly home immediately. Otherwise, we were on our own. My cameraman and I, among a handful of passengers, walked out of the plane in troubled silence. Among our worries was that our visas had been signed by the Libyan Ambassador to India, who had subsequently defected in protest against Libyan leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi’s policies, and had been declared a traitor. After several hours of interrogation by immigration officials, however, we were allowed to enter Tripoli to cover what we later realised would be the last days of Gaddafi in power. Outside the airport, a tent city had come up of foreign nationals, immigrants, labourers, nurses and teachers including thousands of Indians who were queuing up to leave Libya. At the Indian Embassy, a few valiant diplomats worked day and night to issue passports and help with exit papers, amidst sounds of intermittent gunfire and clashes, before they themselves had to leave Libya, to escape the violence. The UN Security Council had begun to discuss a British- and French-backed ‘R2P’ (Responsibility to Protect) resolution to bomb Libya, so as to (ironically) protect its citizens from its dictator. War clouds were gathering over the country that, for all Gaddafi’s public lunacy, still had the highest per capita income in Africa. Gaddafi had gambled that while foreign journalists (American and European, that is) remained in Tripoli, he would not be bombed, so he had put them up in splendour at his own Rixos Hotel. He also thought that he could control their reportage by slowing down the Internet everywhere except at the hotel, so that they would be forced to file positive stories from one easily monitored place. The ruling militia took us to see pro-Gaddafi rallies and escorted us to towns that they had won from the rebels. On some evenings, Gaddafi and his son Saif would appear at the hotel and exude confidence that they would defeat the uprising. Finally, Gaddafi figured that while Western powers had a UN mandate to protect people in eastern Libya (Benghazi and Cyrenaica), they did not have a mandate for regime change, especially while he controlled western and southern Libya (Tripolitania and Fezzan), and even in the worst-case scenario, he would remain in power. Gaddafi was wrong. NATO forces never stopped once Benghazi was secured, and eventually stormed Tripoli too, led by rebel forces. They then launched a massive hunt for Gaddafi, and when he was found by a mob, he was lynched to death. It was too late for Gaddafi to learn what the end of all dictators from François Duvalier to Saddam Hussein should have taught him. For the West, after the decade of conflict that followed their ‘intervention lite’, and especially after the tragic killing of the U.S. Ambassador and other staff in Benghazi in 2012, the victory was a pyrrhic one. The rebel groups that U.S. troops accompanied to Tripoli were soon led by Islamist terrorists. The lesson for dictators and foreign interventionists can only be one: when you use violence to remove your enemies, ensure that what follows isn’t worse than them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/landing-in-libya-with-war-clouds-looming/article34331135.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Jain temple case||Patna, April 15: At the Patna High Court yesterday, Justice Sir B.K. Mullick on behalf of himself and the Chief Justice delivered judgment in appeals in what is known as the Peresnath Temple case. The Counsel for the appellants were Babu Sarat Bose assisted by Mr. Bankim Chander De for Swetambar Jains and Sir Benode Mitter assisted by Messrs. Asgar and Sishir Madhab for Digambars. These appeals arose out of a suit brought by Swetambars against entry in the record of rights that both Swetambar and Digambar Jains had equal rights of worship according to the modes and rituals of their own sect in several temples and tanks on the Pareshnath Hill. Swetambars also asserted their claim to proprietary rights over the whole hill by virtue of two firmans granted to them by the Mogul Emperors, Akbar Shah and Ahmad Shah. They also based their claim on their immemorial use of the hill. The Digambars claimed that the hill was sacred to both sects of Jains and each had equal right of worship with the other. The learned Judges have found that Swetambars claim of ownership was not sustainable and with respect to 21 out of 27 tanks and temples on the hill both Digambars and Swetambars have equal rights of worship and the Swetambars have no right to compel the Digambars to worship at particular time in particular way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/jain-temple-case/article34331133.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Plot to assassinate Ceylon P.M.||Colombo, April 15: There had been an insurgent plot to assassinate the Ceylonese Prime Minister, Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, on the night of April 5 and to blow up her Colombo residence. Interviewed by the Ceylon Broadcasting Corporation, two captured terrorists hailing from Enderamulla, 30 km north of the capital, gave details of the abortive plot. The 20-year-old insurgents who had undergone five courses in guerrilla warfare were asked to be present near Rosemead Place (residence of the Prime Minister) in Colombo around 23-00 hours local on April 5. They were told that 50 terrorists armed with handbombs and other lethal weapons would be present there around that time and they should join them in an attack on Mrs. Bandaranaike’s residence and kidnap her in a jeep failing which should assassinate her and carry away her body. The two terrorists working in a Colombo commercial establishment returned disappointed on finding none near the Rosemead Place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/plot-to-assassinate-ceylon-pm/article34331134.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||WPI inflation quickens to a record 7.4%||Inflation based on the wholesale price index (WPI) accelerated last month to a record 7.4%, a surge that is expected to feed into higher retail prices in the near term. The price gains at the wholesale level were driven by a 10.3% increase in fuel and power, the quickest pace in two years, and the sharpest surge in manufactured products’ inflation at 7.3%. March’s wholesale price inflation marks the highest level since the present Wholesale Price Index (WPI) series began, and economists expect the trend to continue for a few more months due to the base effects of last year’s national lockdown and a fresh spate of partial lockdowns that could disrupt supply chains. “The annual rate of inflation stood at 7.39% (provisional) for the month of March 2021,” the Office of the Economic Adviser in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade said in a release. “However, month-on-month (March 2021 over February 2021) rate of inflation stood at 1.57 %. The prices of crude oil, petroleum products and basic metal substantially increased in March 2021 as compared to the corresponding month of last year,” it added. The nationwide lockdown in March 2020 had also affected the computation of the WPI index, with an inflation of 0.4% recorded that month, the department pointed out. Edible oil prices surge The WPI food index hardened to 5.28%, from 3.31% in February, despite vegetable and cereal prices easing as manufactured food inflation touched a 49-month high of 9%. Within manufactured food products, edible oils recorded 34.2% inflation in March. Among manufactured products, mild steel prices recorded 14.5% inflation, in line with the rise in global metal prices, and fed into other basic metals’ inflation rate which touched 17%. “The WPI inflation recorded a broad-based hardening to a series-high 7.4% in March 2021 from 4.2% in February 2021, and printed much higher than our expectation of 6.1%, with faster than anticipated upticks in inflation for core items and fuels,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA Ltd. ‘Negligible policy space’ ICRA expects the headline and core WPI inflation to rise further over April and May, peaking at about 11.0-11.5% and 8-8.5%, respectively. “The expected trajectory of the WPI inflation, and its partial transmission into the CPI inflation going ahead, supports our view that there is negligible space for rate cuts to support growth,” Ms. Nayar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wpi-inflation-quickens-to-a-record-74/article34331112.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Wipro Q4 net rises 28% on volume growth||Wipro posted a 27.8% rise in net profit to Rs. 2,972.3 crore in Q4 as gross revenue grew 3.4% to Rs. 16,245.4 crore, from a year earlier. IT services revenue grew 3.8% to $2.15 billion. In the April-June quarter, it expects sequential IT services revenue growth in the 2%-4% range, excluding revenue from recent acquisitions Capco and Ampion. “This is the best fourth quarter results we have reported in the last 10 years,” said its CEO and MD Thierry Delaporte. “This was led by good volume growth. Despite a steep decline in the first quarter because of the pandemic, we bounced back to finish the year with only a marginal decline of -1.4% YoY,” he added. Operating margin improved 340 basis points (bps) to 21% in Q4 from a year earlier. Gross revenues grew 1.5% to Rs. 61,943 crore in FY21 over the previous year. Net profit climbed 11.2% to Rs. 10,868 crore. However, IT services revenue declined 1.4% to $8.13 billion for FY21. Wipro is planning a pay raise for senior executives in June. It hired more than 7,000 people in Q4 taking total headcount to 197,712.  This is the best Q4 Wipro has had in 10 years, according to CEO Delaporte||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-q4-net-rises-28-on-volume-growth/article34331103.ece
16 April 2021||MUMBAI,||IL&FS lifts debt recovery target by Rs. 5,000 crore||The board and management of scam-hit IL&FS has enhanced its estimates of aggregate debt recovery to Rs. 61,000 crore by FY22, an increase of Rs. 5,000 crore over the earlier estimate of Rs. 56,000 crore. The raised estimate represents resolution of almost 62% of overall fund-based and non fund-based group debt of approximately Rs. 99,000 crore as of October 2018 when the erstwhile board was disbanded following the scam. The new board, as part of its quarterly update process on the progress of the ongoing Group resolution process, on Thursday revealed it had addressed aggregate Group debt of Rs. 43,000 crore till date. “The aggregate debt of Rs. 43,000 crore addressed till date represents nearly 71% of the overall revised targeted recovery value of Rs. 61,000 crore and 44% of the overall debt of over Rs. 99,000 crore (as of October 2018),” chairman Uday Kotak said, adding that considering the challenges, the new board had made reasonable progress in meeting its mandate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-lifts-debt-recovery-target-by-rs-5000-crore/article34331105.ece
16 April 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI sets up authority to review regulations||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has set up the Regulations Review Authority 2.0. The authority will review regulatory prescriptions internally as well as by seeking suggestions from RBI-regulated entities for simplification and ease of implementation. Deputy Governor M. Rajeshwar Rao has been appointed as the Regulations Review Authority. The authority would have validity for a period of one year from May 1. The RBI had set up a similar authority in 1999 for reviewing regulations, circulars, reporting systems. The recommendations enabled streamlining and increasing the effectiveness of several procedures, paving the way for issuance of master circular and reducing reporting burden on regulated entities, the RBI said. “Considering the developments in regulatory functions of the Reserve Bank over the past two decades, it is proposed to undertake a similar review of the Reserve Bank’s regulations and compliance procedures with a view to streamlining/rationalising them and making them more effective. Accordingly, it has been decided to set up a new Regulations Review Authority (RRA 2.0),” it said.  The entity will invite suggestions for simplification and ease of implementation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-sets-up-authority-to-review-regulations/article34331107.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second wave may stall aviation recovery: Crisil||The second wave of COVID-19 in the country is expected to arrest the last six months’ recovery made by airlines, which could together log net losses of Rs. 9,500-10,000 crore this fiscal, credit rating agency Crisil said. The rating agency, which analysed the top three airlines accounting for almost 78% of the total passenger traffic, said the losses this fiscal would, however, be 35-40% below the levels seen in fiscal 2021. Domestic aviation was brought to a grinding halt between March 25 and May 25 last year during the nationwide lockdown. Among the factors responsible for stalling aviation recovery were rising aviation turbine fuel prices and a resurgence of COVID-19 infections across the country, especially in Mumbai and Delhi, which account for 36% of the overall traffic. Crisil cited the average daily domestic passenger air traffic that showed a 20% decline in April to almost 2.35 lakh daily trips, from the level seen in February 2021. Still, traffic in the full year could grow to 120-130% of fiscal 2021, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-may-stall-aviation-recovery-crisil/article34331110.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||HMSI’s vertical to make India an export hub||Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India (HMSI) on Thursday said it has established an ‘Overseas Business’ expansion vertical for spearheading its efforts to make India an export hub. “This major organisational restructuring within Honda 2Wheelers India will harness the strength of over 100 associates across different functions coming together with one aim — making Honda India the global hub for two-wheeler exports,” the firm said. “With this restructuring, the firm is strengthening business constitution and improving competitiveness to meet the high expectations from Global Honda” said Atsushi Ogata, MD, president and CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hmsis-vertical-to-make-india-an-export-hub/article34331115.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||NPS to ease entry-age norms||The National Pension System (NPS) is set to get more fund managers and expand the age-related entry criteria for investors, even as more employers are expected to switch over their non-statutory retirement funds from the EPFO owing to the new tax imposed on provident fund incomes, the PFRDA chief said on Thursday. The NPS will raise the entry age limit from 65 years to 70, with those joining after 60 allowed to stay invested till 75. A 30-day window would be opened in May for new fund managers to register with the NPS, said PFRDA Chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nps-to-ease-entry-age-norms/article34331116.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||March exports rise 60%, trade deficit widens||The country’s exports jumped 60.3% to $34.45 billion in March even as the outbound shipments contracted by 7.26% during the 2020-21 fiscal to $290.63 billion. Imports too grew 53.7% to $48.38 billion in March, but showed an 18% decline to $389.18 billion during April-March 2020-21, according to government data released on Thursday. Trade deficit during March widened to $13.93 billion from $9.98 billion a year earlier. The trade deficit during the full fiscal, however, narrowed to $98.56 billion as against $161.35 billion during 2019-20, the data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/march-exports-rise-60-trade-deficit-widens/article34331117.ece
16 April 2021||New York,||Citi to exit retail banking in India, China||Citigroup announced it will exit 13 international consumer banking markets, shifting its focus to wealth management and away from retail banking in places where it is small. Citigroup will focus its global consumer banking business on four markets: Singapore, Hong Kong, London and the UAE. But Citigroup will depart China, India and 11 other retail markets, where “we don’t have the scale we need to compete,” said Citi chief executive Jane Fraser. She described the pivot as part of efforts to ‘double down’ on wealth management, where the growth opportunities are better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/citi-to-exit-retail-banking-in-india-china/article34331118.ece
16 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Flipkart to acquire Cleartrip||Walmart- backed Flipkart on Thursday made a proposal to acquire Cleartrip, an online travel technology firm. Flipkart would acquire 100% of Cleartrip’s shareholding in a move to further strengthen its digital commerce offerings for customers, the company said in a release. The e-tailer did not provide any financial details of the acquisition. Cleartrip’s revenue was in the $50-60 million range in 2019 and the deal size could be in the multiples of 2 or 2.5, sources in the e-commerce space said. Post acquisition, Cleartrip would continue to operate as a separate brand and also retain all its employees, Flipkart said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-to-acquire-cleartrip/article34331119.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Unadkat, Miller, Morris help Royals edge thriller||Questions have often been asked about the high price Rajasthan Royals paid for Jaydev Unadkat. On Thursday night, however, he came up with a priceless performance in his first game of IPL-14. Sensational spell His sensational new-ball spell broke the back of the formidable Delhi Capitals batting line-up at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium. And it was another expensive player — Chris Morris, the most expensive in IPL history, in fact — that got RR home by three wickets with an unbeaten 36 (18b, 4x6). Chasing 148, RR needed 12 off the last over. Morris finished it in style, pulling Tom Curran over deep square-leg for the winning runs. It was a remarkable effort from Morris after his side had been pegged back by some splendid seam bowling from Chris Woakes, Kagiso Rabada and Avesh Khan. It took a fighting knock from David Miller (62, 43b, 7x4, 2x6) to repair the damage, but he perished attempting a third successive six against Avesh, leaving RR 44 to get off 25 balls with three wickets intact. Morris, his compatriot, took over. After the twin loss on Monday — the closely fought match to Punjab Kings and Ben Stokes to injury — the men in pink could not have hoped for a better comeback.  Disciplined bowling and splendid fielding saw the DC batsmen struggle after being put in. Remarkably, there wasn't a single six in the innings. DC began dreadfully, losing the wicket of in-form Prithvi Shaw to the last delivery of the second over. He tried to hit an Unadkat slower ball across the line, through the leg side, and gave catching practice to Miller, the man who replaced Stokes, at backward-point. Samson’s stunning catch Off his next ball, Unadkat removed the other half of the DC opening pair that had set up the win against Chennai Super Kings with a century partnership. And it took a stunning catch from Sanju Samson to send Shikhar Dhawan back, the wicketkeeper leaping to his right to gather an attempted ramp one-handed. Then Unadkat nearly had a hat-trick, but Rishabh Pant didn’t edge one that moved away. In his next over, however, the left-armer caught Ajinkya Rahane off his own bowling. Now, only one man could take DC to a competitive score. He did. Pant made 51 off 32 balls before he was run out by a superb piece of fielding by Riyan Parag off his bowling.  Proving their worth Morris was bought for Rs. 16.25 crores in the 2021 auction In 2018, Unadkat was snapped up for Rs. 11.5 crore, released for the next season and picked up again for Rs. 8.4 crore. In the auctions last year, RR got him again for Rs. 3 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unadkat-miller-morris-help-royals-edge-thriller/article34331228.ece
16 April 2021||Buenos Aires,||‘Argentina win a confidence-booster’||The Indian men’s hockey team skipper Manpreet Singh considers the recent success against reigning Olympic champion Argentina a big confidence-booster, but insists that the team still needs to address some grey areas as it pursues a podium finish in Tokyo. Eight-time champion India is looking to end an over four-decade-long Olympic medal drought in Tokyo this year. India had won last of its eight Olympic gold medals in the 1980 Moscow Games. “No doubt winning against a really strong team like Argentina in their home ground is a big confidence-booster, but we shouldn’t read too much into the results. Improvement areas “We need to keep our heads down and remain focused on the areas that require improvement on the basis of our performance here. Our task is not over until we stand on the podium in Tokyo,” Manpreet said in a statement issued by Hockey India. “After the matches, we feel there are a few areas we need to improve upon. While we did well as a team to come back into the game even in the dying minutes of the match, we feel we could have started better,” Manpreet said about the matche against Argentina. “Also playing consistently, keeping up the pressure on the opponents in all quarters is another area we need to work on.” India is scheduled to play Great Britain in the FIH Pro League on May 8 and 9 in London followed by a double header against Spain in Valencia on May 15 and 16. After that, the Indians will play Germany in Hamburg on May 22 and 23. “It was great to resume the FIH Hockey Pro League with five points from Argentina and we would like to keep this momentum going into the matches in Europe. These matches will surely be a litmus test for us before Tokyo,” Manpreet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-win-a-big-confidence-booster-manpreet/article34331272.ece
16 April 2021||Kochi,||Kerala United crushes Golden Threads||A flurry of goals in the second half saw Kerala United FC crush Golden Threads 6-1 and enter the semifinal of the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Thursday. It looked like it would be a close contest after K.S. Rakesh scored the Threads equaliser shortly after the half-hour mark with a lovely longranger from the right which sped to the top corner of the net. Threads grew in confidence after that but towards the end of half-time, United regained the lead at 2-1. Different bunch The United boys, coached by Jewel Jose, were a different bunch altogether in the second half and scored at will. The win, its fourth, helped United push aside Mar Athanasius FA and climb to the top of the six-team Group-B with 12 points after completing its league engagements. Defending champion Kerala Blasters FC (7 points) and KSEB (9), which play each other on Saturday, along with Mar Athanasius (10) are now in the race for the second semifinal spot from the group. The Threads finished in the fifth spot with three points after one win and four losses. Meanwhile, Luca SC and Royal Basco FC shared points after a 2-2 draw in a Group-A match at Thrissur's Corporation Stadium.  The final will be held at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on April 21. Kochi and Thrissur will host a semifinal each on April 19.  The results:   Group-B (at Kochi): Kerala United FC, Koz 6 (Francis Dadzie 3, Adersh Mattummal 45+2, Bujair Valiyattu 53, Hrishi Dath 68, M. Alocious 73, K. Muhammed Jinshad 89) bt Golden Threads FC, Ekm 1 (K.S. Rajesh 32).   Group A (at Thrissur): Luca SC, Mlp 2 (Akmal Shan 22, Bibin Boban 57) drew with Royal Basco FC, Mlp 2 (Abdu Raheem 7, Ajay Krishnan 37) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-united-crushes-golden-threads/article34331496.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Hard court could favour India||The lack of crowd and a hard court may tilt the balance slightly away from host Latvia, but leading players Jelena Ostapenko and Anastasija Sevastova are confident of playing their best against India in the Billie Jean King Cup (erstwhile Fed Cup) World group play-off tennis tie. “It is not fun for me to play without a crowd. (But) We are ready to go,” said Grand Slam champion Ostapenko at the draw ceremony in Jurmala on Thursday. She will take on Ankita Raina in the first match on Friday, followed by Karman Kaur Thandi against Sevastova. “It is tough without spectators at home. We are glad to play. We have to be at our best,” said the 47th-ranked Sevastova. Conceding that the hard court instead of clay was “good for team India”, the 31-year-old Sevastova said that she had played on the courts from the age of 10 and would still feel at home.  “We are ready to put up a tough fight,” said India captain Vishaal Uppal. Playing for the first time at this level, Uppal felt that the “home crowd pressure” will not be there on the Indians. “Glad to have this opportunity. I always play the best when playing for the country. I am excited for the tie,” said Ankita, happy to take the load of playing three of the five rubbers in the tie. “Fast or slow hard court does not matter. It is an opportunity to play against good players. I am looking forward to it,” said Karman. “On day one, I thought Karman could give us a little extra. It was a tough decision. I have gone with my gut,” said Uppal about opting for Karman ahead of Rutuja Bhosale. Karman summed it up nicely about Fed Cup being rechristened. “It is an honour for us to represent this brand. Billie Jean King stood up for equality and social justice.”  The draw: April 16: Ankita Raina vs Jelena Ostapenko (8.30 p.m. IST) followed by Karman Kaur Thandi vs Anastasija Sevastova.   April 17: Ankita vs Sevastova (4.30 p.m. IST); Karman vs Ostapenko; Ankita & Sania Mirza vs Diana Marcinkevica & Daniela Vismane.   Live telecast on EuroSport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hard-court-could-favour-india/article34331231.ece
16 April 2021||Dortmund,||Man City sets up a blockbuster clash with PSG||Manchester City scored twice in the second half through Riyad Mahrez and Phil Foden to beat Borussia Dortmund 2-1 on Wednesday and reach the Champions League semifinals for the first time in six years. Foden, who scored City’s winner in its 2-1 first-leg victory, fired in off the post in the 76th minute after Mahrez had converted a 55th-minute penalty awarded for a handball by Emre Can to secure a 4-2 aggregate triumph. Dortmund had gone ahead when striker Erling Haaland chased down a deep cross, the ball falling to Jude Bellingham and the teenager curling his shot into the top corner in the 15th minute. Real Madrid also moved into the semifinals with a 0-0 second-leg draw with Liverpool at Anfield earning it a 3-1 aggregate win. Liverpool, the 2019 Champions League winner, created enough chances in the opening 45 minutes to have turned the tie around but it ran out of ideas in the second half. Real’s defence, without skipper Sergio Ramos and Raphael Varane, held firm after the break.  The results: Borussia Dortmund 1 (Bellingham 15) lost to Manchester City 2 (Mahrez 55-pen, Foden 75) ( City wins 4-2 on aggregate); Liverpool 0 drew with Real Madrid 0 (Real wins 3-1 on aggregate).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-sets-up-a-blockbuster-clash-with-psg/article34331232.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||We are aware we need a Plan-B: Chirag and Satwik||In quick time, the men’s doubles combination of Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy have broken into the World’s top-10 ranking. The remarkable hard work of this young pair, coupled with the efforts put in by the overseas coaches has largely contributed to some excitement coming India’s way from men’s doubles. With the Olympics not very far away, Chirag and Satwik is the only pair — with a career-high ranking of World No. 7 in November 2019 — to qualify from India. Currently ranked No. 10, the pair has a 12-4 win-loss record this year — it reached the semifinals of the Thailand and Swiss Opens, but exited in the second round of All England. Indeed, there have been a few takeaways for them from the limited competitive badminton this year. With the Badminton World Federation (BWF) curtailing the tournament schedule in view of the rising number of COVID cases, Chirag and Satwik are taking things as they come. “We are very keen to do well in next month’s India Open. In the last couple of editions, we did not do as well as expected.” They realise that their similar styles of play — both compulsive attackers — makes them predictable when pitted against some top-class opposition. “Yes. It is not possible to keep attacking all the time. We are aware we need a Plan-B and we are working towards it,” said Satwik. Satwik said, “I feel the experience of the top-five pairs makes a huge difference. We made it to the top-10 just a couple of years ago whereas some of the top pairs have been around for much longer. “To beat a top-five pair, you have to play at your best. Again, that is not possible. “I think, at present, their vast experience makes them better than us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-aware-we-need-a-plan-b-chirag-and-satwik/article34331331.ece
16 April 2021||Kielce (Poland),||Vikas knocks out Radev||Vikas Singh upset two-time European youth champion and a gold medal medal contender Yasen Radev in a men’s 52kg bout of the World youth boxing championships here. Vikas tamed the Bulgarian 5-0 to reach the second round. Asian youth silver medallist Ankit Narwal (64kg) and Vishal Gupta (91kg) also made impressive starts to their campaign by recording identical 5-0 victories against Slovakia’s Miroslav Herceg and Georgi Stoev of Bulgaria respectively. Asian youth champion Vinka (60kg) and Poonam (57kg) continued their winning run by defeating Tara Bohatjuk of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Hungary’s Beata Varga respectively in pre-quarterfinal bouts. Referee stopped the contest in both fights.  The results: Men (first round): 52kg: Vikas Singh bt Yasen Radev (Bul) 5-0.   64kg: Ankit Narwal bt Miroslav Herceg (Svk) 5-0.   91kg: Vishal Gupta bt Geoargi Stoev (Bul) 5-0.   Women (pre-quarterfinals): 57kg: Poonam bt Beata Varga (Hun) RSC; 60kg: Vinka bt Tara Bohatjuk (Bih) RSC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vikas-knocks-out-radev/article34331269.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Expect a top-20 finish from Nethra: Eszes||Tamas Eszes expects a top-20 finish (among 44 competitors) from his ward, Nethra Kumanan, at the Tokyo Olympics. Speaking at a webinar organised by Go Sports Foundation on Thursday, the Hungarian coach — a two-time Olympian in laser standard — said: “It takes a sailor a minimum of two to three Olympics to do really well. Nethra is only 23 years old. Generally, sailors in their first Olympics are in their own bubble. “I strongly believe Nethra will perform well in the 2024 Paris Olympics,” he said. The 44-year-old further added: “Nethra is a very good sailor. In the last year and a half that she was with us [at Gran Canaria, Spain] we worked on finding subtle movements in the boat and removing the problems Nethra was having in light wind conditions.” Israel's Nimrod Mon Brokman, sports psychologist, who worked with Nethra, said what she achieved under the circumstances was phenomenal. “She is one of the most motivated athletes, and that too being an Engineering student and to be able to manage both [in an Olympic year] is really great,” said Brokman. On expectations from Tokyo, Nethra, the first ever woman to make it to the Olympics, said her focus would be to “remain calm and be the best that I can be.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/expect-a-top-20-finish-from-nethra-eszes/article34331275.ece
16 April 2021||TASHKENT,||Srihari wins, but falls short of A-mark Olympic Qualifying Time||Srihari Nataraj came agonisingly close to becoming the first Indian swimmer ever to achieve the A-mark Olympic Qualifying Time, before falling short by 0.22s in men’s 100m backstroke event at the Uzbekistan Open swimming championships on Thursday. The 20-year-old’s timing of 54.07s in the final was enough to secure him the gold medal, but insufficient to meet the Tokyo 2020 Games A-mark (53.85s). Creditable effort It was a creditable effort by Srihari, who brought down his previous best timing of 54.69s by more half a second. For perspective, his timing in the final, and in the heats earlier on Thursday (54.10), would earned Srihari a place in the semifinals of 2016 Rio Olympics and 2019 FINA World Swimming Championships. On the day, there were also gold medals for Sajan Prakash (400m freestyle, 3:56.03s), Shivani Kataria (400m freestyle, 4:38.05s), Maana Patel (100m backstroke, 1:04.47s) and Chahat Arora (100m breaststroke, 1:16.15s).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-wins-but-falls-short-of-a-mark-olympic-qualifying-time/article34331276.ece
16 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Sarita Mor retains her Asian 59kg title||Sarita Mor became the first Indian woman to win two consecutive gold medals in the Asian wrestling championships as she defended her women’s 59kg title in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on Thursday. Sarita defeated two-time World championships bronze medallist Shoovdor Baatarjav of Mongolia 10-7 in the final to retain her crown. Seema (50kg) and Pooja (76kg), who claimed bronze medals, were the other Indians to shine on the day.      Srihari Nataraj came agonisingly close to becoming the first Indian swimmer ever to achieve the A-mark Olympic Qualifying Time, before falling short by 0.22s in men’s 100m backstroke event at the Uzbekistan Open swimming championships on Thursday. The 20-year-old’s timing of 54.07s in the final was enough to secure him the gold medal, but insufficient to meet the Tokyo 2020 Games A-mark (53.85s). On the day, there were also gold medals for Sajan Prakash (400m freestyle, 3:56.03s), Shivani Kataria (400m freestyle, 4:38.05s), Maana Patel (100m backstroke, 1:04.47s) and Chahat Arora (100m breaststroke, 1:16.15s).    Aditi Ashok carded three birdies in her first five holes to get off to her best start of the 2021 LPGA season with a 3-under 69 in the first round of the Lotte Championship. The 23-year-old, playing her fifth event of the year, was in tied-27th place, five shots adrift of leaders Britanny Altomare and Filipina Yuka.       Vikas Singh upset gold medal medal contender Yasen Radev in a men’s 52kg bout of the World youth boxing championships here. Vikas tamed the Bulgarian 5-0 to reach the second round.  The results: Men (first round): 52kg: Vikas Singh bt Yasen Radev (Bul) 5-0.   64kg: Ankit Narwal bt Miroslav Herceg (Svk) 5-0.   91kg: Vishal Gupta bt Geoargi Stoev (Bul) 5-0.   Women (pre-quarterfinals): 57kg: Poonam bt Beata Varga (Hun) RSC; 60kg: Vinka bt Tara Bohatjuk (Bih) RSC .       Luka Doncic sank a stumbling, off-balance 3-point floater as time expired to give the Dallas Mavericks a stunning 114-113 victory over the host Memphis Grizzlies on Wednesday night.  The results: Milwaukee 130 bt Minnesota 105; Cleveland 103 bt Charlotte 90; Philadelphia 123 bt Brooklyn 117; Toronto 117 bt San Antonio 112; LA Clippers 100 bt Detroit 98; New York 116 bt New Orleans 106.   Orlando 115 bt Chicago 106; Indiana 132 bt Houston 124; Golden State 147 bt Oklahoma City 109; Dallas 114 bt Memphis 113; Washington 123 bt Sacramento 111; Denver 123 bt Miami 106.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarita-mor-retains-her-asian-59kg-title/article34331279.ece
16 April 2021||Monte Carlo,||Djokovic stunned in third round||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic crashed out of the Monte Carlo Masters in the last-16 on Thursday following a shock 6-4, 7-5 defeat by Britain’s Dan Evans. Djokovic, the Monte Carlo champion in 2013 and 2015, was broken five times by the 33rd-ranked Evans and suffered his first loss of the year, having won the Australian Open for the ninth time in February. Evans, who dumped out this month’s Miami Open winner Hubert Hurkacz in the previous round, will play 11th seed David Goffin for a place in the semifinals. Goffin beat US Open runner-up Alexander Zverev 6-4, 7-6(7) earlier in the day. An out-of-sorts Djokovic produced an uncharacteristic 45 unforced errors against Evans, who hadn’t won a tour-level match on clay since April 2017 before this week. “To be honest this has been one of the worst matches from my side I can recall in the last few years,” said Djokovic. “I felt awful on the court overall. Nothing worked. Just one of those days. It definitely leaves a bitter feeling exiting the court this way.”  The results: Third round: Dan Evans bt Novak Djokovic 6-4, 7-5; David Goffin bt Alexander Zverev 6-4, 7-6(7); Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Cristian Garin 6-3, 6-4; Alejandro Davidovich Fokina bt Lucas Pouille 6-2, 7-6(2); Rafael Nadal bt Grigor Dimitrov 6-1, 6-1; Fabio Fognini bt Filip Krajinovic 6-2, 7-6(1); Andrey Rublev bt Roberto Bautista Agut 7-6(2), 5-7, 6-3; Casper Ruud bt Pablo Carreno Busta 7-6 (4), 5-7, 7-5. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-stunned-in-third-round/article34331222.ece
16 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Priyanka to meet Aishwarya in final||Eighth seed Priyanka Rana outplayed fifth seed Mahika Khanna 6-0, 6-1 to set up a title clash with second-seeded Aishwarya Jadhav in the girls’ section of the Altevol Asian under-14 tennis tournament. In the boys’ event, Samprit Sharma put himself in line for a double crown, as he made the singles final against second seed Kriish Tyagi. He won the doubles title with Vraj Gohil.  The results: Boys: Semifinals: Samprit Sharma bt Tanussh Ghildyal 6-1, 6-1; Kriish Tyagi bt Aarav Chawla 6-2, 7-5.   Doubles (final): Vraj Gohil & Samprit Sharma bt Samarth Sahita & Kriish Tyagi 6-2, 3-6, [10-7].   Girls: Semifinals: Priyanka Rana bt Mahika Khanna 6-0, 6-1; Aishwarya Jadhav bt Aakruti Sonkusare 7-5, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-priyanka-vs-aishwarya/article34331799.ece
16 April 2021||ORLANDO,||Yuki enters doubles quarterfinals||Yuki Bhambri and Matthew Ebden of Australia defeated wild card entrants Denis Kudla and Thai-Son Kwiatkowski of the USA 7-6(5), 6-2 in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament at Orlando.  The results:   €132,280 Challenger, Belgrade: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jonathan Erlich (Isr) & Andrei Vasilevski (Blr) bt Santiago Gonzalez (Mex) & Divij Sharan 6-3, 6-3.   $52,080 Challenger, Orlando: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Matthew Ebden (Aus) & Yuki Bhambri bt Denis Kudla & Thai-Son Kwiatkowski (USA) 7-6(5), 6-2.   €44,820 Challenger, Split, Croatia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Szymon Walkow & Jan Zielinski (Pol) bt Tristan-Samuel Weissborn (Aut) & Purav Raja 6-3, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, first round: Sasikumar Mukund bt Kelsey Stevenson (Can) 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuki-in-doubles-quarterfinals/article34331344.ece
16 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Will apex council discuss compensation package?||Almost four months after the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) annual general meeting in principle approved a proposal to financially compensate various stakeholders affected by a curtailed season, the domestic cricket community is hoping that Friday’s apex council meeting will witness a discussion on the issue. The 14-point agenda, accessed by The Hindu , has listed “discussion on domestic season 2021-22”, but has no mention of the compensation package. “Two IPLs have happened along with three limited-overs tournaments in the last six months, but a majority of the domestic cricket circuit is in limbo. We just don’t know whether all of us — the men and women cricketers, senior and junior, along with match officials and scorers — are going to be compensated at all,” a domestic stalwart, not a part of the IPL any longer, told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. On December 24 last year, the BCCI AGM had “authorised the office-bearers to form a working group in order to compensate the players, match officials and others involved in cricketing activity if they are not able to participate due to cancellation of cricket matches/tournaments owing to COVID-19”. There has been no word since then to thousands of individuals who have been affected. BCCI secretary Jay Shah, treasurer Arun Dhumal and chief executive officer Hemang Amin didn’t respond to queries on the issue. Olympic discussion In addition to appointing support staff and discussing the calendar for the national women’s team, the agenda lists “discussion on BCCI’s stand on including cricket in 2028 Olympics” and an “update on T20 World Cup”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-apex-council-discuss-compensation-package/article34331216.ece
16 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Hardik and Shardul’s BCCI contracts upgraded||Hardik Pandya and Shardul Thakur have been promoted after their recent exploits in India’s colours, while limited-over specialists wrist-spinners Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav have been demoted in the list of Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) annual retainer contracts for the period from October 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021. The BCCI announced the list on Thursday.  The contracted players:   Grade A+ (Rs. 7 crore): Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah.   Grade A (Rs. 5 crore): R. Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane, Shikhar Dhawan, K.L. Rahul, Mohammed Shami, Ishant Sharma, Rishabh Pant and Hardik Pandya.   Grade B (Rs. 3 crore): Umesh Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Shardul Thakur and Mayank Agarwal.   Grade C (Rs. 1 crore): Kuldeep Yadav, Navdeep Saini, Deepak Chahar, Shubman Gill, Hanuma Vihari, Axar Patel, Shreyas Iyer, Washington Sundar, Yuzvendra Chahal and Mohammed Siraj .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hardik-and-sharduls-bcci-contracts-upgraded/article34331219.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||CSK will be keen to get going against PBKS||In the first seven days of the Indian Premier League, they played a solitary match. In the next six, both the teams will feature in three games each, starting with a face-off between them on Friday. While the Lions from Chennai will be hoping to get their campaign going after a lacklustre opening, the Kings from Punjab will be keen to switch gears after a nervous win. Having earned a victory in a tight finish, something that K.L. Rahul’s outfit failed to do consistently in the latter half of IPL 2020, Punjab Kings will return to the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai, a much more confident lot. Chennai Super Kings, on the other hand, would be thinking about getting its act together and opening its account. Right combination The key will obviously be to get the right combination. But M.S. Dhoni’s men will be unable to field the ideal combination, with the pace duo of Lungi Ngidi and Jason Behrendorff still serving mandatory quarantine. As a result, it will be interesting to see whether CSK accommodate Imran Tahir, the veteran leggie, to bolster its wicket-taking abilities. The lack of attacking bowling options, especially with the dew at the Wankhede Stadium making life difficult for finger-spinners, was one of the vital aspects of CSK’s inability to defend a total of 188 in its opener against Delhi Capitals.  PBKS will be hoping that the new signings — Jhye Richardson and Riley Meredith — adapt to bowling with a wet ball, after conceding 104 runs off their eight overs combined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-will-be-keen-to-get-going-against-pbks/article34331225.ece
16 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM:,||Megasthenes claims the Stewards Cup||Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah’s Megasthenes (P. Sai Kumar up) won the Stewards Cup, the feature event of the races held here on Thursday (April 15). R. Ramanathan trains the winner.  1. SALUTE THE STAR HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: SUPREME EXCELSIOR (Nakhat Singh) 1, Off Shore Breeze (B.R. Kumar), 2, Chaitanya (Surya Prakash) 3 and Welcome Winner (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Kasi Masi. Nk, 1-1/2 and lnk. 1m, 30.75s. Owner: Mr. Ramanathan AL. Trainer: N. Rupa.  2. SALUTE THE STAR HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: OTUS (B.R. Kumar) 1, Majestic Wind (Nakhat Singh) 2, Wise Don (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and God’s Wish (Shahar Babu) 4. Not run: Amendment and Welcome Chakkaram. 4-1/4, 2 and 7-1/4. 1m, 28.68s. Owner: Mr. C. Gnanavel. Trainer: N. Rupa.  3. CHAMP FOREVER HANDICAP (1,300m), rated 40 to 65: LORDSHIP (A. Imran Khan) 1, Star Elegant (Surya Prakash) 2, Cotton Hall (P. Koushik) and Booms Lang (R. Manish) Dead heat 3. Not run: Radical Review. 1-1/4, 1 and dht. 1m, 21.74s. Owner: Mr. K. Muthuvellayan. Trainer: B. Suresh.  4. CRIMSON PRINCESS PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o only (Terms): AKIDO (Nakhat Singh) 1, Knight Envied (A. Imran Khan) 2, Painted Apache (Surya Prakash) 3 and Race For The Stars (B.R. Kumar) 4. 1/2, 6-1/2 and shd. 1m, 14.63s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: Satheesh.  5. STEWARDS CUP (1,200m), rated 80 & above: MEGASTHENES (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Royal Currency (Brisson) 2, Glorious Destiny (B.R. Kumar) 3 and King T’Chala (P. Koushik) 4. 1-3/4, 3 and nose. 1m 14.39s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. RECORD BREAKER HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: STRONG BREEZE (Brisson) 1, Bolivia (Iltaf Hussain) 2, Golden Streak (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Star Fling (A. Imran Khan) 4. 1/2, 8-3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 16.55s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/megasthenes-claims-the-stewards-cup/article34331273.ece
16 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Hanumantha passes away||United Karnataka Chess Association (UKCA) general secretary R. Hanumantha passed away here on Thursday. He was 63. He was also the All India Chess Federation (AICF) events committee chairman. UKCA CEO Aravind Shastry stated that Hanumantha was recently admitted to a city hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. “He was recovering well. We expected him to get discharged soon,” Shastry said. Shastry recalled Hanumantha's immense contribution. “When Hanumantha took over as the UKCA Secretary in 2005, Karnataka had only 40 rated chess players. Now our State has more than 2,000 rated players. “There were hardly any tournaments when he took office, but now we seeat least five tournaments a week. His demise is a big loss to the chess community,” Shastry said. Hanumantha, who served two terms as UKCA general secretary, had served in the AICF as joint secretary and vice president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hanumantha-passes-away/article34331526.ece
16 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Anand’s father passes away||K. Viswanathan, father of five-time World chess champion V. Anand, passed away, after a brief illness, here on Thursday. He was 92. A former General Manager (Southern Railway), Viswanathan is survived by two sons and a daughter. “Even with his modest salary, he ensured Anand never lacked support and made sure his son could travel within India and abroad. A simple man with correct values, he made sure Anand had the right values. He took great pride in his son and remained a proud railway-man till the end,” said Aruna, Anand’s wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anands-father-passes-away/article34331270.ece
16 April 2021||LONDON,||Kohli named Wisden’s ODI player of 2010s||Virat Kohli has been named Wisden Almanack’s ODI player of the 2010s, while England all-rounder Ben Stokes was declared the ‘Cricketer of the Year’ for a second successive time. Sachin Tendulkar was named the ODI Cricketer of the 1990s and Kapil Dev the best for the 1980s. Sir Vivian Richards claimed the prize in the 1970s while Sri Lankan great Muttiah Muralitharan got the nod for the 2000s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-is-wisdens-odi-player-of-2010s/article34331221.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||YSCA Trophy from May 1||The 51st all-India YSCA Trophy cricket tournament will be held from May 1. The tournament is open to all clubs affiliated to TNCA, business houses, banks, financial institutions, companies and educational institutions and clubs from all over the country. Entries close on April 24 at 6 p.m. For details, contact 98410 27353 or email: msgurumurthy@yahoo.co.in.      S. Karthik set up an easy win for Air Warriors CC with an eight-wicket haul against All Star CC in the CDCA second division match held recently. G. Keerthi slammed an unbeaten 101 to help set up a comprehensive 121-run win for Sumangali CC against Thiruporur CC.  The scores:   I div.: Venkatesan CC 168/8 in 30 overs (T. Pravin 47, S. Sethupathi 46, A.T. Fazir 3/35, S. Muthu Kumar 3/36) lost to Sathya CC 170/3 in 28.3 overs (S. Prabhu 59, K. Yashwanth 47).   Krish CC 263/5 in 28 overs (G. Manikandan 100, S. Praveen Kumar 61) bt Alagesan CC 82 in 18.3 overs (T. Vishwa 5/23).   II div.: Dev CC 209/5 in 30 overs (S. Aashish 61, S. Kumar 57, K. Arun Kumar 35) bt The Cricketers Club 116 in 24.2 overs (S. Kumar 6/28, S. Harish 3/42).   Maduranthakam CC 170/9 in 30 overs (S. Sundara Raman 51, K. Hari Chandran 3/30) bt Chrome CC 141/8 in 30 overs (R. Manikandan 42, A. Sai Akash 3/24).   Chakra CC 160 in 27.2 overs (P. Prabhkaran 47, Ajay Kumar 44, R. Ahillan 3/26, R. Yogender Sharma 3/33) lost to Reddy CC 166/7 in 26 overs (Y. Tushar 3/38).   All Star CC 75 in 17.6 overs (S. Sabarish 46, S. Karthik 8/12) lost to Air Warriors CC 78/2 in 15.3 overs.   Sumangali 215/3 in 30 overs (P. Joseph Stephen Raja 61, G. Keerthi 101 n.o.) bt Thiruporur 94/9 in 30 overs.   Rainbow 176/6 in 30 overs (Graham Mark James 54, D. Mahendiran 42, A. Sachin 3/23) bt Prajith 118/9 in 30 overs (D. Saravanan 6/22).    Cosmopolitan Club, represented by D. Manivannan and T. Sunderavadivelu, clinched the 60+ title in the 28th Sanmar-TNTA Chennai city club tennis league championships. The two won 6-1, 6-3 against Anna Nagar-K Block, represented by R. Krishnaswamy and A. Ramalingam.     Chennai Cricket Club Academy will conduct an open tournament for academies and clubs from April 20. For details, call 8778066674.    Cricket: ERS Noble CA camp; Age: 8-24 boys and girls; Contact: 9884409081.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ysca-trophy-from-may-1/article34331759.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Shraddhanand College in quarterfinals||A match-winning knock of 84 by Man-of-the-Match Sanchit Sabharwal saw Swami Shraddhanand College beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana by six wickets to enter the quarterfinals of the 31st all-India Hitkary Om Nath Sood Memorial tournament. Earlier, Chaitanya Bishnoi’s unbeaten 117 helped defending champion Haryana Cricket Academy beat Rann Star CC by nine runs to enter the semifinals.  The scores: RRG 159 in 39.3 overs (Dhruv Ghai 53, Aman Sehrawat 3/26) lost to SSNC 163/4 in 21.3 overs (Sanchit Sabharwal 84, Himanshu Rana 49); HCA 215/9 in 40 overs (Chaitanya Bishnoi 117 n.o., Deepak Punia 5/26) bt RSCC 206/9 in 40 overs (Priyanshu Vijayran 71 n,o., Vikas Yadav 3/42) .      Abhiraj Gagan Singh’s 47 and Shivansh Bahukhandi’s three wickets helped Positive Roads Academy beat TNM Academy by 23 runs in the Kragbuzz Sports Under-14 tournament. In another game, Soumya Goyal picked up four wickets and Mihir Singh got three as Udaybhan Academy beat M-10 Academy by nine wickets.  The scores: PRA 167/5 in 25 overs (Abhiraj Gagan Singh 47, Rishabh Gupta 36) bt TNMA 144 in 24.2 overs (Bhavi Sharma 41, Dev Chaudhary 36, Shivansh Bahukhandi 3/16); M-10 Academy 93 in 19.3 overs (Soumya Goyal 4/16, Mihir Singh 3/21) lost to UBA 94/1 in 10.1 overs (Nanam Maini 55 n.o.) .    Half-centuries by Harshit Kaushik and Vision Panchal saw Sporting club beat Dhamaka Club by 83 runs in the 4th RK Kapoor T20 tournament. In the second match, three wickets each by Sahil Dutta and Karan Chaudhary helped Delhi Challengers beat I. Master Club by seven wickets.  The scores: Sporting Club 236/8 in 20 overs (Harshit Kaushik 85, Vision Panchal 50, Sanchit Sabharwal 37 n.o., Jatin Bhadauria 3/25, Mohit Kumar 2/31) bt Dhamaka Club 153 18.3 overs (Gulshan Kumar 40, Manish Sehrawat 3/35, Vision Panchal 2/26); IMC 129/8 in 20 overs (Tanuj Pawar 65, Sahil Dutta 3/20, Karan Chaudhary 3/38) lost to Delhi Challengers 132/3 in 11.4 overs (Jiwanjot Singh 56, Ravi Thakur 29, Uvaish Ahmad 29, Surender Kumar 2/53) .      Vikas Sharma made 70 runs and Rishabh Kansal added 69 as RKB Academy beat Swasthik Sports by 146 runs in the 15th Swasthik Open Cup.  The scores: RKBA 309/5 in 40 overs (Vikas Sharma 70, Rishabh Kansal 69, Shivam Bhardwaj 44, Suraj Sharma 35) bt Swasthik Sports 163 in 33.3 overs (Vineet Chhikara 63, Vansh Mehra 38, Rihan Khan 3/33) .      Yash Bhatia smashed an unbeaten 67-ball 150 as Daksh Sports beat CRD Club by five wickets in the Achievers Cup Under-19 tournament.  The scores: CRDC 285/9 in 40 overs (Adil Saifi 89, Kshitij Sobti 66, Agrim Sharma 3/44) lost to Daksh Sports 287/5 in 31.1 overs (Yash Bhatia 150 n.o., Dheeraj Kumar 49) .      All-round performance by Aman Sharma helped Yuva Shakti Academy beat DAV Academy by 124 runs in the Summer Super League.  The scores: YSA 296/6 in 40 overs (Aman Sharma 161, Madhav Chawla 3/45) bt DAV 172 in 35 overs (Kavya Nagar 4/3, Aman Sharma 3/29) .      Man-of-the-Match Hiten Rathor’s century helped Sporting Club beat IP International Academy by 123 runs in the Ratan Lal Saini tournament.  The scores: Sporting Club 259 in 39.4 overs (Hiten Rathor 100) bt IPIA 136/6 in 40 overs (Shivam Rai 37) .      Aniket Pandey’s 61 not out and Devyanshu Thakur’s 49 helped MCG Academy beat Giants Academy by seven wickets in the 1st BLS Under-14 tournament.  The scores: GCA 149/9 in 50 overs (Rohan Chawla 30) lost to MCG 150/3 in 18.1 overs (Anuiket Pandey 61 n.o., Devyanshu Thakur 49) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shraddhanand-college-in-quarterfinals/article34331798.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 07:44 IST,||Sudoku — April 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-16-2021/article34332153.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||From the lap of Nature||Ukhrul, in Manipur, populated by the indigenous Tangkhul tribe, is a land is nestled in nature’s bounty, steeped in ancient tradition and buoyed by a modern outlook. Leiyolan Vashum and Zeinorin Angkang of Ukhrul tell the story of their people, through their rich produce. The couple, with a background in Management and Communication Studies, started Hill Wild in the winter of 2017. The business became popular for its confections infused with local produce, but took a detour in 2020. “With the arrival of the pandemic, everything came to a grinding halt,” explains Zeinorin, as she juggles online orders and social media updates. What the company stumbled upon as a predicament last year, soon transformed into an opportunity. “On one hand, access to produce was limited, while on the other, plentiful harvest could not make it to consumers on time. So we launched Taste Ukhrul, a brand that would bring artisanal produce from the region to the rest of the country, and create a network for farmers to sell their harvest,” Zeinorin says. They had clearly hit the spot: in the midst of lockdown, the small business was inundated with online orders. “I remember our small team packing till 11pm once, so we could meet our dispatch deadline the next day,” Zeinorin recounts. Under the umbrella of Taste Ukhrul, a bouquet of unique produce is harvested, minimally processed and packed for shipment. Ukhrul plums, Sirarakhong chilli , Sivathei/king chilli (hitting a whopping million units on the Scoville Heat Scale), Kachai lemon, Ningthee sumac berry, Raphei perilla seeds (used in salads and with meats), wild figs, dried wild apples, kiwi candy and ginger powder have made their way to kitchens across the country. “We want to showcase Ukhrul’s tasty natural produce. With its amazing terrain, rainfall and proximity to the Indo-Myanmar biodiversity hotspot, Ukhrul has a cornucopia of delicious spices, vegetables and fruit. This venture motivates our small land-holder farmers and even our youth, to take up agriculture not just to sustain ourselves, but to ensure food security,” Zeinorin explains. Taste Ukhrul is now working with over 200 farmers, with more additions every season. “Our recent work on International Women’s Day with Talui garlic farmers makes us particularly joyous. Two hundred women planted the same garlic on small patches of land, grown without pesticides. They gathered manure from the forest, mulched it regularly, adding organic compost as fertilizer. The same heirloom garlic, now yields collective sales with equitable wealth distribution across the community,” states Zeinorin. The little victories are truly sweet, reminisces the couple, “Just before Diwali, Ukhrul had at least 10 tonnes of harvested kiwi fruit and some farmers approached us to speed up sales when the stock was fresh. We sold three tonnes of fresh kiwi locally, but we had to think on our feet to preserve the rest of it.” She says they finally made it into sweet-sour kiwi candy, by slicing the fruit thin, soaking it in sugar and then dehydrating it under the sun. “This was just one of the many instances for us where we felt a sense of responsibility to our farming community,” Zeinorin says. Grassroots first Ernest Luikham, a local farmer with disability, grows tree tomatoes. His rich harvest from a 1,500-  tree farm has inspired local women to source produce from him for their pickle business. “Food is enjoyed the best, when you know where it’s grown and who lovingly tended to it. Shangshangwung Huileng, who returned to Ukhrul from Chennai, started a cabbage farm. Initially we got our cabbage from other states, but now Huileng has risen to the challenge and is trying to meet local needs with his amazing, organic cabbage. We see such a spark with our youth, to be self-sufficient and support the local economy,” Zeinorin says. The collective has had some artistic collaborations too. Dimapur-based jewellery and home-decor business Runway Nagaland, for instance, has created hand-embroidered pouches for Taste Ukhrul. The journey has not been easy, despite the success. “We took a big leap of faith during the lockdown and sunk our own resources at considerable risk. But I think it is paying off now. We have brands based in Switzerland and across the USA who are buying from us,” Zeinorin says. She adds, “This augurs well for our farmers, who reap rich dividends, and these small partnerships form the base for future collaborations.”  Ukhrul plums, Sirarakhong chilli, Sivathei/king chilli (hitting a whopping million units on the Scoville Heat Scale), kachai lemon, Ningthee sumac berry, raphei perilla seeds, wild figs and more have made their way to kitchens across India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/from-the-lap-of-nature/article34331463.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mojitos by the sea||Mervyn Payaso oscillates the cocktail shaker like a juggler. The mixologist, who relocated from Bengaluru to Kochi during the COVID-19 disruption last year, has set up Rendezvous, an alfresco counter, by the sea in Vasco Da Gama Square in Fort Kochi. Rendezvous is a pop-up — a table and two stools — under a garden umbrella in the charming cobblestone square under century-old rain trees. Fancy mojitos and fizzy fruit drinks make the menu; ‘Conversations & Queries’ scribbled on a black board adds to the wonder. The unusual stall has been drawing curious crowds since its opening in November 2020. “This is what I do best,” says Mervyn of his unique venture that has brought stylish mixed drinks out of pubs, bars and cafés onto the street. Pouring an attractive dark concoction into a high ball, he says, “Why let mocktails remain indoors and be elitist?” Mervyn entered the hospitality industry as a casual hand, while still in school: learning the ropes by assisting and watching. He worked in several hotel bars and his longest stint of five and a half years was with Shiro, a pan-Asian restaurant in Bengaluru. Particular about SOPs (Standard Operating Procedure) and BP (Best Practices) audits, he admits to have quit many bars in the past where “these were not followed.” A reason why he chose this informal style is because “mixology is now peaking and is understood more than before.” Rendezvous serves a simple menu of iced tea and black iced coffee as stimulants, and a choice of three to four mocktails or refreshers for the day. Each priced at Rs. 50, the mojitos are not only value for money but also playful and stylish. Says Mervyn, “I begin with the pineapple and curry leaves mojito, which combines a hint of leafy freshness with fruity tartness. Agua fresca, a Mexican drink, draws in the flavours of cucumber, lime and mint, while another drink called mango ginger yokes the sharpness of the root with the sweetness of the fruit.” People gather around Mervyn to see his act and also the interesting wares he lays out before each performance. On the table lie shiny steel bar scoops, spoons, knives,cocktail shaker, and the most important tool in cocktail world: the Hawthorne strainer. Bottles of home brewed fruit syrups, herbs and garnishes add to the setting. Mervyn is particular about making the syrups himself. Some of his signature concoctions are a spin on the bloody Mary made with guava juice; a lychee and cilantro fizz; and a combo of instant coffee with Arabica. When Mervyn launched his little fun joint in November, he had invited all his “buddies”. Now, with his little venture having gone on to create a big fan following, he doesn’t forget that he “started off washing glasses in a bar.”  Some of his signature concoctions are a spin on the bloody Mary made with guava juice; a lychee and cilantro fizz; and a combo of instant coffee with Arabica||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mojitos-by-the-sea/article34331466.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||En garde!||Bhavani Devi — the 27-year-old sabre fencer from Chennai, Tamil Nadu — secured a spot in the World Cup in Hungary, qualifying through the Adjusted Official Ranking (AOR) Method. Two individual spots were up for grabs for the Asia & Oceania region based on the World Rankings as of April 5, 2021. She is ranked 45th and occupies one of the two available slots based on the ranking. “Though I lost early in the round of 96 (at the World Cup in Budapest), I was able to maintain my points I got in the World Championship last year. By remaining in the Top 2 in Asia by virtue of my points, I was able to make the cut for Tokyo Olympics,” Bhavani explained after securing the quota. Perseverance is key The eight-time national champion is not new to the rigours of the qualification process, having done this before in 2015. She did not qualify for the Rio Olympics in 2016 and considered quitting the sport. Her efforts to make the cut have seen her participate in training camps in Chennai, Thalassery and most recently in Livorno, Italy, under coach Nicola Zanotti before the COVID-19-induced shutdown put a pause on the qualification process. “Earlier, when I used to travel alone without a coach for competitions, I felt I did not get the same respect as other fencers. But now that has changed and I feel a sense of respect from all the top athletes,” said Bhavani Speaking about the financial challenge of going in for a niche sport, Bhavani Devi shared an insight into how she had to inflate her father’s annual income to even begin pursuing it seriously. “I realised why the teacher asked me about my father’s annual income, because the equipment was very costly and I had to practice with bamboo sticks. The swords had to be saved for the competitions only since I couldn’t afford to break them,” said Bhavani. “In the last four-and-a-half years, there was a lot of stress to qualify. Now I don’t have any of the pressure. All I want is to do is give my best performance in Tokyo and not obsess about the rounds. As far as I know, each opponent at Tokyo will be tough,” she said. Fencing facts: Fencing was one of nine sports on the programme at the 1896 Games, the first modern Olympics. The women’s fencing competition was added in 1924. The objective of fencing is to strike your opponent while avoiding being hit yourself. Men and women each compete in six events, broken down by team and individual competition as well as the three weapons used: epee, sabre and foil.  Top performers: Italy has the largest overall medal haul, but Russia won four gold, a silver and two bronze medals at Rio 2016; their best Olympic fencing performance in two decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/en-garde/article34332112.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s in a name?||Ever heard of the Woman’s Tongue? Or the Monkey Pod? Believe it or not, these are names of trees. Here are some more weird ones. Have you ever seen a Sausage Tree? There are some at Marina Beach in Chennai and near Ulsoor Lake in Bengaluru. Huge sausage- or cucumber-like brown fruit dangle at the end of a long, rope-like stalk. Its red flowers hang downwards. These night-flowering trees are pollinated by bats and nocturnal birds and insects. When the wind blows through the long flat pods of the Frywood Tree, it sounds like food frying. Hence the name. Another name is Woman’s Tongue, because it sounds like the sharp talk of women. Rather unfair, don’t you think? Also called the Shirish , it has silvery or pale golden leaves, and small greenish flowers. It has many medicinal uses and is also called Flea tree, Lebbek, and Koko. Variety galore Then there’s the African Baobab, which I’ve been dying to see since I read The Little Prince . Also called Bottle Tree, Tree of Life, Monkey Bread Tree, I knew it as the Upside-Down Tree because of its root-like branches and branch-like roots. It has a huge girth of around 12 feet and lives for 1,000 years or more. Carbon dating showed one that had lived for 1,500 years. While reading about the Sausage Tree, I came across the Devil’s Tree. Its bark is poisonous for animals. Imagine animal mothers warning their babies: “The devil is here, don’t go near.” But here’s a strange thing — it is also called the Scholar or Blackboard Tree, as its soft bark and wood were used to make blackboards and frames for writing slates. Then there’s the Bonfire Tree that looks like it is afire with clusters of deep orange-red flowers, like fanning out flames. The Rain Tree with its pretty pink flowers also has some funny names: Monkey Pod Tree or False Powder Puff Tree. This majestic avenue tree grows to a great height and is an air purifier. The Cannonball Tree, with its hard round fruit, is also called the Nagalingam or Shivalingam , because the flower looks like the hood of the cobra. Take the Badminton Ball Tree? It looks like it has little balls growing on it. Why is the Flame of the Forest called the Parrot Tree? How did the Butterfly Tree, Sneezewood Tree, Toothpaste Tree, Icecream Bean Tree, Shaving Brush Tree, Fried Egg Tree, Jack in the Box Tree, and the Cassowary Tree get their names? Search the Internet for images of these trees and see if their appearances provide the answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/whats-in-a-name/article34332123.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Colour me red||Who can eat the most pomegranates? Who can squeeze the most juice from this red fruit? Who can showcase the largest pomegranate? Head to the Festival of Pomegranates, celebrated in Goychay district, Republic of Azerbaijan, for the answers. The area is renowned for the most number of pomegranate species in the world and is considered the global pomegranate capital. The Goychay Pomegranate Festival (Nar Bayrami) was instituted in 2006 (and first held on November 3) and is held annually in October-November. In 2020, the UNESCO added this festival to its Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity to celebrate the traditional uses of the fruit, the practices, traditions and skills related to its cultivation, and its varied uses as food. Symbol of love The fruit is also seen as a symbol of productivity and abundance and giver of energy. Local legends associate the pomegranate with love and passion and the fruit appears in traditional crafts and decorative arts. Beginning with a parade with traditional Azerbaijani music and dances, the people also bond over recipes, storytelling, art and craft all connected to the pomegranate. Fruits grown in different parts of the district (around 50,000 tonnes annually) are showcased and products like juice, concentrate, jam, jelly, wine, grenadine, seeds in syrup and more are also displayed. Some locals use the seeds to tell fortunes. Known as Nar in Azerbaijani, it is regarded as the king of fruits and the most famous varieties are Veles, Shirin, Guleisha, and Shihbaba. Fun Facts: Nar the pomegranate appeared on the official logo of the 2015 European Games held in Azerbaijan and was one of the two mascots.  It also featured in the jackets of the male athletes at the opening ceremony. Goychay is also famous for the Narsharab, a pomegranate sauce that is served with various dishes and also used for health purposes. The heaviest pomegranate recorded so far weighed more than 1.5 kg (3.3 pounds).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/colour-me-red/article34332077.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Always a first time||“Ma, Amit is coming to visit today!” “Yes, he is,” Raja’s mother smiled. It was a Saturday morning and Ma was getting ready for work. Her office was nearby so she would be back for lunch. Raja’s father would be home all day. “Raja, do you both plan to play cricket in the garden?” Raja was not sure. He had a new computer game to show Amit. Amit’s mother didn’t let him play on the computer, so it would be fun. Of course, they could play cricket and then play the game. The two friends were supposed to spend all afternoon together. Raja’s father was making special lunch for them too. Amit was coming at noon. Raja had time to clean his room and take a bath. He also had to find the cricket ball because he had not played in a long time. These days, he mostly played inside on the computer. Ma said Raja was too young to have his own phone. Dad put Raja’s breakfast before him. He had made pancakes. Raja happily ate his stack and gulped down his milk. By the time his mother left, Raja was busy picking up things from his bedroom floor. Amit’s room was always clean when Raja visited. The doorbell rang. Amit’s mother said hello. She handed Raja a chocolate bar. “Good to see you, my boy,” she told him. “Where is your Ma?” “Thank you, aunty,” said Raja. “She has gone to the office.” Amit’s mother looked surprised but waved goodbye and left. It was time to play cricket. Amit grabbed the bat, ready to hit fours and sixes. Raja bowled to him. The garden was big but one six went over the wall. The ball was lost. “Amit, you are not inside a cricket stadium!” Raja said. Amit giggled. “Sorry. Why don’t we buy a new ball?” “No. It’s time for lunch anyway. Let us wash our hands and faces, and go eat lunch,” Raja said. At the table They joined Raja’s father in the kitchen where he was chopping vegetables for the salad. “Boys, lunch will be ready in 10 minutes,” he smiled. Amit and Raja took their seats at the dining table. Amit stared at the kitchen. Raja handed him a glass of water and poured himself another. “Your father cooks every day?” Amit asked. Nobody had ever asked Raja this before. “Yes. Ma spends more time at work and doesn’t like to cook.” Amit’s mouth dropped. He had never seen his father enter the kitchen or cut vegetables. These were things that his mother did. In fact, he didn’t even pour his water for himself. Raja’s father came out with salad, spaghetti and garlic bread. He pulled up a chair and sat down to eat with them. Amit watched Raja’s father serve himself. Then he watched Raja fill his own plate. He stared. He waited. Raja noticed his friend’s silence and asked, “What are you waiting for?” Amit stammered, “Umm….” His friend understood. “I am not going to serve you. This is like your own home. You can take what you like and as much as you like yourself.” For the first time that day, a hungry Amit put food on his own plate and poured himself a glass of water, too!  “Your father cooks every day?” Amit asked. Nobody had ever asked Raja this before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/always-a-first-time/article34332099.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Robots on the run||Movie: Robots (2005)  Genre: Animation, adventure Rodney Copperbottom is a robot and an aspiring young inventor in Rivet Town. His idol is Bigweld, a famous inventor and founder of Bigweld Industries that provides robots with spare parts. Rodney develops a flying robot, named Wonderbot, which he hopes to present to Bigweld Industries in Robot City. Once there, he learns that the company’s new owner Phineas T. Ratchet, has stopped producing spare parts and, instead, produces expensive upgrades. The robots that are unable to pay for them become “outmodes” — collectively known as Rusties — that are eventually melted to create ingots for Upgrades. Rodney resolves to find Bigweld and enlist his help in creating spare parts for robots that cannot afford the upgrades. Along the way, he befriends Fender Pinwheeler, a trouble-making robot that is constantly falling apart, who joins Rodney in his quest. When Rodney finally meets Bigweld, the latter is unwilling to help and points out that his idealism couldn’t survive Ratchet’s greed. A dejected Rodney decides to go back to Rivet Town. But his father encourages him to stay on and fight for his dreams. Joined by Fender, the Rusties and even Bigweld, who has a change of heart, they face off with Ratchet. Do the small robots manage to take down the big corporation and his evil plans? Trivia: Rivet Town was designed after Watertown, New York, because the movie’s director Chris Wedge grew up there.  The names of the stars featured on “Map of the Stars’ Homes” that Fender tries to sell Rodney are modified versions of actual celebrities’ names: Orson Wheels (Orson Welles), Axle Rose (Axl Rose), Britney Gears (Britney Spears), and Farrah Faucet (Farrah Fawcett). One of the vendors in Rivet Town sells an ice cream called “Auntie Freeze”, a reference to radiator coolant known as anti-freeze used in vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/robots-on-the-run/article34332116.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Brick by Brick Up the chimney||The story so far: Susan denies Neel and Mohit’s accusations of undoing their work. They boys fill the fireplace again and show JJ the completed work. But, the next day, the fireplace is empty again. After their third attempt, they decide to spend the night there and catch the culprit.  Neel and Mohit clutched each other and screamed. The fireplace was emptying itself without anyone’s help! The bricks rolled down as if they had life of their own. Suddenly, the boys were surrounded by people and lights and everyone could see the empty fireplace with bricks strewn all around. “What’s going on?” asked Grandma Ann. “Why are you boys here?” Mohit and Neel stopped screaming and began to talk at the same time, the words running out so fast that it was difficult to understand what they were saying. When they made themselves understood, there was silence. Susan said quietly, “Maybe the fireplace is trying to tell us something. Like, maybe it doesn’t want to be filled up and walled up…and wants to stay open.” Mohit and Neel looked at her in wonder. How had she come up with that explanation? JJ said, “Come on, boys. Pick up your sleeping bags and go back to your groups. We’ll address this in the morning.” The next morning, no one had the heart to awaken the boys and they overslept. There were no volunteers around. They had obviously moved on to some other house since most of the reconstruction here was over — except for the fireplace. The two boys stood looking at the cave-like hollow in the wall. Neither of them wanted to go near. ‘There must be something inside,’ said Neel. “Some spirit or something… Shouldn’t we check it out?” “If it can throw out bricks, it can seal us inside,” Mohit whispered. “Then don’t go inside,” said someone. They turned around to see Susan watching them. She had a stick in her hand. “Use this.” Neel bent down and pushed the stick around inside the fireplace, hitting the walls on each side and poking upwards as well. He knew that the chimney had been sealed long ago and the flue was also probably been sealed because it was not needed. “Here, give that to me,” said Susan. She took the stick from him, stuck her head into the fireplace and pushed the stick hard against the walls, one brick at a time. “Pull me out if you see the bricks trying to grab me,” she said. But the bricks did not grab her. Instead, as she pushed and prodded inside, a few fell down from the inner wall. Susan jumped back. “Maybe there’s something there,” said Mohit. As Susan leaned and pushed again, more bricks fell. “I think there’s a hole there!” she exclaimed. The boys waited for her to move out and then they leaned in too. “Yes! I can see a hidden space!” cried Neel. “And there’s something in it!” said Mohit.  To be continued||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/brick-by-brick-up-the-chimney/article34332070.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||By, For and Of the People||ACROSS  1 Held every 5 years in India (9) 5 A topic under debate (5) 7 To argue (4) 8 These are counted after election day (5) 9 Liberated (4) 10 Party meeting to choose a candidate (6) 11 What a politician takes before assuming office (4) 13 ___term election happens in the middle of the term (3) 17 Person currently holding office (9)  DOWN   1 ____ polls predict the outcome of an election (4) 2 Connections (4) 3 The act of favouring a relative (8) 4 Confidence motion is also known as ____ vote (5) 6 Addressing a gathering (6) 8 Deputy (4) 9 ____ runner: The candidate most likely to win (5) 12 ____ Hall: A government building (4) 14 District Election Officer, abbr. (3) 15 Electronic Voting Machine, abbr. (3) 16 Individual (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/by-for-and-of-the-people/article34332080.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do we burp? When we eat or drink, we not only swallow food or liquid but also air. All these gases we swallow need to get out. That’s where burping comes to the rescue! Extra gas is forced out of the stomach, up the food pipe and out through the mouth as a burp. How isplastic made? Most plastics are made from chemicals that come from petroleum (oil), natural gas, or coal. Heating these chemicals causes them to break down into molecules. These molecules are then joined into chains to make plastic. Different combinations of molecules form different kinds of plastic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article34332066.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Knight in white light||On April 17, 1705, Queen Anne of Great Britain knighted Isaac Newton at Trinity College, while she was visiting Cambridge. Newton thus became the second scientist to be given this rank. The first was Sir Francis Bacon. Isaac Newton was born in the small hamlet of Woolsthorpe in England and was raised by his maternal grandmother. It is said that, in a bid to outdo the school bully, Newton applied himself to his studies and topped the class. Despite many ups and downs, he secured a place at Trinity College, Cambridge. His education was interrupted when the university shut down because of bubonic plague. While there, he studied optics and light refraction. He said that white light was a composite of every colour on the spectrum and that light was made of particles. In 1687, he published a three-volume series called the Philosophiae Naturalis Principia . His copy of the first edition is displayed at the Cambridge University Library. Later, he was elected as a Member of Parliament and appointed Warden of the Royal Mint. His contributions to Maths, Astronomy and Physics are unparalleled. He was inspired by Rene Descartes, Galileo Galilei and Nicolaus Copernicus. He said, “If I have seen further than others, it is by standing upon the shoulders of giants.” He died at the age of 87 and was buried in Westminster Abbey.  In a bid to outdo the school bully, that Newton applied himself to his studies and topped the class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/knight-in-white-light/article34332105.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34332062.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34332084.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing the beat||“For me, it is fun to compose a film song in the morning and perform a classical concert in the evening,” says Bickram Ghosh. Not many people know about the many creative pursuits of this tabla exponent, who recently won the best composer award at the Montreal Independent Film Festival for the Bengali film Abhijatrik . Meanwhile, Ishq, his indie album in collaboration with singer Hariharan, has evoked good response on social media. Bickram says he discovered that he could compose when he was working on ‘Rhythmscape’  with his band of the same name. The album was not just about rhythm, it had melody too. It was followed by many popular albums and set the tone for the film composition offers that began to come to him from people who had heard his albums. He started with Shatabdir Galpo followed by Iti Shrikanto. In fact, impressed by ‘Rhythmscape’, Rajkumar Hirani had wanted him to score the music for Munnabhai MBBS back in the 2000s , but that didn’t work out as he was touring with Pt. Ravi Shankar then as his tabla accompanist. In a long interview, the musician speaks about why he chose to take his experiments with sound beyond the classical realm. Edited excerpts.  What inspired you to score the music for  Abhijatrik ?    Abhijatrik or Wanderlust of Apu is a sequel to the Apu Trilogy. This is a very ambitious and beautiful film by Shubhrajit Mitra and is based on the concluding part of Bibhuti Bhushan Bandopadhyay’s novel Aparajito . The score is purely classical with a little folk influence. It is being screened at film festivals before a formal release. For the Montreal jury, an eclectic mix of European and American experts, to choose it for best score means I must be doing something right. It gives my work validation. Is your music influenced by Satyajit Ray and Pt. Ravi Shankar?  When I am doing Abhijatrik , I have to be influenced by Panditji and Ray because this is the continuation of the same story. So it is expected that I follow the same musical format. There are other films such as Bosu Poribar (2019), where I have used Ray’s minimalist approach. I am also hugely influenced by R.D. Burman and his detailed arrangements with live musicians, instead of programming with electronic devices. I too have live musicians for my compositions. It gives soul to my music. And I have a very good arranger in Shayan Ganguly, who gives a modern touch to the sound with the help of electronic devices. This live arrangement of music has set a trend because I do not use stock music even for the background score.   Ishq is doing well. What made you think of it?   The pandemic triggered the idea for this album on the moods of love. We were not doing much work, so I requested Hariharan ji to sing the songs and he agreed. I sent him the compositions and he sang and sent them back. Within a month we did six songs. Later, I did the arrangements with live musicians as usual — without using VST (virtually simulated tones of the keyboard). This live orchestra can be well replicated by the programming sounds. And that is how we used sitar, sarod, santoor, tabla, mridangam, etc. The songs are melodious and hummable. I make it a point to keep my songs simple so that even a layman can sing them. All six songs have different moods and a fresh sound. After the audio recording we also did a lavish video under Arindam Seal’s direction, giving each song an interesting narrative. They were all shot in Kolkata. For example, in ‘Dil hawai hai,’ I take Hariji on a tour of Kolkata. There is a beautiful woman in it, who is actually a metaphor for the city. Similarly, the Radha video shows the life of a gangster and how people give up life for love. You are a percussionist, who works with rhythmic permutations. Working with melody is a different ball game. How did you embark on this journey?  I belong to the Shankar Ghosh school of tabla where modulation with bayan plays a very important role. Tabla is not just an instrument for counting beats, it also expresses melody. Maybe not in notes but in the modulation of melody. My father taught me to make my tabla playing aesthetically pleasing. And I adopt the same approach for composing. I don’t see any bifurcation in my melody and rhythm thoughts. Besides, I heard a lot of Patiala gharana music from my mother and her Ustad. In school, I used to participate in Western music events. I have had a lot of influences. It’s a nice khichdi . In the last 20 years, I have done 39 feature films, jingles, albums, etc. It’s a huge body of work from any standard. I have composed for 10 Hindi feature films as well. Of late, it has been very prolific. How do you accommodate yourself to compose both classical and popular music?  I am not from the headspace of only the classical artiste. I was always watching films, listening to the music of different genres. I am a huge fan of Pancham da. I listen to foreign composers, Hard Rock, Metal... I have a wide range. My father often pulled me up for this, but he also gave me a long rope, as long as I did my daily riyaaz . Besides, I was trying to understand the software, the way recordings are done. In 2004, I set up a studio in my house. Having your own studio gives you a lot of advantage. I don’t have any training in composing, I learnt it on the fly. I tried to understand how the arrangements are done, how the sounds are produced — all the technical aspects intrigued me. I was mentally ready to compose long back. And the success of my albums in the alternative music space gave me a lot of confidence.  The writer is a music critic and musicologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/changing-the-beat/article34331698.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||When the villain steals the show||There is a joke in Kathakali that all that a chuvanna tadi , a villainous character, needs to do is to look menacing, make some noise, and get killed in the end. There are, however, a few meaty roles, such as Sugreeva in ‘Balivadham’ and Jarasandha in ‘Rajasooyam’. ‘Palazhi Madhanam’, or the Churning of Palazhi, which debuted at Kerala Kalamandalam Deemed University recently, is a welcome addition to this short list. A power-packed presentation by Kalamandalam’s Vadakkan Kalari brought out Kathakali’s nritta aspect with brisk kalasams or pure dance movements backed by some vibrant drumming. It offered immense scope for both nritta and abhinaya to Bali, a chuvanna tadi or red-bearded character. Most important, this new play was rich in innovation while strictly adhering to the grammar and syntax of Kathakali. The story is about Bali stepping in to relieve the gods and demons who have become tired while churning the ocean for nectar. The script has just two other characters — Indra, who invites his son Bali to help the gods, and Matali, Indra’s charioteer. Not much is known about this attakatha or its author, though some believe Kunchan Nambiar, who lived in the 18th century, wrote it. Collaborative effort Much of the text including the beginning and the end has been lost. Yet the core of the play, lead-choreographed by Kalamandalam Neeraj and presented in four scenes, offered a great viewing experience. As Neeraj took pains to point out, it was a collaborative effort by the entire team, as many of the members are his seniors and gurus. The play, which runs for nearly 2.5 hours, starts with Indra asking Matali to go and seek Bali’s help. Kalamandalam Shanmughan as Indra and Harinarayanan as Matali excelled. Shanmughan’s slow-paced kalasams after every charanam in the first scene was a treat to watch. The central character of Bali, played by Kalamandalam Pradeep, was a bundle of energy, unleashed with vigorous kalasams and excellent expressions. Much of the credit for this successful production goes to the percussionists, led by chenda artiste Kalamandalam Balasundaran, who were innovative in varying both the rhythmic structure and tempo. For example, Matali putting together his chariot in the first scene was done in panchari, a six-beat cycle, executed to perfection by Harinarayanan. Another instance was Scene Two, in which Bali thrashes the saptasalas or seven trees to relieve stress as his palms are itching for a fight, where the variation in tempo was used to great effect. Bali single-handedly churning the ocean holding the head and tail of the snake Vasuki in each hand in the last scene was set in panchari to top off a rhythmic feast. The team included Venu Mohan and Ravishankar on the chenda, and Haridas, Venu and Sreejith on the maddalam. Lead vocalist Kalamandalam Vinod, who also set the music and ragas, was supported by Viswas. Make-up and greenroom support were provided by Sivadasan, Sukumaran, Ramesh, Arun and Sohan. Only in the second part of the last scene did the piece seem to weaken a little. Many events are enacted here but were run through merely with mudras. At least some could have been described in detail, giving a fine actor such as Pradeep an opportunity to reveal his skills. For example, the episode of Vasuki throwing up venom, Siva swallowing it, and Parvathi ensuring the poison doesn’t go down his throat could have been dwelt upon. The incidents described in the dandakam slokas such as Airawata the elephant and the goddesses Lakshmi and Tara emerging from Palazhi seemed a bit rushed. Though dandakams — slokas set to a certain meter and used to narrate a series of events — are traditionally not elaborated, some innovation in detailing could have been tried out. ‘Palazhi Madhanam’ reveals the potential for new productions and innovations, which Kalamandalam University must surely strive to encourage.  The author, a retired journalist, writes on Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/when-the-villain-steals-the-show/article34331693.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On the face of it||K.V. Janardanan, who was given the name ‘Silpi’ by his fourth grade art teacher, was best known for his make-up work and dance costumes for some of the ancient art forms of Kerala. Silpi has been a reputed make-up person for Kathakali performances since his 20s, and went on to become the only chutti artist of the dance-theatre to engage simultaneously in designing the costumes for Krishnanattam, the temple art form of Kerala. The twin career has taught Silpi a lot of things about the backstage properties of the two art forms. Stint at dance institution The Guruvayur Devaswom recruited him at its Krishnanattam institution when he was 33, and he served the troupe for 23 years, managing its accoutrement, till his retirement in 2012. He was invited to Kathakali greenrooms, after office hours, to do the make-up for veterans as well as newcomers. His formal training was in the 1970s, as a student at Unnayi Warrier Kalanilayam, a reputed Kathakali school in Irinjalakuda, Thrissur district. “If you take all the costume items, called koppu , Krishnanattam has many more than Kathakali. I realised this basic fact soon after joining the Guruvayur institution,” he notes. “Even then, their looks warranted an update. Either dull in colour or meriting a modified shape, I chose to work on them in my own ways.” “It wasn’t easy. In fact, it was tricky,” Silpi concedes. “In the 1990s, when I was heading the mission, Krishnanattam had borrowed majorly from Kathakali, which had a dominating influence on the ancient Sanskrit Koodiyattam theatre as well. So I had to ensure that the koppu I altered didn’t add to the identity crisis of Krishnanattam in looks.” Colour schemes A good sense of colour schemes is essential for a costume artist who is into traditional arts, according to Silpi. “Selecting an apt shade for the border of the cloth that covers the puffed-up material around the waist is important. Also, the ideal width,” he says. “We ought to have the combined wisdom of a creative carpenter and a tailor.” Why a red skirt for the Little Lord in five-centuries-old Krishnanattam, when Puranas describe him as Pitambara, the one in yellow cloth? “Well,” reasons Silpi, referring to Zamorin Manaveda, who penned the Sanskit poem Krishnageeti which lends lyrics to the art, “The king would typically bless the boy dressed as Krishna before the performance and would gift him a crimson veerali silk robe, which the actor would then wear.” Talking about Kathakali, Silpi mentions that there is a flaw in the fundamental practice of learning chutti. “The students work on a mud pot with its base up. But the human visage is never that round or smooth,” he points out. “It’s high time we worked on fibre moulds that resemble human faces.” Silpi says his formal debut happened without the knowledge of his make-up guru Kalanilayam Parameswaran . “In my first year of training, the institution’s troupe once reached Thrissur to perform Kathakali. The chutti man failed to turn up and my teacher was away too. So the elders assigned me the make-up work for the evening’s character, Krishna. I had to obey.” That said, Silpi cautions against the “general servility” among chutti artists. “Remember, face-work is not just painting but sculpting too,” he says. He plans to now write a book on the art. “Sadly, there are no standard procedures in its practice. The loose ends must be tied.”  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/on-the-face-of-it/article34331715.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s unique about the Ramaswamy temple||In ‘Gitarthamu’ (Suratti/Desadi), Tyagaraja hails Hanuman as one of the blessed beings who knows the true import of the Gita and the bliss of music. In his ‘Kaluguna pada niraja seva’ (Purna Lalitha, Adi), he wonders if he will ever be able to witness Hanuman serving the Lord, and one among the duties listed for Hanuman is the recital of puranas when commanded by Rama. Thus, Anjaneya was to Tyagaraja a musician and discourser. As though to buttress this is the frieze of Ramayana idols that the composer worshipped — in that assembly, Hanuman holds a manuscript in his left hand and his right hand is in vyakhyana mudra, indicating that he is reciting something to Rama. The concept of Hanuman as an expert in music is not new. Sanskrit scholar Dr. V. Raghavan in his comprehensive survey on early names in Sangita Literature notes how Anjaneya was considered an acharya in music from ancient times. But it would appear that it was around the time of the Vijayanagar Empire (14th to 16th century), that the idea of Hanuman as a musician gained ground. In his Sundara Muruti Mukhya Prana, Purandara Dasa, who lived during the apogee of the Vijayanagar Empire, sings of Hanuman coming home wearing anklets and dancing even as he hears the chanting of Rama’s name, to the accompaniment of tumburu and Narada playing the veena. While the worship of Rama as an avatara of Vishnu was well-established in Tamil-speaking areas even when the Silappathikkaram was composed and then dwelt upon by the Azhwars, shrines exclusively dedicated to Rama became popular here only from the time of the Vijayanagar rulers. Perhaps the most magnificent of these is the Ramaswamy Temple, located in Kumbakonam. It was, however, constructed well after the Vijayanagar Empire had begun to decline. Following the battle of Talikota in 1565, when a confederation of the five northern states of Berar, Bidar, Bijapur, Ahmednagar and Golconda defeated the Vijayanagar forces and sacked the capital of Hampi, the viceroys of the empire became more or less independent rulers. This was even though they, as a formality, still swore allegiance to the nominal emperor who ruled over a shadow court at Penugonda and later Chandragiri. In the Tamil region, there were three viceroys, the Nayaks of Madurai, Gingee and Thanjavur. Of these, the last became a powerful dynasty that lasted till 1673. And in that lineage was Raghunatha Nayak (r 1600-1634) — warrior, administrator and scholar par excellence. Helping him rule wisely and well was his minister Govinda Dikshita, who in every way complemented his master. Peace after battle The Nayaks frequently came into conflict with one another and not just over territory. They also squabbled over the succession to the Vijayanagar throne, weak though it had become. The bloodiest battle among these was in 1616 at Thoppur near Trichy. Raghunatha took the side of Srirama Raya, a young prince who was just 12 years old. He was crowned ruler of the Vijayanagar Empire at Kumbakonam before Raghunatha rode out to battle on his behalf. Returning victorious, he decided to build a temple to commemorate his success. To mark the crowing of a king called Srirama, the principal deity here is a giant set of granite idols depicting the Rama Pattabhisheka. Rama is seated with Sita to his left, while Lakshmana, Bharata and Shatrughna stand around holding fans and umbrella. Hanuman is on one side, and he holds a veena in one hand and manuscripts in the other. It is believed he is singing the Ramayana. According to scholar Kudavayil Balasubramanian, this was an immortalisation of Raghunatha himself, for the ruler gave himself the title Anavarata Rama Kathamrita Sevana — forever partaking of the nectar of the Ramayana. In the sanctum, Rama is at peace after his fierce battle against Ravana. Outside, Raghunatha stands, handsome, powerfully built, flanked by two queens. He is also at peace after the battle at Thoppur. And then it strikes you, Raghunatha is another name for Rama. The view from the road does not prepare you for the wonders inside. Outwardly, it seems a simple shrine with a modest gopuram. It is below road level, thanks to the insensitive manner in which we keep adding layers of tar. Then comes the first pavilion — a magnificent structure of 64 stone pillars, every inch covered with sculptured panels, all marked by detailing and the exquisite manner in which they have been executed. Episodes from the incarnations of Vishnu and, in particular the Ramayana, abound. After such beauty, you see a hideous set of Ramayana panels stretching along the circumambulatory corridor, all modern paintings overlaying an earlier set of Nayak masterpieces. It makes you wonder exactly when we lost our sense of aesthetics. The Chennai-based author, a historian, writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/whats-unique-about-the-ramaswamy-temple/article34331720.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Princess, poet, person||M eera Vs. Meera is an English translation of Madhav Hada’s highly acclaimed Pachrang Chola Pahar Sakhi Ri , done by Pradeep Trikha. Published five years ago, the original Hindi book is a profound deliberation on Meera’s life as it has been perceived in mainstream scholarship since the 16th century. Hada convincingly rectifies the scholarship on Meera’s life, establishing her as an empowered princess and a poised human being, and not just a saint crazed with devotion. Moreover, he argues that Meera cannot be seen as either a rebel in a patriarchal system or a ‘vulnerable and socially ostracised woman’. With the eye of a mature scholar, Hada reflects on the entire range of traditional hagiographic material including Priyadas’s Bhaktirasbodhini and Bhavishyapurana , as well as the early European conjectures about Meera’s life by Colonel James Tod in his 19th-century orientalist work, Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan , along with the folklore or kimvadantis about Meera’s mystical character. Much has been added to the latter and much has been lost over the past 500 years, yet scholarship has not been hesitant in using this material freely alongside other historical sources. Hada emphasises the fact that Rajasthan — like any other society — was a socio-politically vibrant and dynamic space, in Meera’s time and later too. This fact is often ignored by ideologues and image-makers who perceive Meera through their own coloured lens. For instance, Marxist scholars celebrate Meera’s egalitarian spirit. Feminists see a rebel in her. Others see her as a victim of patriarchy. Religious pundits appropriated her mysticism and devotion to propagate the idea of god either as an immanent or transcendent entity, or both. As Hada aptly says, “Meera’s poetry, being flexible and diverse, and not being confined to historical bounds, allowed the critics to obtain what they were looking for.” When they looked for piety and righteousness to bill her as belonging to the saguna tradition, they found plenty of references in her poetry; those who looked for nirguna attributes weren’t disappointed either. But Meera’s life can’t be reduced to serve the doctrinal objectives of any single ideology, religion or school of thought. The book brings to life Meera’s persona as a historical woman who was born with privileges and powers and who was evolved enough to make her choices in the given circumstances. The writer uses historical records and above all the cultural memory of generations that lived close to her. Besides, imprints from her journeys along with memories collected in folklore from the places that she inhabited and visited also serve to fill the gaps in the story of her life. Meera was born into the royal family of Merta as the granddaughter of Rao Duda, the kingdom’s founder. She was married into the royal house of Mewar where her father-in-law, Rana Sanga, was king. These families were involved in complex power struggles, on the level of personal feuds as well as the larger political upheavals brought by the Mughal invasions. She was widowed within five or seven years of her marriage, but refused to perform sati , even though she had before her the example of three out of four wives of her brother-in-law, Ratan Singh, who had performed sati when he died. Due to this, she incurred life-long resentment and acrimony from her mother-in-law and another brother-in-law, Vikramaditya, who took the throne after Rana Sanga’s death. The author maintains that Meera was a financially independent woman. She was given ample fertile agricultural land as stree-dhan , bride-money, a custom that’s entirely different from conventional notions of dowry. She had her own managers for the land, and it is recorded that she used her wealth to maintain her executives and to help devotees, saints, and sadhus.  Meera vs. Meera gives us a glimpse at the fabric in which Meera’s life was woven. Based in Sirohi, Rajasthan, Hada dedicated many years of his life to uncovering the true Meera. As an insider, he had access to resources that perhaps no researcher has had before him. The English translation by Trikha is valuable, as it makes the text accessible to a wider readership. The text in translation reads smoothly and does not hinder the reader’s perceptions. The paperback edition from Vani comes with an attractive cover that has two images of Meera — as a saint and as a princess — facing each other. In all, the book is a rare piece of scholarship and delightful storytelling combined in one.  The writer is a fellow at IIAS, Shimla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/princess-poet-person/article34331680.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bouquet of appreciation||These two erstwhile disciples of Musiri Subramania Iyer shared more than just a name. As senior musicians, Suguna Purushothaman and Suguna Varadachari shared a strong bond over the years and often performed together, until the former passed away five years ago. Recently, a group of Suguna Varadachari’s students rendered a number of Suguna Purushothaman’s compositions on the occasion of the latter’s 80th birth anniversary, at a concert hosted by Sunaadalahari, the Indira Ranganathan Trust’s musical wing. Suguna Purushothaman was an accomplished vocalist, teacher and prolific composer whose kritis drew Professor P. Sambamurthy’s appreciation. Her compositions run the gamut of varnams, kritis, ragamalikas, javalis, tukkadas and thillanas, including one in 128 akshara talam. Thinniyam Venkatarama Iyer, who taught her the nuances of pallavi singing, had encouraged her to compose more and more. Her layam training helped her to master the dwi tala avadhaana , maintaining two talams of different gathis simultaneously on each hand while singing. Ragamalika varnam In this tribute concert, Varadachari’s disciples presented ten compositions, starting with the ‘Priya’ ragamalika varnam, ‘Sankaraharapriya’, in ragas Kharaharapriya, Kokilapriya, Ramapriya, Shanmukhapriya, Pasupatipriya, Rishabhapriya, Gayakapriya and Rasikapriya. It was followed by ‘Ganapathiye saranam’ (Yadukula Kamboji). Bharati Kamakoti presented a splendid Varali alapana, with an equally enthralling response by Haritha Narayanan on the violin, who is a disciple of R. Hemalatha and Delhi Sunder Rajan. The next item was ‘Varaalippoadhe’ (Misra Chapu) with niraval and swaras at the pallavi. ‘Sri Ranganatham’, a gentle piece in Ritigowla (Adi talam), was exquisitely rendered. This was followed by ‘Tirumagale kadaikkan paarththarulvaay’ in a lilting Valaji set to Tisra Jampa talam. The composer had once said that she was inspired by a Tiruppugazh that Thinniyam Venkatarama Iyer had taught her in this talam. The artistes rendered kalpanaswaras in this difficult talam with ease. Remarkable thani After Rohini Srinath’s elaborate Simhendramadhyamam and a soulful violin response, the team rendered ‘Narasimhane’ in Misra Chapu. Niraval and swaras were at ‘Parama kripa sagaram neeyanro.’ In this all-women concert, the thani by Aswini Srinivasan (mridangam), disciple of the veteran mridangist T.K. Murthy, was remarkable. Another ragamalika was ‘Govinda Hare Govinda’ in ragas such as Kapi, Varamu, Behag, Sindhu Bhairavi, Desh, Sivaranjani and Hamsanandi. They wound up the engaging 90-minute concert with a javali, ‘Naanenna seyvenadi’ (Paras), a thillana in Khamas and a mangalam in Surutti set to Khanda Chapu talam. Suguna Varadachari must be lauded for teaching these exquisite compositions to her students as a tribute to her long-time associate. The music team also included P. Pavithra, Maithini Sridharan, R. Sandhya, Svarathmika Sureshkumar, Aparajitha Aruna Giridar, M. Vasupradha and R.S. Shankari. The concert was also streamed live on Facebook. The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/bouquet-of-appreciation/article34331701.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramanavami fest in hybrid format||What is December to Chennai, April is to Bengaluru. Musicians and music lovers anxiously await Ramanavami that marks the launch of music festivals across the city. The performances are hosted by big and small mandalis, some of which have been in existence for over several decades. More than 300 concerts are held over a month’s time, bringing artistes from around the country and abroad. Like in 2020, this year too, many mandalis have cancelled their festivals, but the Chamarajpet Sree Rama Seva Mandali that was established in 1939, is conducting a hybrid festival. Being held at its usual venue, Old Fort High School Grounds, Chamarajapet, the festival was inaugurated on April 13 (and will go on till May 13) and the Global Music Award was posthumously conferred on mandolin exponent U. Shrinivas. The award was received by U. Rajesh. Founded by S.V. Narayanaswamy Rao, this is one of the longest music festivals in the country, where the legendary M.S. Subbulakshmi has performed 32 times. Several other maestros such as Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, T.R. Mahalingam, T. Chowdiah, R.K. Srikantan, GNB and Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagvatar have graced this festival. Though the festival sees a huge turnout every year, this time only 500 people are being allowed. The concerts are also being live-streamed on shaale.com. Apart from concerts, the Mandali has also organised Ramayana discourses in the mornings. Priya Sisters, Saketraman, Vishaka Hari, Pattabhiram Pandit, M.S. Sheela, Ranjini-Gayatri, Sikkil Gurucharan, Jayateerth Mevundi, Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, Pravin and Shadaj Godkhindi, Ramakrishnan Murthy, Malladi Brothers, Sandeep Narayan, and Kaushiki Chakraborty are performing at the festival. Tickets are available at www.ramanavamitickets.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ramanavami-fest-in-hybrid-format/article34331712.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The ustad behind S enia gharana||Two recent music festivals have drawn our attention; the first, named after Ustad Allaudin Khan, was held in Maihar, Madhya Pradesh; the second festival, held in Kolkata, celebrated the music of the Ustad’s daughter, Annapurna Devi. Held in great reverence by the Hindustani music world, this family’s exceptional musical skills can be traced back to Guru Ustad Mohammed Wazir Khan, who is hardly remembered today. He passed away in 1926. Born in 1860, Wazir Khan was a descendent of Tansen’s daughter Saraswati. Her lineage boasted well-known exponents, as they were ‘beenkars’ (who played the rudra veena) whereas the family of Tansen’s son were ‘rababiyas’ (who played the rabab, which was later modified as sarod). Wazir Khan too played the rudra veena and his expertise was hailed by his contemporaries. The style was dhrupad. Being accepted as his disciple was next to impossible; his position in the court of Rampur was second only to the ruler’s. Getting an audience with him took days; even senior musicians like Ustad Rajab Ali Khan of the Indore court were made to wait. Even when one got to meet him, the visitor had to sit on the floor and was not allowed to occupy the seat next to Wazir Khan. He lived a life of opulence. His chair was made of silver and he smoked a silver hookah. Even the meals served were elaborate, forcing the nawab to once joke about how several houses could have been built with the money spent on his food. Interestingly, Wazir Khan was not the senior-most disciple of the lineage; it was his cousin, Mir Nasir Ahmed in the court of Bahadur Shah Zafar, the great-great grandson of the legendary Sadarang, who was the main disciple. Among the Senia ustads, only one disciple in the family was regarded as the main gandaband (the sacred thread denoting the musical link) patt shishya or inheritor of the tradition. One of Ustad Wazir Khan’s most celebrated disciples was Ustad Hafiz Ali Khan, who, because of his training under the Tanseniya rababiyas, was immediately accepted by Ustad Wazir Khan as a shagird . The story of how Allaudin Khan was taught by this reclusive master is fascinating. Khan reached Rampur as a disciple of sarodiya Ahmed Ali, who stopped teaching him while in Rampur. In his early 20s, Allaudin was not equipped to be a professional musician. He wanted to learn from Wazir Khan, and with great difficulty persuaded the nawab to tell the musician to teach him. In an interview to Prof B. R. Deodhar, Allaudin Khan said, “Nawab sahib sent his car, Ustad Wazir Khan was given Rs. 1000, clothes and other gifts, and the ‘ganda’ was tied. But before this, the Ustad made me take a vow that ‘I shall not visit the houses of dancing girls or take food at their houses or teach them music’.” But his travails continued even after being accepted as a disciple. Allaudin Khan said, “Each morning, I would go to his house at 7 a.m., wait till noon, clean his spitoon and shoes, but no music lessons would happen. This continued for two and a half years.” The nawab had made arrangements for his stay, but not for food, so he had to live on what he could get to eat. Despite not being taught at all, the initial years were not really wasted, as he managed to pick up music from the Ustad’s housekeeper, Abdul Rahim. Though he belonged to the barber by caste, Abdul Rahim’s family had worked for generations with the Senia Ustad’s family, and had thus informally picked up music. This was an accepted practice that if the musician died early, the retainers would teach the younger generation the family music. Finally one day, Wazir Khan asked Allaudin Khan why, if he was married, he didn’t live with his wife; to which Allaudin said that until he was trained as a professional musician he couldn’t afford to marry. This touched the Ustad, and he then started lessons. Finally, at the age of 34, Ustad Wazir Khan allowed Alluddin to perform concerts, and during one concert in Kolkata, the Maharaja of Maihar invited Allaudin Khan to his state as court musician. Ustad Allaudin Khan lived in Maihar till his death. His style of music, that he taught to several disciples, is referred to even today as the Senia Maihar beenkar gharana, not forgetting it emerged from the rudra veena. Today, of course, the family is known for being sarodiyas, and the festival held in Kolkata recently was a sarod festival, featuring practitioners belonging to the various sarod gharanas.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music.      Getting an audience with Wazir Khan took days; even senior musicians like Ustad Rajab Ali Khan of the Indore court were made to wait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-ustad-behind-s-enia-gharana/article34331675.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Thematic concert||Senior vocalists Vijay Siva and Gayathri Venkataraghavan will present a thematic virtual concert, ‘Tamizhisai Thoranam - Silapadikaram to Sivan - A chronology of Tamil compositions.’ It will be streamed on April 18. Accompanying them will be R.K. Shriram Kumar (violin) and N. Manoj Siva (mridangam). Hosted by Classical Arts Society of Houston and co-sponsored by Houston Bharathi Kalai Manram, the event will be available on the Society’s Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thematic-concert/article34331704.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Recognised for nurturing arts||The U.S.-based Swathi Lakshmanan has been recognised by the Asia Book of Records and India Book of Records for conducting a virtual music and dance festival ,‘Margazhi in San Francisco’ for the maximum number of consecutive days during the pandemic. With a focus on Indian classical art forms, the festival, held from December 2020 to January 2021, featured more than 56 artistes from across the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/recognised-for-nurturing-arts/article34331706.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Trinity music festival||Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Karnataka Sangeetha Mummurthigal Seva Samithi, Sadasivam Nagar, Madipakkam, has organised a series of concerts as part of Sri Mummurthigal Jayanthi celebrations, to be held till April 20. The following is the list of concerts to take place, starting today. Today: Mambalam Sisters 6 p.m.; April 17: Dr. R. Ganesh 6 p.m.; April 18: Maharajapuram S. Srinivasan (10 a.m.) and Shruthi S. Bhat (6 p.m.); and April 19: Tiruvarur Girish 6 p.m. The morning session on the last day (April 20) will begin at 10 a.m. with the rendition of Pancharatna kritis followed by B. Umashankar’s vocal concert (11.30 a.m.). The six-day festival, which was inaugurated yesterday, will end with R. Suryaprakash’s concert at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/trinity-music-festival/article34331707.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Tamil New Year almanac released||The golden jubilee edition of Sri Desika Darsana Diary, Guide and Almanac for the Tamil New Year of Plava is now available. The almanac, which has colourful pictures of deities, provides information and guidelines on religious events and rituals. Swami Desikan’s Sristuti with commentary in Tamil by Sri Seva Swamy was also released on the occasion. For copies of the diary, contact 044-2618 0481 or 98410 46264.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tamil-new-year-almanac-released/article34331709.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hospitals can be ‘super spreaders’ of virus||In what can be called a glimpse of the situation at city hospitals, a family has been waiting at a government hospital to get COVID-19 tests done since two days, while at another, people are worried if the hospital itself will become a “super spreader” as non-infected and potentially infected stand together. Dinesh Gupta, a 42-year-old autorickshaw driver, residing in Mohan Garden, sat with his wife and a 14-year-old daughter on a table outside the COVID-19 facility at Deen Dayal Upadhayay (DDU) Hospital. He said he had not been able to get the test done and waited for eight hours both on Wednesday and Thursday. “I have been having high fever, cold, cough and difficulty in breathing for the last five days. Both my children and wife have the same symptoms. I came to the hospital around 7 a.m. on both Wednesday and Thursday, but they told me to come the next day every time,” he said. Mr. Gupta said that on Wednesday, over 200 people queued up for test the at the facility at DDU and he was told that only 150 tests were to be conducted. “Out of those 150, they only conducted 40-50 tests of common people and others involved their staffers and their families,” he alleged. He also said that they could not get the test done on Thursday as well despite reaching at 7 a.m. “Once again, our turn did not come. We are waiting in the hope that they will listen to us. There is no value of a normal person’s life,” he said. Kuldeep Kaur (35), a resident of Tilak Nagar, faced the same problem and alleged that two dispensaries near her house refused to conduct the test. “My situation is getting worse by the day. Here also, they are asking us to go from one counter to the other but nothing is happening,” she said at DDU Hospital. Another person waiting to get the test done, who identified himself as Deepak Gogia (30), a resident of Tagore Garden, said: “They keep showing on TV that tests are being conducted at all times, but this is the situation. I don’t know where to complain regarding this,” he said. A security guard at DDU Hospital, who did not wish to be identified, said that 150 RT-PCR tests are being conducted everyday from 9.30 a.m. to 12 p.m. A Delhi government spokesperson said that in Delhi government hospitals, COVID-19 tests are scheduled for 9 a.m.-3 p.m slot. Another COVID-19 testing facility at Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital saw a pool of people standing close to each other. People who are infected and those who are not were standing side by side. Explaining the process, a person said that first, they have to get a slip mentioning their details, for the test. Next, they have to visit the premises where rapid tests are conducted, and submit the slips to an official in a room. “They then enter our details and give us the slips back. When the official comes out with the slips to be given to people, they gather around him as they are not sure if their turn has come,” said Hari Krishan (45), an LIC employee, who had come with his daughter. People then queue up and wait for their rapid test. “In this queue, people who are positive and those who are not stand together. Then people wait in the same area and when their results arrive, official from the same room, who had given them slips earlier, hands over the results the same way and people jump at them again,” he said. Laxmi Makhwani, a 21-year-old housewife who had come for test, said that those who tests positive sit on the same premises to consult a doctor, who sits next to the room where entries are made. “I am afraid hospitals can become ‘super spreader’ of the virus,” she said. ‘No social distancing’ A security guard, who did not wish to be identified, said that people don’t listen despite several warnings and alerts on social distancing. People across the Capital are facing problems in booking tests in private labs, which say they, are overloaded with samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hospitals-can-be-super-spreaders-of-virus/article34331815.ece
16 April 2021||RAJSAMAND,||Development through mining a major poll issue in Rajsamand||A robust development of infrastructure, matching with the nearby temple town of Nathdwara, through the mining sector and an effective utilisation of the District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT) connect the local populace with employment generation in Rajsamand. These are also the key factors during the campaign for the upcoming Assembly by-election here. The southern Rajasthan district has about 1,500 quarries of marble, granite and minerals and their owners contribute Rs. 150 crore annually to the DMFT for the benefit of areas affected by mining-related operations. People’s resentment over under-utilisation of DMFT funds and diversion to other towns has prompted the ruling Congress to field mining industrialist Tansukh Bohra as its candidate. On the other hand, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Deepti Maheshwari expects to carry forward the legacy of her mother, the late Kiran Maheshwari, who was elected from the constituency thrice between 2008 and 2018 and was a Minister in the Vasundhara Raje government. The BJP also hopes to get “sympathy votes” with the Maheshwari family member being in the fray.  ‘People will select BJP’ BJP MP from Rajsamand Diya Kumari, camping in the town to address Ms. Maheshwari's election rallies, told The Hindu that the Union government had been “responsive” to the demands raised in the constituency and had been doing its bit in different sectors. “The people here will once again repose faith in BJP. They are fed up with the Congress government, which has no clear policies or intentions,” she said. The Congress has made an attempt to influence the local mine owners and workers with the credentials of Mr. Bohra. The mining baron, who enjoys a clean image, has been involved in philanthropic activities. Nitish Surana, managing Mr. Bohra’s election office, said the Congress candidate had made large contributions to the government hospitals and built several school buildings, besides developing the amenities at cremation grounds. “There is no anti-incumbency wave in Rajsamand, even though the BJP has been traditionally winning this seat. Much will depend on how the Congress projects itself and influences the voters,” Ajay Singh, a youth from the nearby Kelwa village, said. Interestingly, the Congress has asked Mines & Petroleum Minister Pramod Jain to camp in the region till the polling day on April 17. The Congress has also assured the voters that it would formulate a plan to develop the Chittorgarh-Rajsamand-Kumbhalgarh triangle as a new tourism circuit and widen the Khara feeder to bring more water to the historic Rajsamand lake, built by erstwhile Mewar ruler Rana Raj Singh in 1660.  Controversial remarks Some controversial remarks made by senior BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly, about legendary warrior king Maharana Pratap during the poll campaign earlier this week led to an embarrassment for the party. As the Rajput outfits expressed an outrage, Mr. Kataria tendered an apology twice to the electorate. Among the total of 10 candidates contesting in the constituency, the BJP faces a challenge from its rebel leader Suresh Joshi, who has entered the fray as an Independent in the name of protecting the honour of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/development-through-mining-a-major-poll-issue-in-rajsamand/article34331260.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Court dismisses bail plea of riots-accused Shahrukh Pathan||The Delhi High Court on Thursday dismissed bail plea of a man, who allegedly pointed a pistol at a policeman during the north-east Delhi riots, saying that the role attributed to him was not confined to participation in the mob of rioters but of heading the large crowd, holding a pistol in hand and releasing open fire shots. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait gave the decision after he was shown a video clip as well as a few photographs showing Shahrukh Pathan heading the group of mobs, holding his pistol in hand and walking towards the policeman and also firing the pistol shots. “The video clipping and pictures played before this court have shaken the conscience of this court how petitioner [Pathan] could take law and order in his hands,” the judge said. “Whether or not petitioner had intention to kill the complainant [policeman] or any person present in the public with his open air pistol shots, it is hard to believe that he had no knowledge that his act may harm anyone present at the spot,” Justice Kait added. Pathan was arrested on March 3 last year based on the statement of a Delhi police head constable, who was deputed to maintain law and order with other members of his team in the area between Jaffrabad Metro Station and Maujpur Chowk, where a clash between two groups took place on February 24 last year. ‘Fired shots’ In his statement, the policeman stated that one person, leading the agitated crowd and brandishing pistol in his hand, came running towards him and fired 3-4 rounds of shots towards other people. “The said person did not heed to his warnings, and continued to walk to approach him and while he was at a distance of 9 to 10 feet, he aimed the pistol at his head and shot the pistol fire,” the head constable said. The head constable further stated that he dodged his head and saved his life and tried to calm down Pathan, but he pushed him with his left hand and he again fired at the public. The incident was captured by a journalist in his mobile phone and the person brandishing and firing from pistol was identified as Shahrukh. Shahrukh, in his bail plea, stated that he had only shot in the side and not towards the head constable and so he had no intention to kill him. The Special Public Prosecutor opposed the bail plea on the ground that the FIR in question has been registered at the instance of a responsible police officerand there are specific allegations of Pathan heading a pistol towards the head constable with an intention to kill him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-riots-accused-shahrukh-pathan/article34331812.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Women among eight arrested for assaulting head constable in Khyala||Eight people, including two women, have been arrested for allegedly assaulting a head constable in West Delhi Khyala, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Rekha Devi, Binita, Mohan Jha, Vikash Jha, Pappu Jha, Manish Jha, Aakash Kumar Jha and Dhanander Pratap Singh. On Wednesday, a woman approached the Khyala police station alleging that she was being harassed and assaulted by her neighbours, the police said. Following the complaint, head constable Ramchander along with sub-inspector Chhote Lal reached the spot. The woman told the policeman that a couple — Rekha and Mohan Jha — had assaulted her, a senior police officer said. Couple threatened them The police said a quarrel had erupted the previous night between the woman and the couple over the issue of filling a gas cylinder. The couple got annoyed after seeing the woman with two policemen. They gathered more people and threatened her as well as the head constable, the police said. “The group, including the couple, threatened the head constable and the woman. Suddenly, the mob started assaulting the head constable while he was performing his duty,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said. Video goes viral The video of the incident was also circulated on social media. In the video, a group of people, including two women, can be seen assaulting a policeman, the police said. On the complaint of Ramchander, a case has been registered at Khyala police station, the DCP said.  The group, including the couple, threatened the head constable and the woman. Suddenly, the mob started assaulting the head constable   Urvija Goel Deputy Commissioner of Police (West)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/women-among-eight-arrested-for-assaulting-head-constable-in-khyala/article34331822.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gym owner, accomplice booked for beating up on-duty policemen||The police have registered a case against a gym owner and his accomplices and have also suspended two policemen a day after a video surfaced online purportedly showing one of the on-duty policeman being assaulted by them, the police said said on Thursday. Two policemen in the video, identified as Sushil and Ravinder, have been suspended for allegedly not informing senior officers about the alleged incident. The policeman was assaulted on April 1 in Uttam Nagar. The video purportedly shows the policeman, identified as Sushil, being abused and assaulted by a man along with his accomplice, the police said. Another policeman Ravinder, can also be seen trying to stop the gym owner in the video, they said. Personal security officer Sushil, presently posted at the Baba Haridas Nagar police station, was earlier posted as the personnel security officer (PSO) to a person named Sanjay Gupta, a property dealer by profession. The police said that Ravinder was the current PSO of Mr. Gupta. On April 1, Sushil and Mr. Gupta’s relative named Ashwani got into an argument following which the policeman was allegedly abused and beaten up by Mr. Gupta’s younger brother Rinku and his accomplice Kaku. “When the PCR team reached the spot, the policemen denied about any incident of assault and had said that the matter was settled. In a way, they tried to mislead the police,” a police officer said. Extortion cases The police said two cases of extortion were registered by Mr. Gupta in 2016 and 2018 respectively after which he was provided PSOs. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said, “The Delhi police takes such matters very seriously. A case was registered in the matter against Rinku Gupta, Ashwani and Kaku. The investigation is in progress and teams have been sent to arrest the absconding accused.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gym-owner-accomplice-booked-for-beating-up-on-duty-policeman/article34331823.ece
16 April 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot refutes Harsh Vardhan on sufficient availability of vaccine||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday refuted Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s claim that there was no shortage of the COVID-19 vaccine in the country, and that the Centre was providing vaccine supply to every State. Mr. Gehlot said Dr. Vardhan had made a “false statement” and that the Health Minister’s accusation on mismanagement by States was “totally wrong”. “I did not expect Dr. Harsh Vardhan to make a false statement like this... the Union government should have issued an advisory stating that it will take some time for the vaccine to be available in adequate numbers,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. He said this would help avoid confusion and maintain people’s faith in the vaccine. Mr. Gehlot said the Centre had failed to provide a regular supply of vaccines to Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Assam, which had led to the closure of vaccination centres at many places. “There was nothing wrong if the Centre had accepted that the vaccine availability was low and the State governments should make the vaccination programme accordingly,” he said. Dr. Vardhan had said that it was the job of the States to provide doses at the vaccination centres in a time-bound manner with “meticulous planning”. Mr. Gehlot said the Rajasthan government had worked hard to increase the speed of vaccination to 5.81 lakh doses per day and achieved the first rank in COVID-19 vaccination in the country.  ‘Minimum wastage’ Referring to vaccine management in the State, the Chief Minister said vaccine wastage had been kept to a minimum and citizens were constantly encouraged to come forward and get inoculated in large numbers. While the Centre had allowed 10% vaccine wastage, the loss in Rajasthan was only 7%, he added. Rajasthan is faced with a severe shortage of vaccines, resulting in a sharp decline in the number of daily inoculations. While the State has the capacity to vaccinate over 5 lakh people daily, it is falling behind its target in the absence of adequate supply of vaccines from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gehlot-refutes-harsh-vardhan-on-sufficient-availability-of-vaccine/article34331268.ece
16 April 2021||Guwahati,||Online census of Assamese Muslims launched||The Janagosthiya Samannay Parishad, Assam (JSPA) on Thursday launched a portal for conducting the first-ever census of Assamese Muslims for distinguishing them from their migrant, Bengal-origin or Bengali-speaking counterparts. The JSPA represents three categories of Assamese Muslims — Goriya who converted from various indigenous groups and tribes, Moriya whose ancestors were brought by the Ahom kings to make weapons and utensils and Deshi who converted specifically from the Koch-Rajbongshi community. The three-month exercise, seen as a small-scale version of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), has a cut-off period corresponding with the British annexation of Assam in the early 1800s. The JSPA considers the pre-British rule Muslims of Assam as indigenous, which is why the Jolahas — converts from among tea plantation workers who were brought from central India by British planters — have been kept out of the census. “We launched the portal jspacensus.com portal today [April 15] to coincide with the Assamese New Year and hope to complete the exercise by the end of 2021,” JSPA’s chief convenor Syed Mominul Aowal said. The portal has a list of documents that applicants have to upload for registration. They include voter card, Aadhaar card and PAN of each family member (non-mandatory for minors), a certified copy from village head, municipal board, town panel or any other competent authority as well as a certified copy from JSPA-empanelled organisations listing all members of an applicant’s family.  List of organisations The portal also lists 17 organisations recognised or empanelled with the JSPA and their phone numbers to be contacted for any issues with registering online. These organisations include Desi Janagostiyo Manch, Axomiya Muslim Kalyan Parishad and Khilonjiya Axomiya Musolman Unnayan Parishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-census-of-assamese-muslims-launched/article34331262.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT task force to combat air pollution, monitor remedial steps||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted an eight-member National Task Force to combat air pollution and monitor remedial steps to improve air quality. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed that a holistic and coordinated effort at all levels in the government was required. Accountability in terms of adverse entries in the annual confidential reports and recovery of compensation for non-compliance were imperative for fixing accountability, the Bench said. “This requires authorities at higher levels to function as trustees for discharge of constitutional and statutory obligation to the citizens. There is no other magic wand to protect people against acknowledged sorry state of affairs. India has the world’s highest death rate from chronic respiratory diseases,” the Tribunal said. The NTF will comprise senior officials from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs, Petroleum, Transport, Power, Agriculture, Health and the Central Pollution Control Board. Monitoring process “The NTF may also monitor enforcement of laid down air quality standards beyond non-attainment cities in other identified air polluted areas where air quality is poor and above. The Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories may continue to monitor progress in execution of action plans at the State-level with the assistance of monitoring cells in their offices and the Air Quality Monitoring Committee,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/national-task-force-to-combat-air-pollution-monitor-remedial-steps/article34331825.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||BJP leader’s brother has attacked policeman: AAP||The AAP on Thursday alleged that BJP leader Sanjay Gupta’s brother has attacked a Delhi Police officer at his office and demanded that the police take action against them without coming under “pressure” of the BJP. “Beating up police officers in this way, that too by calling them in an office... this kind of violent culture has not been seen in Delhi till date. Such hooliganism has not happened in Delhi and is a matter of serious concern. Delhi is the national capital, despite which, it is witnessing this kind of hooliganism, where policemen are no longer safe because of BJP leaders,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said in a statement. The AAP leader said that a video of the incident has gone viral. Mr. Pathak said that he hopes that police will not “succumb to the pressure” from the BJP and will take stringent action against the BJP leader and his brother. “The police are responsible for protection of the public and if they are not safe, then how will they safeguard the people of Delhi?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-leaders-brother-has-attacked-policeman-aap/article34331818.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||DPCC flags off campaign on e-waste||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee, in coordination with a private company, flagged off ‘Clean to Green on Wheels’ campaign on Thursday to spread awareness about e-waste. The campaign aims to reach out to four million people across India in the next one year. Under it, nine mini commercial vehicles are scheduled to cover about 110 cities and 300 towns across the country and travel more than 1 lakh km, said a statement. K.S. Jayachandran, Member Secretary, DPCC, said: “The ‘Clean to Green on Wheels’ is an opportunity to reach out to millions of Indians, turning each one of them into ambassadors for spreading awareness of the correct ways to reduce, reuse, recycle, and dispose e-waste, for a greener and healthier environment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dpcc-flags-off-campaign-on-e-waste/article34331819.ece
16 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT rejects plea against unauthorised construction||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed a plea seeking directions to stop unauthorised construction in Ghittorni while stating that it was under the purview of revenue authorities. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that issues pertaining to the removal of encroachment from the Gram Sabha land was under revenue authorities and an order had already been passed by the Tehsildar in the matter. “In these circumstances, we do not find any substantial question of environment to be dealt with by this Tribunal. The application is accordingly disposed of without prejudice to the remedies of the applicant at an appropriate forum,” the Bench said. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Kamran Siddique and others seeking directions to stop unauthorised construction in Ghittorni village. According to the petition, despite orders passed by the Tehsildar, Vasant Vihar, encroachment was continuing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-rejects-plea-against-unauthorised-construction/article34331826.ece
16 April 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Class V, VIII and X students will be promoted in Punjab’||Amid the continuing COVID-19 surge, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that all Class V, VIII and X students would be promoted to the next class without taking any examination. A decision on Class XII Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) examinations, which have already been postponed, would be taken later, based on the emerging situation. The Chief Minister took these decisions during a virtual review meeting on the pandemic with top officials and medical experts here. For Class V students, since examinations for four out of five subjects have already been conducted, results may be declared by the PSEB on the basis of the marks obtained in respect of four subjects, ignoring the fifth. Results for Class VIII and X may be declared on the basis of pre-board examinations or the internal assessment of the respective schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/class-v-viii-and-x-students-will-be-promoted-in-punjab/article34331264.ece
16 April 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. to open quarantine centres again||Uttar Pradesh is gearing up once again to set up quarantine centres for migrant workers returning home as the number of COVID-19 cases mount in the State. The State on Thursday recorded 22,439 positive cases and 104 deaths, with the capital Lucknow recording 5,183 new cases and 26 deaths over the past 24 hours. Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said migrant workers, especially those coming from States with high number of cases, would be quarantined at the gram panchayat level or in schools where they could also be tested. If found positive, they could be sent to home isolation for 14 days. They could be sent to seven days of home quarantine if they were negative or without symptoms, said Mr. Prasad. Virtual meet After virtually chairing a high-level meeting, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials to ensure that quarantine centres are set up in all districts. The centres should not only have screening and testing facilities but also boarding and food, said the Chief Minister, who sought a report on the functioning of these centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-to-open-quarantine-centres-again/article34331263.ece
16 April 2021||New Delhi,||Panel will oversee schools of excellence||The first general body meeting of the Delhi Schools of Specialised Excellence Society was conducted on Thursday which seeks to establish over 100 ‘Schools of Specialised Excellence’ across Delhi. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia presided over the meeting which approved the constitution of a seven-member executive committee that will be responsible for the day-to-day functioning of the society. The members also discussed different provisions regarding engagement of human resources such as teachers and administrators in these schools. Mr. Sisodia said, “The society will have a unique responsibility of creating world-class schools that will ready students for an era of specialisation by discovering and nurturing innate talents in them. These schools will be a first-of-its-kind in the country, and we will ensure that our students receive the highest quality of specialised education.”  The Delhi Cabinet approved the setting up of Schools of Specialised Excellence on March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/panel-will-oversee-schools-of-excellence/article34331816.ece
16 April 2021||April 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Rushing to safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rushing-to-safety/article34331821.ece
16 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Village sarpanch accused of rape||A woman has accused a village sarpanch of a rape bid on her inside a crèche in a university campus in Palwal. The police have registered a case on charges of attempt to rape, criminal intimidation and attempt to kidnap. The Haryana State Commission for Women has directed the Palwal Police to investigate the matter thoroughly and submit an Action Taken Report in five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/village-sarpanch-accused-of-rape/article34331261.ece
