18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM calls for more temporary hospitals, isolation centres||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a late night meeting on Saturday with senior Central and State government officials to review the status of preparedness to handle the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting was held amid a record surge in cases across the country and with several States complaining of shortage of staff, medicines and essential equipments to deal with the pandemic. “Various aspects relating to medicines, oxygen, ventilators and vaccination were discussed and PM stressed that there is no substitute to testing, tracking and treatment while directing that all necessary measures must be taken to ramp up the availability of hospital beds for COVID patients. The Prime Minister also directed that additional supply of beds through temporary hospitals and isolation centres should be ensured,” said a release issued the government. At the meeting PM reviewed the status of supply of Remdesivir and other medicines and noted that the use of these medicines should be in accordance with approved medical guidelines, and that their misuse and black marketing must be strictly curbed. More oxygen plants The Prime Minister “has directed that the installation of approved medical oxygen plants should be accelerated,” said the release, adding that 162 PSA Oxygen plants are being installed in 32 States/UTs from PM CARES and one lakh cylinders are being procured and will be supplied to States soon. Mr Modi asked all officials to make efforts to utilize the entire national capacity, in public as well as private sector, to ramp up vaccine production. Earlier in the day Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India is currently reporting the sharpest growth rate of 7.6% in new COVID cases, which is 1.3 times higher than case growth rate of 5.5% reported in June 2020. The Minister added that this is leading to an alarming rise in active cases and also a sharp growth of 10.2% in the number of COVID deaths. Dr. Vardhan, chaired a high-level review meeting with Health Ministers of 11 States/UTs — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh — that are reporting an unprecedented surge in new COVID cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-calls-for-more-temporary-hospitals-isolation-centres/article34347727.ece
18 April 2021||Kolkata,||Sporadic violence marks fifth phase of Bengal poll||High voter turnout and sporadic incidents of violence marked the fifth phase of election in West Bengal on Saturday. Polling was held in 45 Assembly seats across six districts — three in north Bengal and three in south Bengal. A turnout of 78.46% was recorded, according to the Voter Turnout app of the Election Commission of India.   Highest voting of 86.44% was observed in Haringhata, followed by 85.65% in Maynaguri and 84.22% in Jamalpur. While the local residents alleged that the Central Armed Police Forces opened fire at Deganga Assembly segment in North 24 Parganas, the report by the Barasat Superintendent of Police denied the allegation. 123 arrested “The elections were peaceful; today a few incidents were reported,” Chief Electoral Officer Aariz Aftab said. The CEO said 23 persons were arrested in specific incidents during the day and 100 were arrested as part of preventive measures. At Ranaghat in Nadia, an Independent candidate, Kaushik Bhowmick, was arrested after a firearm was recovered from his possession. Violence was reported at the Santipur police station area in Nadia after miscreants lobbed crude bombs at a person, who had to be rushed to hospital. At Gayeshpur in Nadia, Trinamool supporters ransacked the house of a BJP supporter. The CEO said senior police officers are in Gayeshpur and a night camp of police would be stationed in the area. Besides Nadia, where eight seats went to the polls, violence between Trinamool and BJP supporters was reported in North 24 parganas, where polling was held for 16 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sporadic-violence-marks-fifth-phase-of-bengal-poll/article34347731.ece
18 April 2021||Pune,||Over 57% voting in Pandharpur byelection||A voter turnout of 57.81% was recorded in the byelection to the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha Assembly constituency in Maharashtra’s Solapur district till 5 p.m. on Saturday, an official said. He said the final polling percentage is expected to reach 67% and will be available after factoring in the votes cast till 7 p.m., when the voting ended. This constituency had recorded a voter turnout of more than 71% in the 2019 elections. The polling began at 7 a.m. amid the surge in COVID-19 cases and the strict restrictions imposed by the State government to control the spread of the virus. “The voting percentage was at 33.12% till 1 p.m., and the process at all polling stations in the constituency is going on smoothly in keeping with the social distancing norms,” the official from the district administration had said. Hand sanitisers were kept outside the polling centres and voters were allowed inside only after their body temperature and oxygen level was checked, he said. The ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Opposition BJP are in a direct fight in this bypoll, which was necessitated following the death of NCP legislator Bharat Bhalke due to post-COVID-19 complications in November last year. The NCP has fielded Bhagirath Bhalke, the late MLA’s son, against BJP candidate Samadhan Autade, who had contested the 2019 Assembly elections as an Independent and before that in 2014 on Shiv Sena ticket. “Adequate police bandobast was put in place to ensure that all social distancing norms were followed,” Additional Superintendent of Police Atul Zende said. According to the district administration, several voters above the age of 80, physically challenged persons and people engaged in essential services had exercised their franchise through postal ballots. “Polling for these people was held on April 13, 14 and 15 through postal ballot, and a total of 3,252 postal ballots were received,” an official from the district administration said. There are 1,785 physically-challenged voters and 13,689 persons who are above 80 years of age, he said, adding that those who had not exercised their franchise through postal ballots can cast their votes at the polling booths. There are 3,40,889 registered voters in the constituency. Political observers feel that this bypoll will prove to be a litmus test for the Maha Vikas Aghadi allies — the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — three ideologically different parties that have been sharing power in the State for the last one-and-a-half years.  Adequate police bandobast was put in place to ensure social distancing norms were followed Atul Zende Additional Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-57-voting-in-pandharpur-byelection/article34348511.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State records highest ever single-day spike||Kerala recorded the highest ever spike in COVID-19 cases in a single day on Saturday when 13,835 persons were detected positive from 81,211 samples tested in the past 24 hours. In October last, even when approaching the peak of the first wave, the daily spike in cases had been just over 11,000 cases and that too was recorded on just one day. The test positivity rate shot through the roof to touch 17.04%, defining the rapid pace at which disease transmission is happening. The number of deaths reported for the past one week has also seen a sharp increase, with 27 new deaths added on Saturday. There is always a two to four weeks lag between infections and deaths, indicating that these deaths are a reflection of the infections before two weeks. This essentially means that the huge spike in the daily cases now could result in high mortality figures after two weeks or more. Testing drive The 81,211 sample results are part of the 1.35 lakh plus samples that the State had collected on Friday, as part of the two-day mass testing drive. On Saturday again, almost as many samples have been collected from all districts, the total testing target being 2.5 lakh. With the results of these samples slated to come out in the next few days, the daily spike in cases could dramatically rise to unprecedented levels. The cumulative case burden now stands at 12, 21,167. The active case pool is 80,019, with two districts having over 11,000 active cases. Ernakulam district has the maximum number of active cases with 11,992 patients, while Kozhikode has 11,393 patients. The active case pool is swelling in Kannur (7,903), Malappuram (6,365) and Kottayam (6,089). Recovery rate drops With new cases being added on daily in several thousands, the recovery rate has naturally dropped, as each patient remains infectious for a minimum of 10-12 days. On Saturday, 3,654 recoveries were reported. The cumulative recoveries are 11,35,921. New hospital admissions rose to 1,677. Total hospital admissions at present is 10,539.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-highest-ever-single-day-spike/article34347881.ece
18 April 2021||NAGARJUNASAGAR,||Record turnout of 86.2% for Sagar bypoll||Amid COVID surge, a record voter turnout of 86.2% was recorded for the Nagarjunasagar Assembly bypoll on Saturday. The voter turnout of 86.2%, as declared by official sources, tops the polling percentage of the past 13 terms in constituency. Polling began at 7 a.m., after mock poll before polling agents, and the process continued till 7 p.m. Starting as early as 6.30 a.m. voters queued up outside polling stations. By 9 a.m., the turnout was 12.9% and within the next two hours the figure touched 31% All the major contestants, Nomula Bhagat of ruling TRS, BJP’s Ravi Kumar Naik and Kunduru Jana Reddy of the , Congress cast their votes along with family members in their respective polling stations at Ibrahimpet, Palugu Thanda and Nagarjunasagar. Despite the harsh weather and COVID surge, the voter turnout surpassed the previous best of 80.03% recorded in the in 2014 Assmbly polls. In all, there were 346 polling stations, also the highest till now, and officials ensured shade tents, first aid, and disposable gloves for voters. COVID-19 regulations were largely in place except for failure of social distancing at stations with high number of voters. However, no voter was allowed inside the premises without temperature scan, hand sanitisation and mask. Interestingly, unlike in the past elections, there were no visible instances of finding missing names in the electoral roll and voters returning disappointed from the polling venues. Also, as a standard operating procedure, officials said it was decided to apply the indelible ink on the left hand’s middle finger of the voter as against the forefinger, as voters of the recently-concluded Graduates’ MLC were still bearing signs of the ink. And by 7 p.m. at the close of polling, no polling station had pending voters on the premises||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-turnout-of-862-for-sagar-bypoll/article34348447.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||With 7,224 new COVID cases, State sees highest daily positivity rate||The incidence of COVID-19 infection is growing at a rapid pace in the State while it continues to test a limited number of samples every day. The daily tally has been increasing by a thousand for the past four days and the samples tested remain around 35,000. With 7,224 new infections and 15 deaths in the past day as of Saturday morning, the State witnessed the pandemic’s highest daily positivity rate of 20.12%. Only 35,907 samples were tested during the period. The single-day tally was the highest in the past 203 days since September 26. The overall tally crossed 9.5 lakh and reached 9,55,455 as over 50,000 infections were reported in the past 15 days, with 51.63% of them reported in four districts – Chittoor 9,576 cases (17.2%), Guntur 8,494 cases (15.26%), Krishna 6,043 and Visakhapatnam 4,621 cases. The positivity rate of the 4.96 lakh samples tested to detect the 50,000 cases was also high at 10.25%. The overall positivity rate of 1.564 crore samples tested increased to 6.11%. Meanwhile, the number of active cases crossed 40,000 and reached 40,469 even as 2,332 patients have recovered in the past day. The recovery rate and the number of recoveries stand at 94.99% and 9,07,598 respectively. The death toll reached 7,388 with a death rate of 0.77%. New cases, deaths Chittoor reported four deaths, Nellore three, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool two each in the past day. Guntur, Krishna, Kadapa and Vizianagaram reported one death each. Chittoor also reported the highest single-day tally of 1,051 infections. It was followed by East Godavari (906), Guntur (903), Srikakulam (662), Nellore (624), Prakasam (588), Kurnool (507), Krishna (493), Visakhaptanm (470), Anantapur (420), Vizianagaram (304), Kadapa (200) and West Godavari (96).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-7224-new-covid-cases-state-sees-highest-daily-positivity-rate/article34347721.ece
18 April 2021||NELLORE,||64% voter turnout in Tirupati byelection||Amid Opposition charge of ‘rigging by the ruling YSR Congress Party’ and a surge in COVID-19 cases, polling ended on an acrimonious note with over 64.29% of the electors voting in the by-election, which was by and large peaceful, for the Tirupati Lok Sabha (SC) constituency on Saturday. Coronavirus incidence cast its shadow on the polling which began on a dull note with only 7.80% of the over 17.10 lakh voters exercising their franchise in the first two hours of polling held in adherence to the safety protocol even as EVMs in some stations malfunctioned in the bypoll caused by the death of sitting YSRCP MP B. Durgaprasad. The turnout improved with 36.67% voting by 1 p.m. and 54.99% by 5 p.m., SPSR Nellore District Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said. The heatwave sweeping across the constituency brought a good number of voters to the polling stations at dusk and polling continued beyond the deadline of 7 p.m. in some polling stations. In 2019, the constituency recorded over 79% polling. GVL tweet The opposition Telugu Desam Party, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress demanded a repoll under CAPF security cover alleging large-scale ‘bogus voting’ in several booths by the YSRCP by mobilising ‘outsiders’ in private buses and vans, a charge denied by the ruling party. MP and BJP national official spokesman G.V.L. Narasimha Rao tweeted, “Bogus voting by ruling @YSRCParty reported on a large scale in Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha bypoll. State administration, police are mute spectators to this subversion of democracy. Request @ECISVEEP to order repoll in all such booths.'' The TDP candidate and former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi and YSRC nominee Dr. M. Gurumoorthy were among those who exercised their franchise early in the day. The electors were allowed to vote only after thermal scanning and washing of hands with a sanitiser by the over 10,850 polling staff at 2,470 stations, including 877 critical ones, in the Assembly segments of Sarvepalli, Gudur, Sullurpeta and Venkatagiri in SPSR Nellore district and Tirupati, Satyaveedu and Srikalahasti in the neighbouring Chittoor district. The process was webcast from 1,241 polling stations. Twenty-three companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and AP Special police provided security cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/64-voter-turnout-in-tirupati-byelection/article34347711.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||T.N. sees over twofold jump in investments||Fresh investments into Tamil Nadu more than doubled to over Rs. 1,00,000 crore during the pandemic-hit 2020-21, with the southern State witnessing the second highest investment outlay, as per a private study. Maharashtra retained the top spot for a second year in a row. Tamil Nadu jumped from the ninth position in 2019-20, when 465 projects worth Rs. 47,833 crore were announced, to second in 2020-21, with 573 projects worth Rs. 1,02,652 crore, as per data compiled for The Hindu by Projects Today, an independent firm tracking investment projects in the country. Tamil Nadu was ranked 12th among all States in 2018-19, with a 3.67% share of fresh investments into India of Rs. 16.86 lakh crore. While overall investments in 2019-20 dropped sharply to just Rs. 10.86 lakh crore, the State’s share had risen to 4.41% of the total investments. Project investments fell a further 1.23% in 2020-21 as the COVID-19 pandemic hit investments in the first six months of the year followed by a tentative recovery in the second half. However, Tamil Nadu’s share of the country’s investments more than doubled to 9.6%. Strong start The State began 2020-21 on a strong note, managing to garner a sixth of investments in the first quarter when private investments collapsed amid the lockdown. The State government signed 17 pacts with private investors in May, bolstering its Q1 investment pipeline by Rs. 18,533 crore across sectors. Over the second and third quarters, Tamil Nadu got fresh investments of almost Rs. 61,000 crore, giving it the second and third ranks among States respectively. Some of the major private investments were the Rs. 4,629 crore solar photovoltaic modules project by SunEdison Energy India, a Rs. 2,500 crore lithium-ion batteries project in Tiruvallur by Lucas-TVS and a Rs. 2,300 crore plant being set up by Daimler India Commercial Vehicles at Oragadam, the tracking firm’s data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-sees-over-twofold-jump-in-investments/article34347734.ece
18 April 2021||Washington,||4 Sikhs among eight killed in U.S. shooting||Four Sikhs, including three women, were among eight people killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in the U.S. State of Indiana staffed by a large number of Indian-American employees. The incident has shocked community leaders who appealed to President Joe Biden to tackle the growing hate crimes and gun violence. The gunman was identified as 19-year-old Brandon Scott Hole, a former employee. He allegedly killed himself after the shooting late on Thursday night at the FedEx facility in Indianapolis. Hole was interviewed by FBI agents last year, after his mother called the police to say that her son might commit “suicide by cop”, the Bureau said on Friday. The incident is the worst attack on Sikhs in the U.S. after the Oak Creek Gurdwara mass shooting in Wisconsin on August 5, 2012, where seven members of the community were killed. About 90% of the workers at the FedEx facility are said to be Indian-Americans, mostly from the Sikh community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-sikhs-among-eight-killed-in-us-shooting/article34347729.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||NIA declares Rs. 7 lakh bounty on Hidma||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has declared a reward of Rs. 7 lakh for the arrest of Madvi Hidma, who heads the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) Battalion 1 of the Maoists, a lethally armed and trained unit of the banned group active in southern Chhattisgarh, one of the worst areas affected by Left Wing Extremism. Though the reward has been announced in a 2019 case pertaining to the killing of Chhattisgarh legislator Bhima Mandavi, the State police had said Hidma was involved in the April 3 ambush at the Sukma-Bijapur border where 22 security personnel were killed. A Rs. 10 lakh reward has also been announced for information leading to the arrest of CPI (Maoist) general secretary Basavaraju, alias Nambala Keshava Rao, 66. He already has a reward of Rs. 1.85 crore on his head, announced cumulatively by Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. According to a police dossier accessed by The Hindu , Rao was last spotted in the “cut-off” area in Odisha’s Malkangiri district in November 2019. An engineer, Rao heads the intelligence and military wing of the banned group and is active in the Abujhmaad area of Chhattisgarh. Rao replaced Ganapathi as general secretary in February 2017. A reward of Rs. 10 lakh each has also been announced for information on Polit Bureau members Mallojula Venugopal and Katkam Sudarshan. Venugopal who often issues statements on behalf of the banned group by the name “Abhay” also has a reward of Rs. 1.55 crore on his arrest as announced by the States of Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Telengana and Odisha. Sudarshan has Rs. 1.4 crore reward by other State police. Sudarshan was last spotted in July 2020 in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli and Sudarshan at Bhattiguda in Chattisgarh’s Bijapur. The rewards were announced by NIA on April 1 against 21 Maoists including the top leadership. NIA said its investigation established that top Maoist leadership, Nambala Keshava Rao was actively involved in the conspiracy along with Kattam Sudarshan, Mallojulla Venugopal, Thippari Tirupati alias Dev ji, Roulla Srinivas alias Ramanna, Hidma, Ganesh Uike alias Pakka and Hanumantu. The NIA does not have photographs of 11 of the wanted persons whereas a single photograph of Hidma, available with all other security agencies and police dates back to 2007. Officials said Hidma had been tasked to carry out operations against security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-declares-rs-7-lakh-bounty-on-hidma/article34347732.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana records 4,446 COVID cases||Telangana crossed grim mark of 4,000 COVID-19 cases for the first time since the first case was detected on March 2, 2020. On Friday, 4, 446 people were detected with coronavirus. The cases leaped to new highs in the past three days (April 14-16). On Wednesday, 3,307 tested positive, which increased to 3,840 on Thursday, and 4,446 on Friday. These are the three highest number of cases in a day since the pandemic broke out. Number of deaths too increased as 12 patients died on Friday, as per the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department. This is the highest number of deaths in the past seven months! On Friday, the highest number of 598 people were detected with coronavirus in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 435 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, followed by 326 in Rangareddy, 314 in Nizamabad, 235 in Sangareddy. The lowest of 17 cases were from Mulugu. From March 2, 2020 to April 16 of this year, 1,16, 08,116 samples were put to test and 3,46,331 were detected with the virus. Of the total, 33,514 were active cases, 3,11,008 have recovered, and 1,809 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-records-4446-covid-cases/article34348449.ece
18 April 2021||new delhi,||Delhi reports 24,375 cases||Delhi reported 24,375 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. The total number of cases stood at 8,27,998. Also, a total of 167 deaths were reported over 24 hours — the highest till now — taking the toll to 11,960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-24375-cases/article34347994.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,||DC nod must to book halls for weddings||With COVID-19 cases continuing to increase by the day, the State government has made obtaining permission from Deputy Commissioners mandatory to book community halls, convention centres or auditoriums for weddings and other programmes, from April 17. Entry into weddings and other functions will be only for those carrying passes, which will be issued by offices of the DCs. Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons that all those booking halls for marriages and other events, from April 17, should obtain prior permission from respective DCs. The DC’s office would issue 100 passes and 200 passes, respectively, for indoor and outdoor weddings. In the case of community halls/auditoriums already booked, there is no need for permission or pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dc-nod-must-to-book-halls-for-weddings/article34348498.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Scare in the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scare-in-the-air/article34347780.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State gets six lakh doses of vaccine||Two days after vaccine stock dried up, the State received six lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre on Saturday. Vaccination drive almost came to a standstill on Friday and Saturday as the State used up all the 6.4 lakh doses sent by the Centre. So far, 46,07,315 vaccine doses were administered to beneficiaries. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials of Health department and District Collectors to ensure that all the healthcare staff and frontline staff in other departments were inoculated in the next 72 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-gets-six-lakh-doses/article34347722.ece
18 April 2021||Mumbai/New Delhi,||Uddhav call on oxygen fails to reach Modi||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reportedly tried to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday about the severe oxygen shortage in the State, but could not get through, because the latter was campaigning in West Bengal, sources in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said. “The CM called the Prime Minister at about 10:30 a.m.; this was his third attempt since yesterday to speak to Mr. Modi but we were told that he is busy campaigning in West Bengal and will return the call once he is back,” a source in CMO said. The Prime Minister addressed two rallies in West Bengal on Saturday — in Asansol and Gangarampur which go to the polls in the sixth phase of the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uddhav-call-on-oxygen-ignored-by-pm/article34347725.ece
18 April 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool pressuring Election Commission: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday accused the Trinamool Congress of pressuring the Election Commission of India to thwart the polling process in West Bengal. He said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was “trying all means to subvert and stop the election”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-pressuring-election-commission-pm/article34347899.ece
18 April 2021||Imphal,||Night curfew imposed in Manipur till April 30||The Manipur government has clamped night curfew in the State in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. The order issued by Chief Secretary Rajesh Kumar said that essential services would be exempted from the curfew which will be in force from 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. till April 30. After a lull, there are 165 active cases in the State with 31 infections being reported during the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-imposed-in-manipur-till-april-30/article34347900.ece
18 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Panel to list indigenous inhabitants in Nagaland||The Nagaland government has decided to form a joint consultative committee involving all traditional tribal bodies and civil society organisations for taking an exercise to register the State’s indigenous inhabitants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-list-indigenous-inhabitants-in-nagaland/article34347993.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||A day after bail, Deep Sidhu arrested again||Delhi Police’s Crime Branch arrested actor-activist Deep Sidhu on Saturday in connec-tion with an FIR lodged by the Archaeological Survey of India for allegedly damaging public property during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day at Red Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-day-after-bail-deep-sidhu-arrested-again/article34348442.ece
18 April 2021||Mumbai,||Vehicles to be colour coded to limit movement||In a bid to limit vehicular movement and avert traffic jams amid COVID-19 curbs, the Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Saturday directed vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services to sport colour-coded stickers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vehicles-to-be-colour-coded-to-limit-movement/article34348512.ece
18 April 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra hits new peak of 67,123 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 67,123 fresh COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day spike so far, taking its tally to 37,70,707. A total of 419 deaths took the toll to 59,970. With 56,783 patients being discharged, the tally of recoveries has risen to 30,61,174. The tally of active cases now stands at 6,47,933. Mumbai recorded 8,811 cases and 51 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-hits-new-peak-of-67123-cases/article34348513.ece
18 April 2021||Puducherry,||Vaccinate all those aged above 18: Narayanasamy||With the number of COVID-19 cases on the rise in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, which has 300 beds for patients with the viral infection, has kept ready 250 more beds in the main block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/250-more-beds-ready/article34347807.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Daily case count crosses 9,000-mark for 1st time||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 a day breached the 9,000-mark in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. A total of 9,344 persons tested positive and 39 persons died. With 2,884 new cases, Chennai’s tally rose to 2,80,184. Chengal- pattu recorded 807 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-case-count-crosses-9000-mark-for-1st-time/article34347778.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Light to moderate rains in some districts: IMD||Polling booth no. 92 of the Velachery Assembly constituency recorded a lower turnout in the re-poll held on Saturday. The Election Commission of India had ordered a re-poll in the booth after three polling personnel were found carrying an EVM on motorcycles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/light-to-moderate-rains-in-some-districts-imd/article34347808.ece
18 April 2021||Tirunelveli,||250 more beds ready||With the number of COVID-19 cases on the rise in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, which has 300 beds for patients with the viral infection, has kept ready 250 more beds in the main block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/250-more-beds-ready/article34348578.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The rally of the radical clerics||The banning of the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) by the Imran Khan government last week has added one more chapter to Pakistan’s complicated relations with Islamist politics. The organisation started by the late Khadim Hussain Rizvi often drew attention because of the controversial remarks made by its founder on social media and TV. In recent years, Pakistan saw a surge in the TLP’s activities, thanks to global developments and local opportunities. In an era of globalisation of information and diseases, a French school teacher’s lessons on freedom of expression provided a lifeline to the TLP, which has built a vast support network inside Pakistan based on its campaign against “blasphemy”. Samuel Paty, the middle-school teacher, showed his students the controversial cartoons on Prophet Muhammed that had appeared in the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo . His assertion of freedom attracted the wrath of a young Chechen who beheaded him on October 16, 2020. Subsequently, French President Emmanuel Macron hardened his position on Islamist extremism. As Mr. Macron attacked radical Islamists, Rizvi called on Pakistan to end its relationship with France, and summoned his Barelvi followers to flood the streets of Islamabad. But within days of calling for the protest, Rizvi succumbed to COVID-19. After his death, the organisation took a more militant turn under his son Saad Hussain Rizvi. To the outside world, the outrage against France expressed by a cleric may appear difficult to fathom but the Samuel Paty incident had touched upon the incendiary topic of blasphemy, which has the potential to stir up Pakistan’s politics. For several hardline Islamist groups in the country, the issue of blasphemy is above and beyond the state of Pakistan. For them, anyone who attempts to question what they believe the core tenet of Islam — respect for Prophet Muhammed and the unshakable recognition that the Prophet is the final messenger of the faith — should be punished with death. The TLP has been in the forefront of such groups. The protest against blasphemy gave a foundational opportunity to the TLP when in 2010, Mumtaz Qadri, a bodyguard of the then Governor of Punjab Salman Taseer, shot him dead in the picturesque Kohsar Market of Islamabad. Taseer had finished his lunch in an Italian restaurant in the market and had emerged to sit in his vehicle when Qadri shot him in the back in point blank range. Taseer had championed the cause of Asiya Bibi, the Christian woman who was accused of blasphemy by the clerics. As the police arrested Qadri and produced him in court, the followers of Khadim Rizvi arrived with flowers that they showered on the killer. When the anti-blasphemy politics was growing in popularity in Pakistan, several religious leaders joined Rizvi to form a religious party which was named Tehreek-i-Labbaik Ya Rasool Allah (TLYRA). They organised public events, calling for the release of Qadri. In 2017, when Rizvi approached the Election Commission to register the new party, the Commission raised objections over its name. Then Rizvi announced the formation of the TLP as a political arm of the TLYRA. Within a few years, the TLP has grown to become one of the most powerful religious parties that have made blasphemy a key political issue. Street power The protests demanding action against France, therefore, is not just a challenge from a fringe extremist organisation. The TLP has elected representatives in the Sindh Assembly and has the street power to bring life in the country’s main cities to a halt. The TLP has demanded Mr. Khan’s government expel the Ambassador of France, cut ties with Paris and stop using French products. The TLP also urged the National Assembly to discuss its demands and take legislative measures. Arrest of leaders When protests continued, the government arrested Saad Hussain Rizvi, the current leader. The arrest, in turn, sparked countrywide protests and gridlock, which stretched from rural Punjab to Karachi and Lahore. The arrest of the leadership and finally the banning of the organisation show the extent of the threat posed by the TLP. These factors, however, do not complete the picture of the organisation and its real intentions. That is partially met by conspiracy theories that are typical of Pakistan’s politics. The real strength of the TLP lies probably in the fact that it was initially sponsored by the all powerful ‘establishment’ of Pakistan — the Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI). In recent years, several political or non-governmental moves to mobilise large public gatherings had the invisible hand of the establishment. These public movements like the one led by Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Pakistani-Canadian cleric, have served mysterious purposes. Typically boosted by media platforms, these new age religious figures command enormous public support and viewership that are used by them to launch public protests. Qadri had launched a similar anti-corruption movement against the Nawaz Sharif and Asif Ali Zardari governments during 2012 to 2015. There was no clarity about the forces behind the protests but the movements did achieve the goal of ultimately bringing political change. Now, an Army-friendly government is in power in Islamabad. ISI role New ISI chief Faiz Hameed is close to the current Chief of the Army Staff General Qamar Javed Bajwa. According to Pakistani columnist and author Ayesha Siddiqa, Mr. Hameed played a role in fomenting the 2017 protests against Mr. Sharif by the Barelvis that included the TLP. The protest was part of the anti-Sharif wave that had destabilised his government. Those protests helped the TLP acquire a dynamism of its own and grow in popularity, at least among the hardline sections of society. The organisation served a purpose in the establishment’s fight to create a friendlier government in Islamabad but it did not stop there. The TLP went ahead, taking up more causes such as the anti-France protests and eventually putting the Khan government under pressure. The TLP appears to have become a burden for the establishment that once had courted it. The issue before the Pakistan government now is how to bottle the genie, which is going to be a difficult affair at a time when the country is under a lot of pressure from the Financial Action Task Force to crack down on terror outfits. For now, the government may have found it easier to ban the TLP rather than dealing with the issue of blasphemy. But it doesn’t mean that the authorities are free of the threat the TLP poses. Tens of thousands of the organisation’s followers took to the streets, protesting the government decision. The visuals of mayhem and arson in the past few days will serve as a warning of sorts for the state of Pakistan and its establishment. In a way, the TLP’s story is not different from many extremist organisations that the establishment once bet on — a creation of convenience that has outlived its utility.  In Focus  Khadim Hussain Rizvi, the founder of TLP, rose to prominence when he and his supporters backed the assassin of Salman Taseer and held protests demanding death for ‘blasphemers’  Officially launched in 2017, the TLP has members in the provincial Assembly of Sindh and has tens of thousands of followers across the country  The TLP has been protesting for months demanding the Pakistan government cut ties with France and boycott French products over the blasphemy row   The 2017 protests against the government of Nawaz Sharif that was backed by the establishment helped the TLP acquire a dynamism of its own and grow in strength||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-rally-of-the-radical-clerics/article34347686.ece
18 April 2021||Patna,||Lalu gets bail in fodder case||The Jharkhand High Court on Saturday granted bail to imprisoned Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad in the Dumka treasury case related to the Rs. 950-crore fodder scam. The Single Bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh passed the order in the case of fraudulent withdrawal of Rs. 3.13 crore. The decision will pave the way for Mr. Prasad’s release after being lodged at the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi on December 23, 2017. He is now under treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Earlier, he was granted bail in three cases related to fraudulent transactions in the Deoghar and Chaibasa treasuries. He was convicted and imprisoned in four cases for fraudulently withdrawing money from the district treasuries of Jharkhand from 1990 to 1996 when he was the Chief Minister of undivided Bihar. In the Dumka treasury case , the trial court had held Mr. Prasad guilty under Sections 120(B), 420, 409, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act and sentenced him to seven years in prison. “Lalu Prasad has already served over half of the jail term in this case, and the High Court granted bail to him on this basis,” Mr. Prasad’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar said. Associate lawyer Devarshi Mandal said they would now “move the special CBI court in Ranchi on Monday to seek Mr. Prasad’s release from jail following the High Court order”. Senior lawyer Kapil Sibal appeared for Mr. Prasad in the virtual hearing. “With the bail granted in the Dumka treasury case in which Mr. Prasad has already served three-and-a-half years in jail, he is likely to be released from jail by Monday or Tuesday after 39 months and 25 days in incarceration,” Mr. Mandal said. While granting bail, the court directed that Mr. Prasad should not leave the country or change his address or mobile number without permission during the bail period. Celebrations in Patna As news of the bail announcement came in, RJD leaders and workers in Patna gathered to celebrate at 10 Circular Road, residence of Rabri Devi, former Chief Minister and wife of Mr. Prasad. Party workers distributed sweets and shouted slogans of “Lalu Prasad zindabad”. “Its time for us to celebrate as the bail granted to him was long due, and it will pave the way for him to come out of the jail,” senior party leader Shivanand Tiwari said. Addressing presspersons, Tejashwi Yadav, Leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly and younger son of Mr. Prasad, said, “We are happy that bail has been granted by the honourable court to Lalu Prasad ji , who is also suffering from several serious diseases and admitted to AIIMS in New Delhi. Our priority will be to act as per doctor’s advice.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-gets-bail-in-fodder-case/article34347652.ece
18 April 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool pressuring EC, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday accused the Trinamool Congress of pressuring the Election Commission of India (EC) to thwart the polling process in West Bengal. At a public meeting at Asansol in Paschim Bardhaman, Mr. Modi said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was “trying all means to subvert and stop the election”. “This time, Didi [Ms. Banerjee] and her party are not being allowed to resort to rigging. This is the reason she is trying all means to subvert and stop the election,” he said. The PM’s remarks come at a time when the Trinamool has urged the EC to merge the remaining three phases of polls in the State because of the second wave of COVID-19. Mr. Modi raised the issue of the panchayat election held in 2018 in the State, and said the people of West Bengal had not forgotten how their democratic rights had been subverted during that election. “In 20,000 seats, which is almost one-third of the total seats, Trinamool candidates won without a contest. Those who had filed their nomination from the Opposition had to take shelter in other States. Nomination papers had to submitted on WhatsApp,” he said. He referred to the communal riots during Ram Navami in Asansol in the past three years, and blamed the Chief Minister for the violence. “Who stood with rioters, who were indulging in politics of appeasement,” Mr. Modi asked. On the deaths at Sitalkuchi in the previous phase of polling, he said the Chief Minister was indulging in politics over the deaths. On Friday, the BJP leadership had released audio tapes of a conversation between Ms. Banerjee and the Trinamool candidate after the Central armed forces opened fire, resulting in the death of four persons in the Jor Patki gram panchayat area at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district. The Trinamool leadership said there was nothing wrong in the conversation, and raised questions over the tapping of telephones of party leaders. Mr. Modi, who promised Rs. 18,000 to every farmer as pending benefits from the PM Kisan Scheme for the past three years, alleged that Ms. Banerjee had stood as a wall between West Bengal’s people and the Central welfare schemes. Later, at a public meeting at Gangarampur in the northern part of the State, the Prime Minister said politics had “crossed dangerous limits of vengeance”. “Mamata Banerjee is abusing me almost every day as I raise the Trinamool Congress’s track record of corruption,” Mr. Modi said, referring to several remarks by her directed at him in the last week of March and April. Defending his mode of addressing the Chief Minister as Didi-O-Didi , he said that during the entire election, he had been referring to Ms. Banerjee as Didi and was “sometimes saying it twice”.  This time, Didi and her party are not being allowed to resort to rigging. This is the reason she is trying all means to subvert the election Narendra ModiPrime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-pressuring-ec-says-modi/article34347663.ece
18 April 2021||Chennai,||Testing sets a record on a day fresh cases touch 2.56 lakh||As many as 14,95,397 samples were tested in India on Friday (results of which were made available on Saturday), the highest number of tests conducted in a single day in the country. This is the second consecutive day the number of tests is crossing the 14 lakh mark. On September 24, 2020, 14,92,409 tests were carried out, which was the highest until the record was broken on Friday. A total of 26.49 crore samples have been tested in the country since the beginning of the pandemic. India registered 2,10,146 new COVID-19 cases as of 9.20 p.m. on Saturday. As many as 1,070 deaths were also recorded on the day. The country has so far reported a total of 1,47,32,074 cases and 1,76,745 deaths. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Assam, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Ladakh, Sikkim, A&N Islands and Lakshadweep. The data is sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. Maharashtra reported 67,123 infections (accounting for nearly 32% of the new cases) on Saturday, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 27,334 new infections and Karnataka with 17,489 new cases. Maharashtra also recorded the highest number of casualties (419) on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh followed with 120 new deaths, while Karnataka registered 80 new casualties. About 27.14 lakh COVID-19 vaccination doses were administered in the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. on Saturday. It is about 8 lakh doses lower than what was recorded the previous Saturday. 3 million deaths As of April 16, 3 million COVID-19 related fatalities have been recorded worldwide. The pace of deaths has quickened lately. On September 28, 2020, the one million global deaths mark was crossed, about 250 days after the first such fatality was recorded in China. On January 14, 2020, the two million mark was breached, taking about 110 days. The latest million was crossed in just over 94 days. As of April 16, Brazil leads the world in the daily average reported deaths. It reported over 2,860 deaths on Friday. It accounts for one in every four deaths every day worldwide. India is reporting the second highest number of average daily deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-conducts-the-highest-number-of-daily-tests-so-far/article34347678.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A victor of circumstances||In a turnaround of sorts, Guillermo Lasso became the President-elect of Ecuador following a run-off second round vote in presidential elections in the Latin American country. Mr. Lasso, a former banker who belongs to the centre-right Creating Opportunities (CREO) party, won 52.4% of the vote in the run-offs, defeating his opponent Andrez Arauz of the leftist Union of Hope coalition, who secured 47.7% despite leading in the first round with 32.7% over Mr. Lasso’s 19.7%. This was Mr. Lasso’ first presidential victory in three campaigns since 2013 but it did not come easily. In the first round, not only was his vote share some distance behind Mr. Arauz’s, but it was also barely more than that of third place candidate Yaku Perez of the indigenous coalition Pachakutik. Mr. Perez won 19.4% and fell short of second place by just 32,115 votes and went on to challenge the results. Both Mr. Aruaz and Mr. Perez’s coalitions belong to the left side of the political spectrum as opposed to Mr. Lasso’s centre-right and traditionalist platform, but there has been no love lost between the platforms that the former two politicians represent. Mr. Aruaz was the hand-picked nominee of popular ex-President Rafael Correa, who continues to exert a significant influence in Ecuador despite being out of power since 2017, living in Belgium. Mr. Correa’s coming to power in 2007 heralded the Ecuadorean version of the Latin American pink tide, a current that led to several left-wing parties winning power across the continent. Mr. Correa, a U.S. educated economist, reoriented government policy in Ecuador to effect redistribution and welfare, spending programmes that resulted in significant drops in poverty in the country. Radical trident He also formed a radical trident of sorts in alliance with Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez and Bolivia’s Evo Morales by forming regional coalitions. Initially, Mr. Correa promised the recognition of rights and interests of the indigenous people, but they fell out with the government over issues such as the policies of mineral extraction from protected areas. With Mr. Correa using strong-arm measures to quell protests by indigenous groups during his tenure, a clear contradiction emerged between what some scholars call the politics of “left in power” defined by “Correismo” and “left in resistance” represented by Mr. Perez and other indigenous organisations. Mr. Perez called on his supporters to return invalid ballots instead of voting for either Mr. Arauz or Mr. Lasso and in the second round, nearly 18% of the ballots were indeed rendered invalid. This reduced the threshold for Mr. Lasso to win a majority of the remaining votes. Besides, the fourth-placed candidate, Mr. Xavier Hervas of the “Democratic Left” party, a social democratic outfit that thrived in the old polity before Mr. Correa’s coming to power, also endorsed Mr. Lasso. In doing so, Mr. Hervas was privileging his opposition against Correismo — which liberals in Ecuador have identified as a “semi-authoritarian” tendency due to Mr. Correa’s run-ins with the judiciary and the media. But these steps by the other contenders do not suffice in explaining Mr. Lasso’s victory. Ecuador has been ravaged by COVID-19 with the GDP shrinking by 7.8%. As many as three Health Ministers resigned recently, for being unable to implement a proper vaccine distribution system to stem the effects of the pandemic. More than 17,500 deaths have been registered for a high 5% case fatality rate (among the highest in Latin America). The outgoing President Lenin Moreno was also a handpicked choice of Mr. Correa, but who disavowed his own policy platform after coming to power and undertook severe austerity measures that led to denunciation by Mr. Correa and protests across the country. While Mr. Arauz could manage to delineate a clear difference with Mr. Moreno and promised a revert to the redistributive policies of Mr. Correa, the mixed legacy of Correismo and the new contradictions within the Ecuadorean Left allowed Mr. Lasso to come up trumps. Mr. Lasso will, however, have a tougher time in the presidency as the CREO only has 12 seats in the 137-member National Assembly with the Union for Hope and Pachakutik controlling 76 seats together. But for now, his win will curtail the pink tide in Ecuador even further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-victor-of-circumstances/article34347682.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The battles of a space dreamer||When S. Nambi Narayanan, a senior ISRO scientist, was arrested on November 30, 1994, on charges of leaking secrets pertaining to the Indian space programme to foreign nationals, little did anyone think it would one day be looked upon as the starting point of one of the most extraordinary battles for justice the country has witnessed. Mr. Narayanan's name was closely linked to two Maldivian nationals, Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousiya Hassan, who were arrested by the police on espionage charges. In May 1996, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which had taken over the case from the Kerala police, dismissed the charges against Mr. Narayanan and the other accused, terming the case a fabricated one. Two years later, the Supreme Court endorsed the CBI's closure report. But the damage was done. The incident, which grabbed headlines as the ISRO spy scandal, shattered the lives and careers of ISRO scientists Mr. Narayanan and D. Sasikumar. In Kerala, the spy case fuelled a fierce political controversy, eventually leading to the resignation of the then Chief Minister K. Karunakaran. Following his acquittal, Mr. Narayanan was reinstated in ISRO in what he himself describes as a ‘desk job’ at the Bengaluru headquarters. The scientist, who was instrumental in introducing the liquid propulsion technology in ISRO, had been working on cryogenic propulsion when the spy case broke. In 2001, he retired from service without achieving his goal. But the battle, in another sense, was only beginning for Mr. Narayanan. Legal fights He had moved court for compensation and action against the police officers responsible for framing him. It is in this context that the April 15 Supreme Court order directing the CBI to look into the report submitted by Justice D.K. Jain Committee needs to be viewed. In 2018, the Supreme Court awarded Mr. Narayanan Rs. 50 lakh as compensation, noting that he was “arrested unnecessarily, harassed and subjected to mental cruelty”. The apex court also constituted a three-member panel headed by Justice D.K. Jain (Retd.) for finding “ways and means to take appropriate steps against the erring officials”. Mr. Narayanan had appeared before the committee in December 2020. The CBI report submitted to the Supreme Court in 1998 had reportedly listed the investigative flaws committed by then Additional Director General of Police Siby Mathews, and SPs S. Vijayan and K.K. Joshua. In April 1999, Mr. Narayanan had also moved the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) claiming compensation from the Kerala government for the mental agony that he had been forced to undergo. In March 2001, the NHRC had awarded him an interim compensation of Rs. 10 lakh. The Kerala High Court, in 2012, had directed the State government to pay the sum to Mr. Narayanan. The 79-year-old, who lives in Thiruvananthapuram, views the April 15 Supreme Court decision as an additional step forward in exposing the forces that fabricated the spy scandal. Looking back at the gruelling court battles, Mr. Narayanan said he was forced to fight from a compelling need to defend himself. At one point, his children had encouraged him saying he alone could prove his innocence. “They were right after all. Now people have a tendency to glorify my fight. But I was forced to fight out of necessity,” he observed on Saturday. Mr. Narayanan also looks fondly back at his days at Princeton University in 1970. Princeton, where he did his Masters, helped him “build the platform for his space dreams”, he recalls. The story of the initial days of the Indian space programme and the gruelling saga of the spy case were later recounted in his biography Ready to Fire , which came out in 2017. In 2019, Mr. Narayanan was awarded the Padma Bhushan, which, according to him, had come as a pleasant surprise. The upcoming film, Rocketry: The Nambi Effect , directed by Madhavan, also is based on his life. When the landmark verdict of the Supreme Court came out in 2018, Mr. Narayanan had told the media that he planned to do something that he had been forced to put off for almost 25 years — spending time with his family. While commenting on the latest SC decision, Mr. Narayanan says he has succeeded in fulfilling that dream in the past several months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-battles-of-a-space-dreamer/article34347684.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. blames Centre’s ‘arrogance’||In a severe indictment of the handling of the pandemic by the Union government, the Congress, after a meeting of its working committee on Saturday, released a 14-point ‘chargesheet’ accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of pushing the country to an unprecedented catastrophe. “We regret to say the nation is paying a very heavy price for the thoughtlessness and unpreparedness of the NDA government to tackle the gravest disaster that has hit the country and has affected millions of families claiming 1,75,673 lives so far,” senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said reading out a statement agreed upon by the Congress Working Committee (CWC). Former party president Rahul Gandhi said there has been “constant declaration of victory” by the government and a sense of arrogance that has led to this situation. “The government has taken off all the warning systems and shut them down. We are in the middle of the ocean in a storm and now the ship has no idea where to go,” he said at the meeting. Other than the CWC members, the meeting chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi was attended by Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel, all Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled States. In her opening comments, Ms. Gandhi said the government was caught off guard, despite having a year to prepare. She accused the Centre of giving “preferential treatment” to some States, saying the Congress Chief Ministers have repeatedly reached out to Mr. Modi and the Ministers concerned pleading for relief. “Some of them were left with only a few days of vaccine, no oxygen or ventilators. But there has been thundering silence on the part of the government. On the contrary, some other States have received preferential treatment/relief,” she said. Instead of listening to the constructive suggestions, Ms. Gandhi said, the Union Ministers have attacked the Opposition leaders. “This convoluted ‘me versus you’ debate is childish and totally unnecessary,” she said. Briefing reporters at the end of the meeting, Mr. Chidambaram said all the suggestions made at the CWC meeting will be collated and sent to Mr. Modi by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Foremost among the 14-point chargesheet issued by the party was the government’s failure to create sufficient awareness that a waning pandemic could be a precursor to a second wave that may be more devastating than the first. The vaccination programme also failed on several accounts, the chargesheet said. Primarily, the government, the party said, failed to grant emergency-use approval to other vaccines from the U.S., the U.K., the European Union and Japan, under a “misguided notion of atmanirbhar”. The production and supply of the two approved vaccines were not scaled up, the bureaucratic control over the programme caused many unnecessary hurdles. The vaccine roll out should have been left to the State governments and public and private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-blames-centres-arrogance/article34347674.ece
18 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Bustard poaching in Pakistan shocks activists||The recent shooting of two Great Indian Bustards (GIBs) in Pakistan’s Cholistan desert, with the poachers brazenly getting themselves photographed with the carcasses of birds in their hands and guns on their shoulders, has left wildlife activists in Rajasthan shocked and outraged. The GIB, which is the State bird of Rajasthan, is considered India’s most critically endangered bird. A group of hunters, allegedly led by a retired Major of the Pakistan Army, shot down two GIBs in a protected area of southern Punjab’s Cholistan game reserve in Pakistan earlier this month. Retired Major Tanveer Hussain Shah, a resident of Rahim Yar Khan district, and his accomplices, also attacked wildlife officials of that country when they tried to stop the group from hunting GIBs and chinkara deer. The grassland habitat with grass cover in the Cholistan desert, where the GIBs were foraging, is similar to the habitat in Rajasthan’s Desert National Park (DNP), where the GIB’s last remnant wild population is found. The DNP, situated near the towns of Jaisalmer and Barmer, forms a part of the mighty Thar desert. The GIB’s population of fewer than 100 in Rajasthan accounts for 95% of its total world population. The International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), a global authority on species survival, which categorised the GIBs as “endangered” in 1994, was forced to upgrade the species to the status of “critically endangered” in 2011 because of continued threats faced in the survival of these large birds. The Tourism & Wildlife Society of India (TWSI) has condemned the poaching of GIBs, while expressing surprise that the people in the neighbouring country continued to kill this rare species of birds. “It cannot take place without the cover provided by the government authorities in Pakistan. This incident should be probed thoroughly,” TWSI honorary secretary Harsh Vardhan said here on Friday. Mr. Vardhan said the wildlife authorities in Rajasthan had permitted captive breeding of GIB, protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, in the DNP through a project executed by the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India in 2019 after a prolonged debate. Sixteen chicks of GIB are in hands now being reared in DNP by a team supported by the Houbara Breeding Centre of UAE. “As Rajasthan shares the international border with Pakistan’s Sindh and Punjab provinces, it is suspected that Indian-bred GIBs will fly across to Pakistan’s desert and will be easy prey for the gun-toting poachers there,” Mr. Vardhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bustard-poaching-in-pak-desert-shocks-activists/article34347637.ece
18 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Resume talks with farmers, Dushyant urges Modi||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader and Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resume talks with the farmers who had been protesting against the farm laws enacted by the Centre. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Chautala said that a team of senior Cabinet Ministers could be set up, which could resume talks with farmers and reach an amicable solution. “I would like to bring to your kind attention that our annadattas (food growers) are on the roads at the Delhi border agitating in respect of the three newly enacted farm laws of the Central government. It is a matter of concern that such agitation is going on for more than hundred days. I truly believe that every problem has a solution by way of mutual discussion. The earlier discussion between the Central government and farmers’ union brought few solutions to the concerns raised by ‘Sayunkt Morcha’. In this regard, a team consisting of three to four Senior Cabinet Ministers may lead the delegation for resuming talk with farmers so as to bring an amicable conclusion in this issue,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resume-talks-with-farmers-says-dushyant-chautala/article34347649.ece
18 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. moves to ‘insulate’ candidates||After the candidates of one of its allies returned from Rajasthan on Friday in view of the COVID-19 surge, the Congress has reportedly booked a few hotels across Assam to “insulate” its candidates from possible poaching by the BJP. The candidates are expected to be kept out of bounds till the Assembly election results are declared on May 2. On Saturday, senior Congress leaders assembled the party’s candidates at a hotel on the outskirts of Guwahati for a closed-door meeting. The party said one must not read too much into the meeting where only “general discussions” related to the day of counting were held. But there is speculation that the party plans to keep the candidates in some hotels in Guwahati, Kaziranga and Tezpur from April 22 and not let them be in touch with the world beyond. But AICC general secretary and the party’s Assam in-charge Jitendra Singh trashed such theories as the “ Mahajot (grand alliance) will get a big majority”. The Congress heads the 10-party Mahajot whose constituents include the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Bodoland People’s Front. “Our candidates are not going anywhere. We have just given certain directions to party candidates on the preparation for the counting day because of past experiences,” Mr. Singh told presspersons ahead of the meeting. He made light of the sudden exit of all the AIUDF candidates from Assam soon after the third and final phase of polling was held on April 6. “They went to Rajasthan after a hectic election campaign and returned to Assam after offering prayers at the Ajmer Sharif,” he said. The AIUDF leaders had, however, said they were wary of the BJP indulging in horse-trading. They cited the examples of Meghalaya, Manipur and Goa where the Congress failed to form the government despite emerging as the single largest party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-moves-to-insulate-candidates/article34347658.ece
18 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Family haunted by COVID-19 deaths||As a second wave of COVID sweeps through the country, a family in remote Angargaon in Odisha is haunted by the tragedy that the virus visited on them last year. The Sahu family in Ganjam district had little notice of the disease that was to wipe out an entire generation — four brothers who fell victim to the coronavirus, three within days of each other. In the months that followed, the women forged bonds to help each other through the devastating time. Sujata Sahu, Kama Sahu, and Truptimayee Sahu and other women members of the family, however, have little safeguards this time round either. They continuously pray that nothing happens to them this time. “What else could the epidemic have snatched from us? All our earning male members succumbed to coronavirus one after another. Though the tsunami of grief left family members shattered, we cannot afford to stay indoors now,” says Sujata, whose husband Krushnachandra was the first victim of the virus. Youngest of five sons of Mohanta Sahu, Krushnachandra, 42, a grocer, first complained of continuous fever in the second week of July 2020. With Ganjam district emerging as a COVID-19 hotspot, he had gone to Khalikote for a RT-PCR test. However, before the result came, his condition deteriorated and he died on July 14 while on his way to Bhubaneswar. Around this time, his immediate elder brother, Mangaraj, 45, who ran a medicine store, had started experiencing uneasiness. As with Krushnachandra, he died on July 16 before he was admitted for full-fledged treatment. Tragedy continued to stalk the family. Their elder brother, Basudev, 48, who ran a business renting out buses and tractors, was next to fall victim. He died on July 18, two days after his younger brother died. The death of the brothers had created panic in Angargaon village forcing the administration to conduct special COVID-19 testing for the family members. Last rites “Eight members of our family had tested positive and were sent to a quarantine centre immediately. The situation had gone from bad to worse. Even rituals associated with death for my uncles could not be performed as per custom as my aunts were in quarantine,” recalled Santos Sahu, 34, nephew of the deceased and the only one left in the village to take care of the big family. And just when everything appeared to be settling down, COVID-19 struck again. The eldest Sahu brother, Dhabaleswar, 60, who was also running a grocery shop, developed similar symptoms and tested positive. He died in September. Two years ago, Bhikari Sahu, second of the five siblings, had died of a kidney ailment. Women are rarely seen managing businesses in villages. However, after the deaths of the Sahu brothers, their grocery shops are now managed by their wives while Mangaraj’s eldest daughter has dropped out of nursing studies to run the drug store in Angargaon. “We know the second wave is much more dangerous than the first one. But if we do not come out of our house to manage businesses, the food insecurity will kill us before the second wave of COVID-19 does,” said Truptimayee, who helps manage the drug store. The deaths in quick succession of the breadwinners has meant that children have been pulled out of private schools; some have joined the local village school. “We are taking all precautions to stay away from the COVID-19. Children, who were scared after their fathers’ deaths last year, have learnt the lesson hard way. We hope to remain untouched by the second wave,” said Kama Sahu, wife of Dhabaleswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-family-haunted-by-covid-deaths/article34347671.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||PM suggests curtailment of Haridwar Kumbh Mela||As over 2.3 lakh COVID-19 cases were reported in India on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought a curtailment of the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. The Juna akhara , a prominent congregation of Hindu seers, announced that it was ending its participation in the event at his behest. Tweeting on Saturday morning, Mr. Modi said that he had spoken to Swami Awadeshananda Giri over the telephone and, after enquiring about the health of the Hindu seers gathered for the Kumbh, suggested that the event be curtailed. “I made a suggestion that now that the Shahi Snans (ritual baths in the Ganga on specific dates) were done, the rest of the events could be undertaken in a symbolic way,” he tweeted. Swami Awadeshananda Giri, who heads the Juna akhara , later announced that “protecting the lives of Indians was more important amid the rising pandemic” and that the akhara had today performed the ritual immersion of deities, which usually happens at the end of the Kumbh. The Kumbh Mela sees lakhs of devotees converge every 12 years and involves many rituals, including ritual baths in the Ganga on specific dates. This time, on the day of the Baisakhi Snan on April 14, more than 9.5 lakh devotees from various akhara s took a dip. One seer, Mahamandleshwar Kapil Dev Das, reportedly died of COVID-19, while scores of seers tested positive for the coronavirus. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani declared that all pilgrims returning from the Kumbh to the State would undergo COVID-19 tests at railway stations and other ports of entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-suggests-curtailment-of-haridwar-kumbh-mela/article34347680.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Patients in Delhi running from pillar to post for a bed||When Sanjay Singh’s 55-year-old father complained of breathlessness on Thursday morning, the family had no clue how long it would take them to get a hospital bed. It finally took them a day and trips to five hospitals. “We got him admitted yesterday afternoon [Friday] at Lok Nayak Hospital but we do not know yet whether he has COVID-19 or not,” Mr. Singh, 35, said outside the hospital. Relatives of many COVID-19 patients said that they had to travel to multiple hospitals to find a bed as they are unavailable in many hospitals with a record surge in cases. Outside Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Delhi government hospital, many relatives said that they got a bed without much hassle after being referred there by other hospitals, but some complained about lack of proper facilities at the hospital. Did not have report “On April 15, my father started having breathlessness. When we went to Raja Harish Chandra Hospital, where my father’s treatment was going on, they did not consider us. Later, we went to Maharishi Valmiki Hospital where they gave him a nebuliser and sent him home,” Mr. Singh said. He said that his father did not have a COVID-19 positive report as none of the hospitals tested him. As per rules, COVID-19-suspected patients can also be admitted at a hospital for COVID-19 treatment. “Yesterday [Friday] early morning, his condition worsened and we went to Ambedkar Hospital. There, they gave him oxygen. He was a suspected COVID-19 patient and was referred to Safdarjung and Lok Nayak Hospital. When we went to Safdarjung, they said that they did not have beds. Finally, we got a bed at Lok Nayak around 11.30 a.m.,” he said. Mr. Singh said that though the admission was almost smooth, facilities were “not good”. Vinay Kumar, 33, also said that he had to go to four hospitals to get his mother admitted. “First, we went to a private hospital when she started having breathing issues. There, the X-ray report showed some patches in her lungs. Then, we went to ESI, Vivek Vihar, where doctors referred us to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. When we reached the hospital, they informed us that they did not have any beds. In the end, around 1.30 a.m. today, we managed to get a bed at Lok Nayak Hospital,” he said. Gopal, 35, a daily wage labourer from Mangolpuri said that they had to go to three other hospitals before Lok Nayak Hospital in search of beds to get his wife admitted. “Finally, when we came here around 9.30 p.m., she fainted. While waiting to get admission, only after we started shouting, they rushed her to the hospital,” he added. Lok Nayak Hospital had around 650 vacant beds on Saturday afternoon, as per a government website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patients-in-delhi-running-from-pillar-to-post-for-a-bed/article34347904.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Regulate groundwater use in cricket fields’||Following a plea seeking remedial action against the use of groundwater for the maintenance of cricket fields, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Jal Shakti Ministry to consider regulating extraction of groundwater for the purpose. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “The issues for consideration may inter alia include prohibiting use of groundwater for maintenance of the playgrounds at least during the time no match is actually being played and exploring utilisation of STP (sewage treatment plant) treated water.” ‘Must for environment’ “It may also include ensuring that effective rainwater harvesting and water storage or recharging systems are installed in all playgrounds to save the groundwater,” the Bench said. The green panel said conservation of water was of utmost importance to the environment. ‘Save potable water’ “Every effort is required to save potable water for drinking, and cricket or other such grounds may be maintained, as far as possible, from the sewage treatment plant of high quality having no pathogens and offensive components. Also rainwater harvesting and storage of such water may be ensured,” the Bench said. “We hope the authorities concerned will act with a sense of responsibility and duty to reduce environmental footprint and societal need for conservation of every drop of water.” The directions came on a plea moved by petitioner Haider Ali seeking action against the use of groundwater for maintaining cricket fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/regulate-groundwater-use-in-cricket-fields/article34347646.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar to visit Abu Dhabi today||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will visit Abu Dhabi on Sunday, the Ministry has said. The visit comes in the backdrop of reports that the United Arab Emirates has been holding back channel talks to restart dialogue between India and Pakistan. “At the invitation of his counterpart, Mr. Jaishankar will be visiting Abu Dhabi on Sunday. His discussions will focus on economic cooperation and community welfare,” said Arindam Bagchi, official spokesperson. The announcement came within hours of declaration from Pakistan that Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi is visiting the UAE for three days from Saturday. Islamabad has said Mr. Qureshi will discuss “regional issues” with the UAE leadership. It is not clear if there will be an unexpected ice-breaking moment between the two sides in the UAE. While Pakistan has welcomed the reports of third party mediation, India has maintained silence as it goes against the traditional position on diplomacy with Pakistan. India maintains officially that issues with Pakistan are of a bilateral nature that has no space for third party mediation or intervention. UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan visited Delhi on February 26 in what turned out to be a quiet consultation. He did not meet the media and left after meeting Mr. Jaishankar. Re-employment issues India is also concerned about the re-employment of the large number of the working force who lost their jobs in the midst of the pandemic in the Gulf. A large number of them returned to Kerala. India has maintained that it is coordinating with Gulf countries to ensure continued employment of its citizens. This issue is also expected to feature in the discussion in the UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-to-visit-abu-dhabi-today/article34347656.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia for reducing immunisation age||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in her address to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday, said the government must reconsider its priority for vaccine candidates by reducing the immunisation age to 25 and above, especially for those with comorbidities. Ms. Gandhi said the second wave of COVID- 19 had caught the government off guard once again, despite the fact that it had a year to prepare. She urged the government not to take an adversarial position. “Let us ensure that the suggestions our party puts forward are considered by the Government of India in the spirit of true democratic traditions. Taking on these challenging times as Indians, rather than as political opponents, will be true Rajadharma ,” Ms. Gandhi said. She urged the government to waive GST on medicine and medical equipment required to fight COVID-19, provide Rs. 6,000 as monthly financial assistance to the needy families and ensure safe transportation for the migrant workers who had already started returning home due to partial lockdowns in various cities. She said the high GST rate was also flagged by the Congress Chief Ministers in a recent meeting with her. Drugs such as remdesivir and medical oxygen as also other basic supplements were subjected to GST at 12%. Even basic equipment such as oximeters and life-saving critical equipment such as ventilators were subjected to 20% GST. “In the current state of affairs, this is inhuman and untenable,” she said. Fresh partial curfews and travel restrictions to control the situation would once again restrict economic activity, pushing the daily wagers to an edge, Ms. Gandhi pointed out. “It is, therefore, imperative to provide monthly income support and transfer an amount of Rs. 6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account,” she said.   It is imperative to provide monthly income support and transfer an amount of Rs. 6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-for-reducing-immunisation-age/article34347676.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pak. man held in drug smuggling case||In a joint operation, the BSF and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a Pakistani national and an Indian on Saturday and seized 20.57 kg of heroin being smuggled in via Punjab, an NCB press release said. A team of the BSF’s 14th battalion spotted the Pakistani national attempting to push the heroin consignment using a 13-ft PVC pipe over the fence in Ferozpur, the release said. The suspect, identified as Amjad Ali of Lahore, was arrested and the drugs were seized by the team. A mobile phone, one power bank and a 16-ft. piece of cloth was found in his possession, apart from some documents related to Jarnail Singh of Ferozpur. The NCB arrested Jarnail Singh from Vadodara. He is now being questioned to track down other members of the syndicate. “The NCB will seek assistance in arresting the Pakistani nationals who are involved with Amjad Ali,” said an agency official. The NCB’s Amritsar unit has taken up further investigation. During interrogation, the accused disclosed the names of two other Pakistani nationals, residents of Lahore and Kasur, respectively. The intended receivers on the Indian side were also identified and searches conducted at their possible hideouts in Punjab and Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-man-held-in-drug-smuggling-case/article34347642.ece
18 April 2021||Kolkata,||My phone is being tapped, says Mamata||Alleging that her phone is being tapped, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that her government would order an inquiry by the Crime Investigation Department. She was addressing a public meeting at Galsi in Bardhaman, a day after the BJP released audiotapes in which she is heard speaking to her party candidate at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar after four persons were killed in firing by Central forces on the polling day on April 10. “They [BJP leaders] are eavesdropping even on our everyday conversation. It seems they are tapping our phone calls… I will order a CID probe into the issue. I will not spare anyone involved in such snooping activities,” she said, adding she knew who were behind the issue. While the BJP leadership alleged that the conversation in the audiotape proved that the Trinamool was doing “politics over bodies”, the Trinamool leadership said there was nothing wrong in the talk. Senior Trinamool leaders on Saturday also wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer alleging that tapping the Chief Minister’s phone by the BJP is an illegal act. They said tapping the phone was violation of the right to privacy of the Chief Minister. At another meeting in Purbosthali, the Chief Minister accused the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of aggravating the COVID-19 situation in the State. “They [BJP] leaders have come from outside and occupied all the hotels and guest houses and all of them are COVID-19 positive,” she said. She said her party had sought clubbing the remaining three phases (April 22, 26, and 29) but the Election Commission had reduced the time for the campaign. “This means we can campaign for fewer days. Just because Narendra Modi has no more programmes and there is no crowd at Amit Shah rallies, the EC has done this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/my-phone-is-being-tapped-says-mamata/article34347661.ece
18 April 2021||Patna,||Assembly Secretariat in Bihar shut till April 25||As the COVID-19 positive cases continue to surge in Bihar, a multi-party virtual meeting called by Governor Phagu Chauhan is under way on Saturday to review the situation and take suggestions from all political parties. Meanwhile, the Assembly Secretariat was shut with as many as 44 staff tested COVID-19 positive in the last three days. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha has ordered complete closure of the Assembly Secretariat till April 25. On Friday, the State government ordered the closure of gyms, sports complexes and museums till May 15 in view of the surging pandemic cases. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar held a high-level meeting on Friday to review the steps taken so far to check the spread of the infection in the State. Course of action “After an all-party meeting on Saturday, we will hold talks with the District Magistrates and other top officials and then take the next course of action regarding COVID-19 in the State,” Mr. Kumar said after the meeting. Asked if a lockdown or night curfew was in the offing, Mr. Kumar said, “Everything would be discussed in the all-party meeting on Saturday and with district officials on April 18.” The State government is working to meet the shortage of oxygen cylinders and beds in hospitals. Nalanda Medical College and Hospitals here has been declared a dedicated COVID-19 hospital. “We are keeping tabs on each and every detail regarding the COVID-19 surge and taking all possible measures to help people infected with the disease,” Mr. Kumar said. In the past 24 hours, 6,253 positive cases were detected in Bihar. As many as 1,688 deaths have been reported with 112 deaths in the past 16 days. The total number of active cases in the State is 33,465 and the recovery rate is 88.57%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assembly-secretariat-in-bihar-shut-till-april-25/article34347669.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Record turnout of 86.2% for Sagar bypoll||The entire polling process was incident-free, thanks to the clockwork policing and deployment of paramilitary personnel, in addition to civil and special police staff to centres with large number of voters. While there were 108 polling stations that were identified as critical and hyper-critical, there were no incidents of disorder and the polling was peaceful. Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel, and General Observer Sajjansingh R Chavan, toured polling stations in Nagarjunasagar town and Anumula, and reviewed arrangements and the polling trend. The record polling in Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency, observers and officials believe, is due to the rigorous follow-up the leaders of political parties ensured in the past one month. According to a few officials monitoring poll code violations, “each voter and each house in the constituency was contacted at least thrice by each political party during the campaigns. Some leaders came up with ‘one in-charge per-50 persons’ village and habitation-wise.” Polling officials transported the voting material to the reception centre and strong rooms set up near Arajalabavi in Nalgonda town, 60 km away. Counting of votes, as per schedule, will be held on May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-turnout-of-862-for-sagar-byelection/article34348453.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Uddhav call on oxygen fails to reach Modi||However, the Union government said it was “shocked and saddened to see petty politics being played” over the issue of oxygen shortage by Mr. Thackeray. Two day ago, Mr. Thackeray had written to Mr. Modi seeking his intervention in ensuring supply of Remidisivir and permission to airlift oxygen from northeastern States to Maharashtra, which is facing a shortage. Speaking at a press conference in Delhi, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram lashed out at Mr. Modi saying that he should have been at his desk coordinating with the State governments instead of campaigning in West Bengal. Hitting back, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in a strongly worded statement said he was “saddened to see Uddhav Thackeray’s gimmicks” on the issue of oxygen supply and added that Mr. Thackeray needed to “stop his daily dose of shameless politics and take responsibility.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-call-on-oxygen-ignored-by-pm/article34347639.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||PM calls for more temporary hospitals||The Ministry added that India now has 2,463 testing labs that have a combined daily testing capacity of 15 lakh. The three-tier health infrastructure to treat COVID according to severity now includes 2,084 dedicated COVID hospitals (of which 89 are under the Centre and the rest 1995 with States), 4,043 dedicated COVID health centres and 12,673 COVID care centres. They have 18,52,265 beds in total including the 4,68,974 beds in the dedicated COVID hospitals. “The Centre gave 34,228 ventilators to States last year. Fresh supply of the lifesaving machines — 1,121 ventilators are to be given to Maharashtra, 1,700 to Uttar Pradesh, 1,500 to Jharkhand, 1,600 to Gujarat, 152 to Madhya Pradesh and 230 to Chhattisgarh,” said the Minister. At the meeting the issues of augmenting supply of oxygen cylinders, stepping up supply of Remdesivir in hospitals, adding to the ventilator stock and enhanced supply of vaccine doses were raised by almost all the States and UTs. Several states also demanded dovetailing of medical oxygen supply lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-for-more-temporary-hospitals/article34347640.ece
18 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Panel to list indigenous inhabitants in Nagaland||The Nagaland government has decided to form a joint consultative committee (JCC) involving all traditional tribal bodies and, civil society organisations for taking an exercise to register the State’s indigenous inhabitants. The decision was taken at a meeting on Friday with leaders of the community-based and social organisations as well as political parties in State capital Kohima on the issue of preparing the Register of Indigenous Inhabitants of Nagaland (RIIN). In July 2019, the Nagaland government launched the RIIN, seen as a variant of Assam’s National Register of Citizens that excluded 19.06 lakh people out of about 3.3 crore applicants. The exercise was put on hold after some civil society and extremist groups opposed its stated objective of preventing outsiders from obtaining fake indigenous certificates for seeking jobs and benefits of government schemes. December 1, 1963 — the day Nagaland attained Statehood — was the cut-off date for determining the “permanent residents” of the State. Apart from non-Nagas, the “outsiders” implied Nagas living in areas beyond the boundaries of Nagaland could be left out of the RIIN. “The JCC will be headed by Home Commissioner Abhijit Sinha and include members from the Central Nagaland Tribes’ Council, Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation and the Tenyemie People’s Organisation,” Mmhonlumo Kikon, the adviser to the State government, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-list-indigenous-inhabitants-in-nagaland/article34347644.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Four Sikhs among eight killed in U.S. shooting||“This is very heart-breaking. The Sikh community is devastated by this tragic incident,” community leader Gurinder Singh Khalsa said after meeting family members of the employees of the FedEx facility. Late Friday night, the Marion County Coroner’s Office and Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) released the names of the victims. Four victims who belong to the Sikh community are: Amarjeet Johal, 66, Jaswinder Kaur, 64, Amarjit Skhon, 48, and Jaswinder Singh, 68. The first three deceased are women. Other victims include Karli Smith, Alexander Matt, Samaria Blackwell and John White. Another Sikh community member, Harpreet Singh Gill, 45, was hit by a bullet near the eye and is now in hospital. U.S. President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris have expressed condolences over the tragic killings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-sikhs-among-eight-killed-in-us-shooting/article34347645.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sporadic violence marks fifth phase of Bengal poll||Biddhanagar and Baranagar, two constituencies bordering Kolkata, witnessed large-scale violence as supporters of the Trinamool and the BJP clashed. Supporters of both parties hurled bricks and stones at each other and also engaged in physical violence in the Shantinagar area of Bidhannagar. A huge contingent of Central forces had to be rushed in to control the situation. In Baranagar constituency, BJP candidate and actor Parno Mitra was allegedly gheraoed by Trinamool activists while she was touring the constituency. Later in the day, the Trinamool supporters alleged that personnel of the Central forces used force against them. In adjoining Kamarhati constituency, BJP candidate Raju Banerjee alleged that he was attacked by Trinamool supporters at the behest of Trinamool candidate Madan Mitra. In the fifth phase of election, the ECI had deployed the highest number of 1,071 companies of Central forces. Despite the unprecedented deployment of forces, voters and polling agents alleged that they were being threatened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sporadic-violence-marks-fifth-phase-of-bengal-poll/article34347647.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA declares Rs. 7 lakh bounty on Hidma||According to a police dossier accessed by The Hindu , Rao was last spotted in the “cut-off” area in Odisha’s Malkangiri district in November 2019. An engineer, Rao heads the intelligence and military wing of the banned group and is active in the Abujhmaad area of Chhattisgarh. Rao replaced Ganapathi as general secretary in February 2017. A reward of Rs. 10 lakh each has also been announced for information on Polit Bureau members Mallojula Venugopal and Katkam Sudarshan. Venugopal who often issues statements on behalf of the banned group by the name “Abhay” also has a reward of Rs. 1.55 crore on his arrest as announced by the States of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Odisha. Sudarshan has Rs. 1.4 crore reward by other State police. Sudarshan was last spotted in July 2020 in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli and Sudarshan at Bhattiguda in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur. The rewards were announced by NIA on April 1 against 21 Maoists. The NIA had taken over the investigations in the killing of Bhima Mandavi and four security personnel from Chhattisgarh Police in 2019 but the central agency was handed over the case documents and properties by the police only in March 2020, the agency said. It arrested six persons for providing logistics to Maoists and a chargehseet was filed in October 2020 where the NIA said that “the decision to kill Bhima Mandavi, the then MLA of Dantewada, was taken at Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) level meeting held in December 2018 in West Bastar, Chhattisgarh.” The NIA said its investigation established that top Maoist leadership, Nambala Keshava Rao was actively involved in the conspiracy along with Kattam Sudarshan, Mallojulla Venugopal, Thippari Tirupati alias Dev ji, Roulla Srinivas alias Ramanna, Hidma, Ganesh Uike alias Pakka and Hanumantu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-declares-rs-7-lakh-bounty-on-hidma/article34347650.ece
18 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP urges EC to scan ‘Mamata audio clip’||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) delegation on Sunday urged Bengal Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Ariz Aftab to take note of a purported audio clip — in which Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is heard proposing a rally with the bodies of the Cooch Behar firing victims — as “such move could lead to more tension” in the State amid the ongoing elections. Senior BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, who led the delegation to the CEO’s office here, told reporters that he had apprised Mr. Aftab of the conversation that apparently took place between Ms. Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress’s Sitalkuchi nominee, and pointed out that it could lead to untoward situations in the next three phases of the polls.. The Trinamool has already described the audio clip as “bogus” and said no such conversation took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-urges-ec-to-scan-mamata-audio-clip/article34347653.ece
18 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Over 60% turnout in Rajasthan byelections||A total of 60.71% of the voters cast their votes in the by-elections to the Sujangarh (Churu), Sahara (Bhilwara) and Rajsamand Assembly constituencies in Rajasthan on Saturday. The highest polling was recorded at 67.18% in Rajsamand, followed by 59.76% in Sujangarh and 56.56% in Sahara. The bypolls will decide the fate of 27 candidates. The votes were cast at 1,145 booths amid strict security measures, while all norms under the COVID-19 related guidelines were complied with. The general polling started at 7 a.m. and continued till 5 p.m. After that, voters who were COVID-19 positive and those staying in quarantine exercised their franchise till 6 p.m. with strict adherence to the protocol. Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said each of these voters was provided with a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit. The counting of votes will be held on May 2. The ruling Congress and the Opposition BJP are locked in direct contest in the three seats. The byelections were necessitated after the death of MLAs Bhanwarl Lal Meghwal (Sujangarh), Kailash Trivedi (Sahara) and Kiran Maheshwari (Rajsamand). The Congress has fielded Mr. Meghwal’s son Manoj Meghwal in Sujangarh, Trivedi’s wife Gayatri Devi in Sahara and mining industrialist Tansukh Bohra in Rajsamand. The BJP’s candidates are veteran leader Khemaram Meghwal in Sujangarh, former MLA Ratanlal Jat in Sahara and Maheshwari’s daughter Deepti Maheshwari in Rajsamand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-60-turnout-in-rajasthan-byelections/article34347659.ece
18 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha wants vaccine available in open market||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that COVID-19 vaccines be made available in the open market. “Vaccines may be made available outside the government supply chain in the open market so that willing citizens who can afford the vaccine can avail them,” Mr. Patnaik said. He said the metropolitan cities, which report the highest number of cases, should be allowed priority vaccination and flexibility in the age criteria as these were the economic nerve centres of the country, and any lockdown in these areas would have an impact on the rest of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-wants-vaccine-available-in-open-market/article34348356.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Trade union asks Modi to stop reverse migration||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in stopping the reverse migration of workers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the country. The Central trade union, affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, wrote that India had dealt with the first wave of the pandemic in 2020 successfully under Mr. Modi’s leadership, but the “second wave has returned to haunt us and fear has gripped the entire nation once again”. “Sir, the pictures of migrant workers travelling back to their hometowns still haunts India and as the second wave grips India the fear of migration looms large, not only for the workers but the industries as well... It is also worth noting that the state has already used up its resources during last year and a lockdown in these situations may result in an economic depression we will find it very tough to recover from,” wrote BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha. The BMS said the government should enforce guidelines so that industries and workers can continue to function. “We request you to kindly take a quick call to stop this migration as it is already making headlines and provide work for these migrants in places of their stay... We request you to kindly get into dialogue with the State governments and direct them to ensure that the migration is halted for the upkeep of the faith of workers, life of the industries and growth of the nation as per the forecasts,” the BMS said. The letter said the BMS had started an awareness drive for workers about the use of masks, hand sanitisers, and physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trade-union-asks-modi-to-stop-reverse-migration/article34347672.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||IAF chief set to visit France next week||The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, is scheduled to leave for France on Tuesday on a three-day visit. He will hold talks with senior French military officials and take stock of the production and delivery timelines of some of the remaining Rafale jets. The IAF chief is scheduled to hold extensive talks with the Chief of Staff of the French Air Force, Philippe Lavigne, on ways to further expand cooperation between the two forces, sources said. There is a possibility of Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria flagging off a batch of five or six Rafale jets from the Merignac airbase in the French port city of Bordeaux for India, they said. Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of Rafale jets, was scheduled to send six Rafale aircraft to India by April-end. Second squadron The arrival of the new batch of the aircraft will pave the way for the IAF to raise a second squadron of the Rafale jets. The new squadron will be based in the Hasimara airbase in West Bengal. The first Rafale squadron is based in the Ambala Air Force Station. A squadron comprises nearly 18 aircraft. Dassault Aviation has delivered 14 jets to the Indian Air Force so far. Sources said the Chief of the Air Staff is also likely to visit a couple of French military bases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-chief-set-to-visit-france-next-week/article34347638.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Withdraw advisory on J&K reporting’||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Saturday called for the Kashmir police to withdraw its advisory against live reporting of encounters. In a statement, the guild said the police had forbidden journalists from reporting live encounters with militants “on the plea that it is ‘likely to incite violence’ or that it can promote ‘anti-national sentiment’. Nothing can be further from the truth.” The EGI said the security forces were trying to escape scrutiny about the events behind instances of violence. “Live reporting from conflict areas, including encounters between security forces and militants, is one of the most important journalistic duties of any responsible media, and requires extreme grit and determination on the part of reporters. At best, there may be some guidelines that can be issued with respect to reporting from such scenes, with the aim of protecting the integrity of tactics and plans of security agencies, as well as to avoid journalists from interfering with the evolving situation and from sensationalising the issue that can stir up emotions at audience’s end,” the guild said. It said the Kashmir police advisory was draconian and undemocratic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/withdraw-advisory-on-jk-reporting/article34347641.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poll for 2 seats in Bengal, 1 in Odisha put off||The Election Commission on Saturday adjourned polling for the Jangipur and the Shamshergunj Assembly constituencies in West Bengal scheduled for April 26. Revolutionary Socialist Party candidate Pradip Nandy, 73, died on Friday after testing positive. He was the second candidate in the State to die of COVID-19 within 24 hours. Congress candidate for the Shamshergunj constituency Rezaul Haque died of the infection on Thursday. The EC also adjourned the bypoll for the Pipli Assembly constituency in Odisha following the death of Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj also due to the virus. “These political parties will be provided an opportunity to nominate another candidate,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poll-for-2-seats-in-bengal-1-in-odisha-put-off/article34347654.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||From hospital to booth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-hospital-to-booth/article34347665.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Rijiju tests positive for COVID-19||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said that he has tested positive for COVID-19 but is feeling “fit and fine”. The 49-year-old tweeted, “I’m taking the advice of the doctors. I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, exercise self-quarantine and get themselves tested. I’m physically fit and fine.” Mr. Rijiju was in Uttarakhand on Friday to inaugurate a Water Sports and Adventure Institute in Tehri. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who recovered recently from the infection, was with him at the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rijiju-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34347667.ece
18 April 2021||BELAGAVI/ KALABURAGI/YADGIR,TAMIL NADU||Peaceful polling in Karnataka byelections||Barring a few instances of boycott and an overarching presence of the pandemic, polling for the byelections to the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency and Maski and Basavakalyan Legislative Assembly constituencies passed off smoothly on Saturday. Maski Assembly segment recorded the highest polling percentage of 70.48 followed by Basavakalyan – 59.57 and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency – 54.61. Unmindful of the scorching sun, people came out to vote in good numbers in Basavakalyan and Maski. While Maski recorded an increase in polling percentage when compared with that in the 2018 Assembly election (68.98%), Basavakalyan and Belagavi recorded a lower voting percentage when compared with the 2018 Assembly election (64.85%) and the 2019 Lok Sabha election (67.21%), respectively. Polling in all the three constituencies began on a slow pace but picked up by noon. The Election Commission had made arrangements to ensure adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines during the polling process, including markings for queues. Maintaining physical distance and wearing of masks were ensured strictly and hand sanitisers were offered to the voters. In Basavakalyan, Congress candidate Mala B. Narayana Rao, wife of the late B. Narayana Rao (whose death necessitated the byelection), visited the samadhi of her husband before proceeding to cast her vote. At Halapur village, the police detained a man after it was found that he was distributing voters’ slips having the name of the Congress candidate. At Vatagal village, a man was detained after his video of casting vote went viral on social media. Polling in the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency began on a dull note with only 5.54% the electorate casting their votes in the first two hours. Although it subsequently picked up, the turnout it is far less than what was recorded in 2019. Poll boycott Voters of Hire Tadasi and Chikka Tadasi villages near Ramdurg boycotted polling in protest against the delay in release of compensation to farmers who suffered flood damage in 2019 and 2020. “We are tired of submitting memorandum after memorandum to the tahsildar and the Deputy Commissioner. We have made several requests to Ministers, the MLA and the MP but to no avail,” a farmers’ representative said.  Candidate in PPE kit In Maski, BJP candidate Pratapgouda Patil, who has tested positive for COVID-19, cast his vote on Saturday wearing PPE kit at the government school in the Killa locality. Like him, several COVID-19 patients were allowed to vote following all precautions during the last hour. The former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who is recuperating from COVID-19, did not come to the booth to vote in Gokak on Saturday. Polling officers said the MLA had sent his vote by post to the polling officer in Gokak two days ago utilising the special provision made for COVID-19 patients. Several leaders who campaigned regardless of the pandemic have tested positive, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peaceful-polling-in-karnataka-byelections/article34347699.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals see faster inflow of COVID-19 patients||Many private hospitals in Chennai are running to near-full capacity. The rapid surge in daily COVID-19 cases has led to a higher and faster inflow of patients than last year. Authorities of a number of hospitals said they were operating at their maximum bed strength. Some hospitals were admitting patients depending on the number of discharges per day, while some had to keep patients waiting for want of beds. A few hospitals have decided not to stretch beyond their manpower capacity. “The inflow of patients has steadily increased in the last four weeks. The hospital has around 130 beds reserved for COVID-19 that includes the intensive care unit. In the last two weeks, our bed occupancy has been 90% to 92%. To admit new patients, we have to wait to see how many patients are being discharged on a particular day,” said Gomathy Narasimhan, chairman, Medical Advisory Board and senior consultant, HPB surgery, liver and renal transplant surgeon, Rela Hospital. Currently, most patients who come to the hospital are symptomatic, she said, adding, “We are seeing more symptomatic and more young persons. Category-wise, we are picking up more patients with moderate COVID-19.” Navin Gnanasekaran, associate director of medical services, MGM Healthcare, said COVID-19 cases had surpassed the previous peak numbers at the hospital both outpatient-wise and inpatient-wise. “Non-COVID-19 cases saw an 80% to 85% fall in numbers during the previous peak. They have not fallen by more than 10% this time around,” he said. He said around 70-100 patients with COVID-19 are the average in every corporate hospital with a minimum bed strength of 250 presently. “As a proportion, it is around 30%-50% of the total bed strength of each hospital. This includes ward beds with oxygen, ICU beds and specialised ECMO ICU beds. Most hospitals are allocating 30%-50% of their total bed strength and resources to COVID-19,” he said. Health checks, dental, ophthalmology and dermatological services (elective) were being wound up to accommodate resource allocation to COVID-19 care. “Elective surgeries and non-COVID-19 admissions are still on. The present challenge is to cater to both categories of patients as the latter has not seen a significant dip. Hence, there are challenges in converting care areas, stopping elective in-patient and out-patient work, resource allocation to the ICU and staff quarantine,” he explained. At Fortis Malar Hospital, facility director C.K. Nageswaran said the hospital had reserved 40 to 50 beds for patients with COVID-19, and bed occupancy had reached 100%. “In the previous surge, it took a long time for us to reach full capacity. In fact, COVID-19 cases were almost negligible by February 15 this year. We had decided on March 1 not to take any more patients with COVID-19. But the numbers went up from March 15, and by the end of the month, we reached our peak capacity. The numbers are increasing very fast,” he said. At Dr. Mehta’s Hospitals, Chetpet, 20 beds were earmarked for COVID-19. This included regular, oxygen beds and ICU, while 70 beds were earmarked at Velapanchavadi, said N. Kannan, group medical director, Dr. Mehta’s Hospitals. “We are getting 15 to 20 patients with COVID-19 daily. Currently, we are operating at an occupancy rate of 100%. Doctors are advising home isolation for mild to moderate cases, and severe cases are advised to go to the hospital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-see-faster-inflow-of-covid-19-patients/article34347854.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC comes to the aid of conservancy workers||The Madras High Court has ordered that the services of 1,457 conservancy workers, engaged on non-permanent basis under National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM), in Zone-7 (Ambattur) of Greater Chennai Corporation, should not be disturbed for three months. The order was passed taking into consideration the need for such frontline workers to fight the raging second wave of COVID-19. Justice S. Vaidyanathan issued the direction on a writ petition filed by Uzhaipor Urimai Iyakkam, an association representing the conservancy workers. The association had stated that its members had been performing yeomen service of cleaning the streets, lakes and so on by risking their lives during the pandemic. Yet, the GCC was planning to divest them of the job by outsourcing the work, they claimed. They sought a direction to the State government as well as the GCC to pay them the same monthly salary that is paid to permanent workers and not to disengage their services. Defending the GCC, its counsel Karthika Ashok told the court that two private firms Urbaser and Ramky Enviro Engineers had been entrusted with the conservancy work in the city under NULM and that those companies too had been engaging sanitary workers. Asserting that the corporation had not directly engaged the services of those sanitary workers, she said, in any event the workers could not prevent the corporation from outsourcing the conservancy work. After hearing both sides, the judge observed that the larger relief sought for by the petitioner association could be decided at a later stage and ordered that the services of the sanitary workers should not be disturbed till then. “The services of these persons are indispensable for the purpose of safety and health of every citizen of the State,” the judge said and directed the corporation to file a counter affidavit in the meantime. The judge also gave liberty to the petitioner association to approach the authority concerned under the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments Conferment of Permanent Status to Workmen Act of 1981.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-comes-to-the-aid-of-conservancy-workers/article34348419.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s daily tally breaches 9,000-mark||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 a day breached the 9,000-mark in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. A total of 9,344 persons tested positive and 39 persons died. The State has tested over one lakh samples in the last 24 hours, while the total number of persons discharged so far crossed nine lakh. Chennai, along with Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi districts, accounted for a little over 50% of the fresh cases. With 2,884 new cases, Chennai’s overall tally rose to 2,80,184. Chengalpattu recorded 807 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 652 cases. Tiruvallur and Tiruchi recorded 389 and 323 cases respectively. Six districts recorded 200-plus cases — Kancheepuram (248), Madurai (235), Salem (289), Thoothukudi (261), Tirunelveli (246) and Tiruppur (275). Thirty returnees were among those who tested positive. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 9,80,728. 22 deaths in Chennai Chennai recorded 22 deaths, including that of a 27-year-old man with no co-morbidities. He died within four hours of admission to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on April 14 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure. Nine of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. A 36-year-old man from Madurai died at the Government Rajaji Hospital on April 15 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. The 39 fatalities — 22 at private hospitals and 17 at government hospitals — took the toll to 13,071. With 5,263 persons discharged on Saturday, 9,02,022 persons have so far been discharged. A total of 65,635 persons were under treatment. A total of 1,00,804 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. This took the total count to 2,10,77,500. On Saturday, 1,13,349 persons were vaccinated across the State. Of them, 59,203 were aged 45 to 59 and 39,889 were senior citizens. This took the overall coverage so far to 47,05,473 — 7,05,824 healthcare workers, 7,14,122 frontline workers, 16,77,251 persons aged 45 to 59 and 16,08,276 senior citizens.  Chennai, along with Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi districts, accounted for a little over 50% of the fresh cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-breaches-9000-mark/article34347794.ece
18 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||The man who made us laugh and also question||Vivekh was one of the aspirants shepherded by legendary filmmaker K. Balachander. He introduced the actor as ‘Vivek’ in Manathil Uruthi Vendum , in which he played a small role. But what was truly a breakthrough for Vivekh was his character in Balachander’s Pudhu Pudhu Arthangal (1989), wherein he played the hero’s manager. The film saw Vivekh doing a near-perfect impression of Tamil cinema actors, particularly of Rajinikanth, and effortlessly delivering punchlines that were so unique of its time — like “ Inniki setha nalaiki paal [Death today and rituals with milk tomorrow].” This rather effortless idea of comedy spoke to the audience, and Pudhu Pudhu Arthangal was the launchpad for a career of more than three decades in making the audience laugh and introspect too. Though Vivekh was testing the water initially by playing supporting characters, it is believed that Kadhal Mannan (1998) was the first film that established him as a comedian, almost a decade after his début. Since then, there was no turning back. It could be argued that the period from 1998 to about, say, Anniyan (2005) brought out the best of Vivekh. He was beginning to get noticed and churn out blockbuster comedies in films such as Eazhayin Sirippil , Mugavaree , Kushi , Pennin Manathai Thottu , Priyamanavalee , Dhill , Dhool , Minnale , Saamy and Poovellam Un Vaasam . The 2000s saw Vivekh at his peak; he was literally the second-fiddle in every other film. The two-star culture of Tamil cinema somehow crept into the comedy space too, for Vivekh was always seen and pitted against his rival-friend Vadivelu. They produced the best of comedies when they collaborated in films like Manathai Thirudi Vittai and Middle Class Madhavan . Despite facing a tug-of-war-like situation with Vadivelu, Vivekh invented his own brand of dialogue-comedy, with a tinge of social responsibility, that was born out of instinct. There is always a Vivekh comedy for everything that is wrong in society. He questioned superstitious beliefs in movies like Minnale , Youth and Run, to name a few, and took on the subject of caste in Saamy . Train journeys, for most of us, were never the same after his hysterical portions in Anniyan , one of his all-time best performances. The larger point is: He always put social values above everything — to the point where actor Santhanam once famously said, “ Ungalaiyellam aayiram Vivekh vandhalhum thirutha mudiyathu [Even 1,000 Vivekhs cannot change you].” Perhaps after Chinni Jayanth, one can argue that Vivekh was one comedian who defied age; he played a college-mate and a sidekick to top stars, including Rajinikanth, Vijay, Ajith Kumar, Vikram, Suriya, Prashanth and Prabhudeva. He was among the earliest of comedians who successfully made the transition to character roles during the height of his career, which is usually considered a step back. While these films may not have had a separate “comedy” track, the humour was inducted into the film, and Vivekh held his own ground — whether it was the now-popular Mangalam Sir in Boys , his roles in Alaipayuthey , Kana Kanden , Perazhagan , Ennaku 20 Unnaku 18 or Chari in Anniyan . He never missed an opportunity to take a dig at actors and invariably made jokes on Kamal Haasan, and poked fun at Tamil cinema in films like Viswanathan Ramamoorthy (in which he played a struggling director), Parthiban Kanavu (known for making its parody on Mudhal Mariyathai ), Guru En Aalu (in which he spoofed Thalapathi ) and Bommalattam . Vivekh was also a rare actor who practised what he preached through comedy and lived his life based on that belief. An admirer of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, Vivekh launched Green Kalam in 2012, his eternal fight against global warming and planted over a billion saplings across the State. He had since then launched and been part of several initiatives for social causes — even as recently as when he took the COVID-19 vaccine so as to encourage people to get vaccinated. He was the recipient of the Padma Shri, India’s fourth highest civilian honour, for his contribution to Tamil cinema. Harbinger of joy Vivekh redefined his own formula in the last decade; he appeared less in films and became mindful of the projects he chose to associate himself with. Among the younger crop of actors, it should not be an exaggeration to say that Vivekh’s best collaboration came from Dhanush — something even the former himself acknowledged once. The two complemented each other so well that their comedy seemed natural — whether it is Vivekh’s Azhagusundaram from Velai Illa Pattathari or Emotional Ekambaram from Uthamaputhiran . In the latter part of his career, Vivekh switched to playing serious, character roles that worked to the film’s advantage. These include films like Manithan , Kaashmora , Brindavanam (in which he played himself) and Viswasam . He received critical acclaim for his performance as the lead in Vellai Pookal , a crime-thriller. Last year, Vivekh delivered a heart-warming performance as Dr. Kannadasan, a fertility expert in the Tamil remake of Vicky Donor (titled Dharala Prabhu ). While the film received a positive response, most critics seemed to have agreed that Vivekh was the best thing that happened to the remake. The death of Vivekh, who also sported a disarming smile, whether on or off screen, has left the fans devastated. For, the actor has become a part of our vocabulary; of the way we think and respond to situations. As we mourn in silence, one suspects that Vivekh would have said: “ Elley don’t worryyyy, be happyyyy .”  The 2000s saw Vivekh at his peak; he was literally the second-fiddle in every other film||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-man-who-made-us-laugh-and-also-question/article34347803.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Steady rise in COVID-19 infections in children||Over the past few weeks, the number of children testing positive for COVID-19 has steadily increased in the State. Though children getting infected is not uncommon given the rapid surge in cases and family clusters, paediatricians have a word of caution for parents as seeking early medical help for symptoms is crucial. Over 2,000 children aged 0 to 12 years have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 10 days. On April 17 alone, 319 children were infected, while 310 tested positive on April 16. Till date, children aged 0 to 12 years accounted for 3.6% of the total cases — of the total 9,80,728 COVID-19 cases, 35,537 fell in this age group. Keeping children safe should be a priority. Of equal importance was seeking medical help early in case of symptoms, say doctors. The Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children has 11 children in admission for COVID-19. “We had created a separate COVID-19 block and are admitting children who are symptomatic. Those who are asymptomatic are sent for home isolation and are followed-up,” said S. Ezhilarasi, the institute’s director. S. Srinivasan, State nodal officer - Child Health, added that children, who came to the ICH, presented with mild illness or were asymptomatic. “We have not seen children with moderate or severe COVID-19. Some children who were tested before undergoing treatment for leukemia or prior to surgery were found to be infected and were admitted,” he said. Janani Sankar, senior consultant, Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, said as lots of families were testing positive, the children too were infected. “Apart from respiratory symptoms, gastrointestinal symptoms such as loose stools and abdominal pain are more common in children. We will also see cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in the coming months, the symptoms of which include high grade continuous fever for four to five days with or without a rash, poor activity and lethargy,” she said. Last year, most of the children, who were infected with COVID-19, were not sick nor had acute respiratory issues, Ebor Jacob, professor, Paediatric Critical Care, Christian Medical College, Vellore, pointed out. “In the first wave, we saw no children with acute respiratory complications. Later, as the peak started to come down, we received children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome. We saw 22 children with the syndrome,” he said. Dr. Jacob added: “Colleagues in Delhi and Mumbai are now seeing children with high grade fever and respiratory issues than in the first wave. We are yet to see such issues in children here.” He stressed on the need to keep children safe. “Last year, children remained at home due to the lockdown. But now, they are moving around freely and are playing outside. We need to emphasise the importance of wearing masks to children. It is important to come to a healthcare facility early if they have fever or any respiratory difficulty,” he said. As cases continue to surge, it was better that children stayed indoors for the next two weeks and adults should ensure that all COVID-19 safety protocols were followed. If they go out, masks were compulsory for children aged more than two years. If adults tested positive, they should avoid handling children less than two years, Dr. Janani Sankar added. Dr. Srinivasan noted that COVID-19 appropriate behaviour had reduced at households. “As a result, we are now seeing an entire family getting infected. Last year, if one person in a house was infected, timely medical care and isolation protected others from getting infected. I think people are relaxed now. Household discipline is needed to keep the infection away from children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-insist-on-timely-care-in-the-case-of-children/article34348403.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s development model has few parallels, says expert||Tamil Nadu’s development trajectory had few parallels in the country and the only two States that were comparable were Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, said Jean Dreze, honorary professor, Delhi School of Economics. Speaking at a panel discussion through video conferencing following the launch of the book, The Dravidian Model - Interpreting the Political Economy , here on Friday, he said all three States invested considerably in education early on. He said a key learning from the Tamil Nadu model was the viewing of education as a matter of social justice and thereby making it a political tool. He said there could not have been a better time for such a book as the investments made by Tamil Nadu in its public health system were showing in the relatively better handling of COVID-19. Scope for improvement Acknowledging that there was scope for improvement, including in the area of education and learning outcomes as pointed out by the authors in their book, Mr. Dreze said Tamil Nadu still performed relatively better than almost all other States. M. Vijayabaskar, professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, who co-wrote the book with A. Kalaiyarasan, assistant professor, MIDS, said it dealt with two core arguments. “First is that Tamil Nadu has been able to combine relatively high rate of human resource development along with a degree of economic dynamism, with few parallels within the country. Secondly, we attribute this dynamism and distinct development trajectory to the particular form of political mobilisation, which is the mobilisation against status-based inequalities, and the conception of social justice within a caste society,” he said. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, said the book was an interesting contribution to the question of what the Dravidian experience is. He said the comparison with Kerala was, however, tricky, as it was way ahead on various indicators of human development. Further study He said two chapters in the book, highlighting the rural transformation and how industrial development in Tamil Nadu was more inclusive with more entrepreneurs from the backward classes, were significant and required further study. He said it was remarkable how Tamil Nadu remains the State that had given least space for communal forces in the country. Mr. Ram, however, said the book underplayed the extreme oppression faced by Dalits in Tamil Nadu. S. Narayan, former Economic Adviser to the Prime Minister and author of the book The Dravidian Years , said the book provided an excellent analysis of the development trajectory during the rule of Dravidian parties. He, however, wondered whether the populist movement directly led to the development in all spheres of Tamil Nadu or whether an alternative narrative was possible. Quoting Periyar E.V. Ramasamy’s views on English language, Padmini Swaminathan, former Director, MIDS, questioned the failure of the Dravidian parties in providing English language education to all sections of society. Political voice Former West Bengal Governor and professor of Ashoka University Gopalkrishna Gandhi stressed on the need for the comeback of a strong Dravidian political voice in the country as federalism was becoming voiceless today. Highlighting the criticism of rampant corruption and other failures of the Dravidian parties, he, however, said the resurgent voice should be integrous, courageous and transparent. A.R. Venkatachalapathy, professor, MIDS, who moderated the discussion, said the book addressed the lack of serious scholarship on the achievements of the Dravidian rule and it would act as a harbinger of many such works to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadus-development-model-has-few-parallels-says-expert/article34347853.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The actor who played piano, loved music||The lockdown last year helped a lot of us return to our passions or find new ones. For Tamil comedian Vivekh, away from the hectic activity on film sets, it was a time to revisit his passion: music. Everyone knows Vivekh the comedian, but not many know Vivekh the musician. He did not have any formal training in music but developed a fine taste for it, having grown up listening to the tunes of M.S. Viswanathan and Ilaiyaraaja. Last year, during the lockdown, he rekindled that passion and regularly posted videos of his playing the piano at home. He played memorable Tamil track ‘ Mannil Indha Kadhal’ ( Keladi Kanmani ) as a tribute to late singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam when he was ailing. A year ago, he even posted a video of his teaching his colleague-friend ‘Cell’ Murugan, the ‘ Unna Nenachu’ song by Ilaiyaraaja from the film Psycho . “Music is my passion,” Vivekh told this reporter during the promotional interviews of Vellai Pookal , a 2019 film in which he played a policeman. What’s that raga? In between film shoots and his social welfare activities, Vivekh kept in touch with the musicians in the film industry to keep his passion alive. He had sent a message to composer D. Imman just a few days ago, enquiring about his ‘ Kanna Kaattu Podhum ’ song in the Vijay Sethupathi-starrer Rekka . “He wanted to know which raga it was based on, and I explained that it had the traces of both Gowri Manohari and Dharmavathi,” Imman told The Hindu . “He praised me for trying out many raga-based songs in films. What’s most shocking was this happened just four days ago. It tells us how life is so fragile.” Back when Imman was in Class VIII, it was Vivekh who had words of positivity for his mushrooming musical talent. “He adjudged a cultural competition in my school, Don Bosco, and gave me a special mention. He said I played like a connoisseur and had a great future ahead,” recalled Imman. Vivekh enjoyed a warm camaraderie with all composers in the industry. He has interviewed Oscar-winner A.R. Rahman a few times for television channels and spoken extensively about life and music. Vivekh even played ‘ Ottakatha Katiko ’ ( Gentleman ) in front of Rahman, who in turn jokingly told him, “Wow super... shall I leave sir?” Like many other Tamils, Vivekh learnt the intricacies of music by listening to Ilaiyaraaja’s songs. The comedian idolised the Isaignani — the first song he played on his personal keyboard was Ilaiyaraaja’s song from Annakili . He encouraged new talent and went out of his way to pat the back of younger composers like Anirudh. Even before the composer’s viral ‘ Kolaveri ’ from Dhanush-starrer Moonu (2012) was released, Vivekh called him up. “I got his number from my daughter, who studied in the same school, and told him it would become a superhit,” Vivekh recalled at a function. The comedy fraternity will miss him greatly, but the Tamil music industry has also lost a well-wisher, a piano player and most importantly, a lover of music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-actor-who-played-piano-loved-music/article34347805.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases higher than last year’s peak, says Corpn.||The number of COVID-19 cases in the second wave is higher than the peak last year, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Launching COVID-19 screening centres in the city, he said the number of cases detected a day had touched 2,500, which was higher than last year. “We have increased the samples to 20,000 every day. We will increase the samples to 25,000 shortly. The case load will decrease by testing, isolating and treating the positive cases. We have created screening centres at 12 locations for positive patients,” Mr. Prakash said. The civic body is planning to increase the number of screening centres to more than 15 shortly. Residents who have tested positive are requested to visit the screening centres. The Corporation has deployed more than 20,000 employees for COVID-19 duty and has made arrangements for transportation of patients in vehicles to the screening centres. “COVID-19 positive residents can also come to the screening centres in their own vehicles without waiting for Corporation vehicles. We have 500 medical officers on COVID-19 duty,” Mr. Prakash said. The number of COVID-19 vaccinations in the city has crossed 50,000 per day because of awareness programmes by healthcare officials. The Corporation has planned to cover more than eight lakh residents above 45 years in two weeks. Answering queries pertaining to the death of actor Vivekh, Mr. Prakash said senior officers of the Health Department had explained that the death was not because of the side effects of vaccination. Corporation Joint Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese said more than 1.33 lakh residents above 45 years had taken the second dose and there were reports of only minor side effects such as fever. The screening centres are Tiruvottiyur urban community health centre; Madhavaram General Hospital; Tondiarpet Communicable Diseases Hospital; Ayanavaram ESI Hospital; Community halls in Mogappair and Harrington Road; ICDS Centre, Anderson Road, Nungambakkam; Chennai Higher Secondary School, Nesapakkam; Hussaini School, Porur; NSTI, Guindy; and Teachers Training University, Sholinganallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-higher-than-last-years-peak-says-corpn/article34348401.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girija Vaidyanathan gets HC nod||The Madras High Court on Saturday cleared the decks for former Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan to assume office as an Expert Member of National Green Tribunal (NGT). The court vacated an interim stay imposed on her appointment and rejected a public interest litigation petition which claimed that she does not meet the statutory requirement of possessing five years of experience in dealing with environmental matters. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the former Chief Secretary, a bureaucrat with 38 years of administrative experience, had served as the Environment and Forest Secretary for nine months between December 2001 and August 2002 and as chairperson of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for 19 months between November 2003 and May 2005. These positions pertained to environmental matters. Apart from these, the judges agreed with her counsel M. Santhanaraman that her tenure as Health Secretary between August 2002 and November 2003 and once again from June 2011 to September 2012 should also be taken into consideration because then she was also the ex-officio chairperson of the State-level Advisory Committee for the implementation of Bio-medical Waste (management and handling) Rules of 1998. The judges wrote: “Matters like the critical manner of disposing of different kinds of waste, particularly biomedical waste, received attention only over the last few decades when the third respondent (Ms.Vaidyanathan) was actively in service and there is no doubt that the third respondent must have been involved in setting up the ground rules for the disposal of bio-medical waste in the State.” The first Division Bench, however, did not give much credence to her claim that she had dealt with environmental matters even in her capacity as the Chief Secretary of the State for more than two years and had even appeared before the NGT on various occasions to explain steps taken by the State on various environmental issues. “Thus, without looking into the tenuous association of the third respondent as the Chief Secretary with environmental matters and without giving credence to the number of times that she may have attended the National Green Tribunal or passed by the building, the two and a half years spent by her as Health Secretary together with the nearly 28 months combined in the Environment and Forest Department and as the Chairperson of the Pollution Control Board appears to have covered almost the entirety of the five years of requisite experience and, at any rate, if given the benefit the nearest integer of any fraction,” the Bench observed. The court also said that an exalted selection committee, comprising a sitting Supreme Court judge and a retired Supreme Court judge, would have certainly taken into consideration the experience of the Chief Secretary in dealing with environmental matters before selecting her for the post of Expert Member of NGT. In the epilogue to its judgment, the Bench said: “Though the matter is over, there are many aspects that may require to be pondered over in larger public interest. For a start, the extent of a bureaucrat’s involvement in environmental matters, which would count towards his experience of five years in such regard, may require to be spelt out with more clarity in the Act for such person to be regarded the equivalent of a real expert… After all, the adjudicatory wing of the sovereign has been divested of its authority to deal with matters pertaining to environment on the perceived lack of specialised or domain knowledge of the members who man it.” G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal, a voluntary environmental organisation, had filed the PIL petition early this year challenging the appointment of Ms. Vaidyanthan as Expert Member of the NGT and the court had stayed the appointment on April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girija-vaidyanathan-gets-hc-nod-as-green-panels-expert-member/article34348406.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Anna Nagar Extension urge Tangedco to set up a call centre nearby||The residents of a section of Anna Nagar Extension want a new Fuse Off Call (FOC) centre or restore the FOC to T.S. Krishna Nagar section office. The residents of areas comprising TVS Colony, Officers Colony, Anna Nagar Extension and Krishnanagar, complained about the difficulties in contacting the Mogappair FOC to which the localities were attached, whenever there were power breakdowns, particularly at night. Complaining about the hardships in contacting their FOC, social activist V. Rajagopal said most of the time it was engaged and the residents were forced to visit the call centre located more than 3 km away to inform about the power breakdowns. He said in case of power shutdown at night, the residents find it difficult to contact the local officials. He wanted the FOC centre at Mogappair to be segregated and a new one opened at T.S. Krishna Nagar section office. An electricity official of the West Circle of Tangedco said a proposal for creating a new FOC serving only T.S. Krishna Nagar and nearby areas had been sent and they were waiting for the proposal to be cleared at the head office. A senior official of Tangedco said irrespective of the number of consumers and area size, FOC would normally serve at least four section offices and in this case four section offices are being served by the Mogappair FOC. He said the proposal would be studied and based on the need, an FOC would be created.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-anna-nagar-extension-urge-tangedco-to-set-up-a-call-centre-nearby/article34348400.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity-affiliated colleges worried over ‘withheld’ results||Many engineering colleges affiliated to Anna University have said the results of the November-December semester examinations have been withheld for a large number of students. The results were declared on April 11. “At each institution, a minimum of 40% students are facing such issues [of the results being withheld],” a faculty member of a private engineering college said. Anna University has mentioned either “withheld” or “withheld for clarification” or “results under process” as the reason for not declaring the marks. When colleges do not pay the examination fee, the university withholds results; sometimes the university seeks clarifications about the candidates. The results of some students are withheld if malpractice is suspected. Owing to COVID-19, the university had conducted online proctored examinations using Artificial Intelligence. For the students, it was a new experience, teachers said. During the first wave of the pandemic, students took the examinations online in September. Though the university held several training sessions, some students complained of a delay in logging in for as much as 30 minutes. Some had trouble maintaining continuous Internet connectivity. A section of the students said that the marks awarded to them should have been higher. A professor of a college in Kancheepuram district said students who had no history of arrears until the sixth semester had failed in the just-concluded seventh semester. “The published results have put the future of many final-year students in jeopardy. It is blocking placement opportunities for final-year students in companies that demand “no history of arrears,” he said. Even students who were placed are worried about the impact of the results on their placement and the lack of opportunity for revaluation, the professor said. The colleges fear that the poor results would affect admissions in the coming academic year. When contacted, a university official said it would be incorrect to comment on the issue as the results were not published in full. “Many colleges have not paid the fees and some [of the results] have been withheld for suspected malpractice,” he explained.  Anna University has mentioned either ‘withheld’ or ‘withheld for clarification’ or ‘results under process’ as the reason for not declaring the marks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-varsity-affiliated-colleges-worried-over-withheld-results/article34348412.ece
18 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Green warrior who targeted to plant one crore saplings||Actor Vivekh was known for his environmental activism as much as his acting prowess. He had taken up tree planting as his life mission to fight global warming, in deference to the wishes of his friend and former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. He had launched ‘Green Kalam’, a massive tree planting drive, in 2011 and planted nearly 33.23 lakh saplings. He had targeted to plant one crore saplings through the Sai Prasanna Foundation that he had started in his son’s name. Vivek travelled across the State and spread awareness of global warming and environmental protection, especially among students. One of his recent tree plantation activities was on the premises of the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital (TNGMSSH), Omandurar Government Estate, in December last. Recalling his association with the late actor, V. Anandakumar, nodal officer, TNGMSSH, said, “He called me up one evening in September last year to appreciate my work in the fight against COVID-19. He immediately agreed to our invitation to the inauguration of the Miyawaki urban forest on the Omandurar estate. He was an enthusiastic and down-to-earth person.” His activism did not stop with tree plantation. Vivekh was also involved in health awareness campaigns, including those against dengue, after his son died of a dengue complication, he said. V. Ponraj, scientific adviser to the former President, said, “He truly lived up to Swami Vivekananda’s words on dreams — ‘Make that one idea your life — think of it, dream of it, live on that idea’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/green-warrior-who-targeted-to-plant-one-crore-saplings/article34347797.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modi leads tributes to veteran comedian||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and other leaders mourned actor Vivekh on Saturday. Mr. Modi wrote on Twitter, “The untimely demise of noted actor Vivekh has left many saddened. His comic timing and intelligent dialogues entertained people. Both in his films and his life, his concern for the environment and society shone through. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers. Om Shanti.” “He earned respect, fame and immense love not just for his performances but for his professionalism and humility. His demise is an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu, particularly to the film industry,” Mr. Purohit said in his message. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said the actor made people not only laugh but also think. His death was a huge loss to the Tamil cinema, his fans and social activists. “Mr. Vivekh is a social activist even in his personal life with high ideals. He was a role model to the youth. He was a support to the government in environment protection, forestation and the ban on plastics,” he said. The Chief Minister said none could fill the void caused by his death. “His acting and social service will remain in the Tamil hearts forever.” AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam recalled how the actor spread social awareness through his films. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran said his death was a big loss to the Tamil cinema as well as to the Tamil society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-leads-tributes-to-veteran-comedian/article34347798.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heir to the legacy of N.S. Krishnan and M.R. Radha||Almost every condolence message speaks about how actor Vivekh embedded messages against caste and superstition into his comedy. Actor Vivekh, known by his moniker ‘Chinna Kalaivanar’, was the acknowledged heir to the legacy of N.S. Krishnan and M.R. Radha for using satire to highlight social problems. While he started out playing routine roles as a member of the hero’s gang of friends, Vivekh soon grew enough in the industry to be able to position himself as someone who supported social reform, rolling these messages into his tracks. Writer Stalin Rajangam says Vivekh is part of the modern artistic tradition that believes in delivering social messages through art. “During the freedom movement and the Dravidian movement, the activists used plays to propagate social and political messages. Later, comedy and songs in films were used predominantly to turn focus on socio-political issues. Famous lyricist Pattukottai Kalyanasundaram is also a part of this tradition. Vivekh realised that there was a vacuum in the Tamil cinema during the 1990s and 2000s and adopted the techniques of M.R. Radha and N. S. Krishnan though he himself was not directly part of the rationalist movement. Vivekh’s formative years as a student of American College, where he had been part of theatre plays that dealt with social issues, might have played a crucial role in his growth,” he said. Prince Ennares Periyar, organiser, Self-Respect Movement Media Centre, said Vivekh ensured mainstream attention to several of Periyar’s key messages such as the need for shedding superstitious beliefs, caste bias and discrimination, empowering women and developing scientific temper. “Until he did Tirunelveli , Vivekh used to act as the hero’s friend in college, making usual jokes. Only in Tirunelveli , did he go from imitating M.R. Radha to taking inspiration from him and propagating Periyarist ideals. The dialogue spoken in the film “ Ungala Ellam Ethana Periyar Vandhalum Thirutha Mudiyaadhu” became so famous that it took Periyar to the next generation,” he said. Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani bestowed the Periyar Virudhu on Vivekh after the release of the film in 2000. Two other films that are cited as examples of such messaging are Minnale and Saamy . In Minnale , the character played by Vivekh meets with an accident and will make fun of the ‘lemon’ tied to a lorry, before asking “Is the vehicle going to run because of the lemon, when it has 750 spare parts? You people cannot be reformed.” In Saamy , Vivekh played an orthodox Brahmin who spoke against caste bias and discrimination and in favour of education for all. His passing will leave a vacuum in the film industry, but his role as a man with a message will be missed sorely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heir-to-the-legacy-of-ns-krishnan-and-mr-radha/article34347799.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fitness test for police jobs put off||The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) has postponed the certificate verification, physical measurement test, endurance test and physical efficiency test for common recruitment to the posts of Grade-II police constable, Grade-II jail warder and firemen for 2020. These tests, which were to start on April 21, have been postponed for administrative reasons. The date will be announced later, said the Director-General of Police/Chairman of the TNUSRB in a note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fitness-test-put-off/article34347809.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC junks PIL plea against shops, cafeterias in walkways of malls||The Madras High Court on Saturday termed as “rubbish” a public interest litigation petition which sought penal action against shopping malls where cafeterias and shops had been put up even on walkways and other common spaces meant for visitor movement. It said the petition was a classic example of how the PIL jurisdiction was abused by some and how a venerated system had become extortionist. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations while dismissing the PIL petition preferred by R. Varaaki. Wondering how a PIL petition could be filed with respect to use of space inside private shopping malls, the court said if the cafeterias and shops on common spaces did not appeal to the aesthetic sense of the petitioner, it would be well within his rights to not visit such malls. On the other hand, if he had any specific complaint against a specific mall, he could approach the authorities concerned after establishing his locus standi . Disapproving of vague and sweeping allegations levelled by the litigant that most malls utilised common space for commercial purposes to avoid payment of taxes, the court imposed a token cost of Rs. 100 and directed him to pay it to a charity of his choice. It restrained him from filing PIL petitions for one year and stated that no such case filed by him would be taken up for hearing without the leave of the Bench concerned. “The court will be better served if such rubbish is avoided,” the judges said and requested the Bar, in general, to exercise rudimentary discretion before filing such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-junks-pil-plea-against-shops-cafeterias-in-walkways-of-malls/article34348399.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thunderstorm for a few more days in some districts||Some places in southern districts and the Western Ghats may receive light to moderate rain till April 21. Dry weather may return to other parts of Tamil Nadu from Sunday and the mercury level is expected to soar from April 20, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD has forecast that thunderstorm with light to moderate rain may occur over a few places in Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi districts and in the Western Ghats till Monday, and it is likely to be restricted to one or two places over the Western Ghats from Monday. Officials said two weather systems had triggered the thunderstorms throughout the State. Trough spotted A trough extending from Vidarbha (Maharashtra) to the interior Tamil Nadu and another cyclonic circulation over Kerala and neighbourhood influenced thunderstorms. In 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Saturday, Srivilliputhur and Virudhunagar received 5 cm of rainfall each, the highest amount for the day. Several other places in southern parts of Tamil Nadu recorded light rain. The IMD has warned that the maximum temperature was likely to increase by two or three degrees Celsius on April 20 and 21 in 22 districts, particularly over the northern parts of the State. Dry westerlies are expected to return over the region and cause the temperature to soar. Some districts to experience a spike in the mercury level are Tiruvallur, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Tiruchi, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur. On Saturday, Chennai experienced a slightly above normal temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius. The same weather trend may continue till Tuesday, and the day temperature will be around 36 degrees Celsius, said the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thunderstorm-may-continue-over-a-few-districts-of-tn/article34347833.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A song that’s now a Dalit anthem||The song may be nearly four decades old, but its nuanced use in recent films has given it a new resonance among the oppressed classes. As the heroine enters in Karnan , the latest Dhanush starrer, playing in the background is ‘Poraadada, Vaalenthada,’ played on the nagaswaram, accompanied by ‘naiyaandi melam’. The film’s director, Mari Selvaraj, seems to be enchanted by this song. He had also used it in his previous work, Pariyerum Perumal. Originally composed in 1983, for the film Alai Osai , in which actor Vijayakant played the lead role, the song has now become an anthem of sorts for Dalits; and the voice of those who stand up against oppression. Mari Selvaraj’s film has actually captured the song’s popularity among Dalits in the southern districts of the State. The song is also featured in marriages. “In the past, there used to be a request from the audience to play it once or twice. Now I don’t know how many times I play it during a temple festival (kodai). Another ‘naiyandi melam’ player told me that he had played it 50 times in a temple in Kanniyakumari district in three days,” said ‘naiyandi melam’ artiste and nagaswaram player Panakudi Siva. The audience, particularly the youth, will make a beeline to offer money to the nagaswaram player before requesting him to render the song. In Karnan , the tune was played by the troupe of Ramanathapuram-based P. Marungan, one of the leading ‘naiyandi melam’ artistes. He and his troupe also played for other songs in the film. One can listen to him and other troupe playing ‘Poraadada’ on YouTube. Asked about the song’s popularity, Ilayabharathi, the poet who penned it, said he was happy that it had struck a chord with the people. “Even after four decades, its message seems to be evergreen,” he said, while acknowledging the opportunity given to him by music director Ilaiyaraaja and film director Sirumugai Ravi to write the song. But performers should be careful about playing the song in the temples of other communities, where it may not be taken lightly, because in its ‘saranam’ there is a reference to Dalit communities. “One of my friends was let off with a warning for playing the song in a temple run by caste Hindus. But it will not happen in all places,” recalled Mr. Siva.  One of my friends was let off with a warning for playing the song in a temple run by caste Hindus. But it will not happen in all placesPanakudi SivaNagaswaram player||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-song-thats-now-a-dalit-anthem/article34348416.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Musician P. Vasanth Kumar no more||Gentle giant … that would best describe P. Vasanth Kumar, musician, mentor and writer, who passed away on Saturday. He was 65. He is survived by his wife, a son and daughter. Son of the late Sulochana Pattabhiraman, eminent musician and musicologist, he was a member of the Executive Committee of The Music Academy. It was in the company of the seven notes that he grew up, literally, imbibing the best from veterans. He carried his scholarship with aplomb and rare humility. A dedicated teacher, he imparted his knowledge holding nothing back, very much like his mother. After her demise, he took her young disciples under his wings, making the transition smooth. He not only nurtured talent, but helped merit find platform. A reliable resource person for The Hindu Friday Review , he contributed flawless write-ups. His radar would pick up any mistakes in reports on music. A gifted disciple of the doyen Pitchumani Iyer, Vasanth Kumar was a torch-bearer of that pristine legacy, his veena producing pure melody. A connoisseur of all styles of music, he was an ardent fan of MLV. “It turned out that we named him perfectly,” chuckled his mother once, talking about Vasanth’s adoration of the genius. “He had details about MLV’s concerts on his fingertips,” says violin exponent Kanyakumari, for whom Vasanth was like a brother. He had an encyclopaedic knowledge of music to whom we could turn to clear any doubt,” she says. “I have lost a genuine friend and an honest critic of my music,” says Sudha Ragunathan. “His large heart and open mind made him appreciate good music, irrespective of the parampara,” she says. Recording his condolences on social media, historian V. Sriram said, “Carnatic music has lost a scholar and fine vainika in the passing of P. Vasanth Kumar, for long a committee member of the Music Academy, and above all a dear friend of mine... At the Madras Music Academy he was a committee member who knew his music theory and put it to good use.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/musician-p-vasanth-kumar-no-more/article34348410.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police probe idols that went missing from temple 50 years ago||The Idol Wing-CID has registered a case in connection with the missing of eight antique idols from the Aatkonda Nathar Temple at lraniyur in Sivaganga district. Preliminary investigation had revealed that the idols went missing more than 50 years ago. The ancient temple was in a dilapidated condition and was renovated by the Nagarathar community between 1941 and 1944. The temple is under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. Sources said that an auction house in New York recently published one of the missing idols on its website for auction. Indian High Commission officials were alerted, and the auction was stopped. The Idol Wing-CID conducted a thorough probe and analysed old photographs. After working on several leads, it traced the origin of the idol with the help of HR&CE officials. After verifying the temple records of 1948, executive officer Sumathi filed a complaint that the idols of Somaskandar, Skandar, Priyavidaiamman, Thani Ambal, Thirugnana Sambandar, Sundaramurthy Nayanar, Nithia Urchavaswami and Urchava Ambal went missing. On the order of Abhay Kumar Singh, ADGP, Idol Wing-CID, a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-probe-idols-that-went-missing-from-temple-50-years-ago/article34347856.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online heritage olympiad today||As an effort to sensitise youth on the multifaceted cultural heritage of the country, an online heritage olympiad is being organised on Sunday, which is observed as the World Heritage Day. The olympiad was conceived with a goal to integrate heritage education in schools and provide a comprehensive test of aspects related to Indian heritage. It is open for schoolchildren in classes V to XII, college students and heritage enthusiasts. It is hosted by Cultre, an organisation seeking to support cultural awareness and heritage education through technology and UNESCO, New Delhi, the olympiad is supported by organisations in various places, including National Rail Museum, Ahmedabad University and Madras Inherited, the heritage wing of architecture firm, Triple O Studios and conservation architects in Chennai. Shalini Ravikumar, city-based conservation architect who is coordinating the event, said awareness about heritage conservation is slowly picking up in Chennai. Participants may log on towww.heritageolympiad.comor mailinfo@cultre.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-heritage-olympiad-today/article34348411.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested, several cases of theft solved||The Abhiramapuram police on Saturday arrested three men who broke open shops and stole valuables. The police said the accused have been identified as Karthik alias Avathar Karthik 23, Vanthakumar alias Ammi, 23, of T. Nagar and Mani alias Nari, 22 of Teynampet. The accused were arrested by the police based on a complaint lodged by M. Ganeshamurthy, who runs an Aavin outlet on Kamarajar Salai, Raja Annamalaipuram. He complained that the lock of his shop was broke open and cash stolen from there on the first of this month. The accused were allegedly involved in break-ins at shops in Mylapore, Mambalam, Teynampet and Choolaimedu, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-several-cases-of-theft-solved/article34348397.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways to fine those travelling without masks||Southern Railway plans to crack the whip on commuters who fail to wear masks and follow other COVID-19 precautions while travelling on trains and waiting at railway stations. In a press release, the Indian Railway Board has instructed all zonal railways to collect fines of up to Rs. 500 from commuters who are found not to be wearing masks. The railway board has authorised the zonal railways to collect penalties under the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules, 2012, from commuters. The rule would be in force for a period of six months. Southern Railway has authorised a set of officials, including the Station Master/Manager, Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, and ticket collector of commercial and operating departments to collect fines. It has appealed to all passengers to wear masks and follow other COVID-19 norms such as maintaining social distancing and washing hands regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-to-fine-those-travelling-without-masks/article34348396.ece
18 April 2021||chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police honours accorded||The body of actor Vivekh was cremated with police honours. It was brought to a crematorium at Mettukuppam, Virugambakkam. Several film personalities, friends and fans surrounded the casket. A group of 26 policemen observed a two-minute silence and fired three rounds in the air as a mark of respect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-honours-accorded/article34348391.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Post more police in Tirumangalam: AIADMK||The AIADMK on Friday urged Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo to deploy more police force in the assembly constituency of Tirumangalam in Madurai district. In a letter to the two officials, the party’s spokesperson R.M. Babu Murugavel also wanted the authorities to screen antecedents of counting agents of K. Athi Narayanan, who is contesting on the symbol of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-more-police-in-tirumangalam-aiadmk/article34348494.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three social scientists get award||Reetika Khera, associate professor of IIT Delhi and professor Avijit Pathak of the Centre for the Study of Social Systems, School of Social Sciences, have been selected for the Malcolm Adiseshiah award. The annual award given by Dr. Malcolm and Elizabeth Adiseshiah Trust is presented to social scientists for their outstanding contributions to the society. They would be presented citations and a prize money of Rs. 1 lakh each. The panel has also named V. Kalyan Shankar, associate professor of Symbiosis School of Economics, Pune, for the award given in memory of Elizabeth Adiseshiah to a social scientist below the age of 45 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-social-scientists-get-award/article34348420.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||186 people turn up for repoll||Polling booth no. 92 of Velachery Assembly constituency recorded a lower turnout in the repoll held on Saturday. The Election Commission of India had ordered a repoll in the booth after three polling personnel were found carrying EVM on motorcycles from DAV School to the strong room in Thiruvanmiyur on April 6. According to a release from the Greater Chennai Corporation, 186 voters voted in the booth on Saturday. A total of 220 of the 548 electors had voted on April 6. All voters in the booth are men, who are residents of apartments in the neighborhood. Three-tier security arrangements were made at the polling booth ahead of the repoll. Repoll was held from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/186-people-turn-up-for-repoll/article34347832.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6 kg gold found in an aircraft||Six kg gold worth Rs. 2.90 crore was seized by Chennai Air Customs at Chennai airport. When officials checked an aircraft that came from Dubai, they found six gold bars concealed under a seat cushion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-kg-gold-found-in-an-aircraft/article34348393.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp for industry workers hit due to vaccine shortage||Shortage in availability of vaccine seems to be affecting in some areas in the district the special drive to cover industry workers. A three-day vaccination camp planned at SIDCO Industrial Estate, Kurichi, saw 1,350 workers registered for the vaccination. On Thursday and Friday, a total of 460 were vaccinated at the Estate and there was no camp on Saturday. According to P. Nallathambi, president of the Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, the organisers of the camp had asked for 300 more doses. But, it was not available on Saturday. “We had registered the workers and given different slots to different industries at the estate. But, the camp was not held on Saturday as vaccines were not supplied. We are told that vaccines will be available on Monday,” he said. An official said that the plan was to cover about 35,000 workers in the district by April 26. However, this will depend on the availability of vaccines. A few camps were held at industries on Saturday. However, plans to hold camps for workers of micro, jewellery, and coir units will depend on the availability of vaccine in the coming days. The camps will continue when the vaccines are available, he said. Till Saturday (April 17), about 11,200 workers of industries were vaccinated in the district through special camps. On Saturday, 1,140 workers were vaccinated at four large industries. A senior official from the Health Department said that 6,000 additional vaccine doses were supplied by the State government to Coimbatore district on Saturday. This included 5,000 Covishield doses and 1,000 Covaxin doses. While 10,000 Covishield doses were supplied to the district on Friday, there is sufficient vaccine in the district for the next two days, he said. With the spurt in demand for vaccination in all government and private vaccination centres amid the second wave of the pandemic, the Health Department would not be able to supply large quantities of vaccine doses for mass vaccination drives due to the vaccine shortage, the official said. The available doses would be distributed among all the vaccination centres, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-for-industry-workers-hit-due-to-vaccine-shortage/article34348425.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Daily caseload crosses 600-mark in Coimbatore after four days||The daily COVID-19 caseload crossed the 600-mark after four days in Coimbatore district as 652 new cases were reported on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 66,645 cases. The death of a 58-year-old woman took the district’s toll to 707, according to the Health Department. A total of 4,438 were active cases. As many as 61,500 have recovered so far, out of which 615 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 275 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 21,922 cases. No deaths were reported and the toll remained as 231. While 1,866 patients were active cases, 19,825 have recovered from COVID-19 in the district. A total of 104 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Saturday. The Nilgiris district reported 47 new cases on Saturday as the overall tally went up to 9,160 cases. No deaths were reported as the toll stood at 51. As many as 308 patients were active cases, and 8,801 patients have recovered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-caseload-crosses-600-mark-in-coimbatore-after-four-days/article34348434.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Step up security at counting centre’||Candidates from the DMK and allied parties petitioned District Election Officer and Collector S. Nagarajan on Saturday to step up the security arrangements at the counting centre in Government College of Technology. N. Karthik from Singanallur Assembly constituency, R. Krishnan aka Paiya Gounder from Kavundampalayam, Mayura S. Jayakumar from Coimbatore South, T.R. Shanmugasundaram from Mettupalayam, Kurichi Prabhakaran from Kinathukadavu and M. Kalaisamy aka Premier Selvam from Sulur constituency submitted the petition at the District Collectorate. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Karthik alleged that the north and south gates of GCT do not have adequate security checks, which could lead to outsiders entering the premises. UPS connection  He also demanded UPS connection for the CCTV cameras to ensure uninterrupted power supply. The officials at the control room in the counting centre do not possess authenticated identity cards, Mr. Karthik further alleged. The District Election Officer has assured action in these matters, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/step-up-security-at-counting-centre/article34348429.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Submit white paper on expenses related to temples: PT||The State government should submit a white paper on the expenses related to temples and its properties, demanded Puthiya Tamilagam president K. Krishnasamy here on Saturday. Alleging that temples had turned into sources of corruption in the State under the administration of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, he said that he would move the courts and conduct demonstrations if the white paper was not submitted. Following the death of actor Vivekh, the medical fraternity must investigate the link between his heart attack and administration of COVID-19 vaccine, he urged. He noted that Vivekh was administered the COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday and suffered a heart attack on Friday. “The medical world must not ignore these as two separate incidents,” Dr. Krishnasamy said. However, he urged the public to continue taking the vaccine shots and should not panic. In his tributes, he said that his humour was about instilling rationality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-white-paper-on-expenses-related-to-temples-pt/article34348436.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to actor Vivekh||Various organisations paid tributes to actor Vivekh, who died on Saturday. Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam general secretary K. Ramakrishnan and leaders of other political organisations paid floral tributes to a portrait of Vivekh at Periyar Padippagam at Gandhipuram. International Social Development Organisation, an NGO, distributed free saplings to the public at Pappanaickenpalayam as a tribute to the actor, who stressed on sapling plantation. Students of a private school in Annur paid tributes to the actor by planting saplings. They also placed candles in front of the actor’s portrait, which was placed under a tree that the actor had planted five years ago during his visit to the school, sources said. Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev tweeted his tributes to actor Vivekh, terming him as a “master of his craft who brought joy to millions” and as someone “whose heart beat for this land and its people.” Mr. Vasudev also credited him for initiating “one of Tamil Nadu's most ambitious tree-planting projects.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-actor-vivekh/article34348428.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man attempts to murder wife, arrested||The Tiruppur South police on Friday arrested a 38-year-old man on the charges of attempting to murder his wife, a Grade-I constable, Police said that Samiappan attacked his 33-year-old wife on the head during an altercation on Thursday, due to which she suffered head injuries. Based on her complaint, the man was booked under section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-attempts-to-murder-wife-arrested/article34348432.ece
18 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NTK petitions Collector||Naam Tamilar Katchi’s (NTK) candidate for Coimbatore South Assembly constituency Abdul Wahab petitioned District Election Officer and Collector S. Nagarajan on Saturday requesting to not make COVID-19 vaccination mandatory for party agents for entering into the counting centre on May 2. He claimed in the petition that the Returning Officers were demanding that the agents must be vaccinated before entering the counting centre at Government College of Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-petitions-collector/article34348430.ece
18 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||2,700 beds ready at COVID-19 care centres in Erode district||A total of 2,700 beds are kept ready to treat patients at the COVID-19 care centres in the district apart from the existing 684 beds at the government hospitals, District Collector C. Kathiravan has said. As on Friday, a total of 892 patients were under treatment while the total number of cases reported in the district stood at 16,572. He said that 400 beds are available at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai and 284 at the Erode District Headquarters Hospital and at the government hospitals at Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Sathyamangalam, Anthiyur and Perundurai. Beds available at the COVID-19 care centres are Kongu Arts and Science College – 500, Gobi Arts and Science College – 150, Anthiyur Ideal School – 1,500, Vellalar Engineering College hostel - 150, GEMCH – 150, Sengunthar Engineering College – 100, Gugalur Primary Health Centre (PHC) – 30, Nambiyur PHC – 30, Thingalur PHC – 30, Chithode PHC - 30, and Chennimalai PHC - 30. Apart from these, 242 beds are available at private hospitals in the district, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that so far, 4,61,557 persons had undergone the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test while 97,441 persons were vaccinated as on April 15. He said that vaccination is done free of cost at the District Headquarters Hospital, GEMCH and at the primary health centres. He said that wearing mask in public places is mandatory and non-compliance would result in a spot fine of Rs. 200. Shop owners warned “If shopkeepers fail to adhere to COVID-19 norms or if they permit customers to enter the shops without wearing mask, shop owners will be levied a fine of Rs. 5,000 and the shops will be sealed”, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2700-beds-ready-at-covid-19-care-centres-in-erode-district/article34347836.ece
18 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rain damages banana plantations in Erode||The district continued to receive widespread rainfall for the third consecutive night causing damage to banana plantations here on Saturday. Areas in Erode, Perundurai and Modakkurichi blocks received rains accompanied by thunderstorms and strong winds that damaged standing plantations at many farms. Farmers in Nasiyanur said that plantations in about 20 acres were damaged completely due to the winds on Friday night. They said that crop damage had resulted in huge loss to them and wanted compensation from the government. Many areas received moderate rainfall disrupting power supply for over three to five hours due to strong winds. Rainfall received were Perundurai - 36 mm, Erode - 19 mm, Kavundapadi - 15 mm, Ammapettai - 13.2 mm, and Bhavani - 10 mm. Revenue officials said that though no untoward incidents were reported in the district, stagnation of water on roads and surplus water overflowing from canals were reported on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damages-banana-plantations-in-erode/article34347839.ece
18 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Head constable sentenced to five years imprisonment for sexual assault||A 39-year-old head constable attached to Uthiyur police station in Tiruppur district was sentenced to undergo five years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl onboard a train in 2018. The nine-year-old victim from Uttarakhand was travelling with her parents from Chennai to The Nilgiris in a reserved coach in January, 2018. Jegan of Dharapuram was also travelling in the same coach and the victim’s parents were fast asleep when the incident occurred. When the train was nearing Erode Railway Junction, Jegan committed the crime and the girl raised an alarm. The girl narrated the incident to her parents. After the train arrived at the station, they lodged a complaint with the Erode Railway Police, who registered a case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and arrested him. Judge R. Malathi found the accused guilty and sentenced him to undergo five years imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs. 5,000. The judge asked the State government to pay a compensation of Rs. 50,000 from the Victim Compensation Fund to the girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-sentenced-to-five-years-imprisonment-for-sexual-assault/article34347837.ece
18 April 2021||IDUKKI,TAMIL NADU||Kuvi no longer needs to answer roll call||A dog squad team of the Idukki police bid adieu to Kuvi, a pet dog adopted by it after being rescued from landslip-hit Pettimudy, on Friday. It was handed over to a relative of its owner at Pettimudy. Kuvi was instrumental in finding its master’s body from the debris after a landslip buried three estate lanes (workers’ quarters) at Pettimudy, near Munnar, on August 7 last year. The dog was adopted by the district police dog squad and given training for eight months. The body of little Dhanushka was recovered from the debris after four days of the tragedy when Kuvi started barking at a spot and drew the attention of the rescue team. The body had been washed four km away from the accident site. For four days the dog did not eat food and was in search of Dhanushka. The incident gained attention and a dog squad trainer wanted it to be adopted as the family, except the grandmother of the child, could not be traced after the tragedy, which claimed 70 lives. It was the decision of the State Police Chief to adopt it to the dog squad and give it training. Kuvi got a fresh lease of life and was given training in obedience, sniffing and tracking, heel walk, and other routine exercises. The native dog was not far behind the other dog breeds in the squad, said a dog squad trainer. However, it is said that a kin of the family to which the dog belonged made an appeal to the police and wanted it back. The silent transfer of Kuvi was held amid questions on its future care. More time Dog squad trainers said a local dog, when adopted into the dog squad, needed more time to get trained. However, they were behind none in sniffing, tracking, and obeying commands of masters. Local dogs Asha, adopted by the Kolkata police, and Tenka, adopted by the Uttarakhand Police, had proved their efficiency in sniffing and tracking explosives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kuvi-no-longer-needs-to-answer-roll-call/article34347705.ece
18 April 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Maldivian Mariam Rasheeda rues her lost reputation||Harrowing memories of torture in the custody of the Kerala Police refuse to leave Mariam Rasheeda, a Maldivian woman, three decades after her incarceration and subsequent release in the infamous ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) espionage case. She bursts out in rage over her lost reputation the moment one refers the ISRO case to her. “There is no meaning for justice in this case. After 30 years of suffering, it does not mean anything to us. I lost my reputation at a young age. No compensation can restore it,” Ms. Rasheeda, who was portrayed as a spy woman in the ISRO espionage case, told The Hindu from the Maldives. “Can the Supreme Court restore my reputation? What about the reputation of my family and my country which was destroyed by the media and Kerala Police? Can any compensation restore the reputation of ISRO scientists Nambi Narayanan and Sasikumar,” asks Ms. Rasheeda against the backdrop of the Supreme Court order asking the Central Bureau of Investigation to look into the D.K. Jain Commission report on the Kerala Police framing the space scientists in the espionage case. Her version “A police officer cooked up the story when I resisted his advances at a hotel room in Thiruvananthapuram. He tried to hug me after sending Fauzia Hassan out of our hotel room. I pushed and slapped him. From there the spy case started,” she said. She accused the police officer of using the case for securing a promotion. “In the end, two innocent women [Ms. Rasheeda and Ms. Hassan] were portrayed as spies,” she said. “The Kerala Police wanted me to sign a document saying that the Maldivian government sent me to India as a spy to procure secrets for the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in Pakistan. The media carried the police version without any investigation. No one believed us. We suffered in the prison,” she said. Daughter’s education “I came to Kerala for my daughter’s education. We did not do anything wrong. One should ask the Kerala Police why they arrested us,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maldivian-mariam-rasheeda-rues-her-lost-reputation/article34347708.ece
18 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Physical distancing ignored at COVID-19 testing centre||Hundreds of Grade II police constable selectees queued up for COVID-19 test at the Government Headquarters Hospital for test certificate. The certificate is mandatory for the final round of physical endurance test scheduled next week. However, the catch for the healthy youth was the absence of physical distancing norms at the testing centre, and the overcrowding exposing them to public waiting with COVID-19 like symptoms as the selectees waited for their turn for swab collection. Speaking to The Hindu , Ramesh (name changed), who is set to appear for the physical endurance test on April 22, said, “It would help if there was a COVID-19 testing camp exclusively for those appearing for the endurance test because there are senior citizens and others with symptoms waiting here.” The total lack of physical distancing at the testing centre, while public waited in queues jostling is adding to the consternation of the candidates required procedurally to obtain a COVID-19 test certificate. Final round Under the Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, the selectees of Grade II preliminary tests (for constables) are expected to produce COVID-19 test certificates to be able to participate in the final round of selections during the physical endurance round. A total of 1,030 candidates from the district have been selected for the final round and the window for obtaining the tests is short. “The test should be taken not more than seven days before the endurance test,” says Mr. Ramesh, who is from Krishnagiri town. “There are several others from various parts of the district waiting. They could have a camp for us separately,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-distancing-ignored-at-covid-19-testing-centre/article34347858.ece
18 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive couple breaks quarantine for child||With an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, tracking and monitoring of COVID-19 positive persons has become difficult here. On Saturday, unfettered by the quarantine norms, a COVID-19 positive couple was waiting at testing centre at the Krishnagiri government headquarters hospital to get their 2-year-old child tested for the disease. The couple, clueless about the quarantine norms and the easy transmission, was seated in close proximity to the unassuming public waiting in line to get their swabs collected for testing. The woman told The Hindu she and her husband tested positive a few days ago and that they were at the testing centre to have their child tested. Asked about their free movement, they said that they had not told anyone lest they were denied groceries. With the daily surge in cases, the incident flagged the gaps in the COVID-19 management, as the district edged towards 10,000 mark in infections this week. Monitoring Asymptomatic persons were mandated to remain in home quarantine, while symptomatic ones were admitted to the hospital. The local health inspector and ASHA workers were responsible for monitoring those in home quarantine, said P. Paramasivam, Joint Director of Health Services, Krishnagiri. He also underlined that it was under the mandate of the Director of Preventive Health. When contacted, Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan said there was limited containment measures. However, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy, when alerted, said, he had ordered for them to be tracked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positive-couple-breaks-quarantine-for-child/article34347859.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC for counter affidavits in custodial death case||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Saturday directed all the parties involved in the Avaniapuram custodial death case to file their counter affidavits. The court had taken up the matter suo motu after it was alleged the father of the victim was coerced to withdraw his petition seeking a CBI probe into the incident that took place in 2019. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi sought the response from the State, the father of the victim and four men Athi Narayanan, Kathir, Loganathan and Ramesh alleged to be behind the withdrawal of the petition. Earlier, the father had informed the court that he was convinced that his son’s death was not a case of custodial death. The court initiated suo motu proceedings based on the letter written to the High Court Bench by advocate Henri Tiphagne who represented the father pro bono in the case. The petitioner, P. Muthukaruppan, father of 22-year-old victim M. Balamurugan, had alleged that his son had sustained injuries in police custody and later died at the Government Rajaji Hospital. It was said that Balamurugan and his associates were arrested for their alleged involvement in the kidnap of a youth. The group demanded ransom from the youth’s parents. However, in an unexpected turn of events, Muthukaruppan decided to withdraw the petition. Mr. Henri Tiphagne alleged that the petitioner had been threatened to withdraw his petition. In his letter, Mr. Henri Tiphagne said that the father decided to withdraw the petition because of the threat from the local police. He said that the parents were being coerced not to depose against the police officers said to be involved in the case. The court adjourned the hearing in the case for the parties to file their counter affidavits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-for-counter-affidavits-in-custodial-death-case/article34347811.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Innovative projects on display||Innovative projects done by five final-year B. Sc. IT department students of The American College were displayed on the college premises here on Friday. Principal M. Davamani Christober saw the projects that were displayed by the students. The students prepared a smart dustbin, solar axis tracker, gas leakage detector, LED distance indicator and hand gesture control for laptop using Arduino technology. S. Akileshwaran made a cost-effective smart dustbin. He used an Arduino board, ultrasonic sensor and servo motor. The working principle is such that when we place a hand or any object near the sensor, it will automatically open and close after a certain period of time. This model is easy to use. N. Sathish Raja discovered the dual axis solar tracker. Earlier, a single axis tracker was only available. In this project , he used components like the Arduino uno board, solar panel, LDR sensor and servo motor. He also used four LDR sensors in this project . LDR sensors recognise the intensity of light, which help to easily recognise the light and move towards the light direction. M. Madhankumar made the LED distance indicator. This project senses nearby vehicles and all lights start to glow if a vehicle comes nearby. This is very helpful for the drivers to detect vehicles that approach toward them and they can avoid accidents. S. Hariharan has made the gas leakage detector. It is used to detect LPG gas and gives a buzzer sound and turns on exhaust fans to avoid fire accidents. It detects LPG gas and Co2 only. This can be used for home appliances, mainly in the kitchen. V. G. Kishore Karthik made a project that uses hand gestures to control certain features of laptops using Arduino. This is a project for controlling laptops using gestures. By using this project we can control a laptop with our hands without touching any keys. N. Shabnam, Head of the Department, guided the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/innovative-projects-on-display/article34348493.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DMK candidate petitions Collector||A. Venkatesan, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Sholavandan assembly constituency, petitioned Collector here on Saturday emphasising the need to ensure complete protection at the strong rooms where the Electronic Voting Machines and VVPATs are currently stored. In his petition, Mr. Venkatesan pointed out that the EVMs and VVPATs of Sholavandan assembly constituency are stored ont Anna University Regional Campus at Keelakuyilkudi. A three-tier security arrangement has been in place at all the counting centres. Despite having security arrangements, Anna University staff are allowed to take online classes within the campus without the knowledge of representatives of political parties, claimed Mr. Venkatesan. This will undermine the security at the counting centre, said Mr. Venkatesan. “Since the university campus is one of the counting centres of the district, it comes under the purview of the Election Commission of India. Hence, no outsider or university staff should be allowed to enter the campus before the declaration of election results. Also, there is no clear understanding as to when these university staff are taking classes inside the campus,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sholavandan-candidate-petitions-collector/article34347814.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders CB-CID probe into history-sheeter’s death||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Saturday ordered a CB-CID probe into the death of Silambarasan, a history sheeter from Thanjavur district. His body was found floating in a tank in Kumbakonam on April 10. Hearing the plea filed by K. Valli, the mother of the deceased, Justice G. Ilangovan ordered a CB-CID probe into the incident taking into account the fact that the mother blamed the police for the death of her son. It was said that he jumped into the tank to evade arrest. The petitioner said that her son could have been tortured by the police. The court also ordered exhumation of the body of the deceased and the conduct of a re-postmortem by the medical experts of the Thanjavur Medical College. The re-post mortem shall be conducted at the burial site itself and shall be videographed. A copy of the same shall be sent to the court, the judge said. The case was adjourned till April 26 for reporting compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-orders-cb-cid-probe-into-history-sheeters-death/article34348496.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||At American College, staff members and classmates pay homage to Vivekh||The staff members of The American College in Madurai paid homage to actor Vivekh, its alumnus. College principal M. Davamani Christober, Controller of Examinations A. Martin David and other college staff paid their respects to the actor. His classmates were also present. Mr. Christober said that in 1977-78, the actor completed his Pre University Course at the college. Following that, he completed B. Com. “Vivekh wrote his own script and acted in dramas,” said the principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-american-college-staff-members-and-classmates-pay-homage-to-vivekh/article34347801.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Counter affidavits sought in Avaniapuram custodial death||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday directed all parties involved in the Avaniapuram custodial death case to file their counter affidavits. The court had taken up the matter suo motu after it was alleged the father of the victim was coerced to withdraw his petition seeking a CBI probe into the incident that took place in 2019. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi sought the response from the State, the father of the victim and four men Athi Narayanan, Kathir, Loganathan and Ramesh, alleged to be behind the withdrawal of the petition. Earlier, the father had informed the court that he was convinced that his son’s death was not a case of custodial death. The court initiated suo motu proceedings based on the letter written to the High Court Bench by advocate Henri Tiphagne, who represented the father pro bono in the case. The petitioner, P. Muthukaruppan, father of 22-year-old victim M. Balamurugan, had alleged that his son had sustained injuries in police custody and later died at the Government Rajaji Hospital.  It was said Balamurugan and his associates were arrested for their alleged involvement in a kidnapping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counter-affidavits-sought-in-avaniapuram-custodial-death/article34348407.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Land grab case moved against M.K. Alagiri||The Madurai anti-land grabbing special unit on Saturday challenged an order of the Judicial Magistrate I before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that discarded certain offences against former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri in a land-grabbing case. Justice T. Krishnavalli ordered a notice and sought a response from Mr. Alagiri in the criminal revision petition filed by the police. The police said the land was fraudulently obtained to construct an educational institution in Madurai. The police had filed the charge-sheet for offences under Sections 120 (B) (Criminal Conspiracy), 420 (Cheating), 423 (Fraudulent execution of deed of transfer) of the Indian Penal Code. The police also filed charges under Sections 465 (Forgery), 468 (Forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (Fraudulently using as genuine any document that he knows to be forged) of the Indian Penal Code. The Judicial Magistrate had held that there was no material available to show a prima facie case for offences under Sections 465, 468 and 471 and hence dismissed the petition. The Madurai police said the order of the Judicial Magistrate could be detrimental to the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-grab-case-moved-against-mk-alagiri/article34348408.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Anti-land grabbing unit moves HC against Alagiri||Madurai Anti-Land Grabbing Special Unit challenged an order of the Judicial Magistrate I before Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Saturday that discarded certain offences against former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri in a land grabbing case. Response sought Justice T. Krishnavalli ordered notice and sought a response from Mr. Alagiri in the criminal revision petition filed by the police. The police said that the land was fraudulently obtained by the former Union Minister to construct an educational institution in Madurai district. Charge sheet The anti-land grabbing unit said that the police after the investigation in the case had filed the charge sheet for offences under Sections 120 (B) (Criminal Conspiracy), 420 (Cheating), 423 (Fraudulent execution of deed of transfer) of the Indian Penal Code. The police also filed charges under Sections 465 (Forgery), 468 (Forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (Fraudulently uses as genuine any document that he knows to be forged) of the Indian Penal Code. The Judicial Magistrate held that there was no material available to show prima facie case for offences under the Sections 465, 468 and 471 of the IPC and it could be seen that there were ingredients for offences under Section 120(B) read with Section 408 IPC etc. and hence dismissed the petition. The Madurai police said that the order of the Judicial Magistrate could be fatal to the case of the prosecution and the enquiry and the statements received by the police personnel against Mr. Alagiri could end in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-land-grabbing-unit-moves-hc-against-alagiri/article34347815.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DMK men get advance bail||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Saturday granted anticipatory bail to DMK candidate A. Venkatesan who contested assembly elections from Sholavandan constituency. Justice G. Chandrasekharan granted the bail to the DMK candidate and two others. The petitioner said the case of the prosecution was that he and his associates had waylaid the vehicle of the AIADMK cadre and verbally abused them. Denying the allegations, the candidate said he complained to a flying squad that the AIADMK cadre were carrying cash for distribution. Since, the team did not reach on time, the DMK cadre picked up a quarrel with the flying squad officials. He said that the false case was foisted against the petitioners with an ulterior motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-men-get-anticipatory-bail/article34348495.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police seek cancellation of anticipatory bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday ordered notice to Athi Narayanan of AMMK, who contested the assembly elections from Tirumangalam constituency, after the Madurai police sought the cancellation of the anticipatory bail granted to him. Justice G. Chandrasekharan ordered notice to the AMMK candidate. The police sought the cancellation of the anticipatory bail that was granted after he had failed to abide by the undertaking he had given to the court. Athi Narayanan apprehended arrest by the police after he passed certain remarks against the Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar. He gave an undertaking that he would not repeat it, following which he was granted anticipatory bail. However, Athi Narayanan was said to have again passed certain remarks against the Minister. The court adjourned the case till April 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-seek-cancellation-of-anticipatory-bail/article34347820.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railways to slap Rs. 500 fine for not wearing mask||Southern Railway will impose a fine up to Rs. 500 under Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness on railway premises) Rules, 2012, from persons not wearing face mask/cover on railway premises, including trains. A statement said that as per the railway board instructions, Southern Railway will take action with immediate effect for six months till further advice. Southern Railway has appealed to all passengers to wear masks and follow other COVID guidelines without fail. Station Master or Station Manager, an officer not below the rank of Ticket Collector of the commercial department or an officer of an equivalent rank of the operating department, RPF officials and any other official that may be subsequently authorised by the railway administration will collect the fine amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-to-slap-rs-500-fine/article34347816.ece
18 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 105.40 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 83.33 cusecs and 104.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 92.60 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 8 cusecs and 150 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34348580.ece
18 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New bi-weekly special train between Madurai and Chennai Egmore||Southern Railway has introduced Madurai-Chennai Egmore-Madurai bi-weekly superfast special trains. The trains with new LHB rakes will leave Madurai on Thursdays and Saturdays (from April 17) and will run from Chennai Egmore on Fridays and Sundays (April 18). The train will leave Madurai at 8.50 p.m. and reach Chennai Egmore at 6.55 a.m. the next day. It will run via Dindigul, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Chidambaram, Villupuram and Chengalpattu. In the return direction, it will leave Chennai at 10.05 p.m. and arrive Madurai at 8.10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bi-weekly-special-train-between-madurai-and-chennai-egmore/article34347823.ece
18 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 126.50 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 475 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 63.45 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 40 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,315 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Melur 11, Thaniamangalam 6.4, Periyar dam 4.4, Chittampatti 3.6, Gudalur 2.4, Thekkadi 2.2, Madurai city 2 and Shanmuganathi dam 1.7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34347827.ece
18 April 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||12 roads connecting Kerala to Kanniyakumari closed||Collector M. Aravind has ordered the temporary closure of 12 small roads connecting the district with neighbouring Kerala for vehicular traffic to check possible influx of patients into the district after giving a slip to the mandatory medical screening put in place at the check-post at Kaliyakkavilai on Thiruvananthapuram High Road . After visiting the smaller roads connecting the district with Kerala, Mr. Aravind said that vehicular traffic is temporarily banned on the following roads until further orders: Kaduvaakkuzi Road in Kulapuram; Market Road and Panankalai Road in Kaliyakkavilai; Vanniyacode Road in Kulapuram; Malaiyadi Road in Malaiyadi; Ramavarmansirai Road and Undancode Road in Devicode; Puliyoor Salai Cooperative Society Road in Puliyoor Salai; Yamnua Theatre Road in Mancode; and Katchaeri Nadai, Fatimapuram and Punnamoottukadai Roads in Kollencode. This decision had been taken based on recommendation from the revenue and police Departments. Main highway open However, vehicular traffic between Kanniyakumari district and Kerala via the main highway would be allowed as usual, Mr. Aravind said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-roads-connecting-kerala-to-kanniyakumari-closed/article34347817.ece
18 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||As COVID-19 cases spike, U.T. may impose more restrictions||With the Union Territory witnessing the biggest spike in the number of daily COVID-19 cases on Saturday, the administration may come out with more restrictions, including a weekend lockdown, in the next two days. Puducherry witnessed 715 new admissions, which is the highest number of patients testing positive for COVID-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. “Last year in September, we witnessed the highest single day spike of 688. The number of cases reported on Saturday is the biggest spike since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. If the situation continues, we will be compelled to put more restrictions in the coming days,” a Health Department official told The Hindu . A high-level meeting chaired by the Lt. Governor on Friday evening discussed the issue of imposing severe restrictions, including weekend lockdowns and declaring severely affected areas as containment zones, an official source said. “The administration is in close touch with medical experts, including the Indian Council of Medical Research. If the trend in surge of cases continues, an official announcement about the restrictions will be made early next week. The final decision will be taken by the Lt. Governor and her advisors,” the source said. More tests planned A decision was also taken to ramp up testing in the next few days, an official said. Statistics available with the Health Department revealed that the maximum number of cases reported in Puducherry region are from Reddiyarpalayam, Lawspet, Kosapalayam, Gorimedu, Mettupalayam, Murungapakkam, Muthialpet, Mudaliyarpet and Odiansalai. On Friday, Reddiayarpalayam alone accounted for about 41 cases and Lawspet 37 cases, a Health Department official said. Data released by the Health Secretary on Saturday said of the 715 new cases reported in the Union Territory, 567 are from Puducherry, 88 from Karaikal, 35 from Yanam and 25 from Mahe. These cases were diagnosed from 4,748 tests With three more persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday, the number of death due to COVID-19 in Puducherry has gone up to 705. As on Saturday, active cases stood at 4,090, including 3,369 under home isolation. The case fatality stood at 1.50 % and recovery rate at 89.82%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-covid-19-cases-spike-ut-may-impose-more-restrictions/article34348542.ece
18 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaccinate all those aged above 18, says Narayanasamy||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has appealed to the Centre to vaccinate everyone above 18 years. In a video message on Saturday, the former Chief Minister said the effort should be to vaccinate all persons above 18 years. Urging the territorial administration to create awareness among the people on the need to maintain vigil about COVID-19, the senior Congress leader said the number of cases had increased sharply in Puducherry in the last few days. People were not adhering to the COVID-19 norms and public places were getting more crowded. The administration should take proactive steps to create more awareness among people on the need to wear masks, adopt proper hygiene and personal distancing, Mr. Narayanasamy said. The administration should also educate the people that getting vaccinated does not mean that they are insulated from the virus. Even after vaccination, people should follow the guidelines, he added. He also urged the administration to increase testing and keep more beds ready in private medical colleges to meet any eventuality.  People are not adhering to the COVID-19 norms and public places are getting more crowded||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccinate-all-those-aged-above-18-says-narayanasamy/article34347834.ece
18 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door screening intensified in Salem||The health department has intensified door-to-door screening and increased fever camps here as part of measures to curb spread of COVID-19 disease. In Salem Corporation limits alone where over 110 cases were reported on Friday, screening has been intensified and over 300 field workers have been deployed. According to officials, about 360 field workers have been deployed and they have been visiting 200 houses in containment zones and in affected areas. The workers have been checking the body temperature of residents in an area and patients with symptoms like cold and cough are sent to nearest sample collection centre for tests. On Friday alone, special fever camps were conducted at 40 places. Swab samples were collected from 1,448 persons from corporation limits alone on Friday. According to officials, they are planning to gradually increase the sample collection to 5,000 samples a day. S. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that about 4,500 samples have been collected on a day here and it would be steadily increased to 5,000. He added that the positivity rate in the district is about 5% and all necessary measures have been taken to handle increase in cases. Dr. Subramani said that fever camps are being organised at various parts of the district and no clusters have been reported in the district till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-screening-intensified-in-salem/article34347844.ece
18 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman robbed of cash||Miscreants snatched away Rs. 30,000 and escaped while an elderly woman was stepping out of a nationalised bank here on Friday. According to the police, Vijayakumari, an elderly woman residing near Reddiyur visited a nationalised bank in Alagapuram to withdraw cash for her mother’s treatment. While she was about to board an autorickshaw, unidentified persons in a two-wheeler snatched away her bag and escaped. The miscreants also broke the glass of a parked car and escaped with bank cheque books, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-robbed-of-cash/article34347847.ece
18 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TNPSC examinations held||The Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission’s examinations for various positions in agriculture and horticulture departments were held here on Saturday. District Collector S.A. Raman inspected the arrangements at the centre in a private college. Exams for Assistant Agriculture Officer, Assistant Horticulture Officer, Agriculture Officer (Expansion), Horticulture Officer and Assistant Horticulture Director posts would be held between April 17 and 19. Arrangements have been made at 11 centres for 6,686 candidates to write the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpsc-examinations-held/article34347848.ece
18 April 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, accomplice arrested for murder||The Tenkasi Police have arrested a woman and her accomplice for allegedly murdering her second husband three years ago and burying the body near her house. Police said Abhi alias Abhirami, 30, of Anna Nagar in Kuthukkalvalasai near Tenkasi, having a son and a daughter, married K. Kaliraj, 20, of Achanpudur in 2017 after her first husband died a few years ago due to poor health. Kaliraj, who was not in touch with his parents due to domestic issues, went missing in 2018. When his parents enquired Abhirami about his absence, she told them that he was working in Coimbatore. However, the parents grew suspicious as they did not receive any phone call from their son for more than two years. After they lodged a complaint with the Tenkasi police, Abhirami was picked up for inquiry. She reportedly confessed to the police that she, with the help of one Marimuthu, a mechanic, murdered Kaliraj after serving him food laced with sedatives. The duo packed the body in a sack and buried it in a pit near the car parking space near her house. Since a temple is located nearby, Abhirami planted a ‘tulsi’ plant on the spot. The police dug out the skeletal remains on Saturday evening and sent them for DNA analysis to establish the identity of the deceased. The police have also arrested Marimuthu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-accomplice-arrested-for-murder/article34347828.ece
18 April 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Rain destroys banana plantations||The heavy rain that lashed various parts of Theni district in the past few days destroyed 15,000 acres of banana plantations at Angurpalayam near Cumbum in Theni district The unexpected rain since Thursday has doomed the prospects of farmers, most of whom had borrowed heaviloy to raise the crop. One of the farmers, Marimuthu, said he had taken loan from money lenders since a buyer had assured them that he would procure his produce for export. Besides, Angurpalayam, banana plantations were also affected in many other places such as Gudalur, Uthamapalayam, Kombai and Thevaram. Flash Floods In the wake of the heavy rain, there were flash floods near Gudalur due to which five-feet-high sand deposits on Suranganaru blocked water flow to Ottankulam village.Farmers in Mela Gudalur said only the PWD could remove the deposit using JCB and other heavy equipment and remove the blockage. The farmers have submitted a petition to the PWD and Agriculture Department officials to set things right soon as standing crops required water for irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-destroys-banana-plantations-in-theni/article34347822.ece
18 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prestigious fellowship for T.N. professor||M. Lakshmanan, Professor of Eminence, Department of Non-linear Dynamics, Bharathidasan University, has been selected for the prestigious fellowship of the National Science Chairs instituted by the Department of Science and Technology - Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), for 2021. The Bhatnagar awardee is one among five eminent professors selected for the fellowship. The fellowship to promote excellence in research and development, entitles Prof. Lakshmanan, a globally renowned expert in the area of non-linear dynamics, to Rs. 1.5 lakh per month and an annual personal research grant of Rs. 25 lakh. This honour is meant for outstanding senior scientists who have superannuated and are eminent for their outstanding contributions, both nationally and internationally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prestigious-fellowship-for-tn-professor/article34348417.ece
18 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals in southern districts brace for the second wave||With the number of cases on the rise in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts during the second wave of COVID-19, the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, which has 300 beds for patients with the viral infection, has kept ready 250 more beds in the main block. Collector V. Vishnu who had a meeting with Dean M. Ravichandran and Deputy Director of Health Services Varadharajan on Saturday reviewed the situation and availability of vaccines. “We’ll ensure that the stock is replenished at regular intervals,”Mr.Vishnu said. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases in Tirunelveli district touched 269 on Saturday, including 155 cases in Tirunelveli Corporation area; 1,513 active cases are under treatment in hospitals and in home quarantine. Recovering patients from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital are being shifted to the COVID-19 care centre at Government Siddha Medical College. As a staff in the outpatient section of the Siddha college tested positive on Saturday, the section has been closed till Sunday to disinfect the place. Thoothukudi Dean of Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Revathi Balan said they received 750 doses of Covishield and 500 doses of Covaxin on Saturday. “We’ve been told that the vaccine supply would be sustained to meet the demand,” Dr. Revathi said. In a joint statement issued here on Saturday, district secretaries of Communist Party of India S. Kasi Viswanathan of Tirunelveli, S. Azhagu Muthupandian of Thoothukudi and T. Esakki Durai of Tenkasi has said the Department of Public Health should ensure adequate stock of vaccine in the three districts as patients coming to the vaccination centres for having the second dose were being sent back due to shortage of the vaccine. “Instead of assessing the domestic demand, the Narendra Modi government had exported vaccines to foreign countries which has resulted in shortage,” the statement said. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind, who inspected the Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam on Saturday, said 500 beds had been kept ready for COVID-19 positive patients, besides 250 beds each at Scott Christian College and Pioneer Kumarasamy College, and 200 more beds in Government Ayurveda College. “If needed, we will set up more COVID-19 Care Centres at Pon Jesly Engineering College and SLB Government Higher Secondary School. The Government Engineering College at Konam will also become a COVID-19 Care Centre after the counting of votes is over,” Mr. Aravind said. He added that 85,000 persons had been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-in-southern-districts-brace-for-the-second-wave/article34347812.ece
18 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||3,000 doses arrive||Tirunelveli district received 3,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday in the wake of the demand for the immunogen growing phenomenally in the past few days with the sharp rise in fresh cases. Confirming the arrival of fresh stocks of the vaccine, Collector V. Vishnu said that the 3,000 doses had been shared among the vaccination centres across the district based on demand experienced in recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3000-doses-arrive/article34347818.ece
18 April 2021||TirupatTur,TAMIL NADU||A sad day for students awaiting Vivekh’s visit||For the thousands of students and staff of the Sacred Heart College in Tirupathur, Saturday was a sad day. Their hopes too were shattered on that day with the sudden death of actor Vivekh. Their ‘Green Hero’ was supposed to visit their college to plant 5,000 saplings in Tirupathur and Yelagiri hills after the elections. According to Father John Alexander, Rector and secretary of the college, the institution’s student-driven green initiative ‘Youth for Social and Environmental Responsibility’, had organised a programme last month to plant 5,000 saplings. “The students are fascinated by Vivekh’s Green Kalam initiative and his acting skills. They met him and invited him for the event. He always motivated the younger generation to plant trees and educated them about climate change issues,” he said. However, due to the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, the event was postponed. “Since Vivekh understood that the students would be expecting him, he shot a small video and sent it for them to see,” said P. Vijayakumar, Superintendent of Police, Tirupathur. In the video, the actor is heard saying that he had discussed the postponement of the programme with Collector M.P. Sivanarul and the SP. “After the elections and when the number of cases drop, I am planning to conduct the event in a grand manner. I don’t want even a single student to get infected due to the gathering. We will meet and catch up very soon for planting the saplings,” he says in the video intended for the students. Mr. Vijayakumar said: “It was a promise he made, we will take it forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sad-day-for-college-students-who-were-awaiting-vivekhs-visit/article34348544.ece
18 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Additional vaccine for Tiruppur district expected to arrive today||With most of the primary health centres (PHC) having exhausted the COVID-19 vaccine doses, Tiruppur district faced a vaccine shortage on Saturday as authorities await supply of additional doses. Sources in the Health Department said that there were only around 2,000 vaccine doses in the district on Saturday morning. All government and private vaccination centres were instructed to exhaust the available doses by the end of the day. With 130 government-run vaccination centres (including government hospitals and PHCs) and 30 private vaccination centres in the district, most of the PHCs and private centres ran out of vaccine doses by Saturday. There were only around 50 doses in Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital that were available on Saturday morning, the sources said. No vaccination was carried out at any of the Urban PHCs run by the Tiruppur Corporation on Saturday, according to the civic officials. Those who visited the UPHCs were sent back and told vaccines were unavailable, the officials added. Sources in the district administration said that additional vaccine doses for Tiruppur district were expected to arrive on Sunday. However, the authorities await a communication from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine regarding the quantity of doses and other details, the sources added. Over 1 lakh beneficiaries have received the vaccine shots in Tiruppur district as 1,05,974 beneficiaries were vaccinated as of Friday, according to the Health Department. The rise in demand for vaccination following the second COVID-19 wave along with intensified vaccination drives, particularly for industrial employees, were attributed as the reasons for the vaccine shortage, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-vaccine-for-tiruppur-district-expected-to-arrive-today/article34348423.ece
18 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two detained under Goondas Act||Two men, who were arrested by the Tiruppur District Police for attempting to hunt a black-naped hare with illegal country-made guns, were detained under Goondas Act on Friday. Police sources said that District Collector and District Magistrate K. Vijayakarthikeyan ordered the detention on Thursday. The orders were served on P. Mahendran (33) and M. Chandru (26) at the Coimbatore Central Prison on Friday. The Perumanallur police arrested the two along with Manoharan on March 2 after registering a case under the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-goondas-act/article34348431.ece
18 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||175 fresh cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 22,961, with 175 new cases reported on Saturday. While 21,791 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 809. The death toll is 361.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/175-fresh-cases-in-vellore/article34348539.ece
18 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Strong wind damages crops in Virudhunagar district||After a lockdown-induced loss in 2020 summer, strong wind played havoc for Madras Thorn Fruit (Kodikkaipuli) farmer K. Chinnathambi, 61, of Thathampatti this summer. A gale on Friday evening left many of his well-grown trees either uprooted or their branches broken. Mr. Chinnathambi has some 100 trees, some of which are more than 80 years old. While the harvesting season is between January and May, last year when COVID-19 outbreak was reported and the State government announced a 45-day lockdown, he could not send his produce on time to the markets that were closed by afternoon. “This year, I was able to sell around 100 kg a day. But the gale broke the branches of many tall trees and some of them got uprooted. The huge branches that fell down brought down smaller trees,” he said. The wind that started blowing around 6 p.m. lasted for two hours. “This morning, when I went to the farm, I was heart-broken on seeing the trees lying on the ground,” he said. Stating that the fruits too had withered unable to withstand the wind, he said only the tender fruits were left in the trees. “The recent rain too had led to good quantity of fruits rot in the trees. Now, I have lost almost a good part of the yield,” he said. The fruit that had fallen on the ground got mixed with soil and would be fit for cattle feed only. Meanwhile, he said his relative A. Muthiah had lost around 500 fruit-borne plantains in the village to the stormy wind. “All the bunches were in cutting stage after one year of hard work. But the unexpected rain brought down some 500 bunches,” he said. Stating that the cutting would be taken up in phases with 50 to 100 bunches a day, he said taking 500 bunches to the market will not fetch good price due to increased supply. Virudhunagar Joint Director of Agriculture S. Uthandaraman said the recent rain had been beneficial to farmers of horticulture and vegetable crops. Banana plantains in around two hectares were damaged in Thathampatti, Thayilpatti and Alangulam areas, he said. Rainfall Eleven out of 12 rain gauge stations in Virudhunagar district had recorded good amount of rainfall with an average rain of 22.95 mm. in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday. While Srivilliputtur registered the highest amount of 58.40 mm of rainfall, Virudhunagar received 56 mm. Rainfall reported in other stations is (in mm): Sattur 42, Tiruchuli 32, Aruppukottai 22, Watrap and Kovilankulam 16.20 each, Sivakasi 13, Pilavakkal 9.20, Vembakottai 5.40, Rajapalayam 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gale-brings-down-trees-in-virudhunagar-district/article34347825.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||289 new cases in Salem||As many as 289 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. Health officials said all cases were indigenous and 137 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, a 57-year-old man and a 74-year-old woman died in Salem. Krishnagiri recorded 194 fresh cases and 63 persons were discharged from treatment centres after recovery. The total number of cases stood at 1,169 as of Saturday. A total of 10,014 cases were reported. Erode district reported 143 new cases, taking the tally to 16,715. While 80 persons were discharged, 955 continue to be under treatment. A total of 126 cases were reported in Namakkal. Dharmapuri recorded 94 fresh cases. As of date, a total 7,554 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/289-new-cases-in-salem/article34347842.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Health care infrastructure stretched to saturation point in Tiruchi district||As COVID-19 cases continue to surge unabated, healthcare infrastructure of both government and private sector is being stretched to limits once again in Tiruchi. COVID-19 beds in almost all approved private hospitals are said to be full. When the pandemic began to spread in March last, the government clamped a nationwide lockdown, thereby forcing the people to stay indoors. Several patients who were supposed to visit doctors for treatment and consultation put off their visits to hospitals. Since roads were closed for traffic, there were hardly any road accidents. It ultimately brought downthe number of accident victims to the hospitals, including Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi during the period. Besides attending emergency cases, MGMHG authorities focused their attention on treating COVID-19 patients. During the ongoing second wave, however, the hospitals continue to receive all types of patients. The MGMGH receives, on an average, 3,000 out patients daily. It has 1,606 beds and the occupancy rate invariably hovers between 80% to 90%. Out of the total beds, according to sources, about 450 beds have been earmarked for treating COVID-9 patients. Since the cases are on the rise, the authorities have added 200 more beds by converting nursing hostels. As of Friday, there are 1,808 active cases in Tiruchi district. It adds about 250 fresh cases to the tally. Discharge of patients is around 100 a day. With 273 new patients added to the active cases in Tiruchi on Friday, the beds earmarked for COVID-19 have almost reached their capacity. “We admit critical and patients with co-morbidities at MGMGH. Patients with mild symptoms and asymptomatic patients are referred to COVID care centres,” K. Vanitha, Dean of MGMGH told The Hindu . While agreeing that the surge in COVID-19 cases is cause for concern, she says the experience of treating patients in the first wave has come in handy. Patients with symptoms should not delay treatment and visit the hospitals as early as possible. Dr. Vanitha adds that treatment of non-COVID-19 patients will not be affected. About 750 beds have been earmarked for them. All dialysis units and cath laboratory will continue to function. Similarly, an elaborate treatment management plan has been put into place for road accident, snake and poison cases and attend to medical emergencies such as cardiac arrest and liver failure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-care-infrastructure-stretched-to-saturation-point-in-tiruchi-district/article34347788.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Peafowls found dead||Nine peafowls were found dead on a field in Vadugapatti near Manapparai on Saturday. Eight were peahens and one was a peacock. Acting on information, forest officials led by A. Maheswaran, Forest Ranger, Manapparai, rushed to the spot and found the dead birds lying scattered across a coconut farm. Since they were in a decomposed stage, a veterinarian was engaged to perform post-mortem. The birds were subsequently buried in a nearby location. Though the actual cause of death would be known after analysis, it is suspected that they were poisoned reportedly to prevent them from eating the grain and damaging the crop. A case was registered against unknown persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peafowls-found-dead/article34347785.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||817 new cases, 4 deaths||The central districts on Saturday registered 817 new cases of COVID-19 and four deaths. While Tiruchi district accounted for three deaths, Thanjavur recorded one. A 46-year old woman from Tiruchi, who was admitted to a private hospital on April 7 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing, died on Thursday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. She had no comorbidities. A 52-year old male from Tiruchi, who tested positve for the virus on April 8, breathed his last in a private hospital. He had complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days. He was under treatment for bronchial asthma, morbid obesity and diabetes mellitus for a few years. Another patient, who died in a private hospital due to COVID-19 pneumonia, was a 42-year-old man from Tiruchi. He was admitted to hospital on April 6 with complaints of fever for five days and difficulty in breathing. He had been under treatment of systematic hypertension and type II diabetes mellitus. A 68-year-old male from Thanjavur, who was admitted to Government Hospital in Kumbakonam on Thursday, died of COVID-19 pneumonia. He had complaints of fever and cough and difficulty in breathing. According to a medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, Tiruchi district reported 323 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Four Plus Two students of a government-aided school in Manapparai were among those who tested positive for the virus. They were under treatment at the COVID care centre at Sethurapatti. Thanjavur district followed Tiruchi district with 121 fresh cases. There were 114 cases in Tiruvarur, 78 in Nagapattinam, 75 in Karur and 61 in Pudukottai. Ariyalur and Perambalur registered 34 and 11 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/817-new-cases-4-deaths/article34347786.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||This pony is back on his feet||Surgeons of Veterinary College and Research Institute (VCRI) Hospital, Orathanadu, successfully performed a surgery on a six-year-old pony to remove an intestinal obstruction. Vijayakumar, a farmer from Thirukadaiyur, brought the stallion to the hospital with signs of colic pain and anorexia on April 9. After a thorough clinical examination, it was found that there was intestinal obstruction due to enterolith and the prognosis was explained to the farmer. Later, under the guidance of T. Sivakumar, Dean, VCRI, a team of surgeons led by S. Senthil Kumar, A. Kumaresan, and P. Tamilmahan performed the surgery and successfully removed the enterolith. The five-inch long enterolith causing the colonic obstruction was relieved through enterotomy on April 10. Accidentally ingested plastic debris from the feed acted as a nidus for the enterolith formation, a release from VCRI said. The animal made an uneventful recovery from anaesthesia and was provided with intensive monitoring and care after surgery. The pony improved in the post-operative period and regained its normal feeding and enteric functions 72 hours post-surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-pony-is-back-on-his-feet/article34347792.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||100-mark breached||For the first time this year, Virudhunagar district saw a three-digit single-day jump of new positive cases on Saturday when 112 tested positive. This took the number of active cases to 500 after 45 persons got discharged. The total number of positive cases stood at 17,615 and the total number of discharged patients is 16,880.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-mark-breached-in-virudhunagar-district/article34347813.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nayak-era writing found||A Nayak period stone inscription has been found at a school situated on North Street in Thanjavur. Th inscription was found during renovation of one of the buildings on the campus of Sri Jayendra Saraswathi Nursery and Primary School. On being informed by V. Panchapakesan, school management representative, Mani. Maran, Tamil Pundit, Saraswathi Mahal Library, Thanjavur, inspected the inscription along with his associates G. Thillai Govindarajan and G. Jayalakshmi. Mr. Maran, in a press release, said the 15-line inscription standing 3.5 feet in height belonged to the period of Nayak kings who ruled Thanjavur between 1535 and 1675 AD and referred to a donation made to Singaperumal temple that was believed to have existed in Srinivasapuram and shifted to Palliagraharam area during the Nayaks rule. Though the inscription carried symbols such as sangu and chakra, there was no mention of the year or name of the donor. It read that anybody acting against the nandavanam and poonthottam donated to the temple would be deemed to have committed the sin of killing a cow on the banks of the Ganges. The inscription could have been left behind when the temple was shifted from Srinivasapuram, he said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nayak-era-writing-found-in-thanjavur/article34347855.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18-04-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  MUMMURTHIGAL JAYANTHI FESTIVAL TODAY, 10.00am: Maharajapuram Srinivasan & Party -Vocal. 6.30pm: Smt.Shruthi S Bhat & Party -Vocal @ Sri Sundara Vinayahar Vasantha Mandapam, Sheela Nagar, Madipakam. 9841657654  MISCELLANEOUS  SRINGERI SHARADA MATH GEORGE TOWN 98404 11490 Today- Divya Saptati Purti of Jagadguru Bharatitirtha Mahasvaminah-VEDAPARAYANAM & RUDRA ABHISHEKAM-4:30 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-04-2021-city-cinema/article34348414.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Arasur sub-station (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.- April 19)  Arasur, Pothiyampalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Thennampalayam, Sengodagoundenpudur, Sellappampalayam, Pachapalayam, Vadugapalayam, Sangothipalayam, Samathuvapuram, Anbu Nagar, Annur Road, Ponnandampalayam, and Molapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34348426.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Akshaya NEET Centre: Demo class on "How to Appear for NEET Exam", near Saibaba Temple, Saibaba Colony, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34348427.ece
18 April 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Voter turnout over 50% in Belagavi||Voting was slow and peaceful in the bypolls at Belagavi on Saturday. After two hours of polling, only around 5.5% people had voted. Polling picked up by evening to cross 50%, as per early estimates. Voters of Hire Tadasi and Chikka Tadasi villages near Ramdurg boycotted the bypoll to protest against delay in release of compensation to farmers who suffered flood damage in 2019 and 2020. Ramesh Jarkiholi, former Minister, who is recuperating from COVID-19, did not come to the booth to vote in Gokak on Saturday. He did not campaign. Lakhan Jarkiholi, Congress leader, said in Gokak that he was undecided about quitting the Congress. I will ask Mr. Ramesh and Balachandra Jarkiholi about it and then take a call, he told journalists, after casting his vote. He had accused KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar of hatching a conspiracy to defame Mr. Ramesh and expressed his inability to campaign for Congress, due to ‘lack of trust among leaders’. Candidates Mangala Angadi and Satish Jarkiholi voted. Some leaders who isolated themselves due to participation in rallies of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who tested positive, were not seen in the booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/voter-turnout-over-50-in-belagavi/article34347863.ece
18 April 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Savadi self-isolates||Laxman Savadi, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister, has isolated himself after his gunman and some associates tested positive for COVID-19. “I was busy campaigning in Basavakalyan for over a week. Following advice of doctors, I have isolated myself,” he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/savadi-self-isolates/article34347864.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus strike: Daily commute a hassle for passengers||The indefinite bus strike, which is set to enter its twelfth day on Sunday, has been particularly hard on citizens who are unable to work from home. These include domestic workers, factory employees, hospital staff who have been spending an increasing amount of their salaries on vans, autos and taxis to travel to work. Private bus operators, who have stepped in to fill the gap, are not reliable when it comes to operating at fixed times, said passengers. ‘Autorickshaws are beyond our means’ Bhavani, who was waiting for a bus at Majestic bus stand with her daughter on Saturday, had to go to a hospital in Bannerghatta Road. “The strike, especially during the time of the pandemic, is a huge inconvenience to us. There are very few BMTC buses on the roads, and autorickshaw drivers’ demands are beyond our means. Private buses do not leave the stand unless they fill all the seats. To get a bus, one has to wait for at least 30 minutes.” Lakshmi P., who works in a beauty parlour, said, “I have to travel every day from Peenya industrial area to Banashankari III Stage. The number of private buses is limited. To reach my workplace on time, I depend on my husband and brother-in-law to drop me and pick me up.” She added that if the strike had been just for a day or two, she could have taken leave. At Majestic bus stand, autorickshaw drivers have started parking their vehicles inside the premises. Prasad, an auto driver, did good business for the first five days of the strike, but that is gradually changing. “I have been driving an auto in Bengaluru for more than 10 years. Picking up passengers from the platform of the bus stand is very unusual. I dropped a passenger from Mathikere to Majestic and waited for a new passenger. Usually, people prefer to travel in city buses,” he said. Pass holders demand compensation Passengers who have monthly passes are demanding compensation from BMTC. One of them said, “I had paid over Rs. 1,000 for the pass, but for more than 10 days, I have not been able to travel by bus. When I visited the counter, BMTC staff told me that the management will decide on compensating the loss after employees call off the strike.” BMTC issues around 3 lakh passes per month. When asked about their grievances, BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha said they will take suitable measures to address the issue. A similar request was made by passengers in Mysuru. K.H. Srinivas, Mysuru Divisional Controller, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation said all daily bus passes will be extended by as many days as the strike.  With inputs from Mysuru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-strike-daily-commute-a-hassle-for-passengers/article34348369.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure RT-PCR test results are out in 24 hrs’||Noticing delay faced by people in getting results of RT-PCR tests for COVID-19, the High Court of Karnataka on Saturday directed the State government to issue necessary instructions to all the authorities and laboratories to give results at the earliest and not later than 24 hours. It also directed the government to ensure that those testing positive for COVID-19 and requiring hospitalisation or quarantine as per medical advice are not deprived of hospitalisation or quarantine facilities. The need of persons requiring dire medical attention should be prioritised as against those volunteering to get admitted to hospitals or quarantine centres on their own though it is not required, the HC said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the directions while hearing a batch of PIL petitions filed last year on the issues that cropped up during lockdown and the unlock process. The Bench also asked the government to explore the possibility of issuing guidelines for admission to hospitals/quarantine centres based on the medical condition.   On bed shortage  On the availability of beds for COVID-19 patients, the government told the High Court that one reasons why the issue of non-availability of beds arises from time to time is peculiar scenarios. One of these could be that patients want a bed in a particular area or in a particular hospital and that may not be available. The government, in its written statement, also said that at present, private hospitals have a large number of non-COVID-19 patients and beds have to be earmarked for COVID-19 as and when other patients are discharged and sometimes ICU’s with ventilators are in demand because patients are admitted at the very last minute which also causes lot of difficulty. During the hearing, it was pointed out that bed availability could be an issue in Bengaluru while referring to the instance in which former CM H.D. Kumaraswamy could not get admission to Manipal Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-rt-pcr-test-results-are-out-in-24-hrs/article34348373.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports another highest single-day spike at 17,489||Karnataka on Saturday reported yet another peak — the highest ever single-day spike — with 17,489 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 11,41,998. Of these, 11,404 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. Last year during the first outbreak, the State had reported the highest single day spike of 10,947 cases on October 7. Bengaluru Urban’s last year’s record was 5,121 on October 8. With 80 deaths, the toll rose to 13,270. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.  6-month-old dies Among the 80 deaths recorded on Saturday one was of a six-month-old girl. As per the Health Department’s bulletin, the infant died on April 15 at a private, designated hospital in Bengaluru Urban district. As many as 5,565 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 10,09,549. Of the remaining 1,19,160 active patients, 589 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 12.20%, the CFR was 0.45%. On Saturday, a total of 2,31,870 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till 8.30 p.m. The State has vaccinated 67,18,709 people so far. This includes 5,76,391 healthcare workers and 2,56,649 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-another-highest-single-day-spike-at-17489/article34348376.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many forced to disinvite wedding guests||Software engineer Bharat Ram, who is getting married on April 25, had an unenviable task on Saturday: disinviting friends he had already sent invitations to. “I had invited people keeping in mind the limit of 200 guests, which the government suddenly slashed by half on Friday. While it was very embarrassing to call my friends and withdraw the invitations, the situation in the city is so grim that nobody took it badly,” he said. The government’s restrictions on weddings and gatherings has resulted in people scrambling to make last-minute changes to functions they had planned months in advance when COVID-19 appeared to be on the wane. Instead of wedding invitations, many families are sending out ‘blessing cards’, informing friends and relatives of upcoming nuptials and seeking blessings for the couple. Others are webcasting their ceremonies as was the trend last year during the first wave of COVID-19. Jayashree, who is getting married on April 26, is sending webcast links to all her well-wishers so that they can participate online. “Everyone is concerned about their elderly parents and grandparents who live with them. So many had already decided against attending,” she said. Cancellations on the rise While couples and event planners acknowledge the need for restrictions, many felt the government’s new rule making entry passes mandatory was too severe. Others said it would be practically impossible for the authorities to monitor each function and ensure everyone has passes. A senior civic official said that making passes a prerequisite has a psychological impact on people effectively communicating to them the severity of the pandemic. It seems to have had an impact already. Shivaraju, a caterer, said two weddings he had been booked for in May, were indefinitely postponed on Saturday. “Only those ceremonies planned for the next two to three weeks are being held. The ones that were scheduled for later dates are mostly being deferred,” he said. He added that with the rise in COVID-19 cases over the last three weeks, guest attendance at weddings has already dropped significantly. “At least in three weddings, estimated guests did not turn up and the food went to waste,” he said. Mr. Shivaraju concurred adding that most families are retaining the original vendors. “Given how bad the business is, we are happy that they are retaining us and we are ready to accommodate them to the best extent possible,” he said. However, blocking dates for halls is proving to be a thorny issue. “Many want to reschedule weddings and block dates in June-July, or after Ashada Masa in August. But the dates they are asking for may not be available due to prior bookings. In such cases, they are seeking refunds, which will be difficult,” said a manager of a marriage hall in Rajajinagar, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-forced-to-disinvite-wedding-guests/article34348379.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No need to transfer probe from SIT as of today, says HC||In a temporary relief to the State government, the High Court of Karnataka on Saturday said that as of today there was no need to consider a plea for transfer of the investigation into the alleged CD scandal involving the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi to any other agency. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj made these observation in its order after going through the report submitted in a sealed cover to the court by IPS officer Soumendu Mukherjee, who is heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the government to probe into the scandal. “We find that as of today it is not necessary to consider the plea for transfer of investigation,” the Bench observed while hearing the two PIL petitions filed by Geetha Misra, a social activist, and S. Umesh, a city-based advocate. When it was pointed out by a counsel of a petitioner that the SIT had not questioned Mr. Jarkiholi while alleging that he was avoiding probe in the guise of being treated for COVID-19, the Bench told the advocate that he was not privy to what has been stated in that regard by the SIT in its report. The Bench noted that the SIT was conducting investigation based on the three first information reports registered in connection with the scandal. While validity of setting up of the SIT by the State government and non-registration of the FIR when social activist Dinesh Kallahalli lodged a complaint on the CD scandal before withdrawing it subsequently were questioned in Ms. Misra’s petition, the petition by Mr. Umesh had sought acourt-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation or other independent investigation team and direction to the police and the media to adhere to guidelines of the apex court on investigation of criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-need-to-transfer-probe-from-sit-as-of-today-says-hc/article34347876.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP working to add more beds to govt. quota||While 4,300 beds are currently available with the BBMP to be allotted to COVID-19 patients from its quota (for which government will bear the costs), more beds are being added to the category, especially ICU beds, said Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. As on Saturday morning, only 600 of these beds were vacant, indicating the grim situation. “We have brought 150 ICU beds in Charaka Super Specialty Hospital into our bed matrix. We have also increased the number of beds in Victoria Hospital from 150 to 500. We are working towards increasing bed capacity in other hospitals as well. All private hospitals have to reserve 50% of their beds to our quota,” Mr. Gupta said on Saturday. He advised patients and their family members not to visit hospitals searching for beds, but instead get a bed allotted through the helplines, 1912 or zonal control rooms. SRF ID-based allocation On complaints of delay in issue of ‘BU number’ holding up hospitalisation, the government has now issued a circular allowing bed allocation based on SRF ID, the sample number for RT-PCR test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-working-to-add-more-beds-to-govt-quota/article34348366.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three police personnel succumb to virus||The police force is struggling under the onslaught of the pandemic. Three police personnel succumbed to COVID-19 on Saturday including an assistant sub inspector with Ashok Nagar police station, a head constable with the City Armed Reserve police, and a reserve ASI with VIP security. “They had been hospitalised but their condition worsened and they passed away,” said a senior police officer. As many as 102 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19. “While some have been admitted to hospitals, others with mild symptoms are quarantining themselves at home,” the senior officer added. In the West Division alone, there are 34 COVID-19 cases. “All police stations are sanitised regularly and police personnel are subjected to tests. Senior police officials are also counselling their staff to help them through these trying times,” the officer added. The pandemic is taking its toll on the force with the number of infections on the rise. Since last year, 36 police personnel – a majority from the Bengaluru City Police – have succumbed to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-police-personnel-succumb-to-virus/article34348372.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey on unincorporated sector enterprise||The National Statistical Office (NSO) regional office in Bengaluru recently held a regional training camp for a nationwide Annual Survey on Unincorporated Sector Enterprise which is to continue till March 2022. During the survey period, specially trained personnel of the Field Operations Division of the NSO will visit select establishments. The objective of the survey is to obtain data pertaining to unincorporated sector enterprises which are essential for planning and policy formulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-on-unincorporated-sector-enterprise/article34347875.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC runs more than 1,200 buses||Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) on Saturday operated more than 1,200 buses on Saturday. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha told The Hindu that day by day, the number of people reporting back to duty is increasing. “As more number of employees are reporting for duty, the number of buses plying on the road has increased. We are hoping that more buses will be operated in the coming days,” she said. Prior to the strike, the BMTC operated around 5,600 buses in the city. On Saturday, all the four RTCs operated close to 7,000 buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-runs-more-than-1200-buses/article34348367.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Consider imposing curbs on results day||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the government to consider imposing curbs on congregations at the counting centres in the Lok Sahba and the Legislative Assembly constituencies to which byelections were held on Saturday, besides avoiding any political rally after the announcement of the results. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction in this regard after it was pointed out on behalf of the petitioners, while hearing a batch of PIL petitions, that though the government banned religious gathering or functions, it allowed political gatherings and functions not exceeding participation of 200 people in open spaces and such a relaxation shown to political gathering could lead to spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-consider-imposing-curbs-on-results-day/article34347871.ece
18 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||More KSRTC buses plying||The number of buses operated by KSRTC has been increasing daily. Up to 5 p.m. on Saturday, 320 buses were operated in Hassan division. This division has been able to operate buses covering almost all inter-district routes. Rajesh Shetty, Divisional Controller, told The Hindu that more than 1,000 drivers and conductors have returned to work in the division. “We have been able to restore 80% of the total routes.” The continuous efforts to convince the employees to return to work yielded results. The private bus operators, who did make money initially, are facing the heat as KSRTC resumed its operations on key routes. Many private bus operators had heated arguments with KSRTC staff members on running buses to Bengaluru and Mysuru. Private transport operators alleged that even as they were trying to fill up all the seats, KSRTC buses arrive at the bus stand and all the passengers get down from private buses and get into KSRTC buses. “The government has asked us to operate our buses as the employees are on strike. Now KSRTC is also running buses, causing us loss”, said a private bus operator. The private bus operators charge higher than the KSRTC fare. “We cannot run our vehicle at KSRTC rate. I have a mini-bus and I can save some earning after the fuel expense, only if I charge Rs. 500 per passenger to Bengaluru” said a private operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-ksrtc-buses-plying/article34347968.ece
18 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||216 fresh cases in Hassan||As many as 216 fresh cases of COVID-19 and six more deaths were reported in Hassan on Saturday. With that, the total number of deaths has increased to 493. And, the total number of cases reported so far is 31,595. Among them, 29,616 have recovered. As many as 1,486 people are under treatment and of them 23 are in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases reported, 59 are from Hassan taluk, 57 in Channarayapatna taluk, 51 in Arsikere, 15 in Holenarsipur, nine in Sakleshpur, eight each in Alur and Arkalgud, seven in Belur and two are from other districts. Minister’s appeal Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah has said people should come forward to get vaccinated and cooperate with the administration in its fight against the spread of the infection. He told journalists after holding a meeting with officers in Hassan on Saturday that the district had sufficient stock of vaccines. The Minister said he had asked the district administration to get 50 % of beds in private hospitals reserved for COVID-19 patients. The private hospitals should treat patients as per the price chart fixed by the State government. “Those who violate the guidelines will face action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/216-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article34347969.ece
18 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘All I wanted was to revive Ganga Lahari’||The row over alleged breaking open of the lock of Gangubai Hangal Museum of Music took a new turn on Saturday with Gangubai’s granddaughter Vaishnavi (Anita) Hangal announcing that the museum would remain closed for the next two months and any further programme at ‘Ganga Lahari’ (Gangubai Hangal’s residence) would be held with the consent and in the presence of her father Baburao. Addressing a press conference along with Mahesh Hangal (Gangubai’s second son Narayanrao’s son) and family friend and Sri Ram Sena chief Pramod Mutalik and others at ‘Ganga Lahari’ on Saturday, Ms. Vaishnavi. however, maintained that the museum was not broken open as her uncle Mr. Narayanrao had the museum’s key. On Monday, at a press conference in Hubballi, Gangubai’s eldest son nonagenarian Baburao had alleged that his daughter (Ms. Vaishnavi) and her husband Mahesh Talakad had broken open the museum to his utter shock. He had also lodged a complaint with the Hubballi police. However, no case has been registered yet. Throughout the press conference, Ms. Vaishnavi maintained that she did not break open the museum against her father’s wish and would lock the museum and return to Mysuru where she runs music school named after her grandmother Gangubai Hangal. “Any decision on reopening the museum, or continuing Gangubai’s musical tradition at ‘Ganga Lahari’ will be taken by my father and uncle. I will abide by it,” she announced, reiterating that she had opened the museum only to keep it tidy. Mahesh Hangal, too, maintained that there was no need to break open the museum as his father Mr. Narayanrao also had the key and Mr. Vaishnavi had opened it to clean it. He said in case she had broken open the lock, his father would have objected and it was not the case. Earlier, Ms. Vaishnavi said that pained by reports in a section of the media that ‘Ganga Lahari’ had become silent and was in a state of neglect, she came from Mysuru along with Mr. Talakad and opened the museum to clean. “With the assistance of my cousins (two sons of Mr. Narayanarao) we made preparations to make ‘Ganga Lahari’ active again on Ugadi. However on April 11, I received a call from the suburban police station saying that my father had complained against me alleging that I had broken open the museum and misplaced musical instruments. Subsequently, my father also addressed a press conference, which has shocked the Hangal family,” she said, adding that she had no commercial interests. Ms. Vaishnavi said her father Mr. Baburao had always stood behind her in her growth as a musician and probably he was misled by a third person, who did not like the growth of Hangal family. Mr. Mutalik said he had intervened in the matter as he had close ties with the family. “I have spoken to both sides and a communication gap is the reason for the whole fiasco. Ms. Vaishnavi, Mr. Baburao and all of us want the musical tradition of ‘Gangajji’ to continue and it will happen soon after the misunderstandings are cleared,” he said. Mr. Narayanrao’s daughter-in-law and vocalist Veena Hangal, advocate and musician Jnaneshwar Warang said they wanted music to reverberate again at ‘Ganga Lahari’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-i-wanted-was-to-revive-ganga-lahari/article34347866.ece
18 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Voting largely peaceful in Basavakalyan bypoll||Polling in the Basavakalyan byelection was almost peaceful without any incidents on Saturday. It began at 7 a.m. and went on till 7 p.m. The turnout of voters, which was less in the initial hours, gradually picked up through the day. Disregarding the rising temperature, people enthusiastically participated in the high-voltage election that drew the attention of the State. Congress candidate Mala B. Narayanarao, wife of B. Narayanarao whose death necessitated the byelection, visited the samadhi of her husband and paid homage in the morning before proceeding to vote. BJP candidate Sharanu Salagar offered puja at Basaveshwar Temple and cast his vote at polling station 99A in Basavakalyan APMC yard. JD(S) candidate Sayed Yasrub Ali Quadri cast his vote at polling station 97 established near Hazrat Darga in Basavakalyan. BJP rebel candidate Mallikarjun Khuba, who was in the fray as an Independent after he was denied party ticket, cast his vote at polling station 118 set up at a government school in Tripurantha. Speaking to media representatives after casting his vote, Mr. Khuba alleged that the BJP had distributed money to lure voters. “We have filed a complaint with the Election Commission after we found that the BJP distributed money to people. No matter how much money they [BJP] spend on the elections, the people will teach them a lesson,” he said. Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. was found visiting polling stations in the town to supervise the process. As per the information provided by the Election Commission, voter turnout progressed from 7.46% at 9 a.m. to 19.48% at 11 a.m., 29% at 1 p.m., 36.43% at 3 p.m. and 52.4% at 5 pm. The polling percentage stood at 59.57% when voting was completed at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/voting-largely-peaceful-in-basavakalyan-bypoll/article34347861.ece
18 April 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||BJP suspends Khuba from primary membership||BJP leader and former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba, who contested the Basavakalyan byelection as an Independent after he was denied the party ticket, was suspended from the party’s primary membership for six years on Saturday, the day the Assembly constituency went to the polls. ‘Violated discipline’ In a letter addressed to Mr. Khuba, Lingaraj Patil, president of the disciplinary committee of the party’s State unit, told Mr. Khuba that he had violated the party’s discipline by contesting the election against the party’s official candidate, Sharanu Salagar. He also pointed out that Mr. Khuba did not step back from the contest despite all efforts by party leaders to convince him.  Ticket aspirant Mr. Khuba had represented the constituency twice after winning the 2004 and 2013 Assembly elections from the Janata Dal (Secular). He joined the BJP and unsuccessfully contested the 2018 elections when B. Narayana Rao of the Congress won. He was one of the frontrunners among the 16 local aspirants for the party ticket for the byelection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-suspends-khuba-from-primary-membership/article34347870.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Religious leaders, VHP activists to go ahead with festivals, jatras||While the State government has banned holding any religious festivals and temple jatras to contain the spread of COVID-19, some religious leaders, heads of temple management committees and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) activists said here on Saturday that they will go ahead with Kolas, Nemotsava, Brahmakalasha, and temple fairs by complying with safety norms. “We cannot cancel these events that are held for the welfare of people. Some of these religious events have already begun and it cannot be stopped abruptly. We will go ahead with the events by strictly complying with the COVID-19 safety norms,” Mohandas Paramahamsa swami of Mahalakshmi Temple in Manila told reporters on Saturday. Former president of Dakshina Kannada BJP unit and former MLC K. Monappa Bhandary, who is a member of Gopalakrishna Temple in Shakti Nagar, said it was wrong on the part of the government to totally ban holding of religious programmes. “Just like they have restricted numbers for organising marriages and political events, similar restrictions can be placed for religious programmes. They cannot ban holding of these events with which people are closely associated with,” he said. Opposing the move of the State government, VHP Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell said that the VHP and Bajrang Dal will not accept blanket ban on religious events. “More than 15 temples have scheduled their Brahmakalasha utsavas. A lot of Bhajana Mandiras have scheduled bhajan programmes on Ramanavami on April 21. There are Nemotsavas and kolas scheduled. Government should allow these events to be held,” he said. Earlier, they met Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and demanded relaxation in holding of religious events. Dr. Rajendra reportedly told them that he is bound by the orders passed by the Chief Secretary to ban religious festivals. In the evening, the delegation met State BJP President and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and asked the latter to seek intervention of the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on this issue. Condemning the State government’s action, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat, in a statement, said the regions of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada are known for religious events, which are source of livelihood for many families. Banning of religious events not only hurts religious sentiments but also places a huge dent on revenue for several families. The ban on religious events last year made life miserable for many families. Do not drive people to despair this year too, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-leaders-vhp-activists-to-go-ahead-with-festivals-jatras/article34348506.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kiosks to be set up at police stations||In order to prevent police station staff from COVID-19 infection, kiosks will come up outside 20 buildings housing law and order, traffic, cyber crime, economic and narcotic crime police stations and offices of Assistant Commissioners of Police. The grievances of people will be attended to at these kiosks, according to Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar. The first such kiosk was opened at Urwa police station on Saturday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kumar said with surge in COVID-19 cases in the city, it was important to take precautions for police personnel. As many as 330 personnel tested positive last year and this led to shortfall in the workforce, he said. Following the model of Bengaluru police, the Mangaluru city police has opened kiosks. “At the kiosks, a station house officer will attend to grievances of people. Only in case of need, the complainant will go to the police station. Thus, we can prevent all personnel at the station from getting exposed,” he said. At the Urwa police station kiosk, a person can enter after sanitising. The station house officer sits on a table placed two feet away from the visitor. The complaint or document given by the visitor is accepted by the station house officer, who wears mask and gloves. The complaint is placed in an “UV scanner” machine and then accepted. Face masks are kept for those who do not have one. The Urwa police have made arrangements to provide ayurvedic “kashaya” to police personnel thrice a day. “We will have such kiosks at all our buildings in the next a few days,” Mr. Kumar said. All stations have been provided with UV scanning machines and protective equipment, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiosks-to-be-set-up-at-police-stations/article34348504.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Former gram panchayat member arrested||Continuing the action on persons allegedly involved in 28 inter-district theft, dacoity and other criminal cases, including seven reported in Mangaluru city, the Moodibidri police on Saturday arrested Abdul Bashir, 40, a former member of Kadambady Gram Panchayat in Puttur, for his alleged association with the accused. The Moodbidri police arrested 15 persons, including three alleged kingpins, who are among the 60 members of the gang that have carried out dacoity, theft, cattle theft, and extortions in Mangaluru, Udupi, Chikkmagalaru, Madikeri, Hassan, and Bengaluru Vijayanagar police station limits. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Saturday that the investigation revealed about Bashir being the main supporter of the gang that has been involved in a spate of crime reported in the last three years. Apart from arranging vehicles for commission of crime, Bashir is accused of financing the accused persons and also arranging places for them to hide. Bashir contested as an Independent from Puttur constituency in the 2018 Assembly polls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-gram-panchayat-member-arrested/article34348509.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals told to give test reports in two days||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday instructed private hospitals to issue COVID-19 test reports within two days of taking samples. Speaking at a COVID-19 management co-ordination meeting, he said some hospitals took a week to issue the reports. In such cases, the chances of spread of infection will be more. Dr. Rajendra said hospitals should not turn away COVID-19 patients. They should not shift the patients at the last minute denying them treatment. If so, medical negligence case will be registered against such hospitals. He said cases are on the rise in the district and there will be a spurt in another fortnight. Private hospitals should reserve 50% of their beds to treat COVID-19 patients. He said the private hospitals should not charge more than Rs. 800 per COVID-19 test. Chief Executive Officer of zilla panchayat Kumara said the rate of administering vaccination in private hospitals was very low. Hospitals should convince eligible patients to get the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-told-to-give-test-reports-in-two-days/article34348499.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MCC withdraws nod to hold religious festivals||Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Akshy Sridhar on Saturday said the corporation has withdrawn the permission given earlier to organise religious festivals in the jurisdiction of the corporation with immediate effect. He said staff of hotels, bar and restaurants who come in contact with online delivery persons, staff of malls, supermarkets and marriage halls, drivers of buses and autorickshaws should get themselves tested for COVID-19 every fortnight. Permission for organising marriages and birthdays will be given as per guidelines of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-withdraws-nod-to-hold-religious-festivals/article34348500.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for misbehaving with constable||The Mangaluru traffic police on Saturday arrested Jagan, 23, of Yekkur for allegedly misbehaving with a traffic police constable and obstructing him from performing his duty on Friday. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that police constable Yashwanth Rathod had stopped Jagan after he jumped the signal at the Collector’s Gate junction. Jagan was arrested and produced before the jurisdictional court on Saturday. He was remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Asking people to behave properly with police who are working under trying circumstances with surge in COVID-19 cases, Mr. Kumar said policemen have been asked to behave in a courteous way with people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-misbehaving-with-constable/article34348508.ece
18 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||One death, 427 new cases in DK, Udupi||One COVID-19 patient died while 309 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. With the discharge of 99 patients, the active cases in Dakshina Kannada stood at 1,623. A fine of Rs. 47.86 lakh has so far been collected from 46,098 cases of no wearing masks and violation of social distance norms, said the bulletin by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. Fine collected In Udupi, 118 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday. With the recovery of 126 patients, the active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 583. A fine of Rs. 28.82 lakh has been collected so far from 27,056 cases for covid-19 norms violation, said the bulletin by the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-death-427-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34348507.ece
18 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to Kodialbail, City Centre area, district court complex area, Dongarakery, Car Street, New Field Street, Gayathri Temple Road, Mannagudda, Warehouse, Ballalbagh, Empire Mall area on April 20 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    Power supply to some areas in Udupi will be stopped on April 20 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Ambagilu, Perampalli, Aadi Udupi, Kalmadi, Malpe, Udyavara, Guddeyangady, Pitrodi, Kinnimulki, Kolambe, Mission Compound, Bailoor, Ajjarakadu, Chandu Maidan, Court Road, Kakkunje and Pandubettu.    Udupi District Child Labour Project Society has invited applications to recruit the post of Project Director on contract basis for one year. The selected will be given a monthly honorarium of Rs. 19,965. Those aged up to 40 can apply on or before April 30. For details, contact the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34348501.ece
18 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Helipad site is private property’||The site of the proposed helipad in front of the Lalitha Mahal Palace has been claimed by the erstwhile royals of Mysuru citing a court verdict, adding a new twist to the ongoing controversy. This is the same site where the new helipad has been proposed but entails felling over 150 trees for which a public hearing has been called for on April 23 Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, wife of former MP and last Yuvaraja late Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar, has dashed of a letter to the Forest Department in Mysuru and said that it is a private property. The land parcel situated at Survey Number 4 of Kurubarahalli, the wooded area near the existing helipad,is a private property as per the High Court verdict dated June 19, 2020, said Ms.Wadiyar. In the light of the above judgment the proposed felling of trees is also unauthorised and amounts to trespassing, she added. In view of the above the public hearing should also be dropped or she would constrained to take necessary steps to safeguard her interest and save the trees from being felled, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helipad-site-is-private-property/article34347975.ece
18 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Fire caused by ‘carelessly’ thrown matchstick||The Mysuru City Police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old man for carelessly throwing a matchstick after lighting a beedi, leading to an outbreak of fire near the library set up by 62-year-old Syed Ishaq in Rajiv Nagar. Addressing a press conference, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta said the accused, Syed Nasir, who stayed close to the library, returned home on April 8 night in a drunken state, but left the house later after a fight with his mother and brothers. He purchased beedis and a matchbox from a provision store situated behind the library. Showing visuals from the CCTV camera, the Commissioner said Syed Nasir had lit a beedi around 10.15 p.m. and threw the burning matchstick on the furniture and cushions kept in the open outside a sofa repair shop adjacent to the library. Within a minute after he left the spot to return home, a small fire broke out from the old furniture that had been kept for repairs adjacent to the library, but two locals rushed to the spot and put out the fire. However, the fire had not been put out completely as flames began to rise from the inflammable material like coir that was kept outside the sofa repair shop around 2.15 a.m. on April 9. Soon, the raging fire enveloped the books kept in the adjacent library and destroyed them. The police had arrested Syed Nasir as he was found to be responsible for causing the fire. Mr. Ishaq had lodged a complaint with the Udayagiri police on April 9 alleging that miscreants had burnt his library of more than 11,000 books including Kannada versions of Bhagavad Gita, Bible and Quran. He had accused the miscreants of targeting his library because of their intolerance towards Kannada language that he was propagating through his library. Fielding queries from reporters, Mr. Chandragupta said the accused had thrown the lit matchstick ‘carelessly’. But, the police is still investigating whether the act of the accused was deliberate or not. However, police said there is no history of animosity between Syed Nasir, who is a painter by profession, and Mr. Syed Ishaq. Further investigations are underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-caused-by-carelessly-thrown-matchstick/article34347971.ece
18 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Public meeting today on property tax hike||The Institution of Engineers and Congress party will be holding a public meeting on the hike in property taxes by Mysuru City Corporation. The meeting will be held on the Institution premises on Jhansi Lakshmi Bai Road, next to MUDA office, at 11 a.m. on April 18. In a press statement here, Lakshmana, Congress leader, said the tax had been hiked by two- to three-folds. The meeting will discuss the issue with the general public and chart out a course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-meeting-today-on-property-tax-hike/article34347974.ece
18 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||70.48% turnout in Maski||Registering 70.48% turnout, the bypoll in Maski Assembly constituency concluded peacefully on Saturday, except for a few minor incidents. Congress candidate Basanagowda Turvihal and BJP candidate Pratapgowda Patil cast votes in Turvihal and Maski respectively. Mr. Patil arrived in a PPE kit since he tested positive for COVID-19. The voters’, especially the elderly, voted with enthusiasm. The police took two persons into custody for violating election norms. One person was held in Halapur village for allegedly issuing information of the Congress candidate to voters. Another person was held after he filmed his voting process in a booth in Vatagal village and made it viral on social media. Congress worker Padmavathi argued with the police alleging they were allowing BJP workers to go near polling stations. The voting process resumed in booth number 13 in Pamanakallur village after half-an-hour after a glitch in the machine. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar personally visited many polling stations and gathered information. Talking with The Hindu , Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikam said the election was completely peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7048-turnout-in-maski/article34347869.ece
18 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Bus services resume in Raichur and Yadgir||In some hopeful developments, employees particularly drivers and conductors, who were on protest, reported to duty on Saturday. After this development, officials of North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation ( NEKRTC) in Raichur and Yadgir started bus operations to cities and local services. As many as 150 buses out of 590 started operations in Raichur. “It was the collective efforts of the officials of NEKRTC in convincing them to get back to duty. However, most of the locally residing drivers and conductors are not willing to do so,” Ishwar Doddamani, DTO of Raichur, told The Hindu.  Salary released In Yadgir, 85 buses started operation. Officials said they have released the March salaries to those who reported to duty. Simultaneously, action was also initiated against protesting employees. Total eight employees were dismissed from service and eight were transferred to internal divisions from Raichur. In Yadgir, seven employees were dismissed and 10 were transferred, officials informed. Except Maharashtra, buses to Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mantralayam, and Kalaburagi were started from both districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-services-resume-in-raichur-and-yadgir/article34347867.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru reports new single-day high with 811 cases||This year’s highest single-day spike has been reported on Saturday with a whopping 811 new cases. The deaths due to COVID-19 too have spiked with eight casualties reported on Saturday which is again the highest since the beginning of this year. In a span of nine days, 41 COVID-19 patients have died. The death toll has risen to 1,111. Out of 811 cases, 657 are the contacts of the infected persons. With the big surge in cases, the active case tally has crossed the 3,000-mark on Saturday. The active cases stand at 3,081 and the number of persons discharged was 387. Mysuru has been reporting an average of 350 cases daily but Saturday’s surge is the biggest so far this year, causing serious worries to the district administration and the Health Department. A Health Department official said, “Most of the infected are family members. The infection has spread from one family member to another and their contacts. But, most of the cases are mild and majority of them are under home isolation.” Meanwhile, the government offices in Mysuru have appealed to the public to refrain from visiting offices following spike in cases and advised them to get information either through phone or email. Unless the work is urgent, the public can put off their visits in view of many in the offices at the MCC and sub-registrar testing positive for COVID-19. Reports said as many as 27 employees have tested positive in the MCC. Some private hospitals too have enforced strict screening of visitors following the surge. Visitors are allowed inside the hospital after signing a self-declaration form. Vaccination camp The health centre of University of Mysore on the Maharaja College premises on Saturday conducted a vaccination camp with support from the Mysuru City Corporation and Gopala Gowda Hospital. Many eligible teaching and non-teaching staff of the university and constituent colleges took the jab. The health centre opened its premises for the vaccination and the vaccines were arranged from the Health Department which was fully coordinated by the MCC. As many as 500 doses of vaccine were arranged and doctors said the response was good. “There is no hesitancy. People are now volunteering for the shots. Vaccine is the need of the hour in the fight against the pandemic. It protects the vaccinated persons from complications in case of an infection. All eligible populations must take it without a second thought,” said M.S. Basavaraj, Chief Medical Officer, University Health Centre, Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-reports-new-single-day-high-with-811-cases/article34347973.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Decide on returning money spent by IMA Group on government school: HC||The State government on Saturday found itself in an embarrassing situation with the High Court of Karnataka directing it to take a decision on returning Rs. 12.82 crore that the scam-tainted IMA Group spent for redevelopment and maintenance of V.K. Obaidullah Government School in Shivajinagar. The court also directed the government to reconsider its decision on attaching the properties of former Minister R. Roshan Baig while pointing out that there is no need for the government to wait for the investigation report from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as law empowers the authorities to attach properties based on other relevant materials. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the directions after perusing the report of IAS officer Harsh Gupta, Special Officer and Competent Authority under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment (KPIDFE) Act, 2004 for IMA and other scams. The report, citing the March 5, 2021 communication from the CBI, had pointed out that IMA had adopted the school, and had built a four-storey building at a cost of Rs. 10 crore apart from spending an additional Rs. 2.82 crore for overall maintenance of the school during 2017-19 after entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Department of Public Instruction. The bench noted that the MoU was signed after IMA Group founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan’s written communication with R. Roshan Baig, the then Minister for Infrastructure and Haj. Mr. Gupta had on April 9, 2021 written to the government to take a decision on attaching the school building under the KPIDEF Act as IMA Group or release Rs. 12.82 crore to the competent authority as money should be returned to depositors of IMA Group. The bench said that prima facie it was of the view that money of depositors could not have been diverted by the IMA Group for adopting the government school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decide-on-returning-money-spent-by-ima-group-on-government-school-hc/article34348362.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||DC nod must to book halls for weddings||In the case of community halls/auditoriums already booked, there is no need to obtain permission or passes. But organisers have to limit the number of people as stipulated.  Mr. Bommai said FIRs would be registered against owners of community halls/auditoriums who failed to enforce COVID-19 rules. Such halls would also be ordered to close, he said. The police too would be posted to check the number of people attending weddings and other programmes. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue, said: “The move has been necessitated because restrictions on the size of public gatherings are being violated with impunity.” Civic officials admitted that the “pass rule” was tough to enforce. However, they said the very fact that one needed a pass to participate in the event would discourage people. Religious events Mr. Ashok said deputy commissioners had been instructed to ban all religious festivals/temple jatras to be held in May or June. Following a surge in cases in Bengaluru, CM B.S. Yediyurappa, who tested positive and is receiving treatment at Manipal Hospital, would hold a videoconference with city MLAs and top officials on Monday to brainstorm on measures to contain the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar has issued an order directing all department heads to control/regulate the number of meetings being organised for the next one or two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-nod-must-to-book-halls-for-weddings/article34348380.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||120 kg of marijuana seized||The Hulimavu police busted an inter-State drug racket and arrested two men who were allegedly sourcing marijuana from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Two other accused, including their supplier from Visakhapatnam, are absconding. The consignments were stored in Krishnagiri, Tamil Nadu, before being smuggled into Bengaluru in small quantities so as to escape detection, said the police, who seized 120.7 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 54 lakh from the accused. One of the accused Radha Ravi, 29, is a construction labourer. He sold the drugs to students of a college on Bannerghatta Road. He was nabbed red-handed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/120-kg-of-marijuana-seized/article34348370.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||School for street children||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-for-street-children/article34348364.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt: Senior advocate Mohan Parasharan speaks on Sri Rama Janmabhoomi, Rajangana, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34348502.ece
18 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two arrested on murder charge||The police on Saturday recorded the arrest of two persons allegedly involved in the murder of Abhimanyu, a Class 10 student from Vallikkunnam. The arrested have been identified as Sajay Jith, 21, and Jishnu Thambi, 26, of Vallikunnam. Suspect surrenders Sajay, prime suspect in the case, surrendered at the Palarivattom police station in Kochi on Friday. He is reportedly a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker. Jishnu was nabbed from Ernakulam district. According to Mithun D., Circle Inspector, Vallikunnam, more arrests are likely in the case. Abhimanyu, 16, was stabbed to death on Wednesday night. He was a student of Amrita Higher Secondary School, Vallikunnam. According to the police, a gang stabbed him during a festival at the Padayanivettom temple. Two other persons – Aadarsh, 18, and Kashinath, 16, – sustained injuries in the clash. The police said that they suspected that the incident was a sequel to a clash involving Abhimanyu’s elder brother Anandu, a Democratic Youth Federation of India activist, recently. The assailants allegedly came looking for Anandu, but attacked Abhimanyu instead. Remanded The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party-RSS workers for the murder. Abhimanyu was a Student Federation of India activist. The BJP, however, denied any role in the murder. The arrested were produced before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Kayamkulam, and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-on-murder-charge/article34347929.ece
18 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pipe leak disrupts water supply||Thousands of residents in the Alappuzha municipal area and eight nearby grama panchayats have been left without running water after a leakage on the pipeline of the Alappuzha drinking water project forced authorities to stop pumping on Friday evening. The leak was detected at Kelamangalam near Thakazhi. “The leak was discovered a couple of days ago and we continued pumping during daytime. However, it got aggravated on Friday. As harvested paddy is kept above the underground pipeline, we decided to stop pumping as pipe burst would wash away the paddy,” said A. Sheeja, project manager, Urban Infrastructure Development Scheme for Small and Medium Towns (UIDSSMT). Ms. Sheeja said the repair work would begin after the paddy was transported from there. “We have raised the issue with Supplyco, Agriculture Department and other officials concerned. We cannot plug the leak without shifting the harvested paddy stored there,” she said. Authorities have pressed tankers into service to provide potable water to households in the affected areas. The drinking water project was executed by the Kerala Water Authority with Central assistance under the UIDSSMT in 2017. However, since its launch, pipelines under the project have burst more than 50 times.  We cannot plug the leak without shifting the harvested paddy stored there A. Sheeja Project manager, UIDSSMT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pipe-leak-disrupts-water-supply/article34347928.ece
18 April 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Lokame Tharavadu to be held from today||After the initial delay, Lokame Tharavadu (The world is one family), a contemporary art exhibition featuring works of 266 Malayali artists, will have a soft opening at 6 p.m. on April 18. Considering the pandemic situation, the entry to the event to be held at the New Model Society building here is by invitation, organisers said. The show will open to the public from Monday. Scheduled to begin on March 15, the event was postponed after district authorities did not grant permission citing the pandemic. The art show is being organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation with the support of the Departments of Tourism and Culture and the Alappuzha Heritage Project being implemented under the guidance of Muziris Heritage Project Ltd. The over two-month event is spread across five heritage venues in Alappuzha — The Kerala State Coir Corporation, New Model Society Building, Port Museum, Eastern Produce Company Ltd, and William Goodacre and Sons Pvt Ltd — and the Durbar Hall Art Gallery in Ernakulam. For the art community Among the creative works on display will be paintings, sculptures, video art, performance, installations, and much more. The exhibition is part of the government’s efforts to reach out to the art community in these trying times. It is curated by artist and curator Bose Krishnamachari. “This exhibition is an attempt to create a platform for Malayali artists to showcase their recent practices. It will also activate the cultural spaces and institutions of Kerala. Significantly, it raises important questions about migration, home, and belonging. Through this, we are also reconfiguring the idea of home, instead of anchoring it to one place,” says Krishnamachari. The core idea of the show, the world is one family, is drawn from the verses of the Malayalam poem Ente Gurunathan by Vallathol Narayana Menon, which appeals to the universal spirit of humanity and oneness that resonates well in these times of the pandemic. Conservation architect Benny Kuriakose says the government is sending out a message that the old buildings are not a liability and they are something to be conserved for the future. Limited entry Noushad P.M., Director, Muziris Projects Pvt Ltd, says the Lokame Tharavadu show will add a signature of art and culture to the multi-dimensional Alappuzha Heritage Project. The show will be conducted adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Only a limited number of people will be allowed entry in a day, say the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lokame-tharavadu-from-today/article34347927.ece
18 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Sudhakaran alleges bid to ‘tarnish career’||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Saturday alleged that attempts were being made to tarnish his political career. The Minister was responding to mediapersons’ questions about a police complaint filed against him by the wife of his former personal staff member alleging that the Minister’s remarks in a press conference were damaging to womanhood and could provoke communal tension. ‘Political criminals’ Mr. Sudhakaran said the complaint revealed that there was political criminalism in the district. “I am a true communist. I have not insulted the former personal staff and his wife. A gang involving members of various political parties is behind this. These political criminals should not be encouraged. They are using the petitioner and her husband against me,” he said. The complainant, a former Student Federation of India Alappuzha district committee member, filed the complaint before the Ambalappuzha police citing the Minister’s remarks at a press conference held on April 11 in Alappuzha. Her husband is the Purakkad local committee member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. No case yet The police said they were examining the allegations and had not yet registered a case based on the complaint. The petitioner had been asked to submit evidence, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-alleges-bid-to-tarnish-career/article34347930.ece
18 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||One more shigella case in Wayanad||A 59-year-old tribal woman of the Nagaramchal Kattuanayakka tribal hamlet in Noolpuzha grama panchayat in Wayanad was diagnosed with shigella bacterial infection on Saturday. She was admitted to the taluk hospital at Sulthan Bathery. A few weeks ago a tribal girl had died of the disease in the area. As many as 10 shigella cases, including two deaths, were reported in the district this year as against a case in the previous year, B. Abhilash, district project manager, Arogya Keralam, Wayanad, told The Hindu.  He said district health authorities and panchayat officials were jointly executing measures to contain the infection. Though the situation was under control now, persons with symptoms of the infection such as diarrhoea, vomiting, fever, and stomach ache should report to the nearest hospital, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-shigella-case-in-wayanad/article34347952.ece
18 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Mansoor murder: police get custody of eight accused||The Thalassery First Class Magistrate Court has ordered the release of eight accused in the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) activist Mansoor murder case at Peringathur to police custody. On Friday, Crime Branch Dy.SP P. Vikraman had filed a petition in the court seeking their custody. The court ordered the release of Shinos, Sangeeth, Vipin, Aneesh, Sreerag, Vijesh, Ashwanth and Suhail to the police custody. The accused will be handed over to the police after being produced in court on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mansoor-murder-police-get-custody-of-eight-accused/article34347893.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cases hit record high of 2,187 in Ernakulam||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam soared to hit an all-time high of 2,187 on Saturday. The active caseload of the district has risen to 11,994. As part of the two-day mass testing drive organised to detect cases and curb the spread of infection, 20,180 samples were collected on Saturday. The district has surpassed its two-day target of 30,900 samples and has tested a total of 36,390 people on Friday and Saturday. The district administration is improving health infrastructure further to deal with the surge in cases. In an online briefing, District Collector S. Suhas said the recently inaugurated superspeciality block at the General Hospital would be taken over for COVID-19 treatment under the Disaster Management Act, and that 100 oxygen beds would be readied at the block in the next few days. The COVID care centre at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, which had recently closed, will be restarted soon. In the next few days, 100 oxygen beds will be ready at the hospital, the Collector said. Although the district administration had earlier planned on closing the COVID care facility at PVS Hospital, it will now continue functioning at least for three weeks weeks to treat critically ill COVID patients. The district is relying on the 100-bed critical care facility at the Aluva District Hospital to handle the caseload. At least 15 new first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) will also begin functioning soon. The Kochi Corporation and municipalities have been directed to set up FLTCs. The administration is also considering increasing the number of admissions at the Government Medical College Hospital, where the number of COVID patients had dipped over the past two months after it was opened up for non-COVID treatment, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Since non-COVID treatment and surgeries had resumed at private hospitals, most are finding it difficult to set aside beds and staff for COVID treatment, Dr. Numpeli said. However, private hospitals have been attempting to increase the number of beds set aside for COVID patients and are building their staff strength, he added. “Private hospitals have been directed to set aside 20% of their beds for COVID patients,” he said. The surge in cases has been straining the existing health care facilities. Although taluk hospitals and the Muvattupuzha General Hospital were equipped earlier to treat COVID patients, these facilities are also fast approaching their maximum capacity. Of the 1,056 ICU beds in the public and private sectors, 591 are occupied, while 148 out of 336 ventilators are in use. Of the 3,106 oxygen beds, 1,317 are occupied. Earlier, District Collector S. Suhas said the number of new cases crossing the 2,000-mark could be attributed to the testing strategy and the number of samples collected. “The main strategy now is to identify the maximum number of positive people. Vulnerable persons, including bus drivers and conductors, people at markets, people with symptoms, and contacts of patients, are being tested. This massive testing campaign will continue if resources are available. The impact of such a campaign will be visible two weeks from now,” he said. Among new cases, Thrikkakara continues to top the list with 104 people testing positive from the area. Kalamassery recorded 79 cases, Thripunithura 69, Pallipuram 60, Sreemoolanagaram 59, Edathala 54, Palluruthy 45, Mazhuvannoor 44, Vengola 41, and Kadungalloor 40. In the Kochi Corporation limits, Kadavanthra registered 38 new cases, Fort Kochi 35, Edakochi 32, Palarivattom 30, Vyttila 29, Thoppumpady 26, and Kaloor 24. Two health workers and three police officers were among those who tested positive. A total of 327 people tested negative on Saturday, and 28,227 people remain in quarantine. While 8,394 people are recovering at home, 687 patients are admitted at private hospitals, 291 patients are recovering at COVID centres at government hospitals, and 380 people are at first- and second-line treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-hit-record-high-of-2187-in-ernakulam/article34348479.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No vaccination camps till replenishment of stock||No mass vaccination camps will be held in Ernakulam district from Sunday onwards, till adequate stock of the two vaccines is available, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination. The fast depleting stock of the Covishield vaccine is being replenished, with the district receiving 10,000 doses on Saturday, and around 1,75,000 doses are expected to arrive on Sunday, Dr. Sivadas said. The supply that will arrive on Sunday will be for Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Kottayam. On Saturday evening, Ernakulam had only 690 doses of Covishield remaining at vaccination centres. Around 12,880 doses of Covaxin are available at vaccination centres. On Saturday, 12,812 doses were administered as of 6 p.m. A total of 7,02,422 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the district so far, making Ernakulam the first district in the State to administer over 7 lakh doses. Since several people who have taken the first shot are now awaiting the second dose, people over 50 who have not taken the second dose will be prioritised for vaccination once additional stock is available, District Collector S. Suhas told the media earlier in the day. Most vaccination centres in the district have administered Covishield as the first dose so far. The Collector has advised the public to contact the nearest public health facility and enquire about the availability of vaccine before going to vaccination centres. When shortage of vaccines hit, the district administration, in collaboration with local bodies, had planned to set up additional centres for mass vaccination drives to expand coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-vaccination-camps-till-replenishment-of-stock/article34348486.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Call to streamline traffic on S.N. Jn.-Thripunithura stretch||Residents associations and motorists have demanded that Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) take urgent steps to streamline traffic on the Pettah-S.N. Junction-Thripunithura railway station stretch where the Kochi metro work is under way, and prevent accumulation of slush and waterlogging on M.K.K. Nayar Road near the alignment. The Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents Associations (TRURA), which has been at the forefront of agitations demanding road connectivity between the metro’s terminal station proposed near the railway station and the road leading from the Hill Palace to Thripunithura town, expressed concern at traffic hold-ups on the Pettah-S.N. Junction stretch, especially in the vicinity of a building and transformer. Narrow road A litigation is going on, and it has resulted in there being no footpath and drainage, while the road narrows down, said TRURA president V.P. Prasad. Motorists have been complaining of how they have to take alternative routes when the road near metro work sites is blocked at night as part of the civil work. “KMRL should have readied drains and footpaths before barricading worksites for piling. This would have smoothened traffic flow on the busy stretch. Many landowners had given consent letter permitting advance possession of their plots,” Mr. Prasad said. He further reiterated TRURA’s demand that the metro agency and the Thripunithura Municipality prevent possible congestion when commuters of the metro and those relying on the bus stand proposed nearby converge, by establishing wide road connectivity from Thripunithura town. “Furthermore, the National Highways Authority of India [NHAI], State government, and MPs must speed up finalising of the [revised] alignment of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi NH,” he said. Flooding On slushy roads and hassles to free movement of vehicles caused by metro work on the SN Junction-Thripunithura stretch, Pratap Babu, a resident of MKK Nayar Road said the delay in reconstructing drains had resulted in the area getting flooded even in moderate rainfall. “Subsequently, over 50 families who reside here and many others use alternative roads.” Sources in KMRL said the construction of drains on the Pettah-S.N. Junction stretch was over. Steps to mititage hardships, if any, to residents and motorists beyond the corridor will be taken as soon as possible, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-streamline-traffic-on-sn-jn-thripunithura-stretch/article34348481.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rising prices bring cheers to pineapple farmers||Pineapple farmers are heaving a sigh of relief, with the price of ripe fruit crossing Rs. 40 a kg. The price of ripe fruit is hovering around Rs. 43 a kg, and raw fruit is fetching around Rs. 40 a kg thanks to the rise in demand in the Ramadan month. The demand in north Indian cities too has gone up owing to severe heat, said Jose Perumpallykunnel, a farmer, on Saturday. He added that there was but a shortage of fruit, as farmers had earlier harvested raw fruits to be sent to upcountry markets. Shortage of workers Baby John, another farmer, said the pineapple sector was going through a crisis because of the drop in the number of workers. From among the estimated 25,000 workers from other States in the sector, around 20,000 had returned to their native States in the wake of the announcement of elections in Assam and West Bengal. Workers from Jharkhand and Orissa, however, are available. Last month, the sector was looking at a rise of 20% in production. But Mr. Perumpallykunnel said there was a shortage of the fruit in the market. The Vazhakkulam market is seeing the arrival of around 50 tonnes of fruits per day. The rest of the fruits are being loaded and despatched from farm sites, he added. It is estimated that around 5,000 farmers are involved in pineapple cultivation in the State. The 18,000 hectares under the crop produce around 5.5 lakh tonnes of fruits a year. Bulk of the produce is exported to other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rising-prices-bring-cheers-to-pineapple-farmers/article34348488.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Two arrested on cheating charges||The Kadavanthra police on Saturday arrested two persons on the charge of cheating people by masquerading as members of the Pandalam royal family. The arrested are Santhosh Karunakaran and Gopalan. They allegedly claimed to be suppliers of equipment to the US Army in Kuwait and owned hotels in Coimbatore and Kanyakumari, besides a farm spread over 2,600 acres at Nilgiri. They allegedly cheated a businessman running a company on Karshaka Road here by usurping a premium software worth Rs. 26 crore against an advance of a mere Rs. 15,000. They also allegedly recruited 20-odd workers of the company to their firm in Coimbatore and made them work without pay for months. They were arrested while they were reportedly on their way to surrender before the Infopark police on the High Court’s direction in another case. They had allegedly cheated a Kuwait-based industrialist from Odisha of Rs. 6 crore by convincing him to undertake farming on 2,600 acres owned by the Pandalam royal family at Nilgiri. A team led by Infopark Inspector Cletus, Kadavanthra Inspector Prajeesh, and Sub Inspectors with C-Branch Sathyajith and Augustin made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-on-cheating-charges/article34348482.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||ICH affirms Assamese child’s status as ‘battered’||The Institute of Child Health (ICH) of the Kottayam Medical College where a three-and-a-half-year-old Assamese child was admitted with grievous injuries akin to physical abuse has handed over to the police a report of the medical board affirming her status as a “battered child” on Saturday. A battered child is defined as a child subjected to abuse by an adult caregiver. A medical board had concluded that she was a battered child but left the question of whether sexual abuse was involved to the police. The gastroenterologist who was supposed to examine her postponed the process for the girl to heal her wounds, said ICH sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ich-affirms-assamese-childs-status-as-battered/article34348483.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||SIM card dealers to petition Mayor||The Kochi-based Sim Card Dealers Association (SCDA) is set to petition the Mayor over the alleged unscrupulous activities adversely affecting their business. Association office-bearers said their members operating based on relevant licences and fees feel threatened by unchecked activities canvassing clients for mobile network providers. “We spend considerable time and effort not to mention the cost of documentation for each connection. But then, roadside vendors and executives dropping at the doorstep undercut our business and even activate multiple connections on a single ID proof, which could even turn out to be a threat to national security,” said Shaji A.H., State general secretary, SCDA. The door-to-door service, he said, also posed a health threat in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sim-card-dealers-to-petition-mayor/article34348484.ece
18 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Application invited for data entry courses||The LBS centre functioning at Sasthamcotta block panchayat has invited applications for data entry and office automation (English and Malayalam) courses starting April 26. SSLC is the qualification required and applicants from SC/ST and OBC categories are eligible for fee concession. Call 9446854661, 7510297507, 0476-2831122 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/application-invited-for-data-entry-courses/article34347931.ece
18 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||At 1,154, Kottayam records its highest daily tally||The district on Saturday recorded its highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases with 1,154 persons testing positive for the virus infection. According to officials, the daily number of cases crossed the 1,000 mark on a single day for the first time. The test positivity for the day stood at a high 20.8%. The fresh cases also included 147 children and 176 persons aged above 60. Among the local bodies, Kottayam reported 142 cases, followed by Athirampuzha with 50 cases. With 264 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,850 patients. As per official estimates, 22.4% of the patients are accommodated in the treatment centres while 4,067 persons are in home isolation. As on April 16, as many as 2,132 beds are available in treatment centres in Kottayam. In Alappuzha, 908 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The fresh cases include 893 people who contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of five people remains unknown. Besides, 10 people who came from other States were also diagnosed with the disease. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 4,562, with 294 people recovering. A meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander on Saturday decided to open eight COVID first-line treatment centres. In Pathanamthitta, 664 persons tested positive during the day. With 56 cases, Thiruvalla led the tally, followed by Pathanamthitta with 47 cases. As many as 8,179 persons were subjected to testing during the second day of the testing campaign on Saturday, taking the total number of tests over the last two days to 15,988. The district currently has 3,293 cases while 60,527 have recovered so far. 472 in Kollam Kollam reported 472 new cases on Saturday, while 317 persons recovered from COVID-19. Those who tested positive include 462 contact cases, one NRI, two persons from other States and seven health workers. District Collector B. Abdul Nasar said that non-compliance of COVID-19 protocol would not be tolerated and strict action would be taken against all violators. “All business outlets should maintain social distancing norms and special squads have been deployed for surveillance. More treatment centres will be opened and availability of vaccine will be ensured. In the last two days more than 20,000 tests were conducted,” he said. The police have strengthened monitoring and 121 teams have been formed for the purpose. “In the last 24 hours action was taken against 3,655 persons for not wearing masks, and 1,421 persons for not maintaining social distancing,” said District Police Chief T. Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-1154-kottayam-records-its-highest-daily-tally/article34347937.ece
18 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Warring KC(M) groups face off again||The rival factions of the Kerala Congress which have been locked in a fierce turf war in Central Travancore after the death of K.M. Mani are facing off each other once again after a brief gap. Setting the stage for this new round of battle is the election to the governing council of the Meenachil Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank in Pala, which is slated to take place on Sunday. The election to the body, where the United Democratic Front (UDF) had held sway for 28 years till November last year, has been necessitated by a recent shift of the Kerala Congress (M) to the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Of the 13 members in the previous governing council, which took charge in February 2019, seven who owed allegiance to the KC(M) resigned from their posts in November last year. The shock move, initiated as a mark of protest to a decision by the bank president and veteran Kerala Congress leader E.J. Augusthy to join the P.J. Joseph faction, put the bank under an administrative committee's rule. While the UDF and the LDF have fielded candidates in all the 13 seats, the fight is primarily between the factions led by P.J. Joseph and Jose K. Mani. In the UDF, the Kerala Congress (M) is contesting seven seats, while the Congress has fielded candidates in five seats with the lone remaining seat allotted to the Communist Marxist Party (CMP). The LDF, meanwhile, has allotted 10 seats to the KC(M) with the CPI(M) and the CPI contesting in two seats and one seat respectively. UDF allegation The UDF leaders accuse the LDF, which is contesting under the banner of Sahakarana Janadhipathya Munnani (SJM), of fomenting trouble within the previous council that had its term till February 2024. “This election will impose an additional burden of Rs. 3 lakh on the financial institution, which already runs on loss,” said Saji Manjakadambil, chairman of the UDF committee in Kottayam. The SJM, on the other hand, said the election would pave the way for the bank's revival from its sorry state of affairs. “Our attempt is to revive the bank to its old days of glory by moving beyond political affiliations and ensuring financial discipline,” said K.J. Philip Kuzhikulam, election committee chairman of the SJM. The bank, established in 1965, has a total of 10,366 shareholders and of them, 2,926 are eligible to cast their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warring-kcm-groups-face-off-again/article34347932.ece
18 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mega vaccination camps in Corpn. area from next week||Kozhikode Corporation will hold mega COVID-19 vaccination camps at 25 centres from April 25 on all Sundays. Steps will be taken to vaccinate more people. This was decided at a special meeting of the Corporation Council held here on Saturday. Mobile vaccination services will be made available for senior citizens and those with existing health issues. Tele-consultation facilities will be launched and each ward will get the service of at least one doctor each. Steps will be taken to make the results of RT-PCR tests available on time. Private medical labs will be asked to upload the details of the tests on government websites. Ward-level rapid response teams (RRT) will be re-organised and they will meet in the coming days to discuss the scenario. Special meetings involving health inspectors, health supervisors, secretary, and chairperson, standing committee on health will be held in containment zones. Tests every 15 days Staff of all institutions within the Corporation limits, including commercial units, should be subjected to tests every 15 days. Their COVID negative certificates and vaccination certificates should be displayed. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini said steps would be taken to trace the high-risk primary contacts of infected persons. Some of the members sought action against shops that remained open even after the prescribed time limit of 9 p.m. Some others, however, sought that the limit should be extended till 11 p.m. A few councillors sought permission to take away food parcels from hotels and restaurants after 9 p.m. Some councillors said migrant labourers were found roaming around the city not wearing face masks and spitting in public places. Some of them were also found to be purchasing things in bulk from shops in the morning. It was pointed out that ambulance vehicles were not available to transport infected persons to the first-line treatment centres. Some councillors sought personal protection equipment kits. Centres Corporation sources have said that mega vaccination camps will be held at Tagore Centenary Hall, and the urban health centres at West Hill, Idiyangara, and Mankavu, and the family health centre, Beypore on Sunday for those aged above 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mega-vaccination-camps-in-corpn-area-from-next-week/article34347885.ece
18 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Over 42,000 samples collected at two-day camp in Kozhikode||The Kozhikode district administration has claimed to have collected 42,920 samples for COVID-19 tests in the course of the two-day camp held here since Friday. Results will be made available in the coming days. Health Department officials anticipate more infections to be reported in the coming days. Facilities were being provided at hospitals and first-line treatment centres, they said. According to sources, 19,300 tests were done on the first day. Though the State government had directed the district officials to hold 31,400 tests in two days, the administration had set a target of 40,000. The samples were collected at primary health centres, taluk hospitals, and the Government Medical College Hospital, apart from schools and other public places. People who reached outpatient departments of hospitals and those who were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients too were subjected to tests. Kudumbashree volunteers and those who actively participated in the poll campaign too gave samples. The officials claimed that the effort had been to quarantine as many infected persons as possible. Local bodies conducted campaigns through social media to organise facilities. There have also been reports about hesitancy among people towards tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-42000-samples-collected-at-two-day-camp-in-kozhikode/article34347888.ece
18 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Poor maintenance of visitors’ register hits contact tracing||With the steady spike in fresh COVID-19 cases, the quick tracing of primary contacts of the infected continues to be a daunting task for health workers and Rapid Response Teams in Kozhikode district. Health Department sources said the situation was challenging as individuals were not keen on revealing contact details. Adding to the woes of the short-staffed special squads, people visiting shopping centres, hotels, grocery shops and stationery outlets are least concerned about entering their names and contact details in official registers. Though a few follow the rules, the number of legible documents is less as no one takes the process seriously. “Many have been found to be very keen on sanitising hands and wearing masks while entering the shop, but no one is seemingly interested in entering their names and phone numbers in the register kept for tracing primary contacts,” said a salesperson at a leading supermarket at Karaparamba. She said the request to fill the details was also often ignored by customers. A stationery shop owner from Eranhipalam said the carelessness of Health Department officials and other squads in checking the registers kept at shops on a daily basis could be a major reason for the violation. “If they had carried out surprise inspections and initiated action against the violators, it would have been properly followed by everyone,” he claimed. The event register tab provided on the official COVD-19 Jagratha portal for easy entry of personal details at the time of visiting a shop or attending events is yet to be a popular tool among many segments. Though shop owners and event management teams can easily generate a dedicated QR code and display it for the public to scan and enter their details, very few people are familiar with the option. “It would be easy to display such a QR code, but we cannot force people to scan it and enter their details. During peak business hours, it is not a practical option for many,” said a medical shop owner from Vellayil. He said the details of customers could be easily tracked using bill details in case of emergency situations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-maintenance-of-visitors-register-hits-contact-tracing/article34347891.ece
18 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More curbs on Sundays||The Kozhikode district administration has imposed more curbs on public life on Sundays in view of the worsening COVID-19 situation here. Public places, including beaches, parks and tourism destinations, will remain closed. Public transport facilities and healthcare institutions, however, can function normally. People have been asked not to venture out for non-essential needs. Gathering of more than five persons has been prohibited. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said the steps had been necessary under Section 4 of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, to control the epidemic. Shops selling essential things may remain open till 7 p.m. Any violation would incur penal action, said Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-curbs-on-sundays/article34347886.ece
18 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,504 fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district continued to report a high number of fresh COVID-19 cases and a high daily test positivity rate (TPR) as 1,504 more tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The district recorded the second highest number of new cases in the State on the day. The daily TPR is 20.41%. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 1,476 locally acquired infections and the source of 21 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 543 cases of local transmission of the infection, Koduvally 48, Maniyoor 45, and Vadakara and Koyilandy 38 each. Six people had returned from other States and another one from abroad. As many as 7,518 samples were tested. The active caseload from the district surged to 11,140.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1504-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode/article34347889.ece
18 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A personal loss: Hariharan||When director Hariharan met actor Vivekh for the first time, the latter had not made his debut in cinema. “Vivekh was popular those days, back in the 1980s, as a stand-up comedian on stage and I was introduced to him by V.P. Sidhan, the founder of Medimix,” Hariharan told The Hindu on Saturday. Vivekh’s untimely death is a personal loss for Hariharan. He was planning to cast the actor, who excelled in comic roles in Tamil cinema in a four-decade long career, in his new film Kunchan Nambia r, the biopic on the legendary poet and performing artiste. “Vivekh had told me several times that he wanted to act in a Malayalam film directed by me,” Hariharan said. Vivekh became a familiar face for Malayalis after starring in a television ad for Medimix in the early 1990s. Actor and singer Krishnachandran had dubbed for him. “I have known him from his early days as an actor,” said Krishnachandran. “We had acted in a Tamil film together, but it was music that brought us close.” He said Vivekh had deep knowledge in music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-personal-loss-hariharan/article34347942.ece
18 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Action sought against DCP||The city chapter of the Kerala Police Officers Association (KPOA) and the Kerala Police Association (KPA) have demanded disciplinary action against Deputy Commissioner of Police M. Hemalatha for her alleged use of “unparliamentary words” against a Sub Inspector during a wireless meeting recently. Leaders of the associations who took up the matter with District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George said the officer’s alleged behaviour caused extreme pain and humiliation to the Sub Inspector who is now attached to the police control room. ‘No negligence’ An office-bearer of the Kerala Police Association claimed that there was no deliberate negligence on the part of the control room officer to receive such a harsh treatment as he was helpless in ensuring the presence of Sub Inspectors in all flying squads considering severe staff shortage. The DCP is yet to come up with a clarification in the wake of the complaint. At the same time, a few officials who stood by her claimed that her statement was misinterpreted. The District Police Chief has already sought an explanation from the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought-against-dcp/article34347892.ece
18 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Independents’ retains medical college union||Erin Liz John, who was adjudged Miss Kerala 2020, has been elected fine arts secretary of the students’ union of Government Medical College, Kozhikode. The election was held on Saturday. According to sources, Independents, a students organisation not aligned to any political party, has retained their sway over all the general seats. Shawn M. Thomas has been chosen chairperson and Aqif Nasim the general secretary. Sharath M.S. is the vice-chairperson, Sreeranjini is the lady vice-chairperson, P. Jasara is the joint secretary, and Aasif K. Nasar is the sports secretary. O.P. Siniya Mariyam is the magazine editor and Fayiz Moosa is the university union councillor. The Independents has been winning the union elections since 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/independents-retains-medical-college-union/article34347882.ece
18 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Teachers seek restructuring of MA English question paper||Teachers of English language and literature in colleges under the Calicut University have appealed to the varsity authorities to restructure the MA English question paper pattern in view of the mass failure in the first semester examination held recently. The teachers have also sought an end to the existing disparity in question paper pattern followed in autonomous colleges and other affiliated colleges. Average 30 sheets Currently, Calicut University follows a different question paper format for MA English in autonomous colleges, the University Department of English and government, aided and self-financing colleges. While MA students of the University Department of English and autonomous colleges have to write an average of 30 sheets in three hours, their counterparts in affiliated colleges have to write 40 sheets. Disparity “It is impossible for a student to answer all the questions (four essays of 600 words and five short essays of 300 words) in three hours. The question paper pattern for autonomous colleges and the University Department of English is far more advantageous to their students. This glaring disparity should go,” said Zainul Abid Kotta, convener of the English teachers’ collective in a memorandum to the Calicut University Vice Chancellor. Thirty-nine English teachers from different colleges in Malappuram and Kozhikode attended a meeting that raised concerns over the students’ mass failure. They said that the university should follow the same question paper pattern for all. Existing system They also demanded a relook into the university’s existing evaluation system. The university has done away with the double valuation system for its postgraduate programmes after the introduction of the centrally monitored valuation (CMV) system a couple of years ago. Examiners “Even teachers without adequate PG teaching experience and, in certain cases, even without qualification could easily become examiners,” said Dr. Kotta, demanding reintroduction of double valuation for MA English programme.  The varsity follows different question paper format for MA English in autonomous colleges, University Department of English, and government and aided colleges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-seek-restructuring-of-ma-english-question-paper/article34347897.ece
18 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man risks attack from biker to save dog||The timely intervention of a man saved a dog from the cruel torture of a biker who dragged it along the road at high speed at Edakkara near Nilambur on Saturday evening. The dog suffered bruises and wounds. Ummer Valappan, a social worker at Edakkara, was going home on his motorcycle when he noticed two men on a scooter going at high speed with a dog tied to it with a long rope. “The dog was struggling and getting dragged as the scooter raised its speed. I just couldn’t stand that cruelty,” said Mr. Valappan. When Mr. Valappan warned the men, they ignored him. He turned his bike and gave them a chase. He caught up with the dog and the scooter at a slope and blocked them. The scooter rider allegedly tried to attack Mr. Valappan when he questioned them. “When I stopped them, the dog had nearly fallen with many bruises on its hind legs,” said Mr. Valappan. When people gathered, the men took the dog and sped away on the scooter. The police identified the man as Xavier, who moved in from Gudalur to Edakkara. He reportedly tortured the dog after it chewed on his slippers. Members of an Emergency Rescue Force (ERF) based at Nilambur rescued the dog soon after the incident and gave medical aid. “The dog suffered several bruises and wounds,” said ERF leader Abdul Majeed K.M. “Such cruelty against the dog is an offence under Section 428 and 429 of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 11 (1) (a) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Moreover, the man was driving rashly and negligently, with a long rope tied to the bike and dragging the dog with it. This could have potentially injured pedestrians and caused road accidents,” said Sally Varma, animal rights activist. The police registered a case against Xavier on a complaint by Ms. Varma. “There is only a thin line between animal cruelty and human cruelty. Such acts of animal cruelty cannot go unpunished,” she told The Hindu .  The dog was struggling and getting dragged as the scooter raised its speed. I just couldn’t stand that cruelty Ummer Valappan Social worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dog-tied-to-bike-with-rope-dragged/article34347896.ece
18 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IMA launches awareness drive||Doctors under the banner of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) at Tirurangadi chose Vishu day to launch an awareness campaign on the alarming spread of COVID-19. “Safeguarding the health of the people is more important than celebrating a festival. Festivals will come, but only if we are there to celebrate them,” said Sreebiju M.K., secretary of IMA Tirurangadi unit. Joining hands with the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES), the IMA conducted a vehicle rally, telling people about the importance of preventing the infection and also vaccinating against it. “Public awareness on both topics is very important. People should take precautions and vaccination. We will continue this campaign with several programmes in the coming days,” said Dr. Sreebiju. Sub Inspector of Police V.K. Ahamedkutty flagged off the rally. Apart from Dr. Sreebiju, IMA president Sajeevan E.S., executive member Radhakrishna Pillai, and KVVES Chemmad unit secretary Moideen Koya addressed people at different places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-launches-awareness-drive/article34347894.ece
18 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad reports 864 cases||With 864 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, Palakkad district saw a surge in the infections. When 328 of them got the disease through direct contact with infected persons, there were 508 cases without an identifiable source of infection. As many as 24 of the cases had come from other States. District Health officials said there were four health workers among the new cases. Ninety persons recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Saturday. The number of active cases currently under treatment shot up to 4,493 in Palakkad. Apart from them, 166 persons from Palakkad were being treated in other districts. When 56 of them were in Thrissur, 53 were in Malappuram, 23 in Ernakulam, nine in Kozhikode, seven in Thiruvananthapuram, five in Kasargod, four in Idukki, two each in Kollam, Kottayam and Alapuzha, and one each in Pathanamthitta, Kannur and Wayanad districts. As many as 4,173 persons took COVID-19 vaccination in the district on Saturday. They included first and second doses. Among those who accepted the Covidshield vaccine were 1,272 senior citizens above 60 years of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-reports-864-cases/article34348535.ece
18 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Two get five life terms in twin murder||A court at Mannarkkad sentenced two persons accused in the murder of a mother and daughter at Karakkurissi for five life terms and an additional seven years in prison. The Special Court at Mannarkkad issued the rare verdict on Saturday. The verdict was in connection with the murder of Kalyani, 65, and her daughter Leela, 35, on January 5, 2009. The court found their house workers Suresh, 30, and Ayyappankutty, 33, guilty and sentenced them to five life terms and another seven years in prison. The relatives of the slain mother and daughter expressed happiness at the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-get-five-life-terms-in-twin-murder/article34348536.ece
18 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Hospital staff held for alleged molestation||The Pathanamthitta police on Saturday arrested a 30-year-old who allegedly molested a female staff at the General Hospital here. The accused was identified as Anantharaj, a native of Chittar. As per the case, the accused, who had been temporary employed at the hospital, allegedly molested the woman, a paramedical technician, when she was alone in the duty room on Friday. The accused was produced before a magistrate and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-staff-held-for-alleged-molestation/article34347933.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District digs deep into vaccine reserves||The capital district hurtled towards yet another vaccine supply crunch as it dug deep into its reserves to keep the ongoing vaccination drive on track. A day after the drive was hit in most parts of the district, Thiruvananthapuram witnessed considerable rush at several vaccination centres on Saturday. A major portion of the batch of 30,000 doses that arrived on Friday was distributed across various centres. As many as 13,627 Covishield and 2,860 Covaxin doses were provided through 117 hospitals, including 90 public institutions. Thousand doses were also supplied at a vaccination camp organised by the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation in the Medical College ward. Several people, including senior citizens, queued up early at the Jimmy George indoor stadium that facilitated both online booking and spot registrations. The inoculation drive extended beyond the scheduled closing time of 2.30 p.m. and continued till 5 p.m. While over 1,700 people were provided the vaccine, close to 500 had to return empty-handed despite waiting for their turns in the searing heat for long hours. They were, however, issued tokens that will ensure them priority when the drive resumes on Sunday. Chaotic situation Health authorities anticipated a chaotic situation across the district, with only nearly 9,000 Covishield and 2,500 Covaxin doses remaining for its drive on Sunday. The shortage has prompted them to confine the vaccination drive to 39 institutions. Besides, Covishield will mostly be administered in health centres within the Corporation limits that could leave many from the outskirts and rural areas making a beeline for the public health centres in the city. Moreover, around 3,000 of these have been apportioned for the vaccination camps being held in 11 wards – Muttathara, Karamana, Nettayam, Cheruvakkal, Mannanthala, Punnakkamughal, Melancode, Jagathy, Manacaud, Ponnumangalam and Perunthanni, while another 1,000 will be kept aside for the employees of the Accountant General’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-digs-deep-into-vaccine-reserves/article34348563.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination drive to be hit as only 5.5 lakh doses remain||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said the State now has only close to 5.5 lakh doses of vaccines remaining in its stock and unless the Centre delivers another 50 lakh doses soon, the vaccination drive against COVID-19 would be disrupted. Talking to the media here on Saturday, Ms. Shylaja said the State had received about 60.54 lakh doses of vaccines and vaccinated 51,57,443 people with one dose and 6,73,608 with both doses. Oxygen The Minister said she had participated in a meeting called by the Union Health Minister to discuss the COVID-19 situation in States. Though the State wanted to vaccinate as many people above 45 years as fast as possible, vaccine shortage continued to be a major issue defeating the State’s strategy. Though there is no shortage of oxygen or drugs in the State, as the number of patients increases, the Centre would have to step in to help the State meet any crisis. The Chief Minister and core committee chaired by the Chief Secretary are closely watching the COVID situation and planning ahead. Careful management, effective containment strategies and ‘Break the Chain’ campaign can help Kerala withstand the second wave also, she claimed.  Policy The State would continue the policy of home care and isolation for those patients without symptoms. Those with mild or moderate symptoms would be treated at second line treatment centres (taluk and district hospitals), while those with serious symptoms would be treated at medical colleges. Patients who do not have facilities for proper home isolation would be accommodated at domiciliary care centres, which would be opened in all panchayats with the help of local self-government bodies Meanwhile, the two-day augmented mass testing drive done over Friday and Saturday saw the State collect virus samples from over three lakh individuals across the State. However, it could take a few days before the results of these samples are released, health officials said. Even though labs are working day and night, the huge influx of samples and the data entry operation involved is mammoth. The glitches in the Lab Diagnosis and Management System over the past two days has further delayed matters, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-to-be-hit-as-only-55-lakh-doses-remain/article34347956.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs imposed on MCH, universities||Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kerala University and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) have restricted entry of visitors to their premises in view of the sharp spike in COVID-19 cases. The critical situation has prompted the hospital authorities to curb visitors’ entry from Monday onwards until further notice. Restrictions at canteens Only one bystander will be permitted for each patient as part of preventing crowding. The COVID-19 pandemic norms will also be strictly enforced at the canteens on the campus. Kerala University announced a week’s restriction for visitors that commenced on Saturday and will remain in place until April 24. The curbs have been introduced in line with the guidelines issued by the Central and State governments. In the meantime, those requiring information on various purposes can contact the university’s enquiry section by dialling 9188526670, 9188526674, 9188526671 or 9188526675. All fees, including examination fees, can be paid online. Further details can be obtained from the university website. KTU directions Those seeking entry to the KTU headquarters on the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram (CET) campus will be required to request permission through e-mail sent topro@ktu.edu.inat least two days in advance of the planned visit. For general enquiries, students can contact the university over phone on 0471-785699. The e-governance support section can be contacted at 0471-2593120, 2593128 and 2590029.  Hospital authorities to restrict visitors’ entry from Monday until further notice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-imposed-on-mch-universities/article34348559.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jamaat distributes Ramzan food kits||Kerala Muslim Jamaat State secretary A. Saifudeen Haji formally launched Thiruvananthapuram district-level distribution of Ramzan food kits during a function that was organised at the Anjuthengu Muslim Jamaat on Saturday. Jamaat district president K.M. Hashim Haji presided over the function. Series of activities The distribution of food kits is part of a series of philanthropic activities being undertaken under the aegis of the Kerala Muslim Jamaat during the holy month of Ramzan. Jamaat district vice president Jabir Falili Nadayara and members Thajudeen Falili Kallambalam, Fazaludeen Faisy Maruthikunnu, M. Muhammed Rafi Alamcode, Haiderkhan Anjuthengu and S. Muhammed Rafi Kavunada were among those who spoke on the occasion.  Muslim Jamaat district president K.M. Hashim Haji presided over the function||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jamaat-distributes-ramzan-food-kits/article34348568.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. hits 50% fund outlay for Amrut projects||The city Corporation has finally hit 50% fund expenditure for projects being executed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme. As on Saturday, the Corporation has spent 50.55% of a total of Rs. 357.50 crores allocated for the scheme, with some of the bigger projects under it awaiting commission. After initial hiccups in getting the scheme started, the civic body maintained a steady pace for projects under the scheme. However, the last year and a half has been beset with delays due to a variety of reasons. Following the pandemic outbreak, most of the projects came to a standstill, as some of the major projects depended on labourers from outside the State, many of whom had travelled back home then. Two extended periods of model code of conduct, first due to the local body elections towards the end of the previous year and the ongoing one owing to the Assembly elections, have also affected the pace of projects. Poll plank Administrative and technical sanctions have been accorded to all of the 270 projects under the scheme in the Corporation area. One of the most prestigious projects under the scheme, the 75-mld water treatment plant in Aruvikkara, was commissioned just before the Assembly elections. It had become a poll plank in some of the constituencies, with both the Centre and the State governments claiming credit for it owing to their fund shares. The capital occupies the first position in fund utilisation among the bigger urban local bodies, including Kochi and Kozhikode. However, it is at the fifth position, when all the smaller local bodies are taken into consideration. In the initial years of the project, the comparatively smaller sewerage, water supply and stormwater drainage projects were completed. Out of a total of 103 stormwater drainage projects in Thiruvananthapuram, 95 have already been carried out. The maximum expenditure comes in water supply projects, with 76.57% of the funds spent and 30 out of a total of 45 projects being completed. In the sewerage and septage management projects, 74 out of a total of 114 projects have been completed, with an expenditure of 38.29%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-hits-50-fund-outlay-for-amrut-projects/article34348574.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CBSE schools go ahead with Class XI admission||The CBSE Class X results are not out yet, but schools are moving full steam ahead with admissions to Class XI. Some CBSE schools even have plans to start classes for Class XI next month. Parents of students who were in Class X have been asked to remit the fee for Class XI in the same institution at the earliest so that their wards are assured of a seat. The move has left many students and parents apprehensive as not even the criteria for evaluating Class X students have been published yet, let alone the results. Yet, the schools are set to begin classes, even allowing students to select the stream they want to pursue in a bid to retain them. Parents of students who want to migrate to the State stream for Class XI are in a quandary over what to do as the results of the SSLC examinations are likely be announced in June and only then will Plus One admissions begin. Since that is at least a couple of months away, they fear they will be forced to shelve their plans to cross over to State schools. Nearly 70,000 students appear for the Class X board examinations from the State every year, while around 35,000 shift to the State higher secondary board every year. “By the time Plus One admission in State schools begins, Class XI lessons in CBSE schools will be well under way. This will also come in the way of seeking fee refund if we decide to seek admission in State schools,” says a parent. The rush to begin classes, they allege, is only a ploy by the schools to ensure that students continue to study there. Schools have also been conducting tests for admission to Class XI for students from other schools. A school Principal even admits that many schools have completed their admission procedures. T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the Kerala CBSE School Managements’ Associations, however, says classes for Class XI could begin only after publication of Class X results by the CBSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-schools-go-ahead-with-class-xi-admission/article34347950.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chidambaram slams Muraleedharan||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has drawn sharp criticism for allegedly referring to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as "Covidiot". Former Union Finance Minister and Congress leader P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Central Minister V. Muraleedharan is reported to have described CM, Kerala as a "Covidiot". Shocking.” Mr. Muraleedharan had triggered a controversy on Thursday by accusing Mr. Vijayan of wilfully disregarding the COVID-19 protocol and endangering public safety. He alleged that the Chief Minister had concealed his medical condition to campaign in the Assembly polls. Mr. Vijayan, who routinely sermonised on observing COVID-19 protocol, had infringed them. The Chief Minister was a "Covidiot" to break the protocol, Mr. Muraleedharan had allegedly said. Later on Friday, the Union Minister said he would not retract the criticism against Mr. Vijayan. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said Mr. Muraleedharan had lowered the esteem of his office by spewing invective against Mr. Vijayan. His language was unacceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chidambaram-slams-muraleedharan/article34347949.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||29,008 tested in 2 days||The district administration tested 29,008 people in its two-day special COVID-19 drive that concluded on Saturday. While 14,087 people were subjected to tests on Friday, as many as 14,921 tests were conducted on Saturday. Among these, 22,284 were RT-PCR tests, 6,245 rapid antigen tests and 479 other tests. A target of 22,600 had been initially fixed for the campaign. People who were tested include those who took part in election-related activities, COVID-19 front-line workers, those employed in public transport, hospitality and tourism sectors, employees of restaurants, shops and markets and food delivery executives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/29008-tested-in-2-days/article34348565.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||15 more COVID centres||Fifteen more centres will be opened in the district for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. The new facilities will comprise nine domiciliary care centres at the local body level, three COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), and three COVID second-line treatment centres (SLTCs). Among the domiciliary centres are Government LPS, Perumathura, in Chirayinkeezhu panchayat; Government UPS, Pozhiyoor, in Kulathoor panchayat and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-more-covid-centres/article34348570.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cong., BJP stop poll staff from opening strongroom||Tension prevailed at Loyola School in Sreekaryam on Saturday when polling officials, including the returning officer for election to the Kazhakuttam Assembly constituency, were prevented from opening the strongroom on the school premises by Congress and BJP workers. When the officials turned up to remove unused and faulty electronic voting machines from the strongroom, on the basis of instructions by the ECI, the political activists alleged attempt to tamper with the machines used for the polling process. The polling officials returned without opening the room. ‘Scuttling poll process’ S.S. Lal, the UDF’s candidate in Kazhakuttam, said the LDF was aiming to scuttle the poll process by attempting to open the strongroom.  In a statement, BJP Kazhakuttam constituency president R.S. Rajeev described the incident as mysterious and demanded an explanation on why attempts were made to open the strongroom before the day of vote counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-bjp-stop-poll-staff-from-opening-strongroom/article34348569.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||909 fresh cases in district||The district recorded 909 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday, as its active caseload shot up to 5,768. A total of 520 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The death toll too continued to mount as six more recent deaths were attributed to the disease. The deceased included four females aged 96, 63, 58 and 52 and two males aged 80 and 68. The pandemic has claimed 916 in the district thus far. The administration placed 2,294 people under quarantine on Saturday, taking the total number of those being monitored for symptoms to 24,692. As many as 777 people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared the areas coming under the Pangode Koottamvila residents’ association a micro-containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/909-fresh-cases-in-district/article34348564.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pallipuram dacoity: 4 in police custody||The Mangalapuram police took the four people who were arrested in connection with the gold heist in Pallipuram a day ago into custody on Saturday. The accused, Nebin, Ansar, Faisal and Noufal, were sent to police custody after being produced at an Attingal court. While the investigation team recovered a portion of the stolen valuables, efforts were on to find the remaining. The police hoped to apprehend at least seven others in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pallipuram-dacoity-4-in-police-custody/article34348571.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State grapples with case resurgence||Kerala struggled on Saturday to contain the COVID-19 resurgence. The government ratcheted up restrictions on civic life to flatten the rising infection curve. It has clamped down on night life. Urban roads and downtown localities wore a deserted look after 9 p.m. Commercial establishments, except medical stores, remained shuttered. Vehicular traffic on highways had dwindled after dark. Chief Secretary V. P. Joy urged citizens to inform the government in advance about social functions. Optimally, they should tell the government about upcoming social events by flagging the gatherings on the Jagratha portal. The police fanned out across the State to enforce the mask and social distancing mandate. In Thiruvananthapuram, they unobtrusively enumerated the number of guests at weddings held at marriage halls. State Police Chief Loknath Behera called for visible policing to remind the people about the scourge's looming threat. FB post In a Facebook post, the Kerala Police said they were tightening controls, given the high incidence of new cases. A police officer said the law enforcement would incrementally tighten measures to combat the surge. The police would not allow any public or group activity after 9 p.m. Commercial establishments have to down shutters at 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-grapples-with-case-resurgence/article34348490.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Close down unrecognised schools: panel||All unrecognised schools in the State should close down, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. The commission direction is applicable to school functioning without recognition from the State government’s or centralised examination boards such as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). Commission member Reni Antony was acting on complaints that unrecognised schools were functioning without safety arrangements or basic infrastructure and in some cases attached to aided schools. In 2021-22 year The commission’s directive asked the Director of General Education (DGE) and the General Education Secretary to ensure that such schools did not function in the 2021-22 academic year. Steps should be taken to continue the education of students currently studying in unrecognised schools in government or aided recognised institutions. Local self-government institutions should prepare a list of unrecognised schools in their limits and display it on their notice boards. This should also be published in print and visual media for the benefit of the people. The DGE and the General Education Secretary, the panel said, should ensure that such schools did not function attached to aided schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/close-down-unrecognised-schools-panel/article34347951.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation, traders discuss protocol||The city Corporation on Saturday convened a meeting of trader organisations to discuss the protocol to be followed by shops and establishments in view of the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city. The Corporation officials said action would be taken against owners of shops that do not follow the protocol. The Corporation's welfare standing committee chairperson S. Saleem chaired the meeting, which was attended by other standing committee chairpersons, including P. Jameela Sreedharan, Athira L.S, Jisha John and Reena K.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-traders-discuss-protocol/article34348575.ece
18 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Koode project||District Collector Navjot Khosa on Saturday inaugurated an awareness programme organised under the aegis of the Koode project aimed at the welfare of women employees at the Civil Station here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/koode-project/article34348566.ece
18 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Curtains go up on Thrissur Pooram||The festivities of Thrissur Pooram, the flamboyant temple festival that attracts people from across the world, started on Saturday with the traditional flag-hoisting at all the participating temples. The flag-hoisting of the Thiruvambadi and Paramekkavu temples, the main organisers of the Pooram, was held in the forenoon. Percussion ensembles The flags were taken out by the Tantris and hoisted at a colourful function accompanied by percussion ensembles and decorated elephants. Elephant Thiruvambadi Chandrasekharan carried the idol of Thiruvambadi temple for the ‘arat ezhunnellippu’ in the afternoon. Elephant Paramekkavu Padmanabhan carried the idol of the Paramekkavu Bhagavathy for the arat. Percussion ensemble led by Peruvanam Kuttan Marar added grandeur to the function. While the flag-hoisting ceremonies of the Lalur Bhagavathy temple and Ayyanthole temples were held in the forenoon, function at the other participating temples were held in the evening. Now the Thrissur city will wear a carnival look till the end of the Pooram on April 24. The main Pooram is on April 23. Display of fireworks will be held on April 24 morning. Eight temples Apart from the Thiruvambadi and Paramekkavu temples, the eight participating temples at the Pooram are the Karamukku Bhagavathy temple; Sree Karthyayani temple, Ayyanthole; Lalur Bhagavathy temple; Choorakkottukavu Bhagavathy temple, Neythilakkavu Bhagavathy temple, Chembukkavu Bhagavathy temple; Panamukkumpally Sastha temple; and Kanimangalam Sastha temple. Even amidst the COVID-19 scare, many people attended the functions at all the temples. The COVID-19 negative certificates are mandatory for those who come for the Pooram. People have to carry the certificate for attending all the events at the festival. Children below the age of 10 and pregnant women are not allowed at the venues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curtains-go-up-on-thrissur-pooram/article34348532.ece
18 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||1,149 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district||Thrissur reported a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases on Saturday. As many as 1,149 cases were reported in a single day. But it should be noted that mass test camps have been held in the district in the last two days. As Thrissur prepares to celebrate famous Pooram, the spurt in cases is bothering the Health department and district administration. Currently, there are 5,494 positive cases in the district. So far 1,11,621 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,05,467 people have recovered. Vaccine According to the official statistics, 1,123 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. So far 4,90,005 people have taken the first dose of the vaccine in the district while 57,397 people have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1149-covid-19-cases-in-thrissur-district/article34348533.ece
18 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Pooram: SHRC seeks report||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the Thrissur Collector on the safety measures being taken by the district administration for the conduct of Thrissur Pooram in the wake of the spurt in COVID-19 cases.The Centre for Protection of Social Justice approached the commission demanding strict implementation of the pandemic protocol during the pooram in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. The commission, which received the complaint on file, asked for a report from the Collector. There have been complaints of violation of the protocol during the Pooram celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pooram-shrc-seeks-report/article34347948.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Highest single-day spike||Another 20,702 persons were added to the pool of people in home or institutional quarantine. A total of 2,08,003 persons are currently in home or institutional quarantine. The State’s cumulative death toll has risen to 4,904. Thiruvananthapuram reported six deaths, Thrissur and Kannur four each, Kozhikode three, while two deaths each were reported from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Kasaragod. The number of critically ill who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals rose to 769, according to official reports. The number of patients requiring ventilator assistance is 221. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 2,187 cases, the maximum daily spike in a district. Kozhikode follows with 1,504 cases, Malappuram 1,430, Kottayam 1,154, Thrissur 1,149, Kannur 1,132, Thiruvananthapuram 909, Alappuzha 908, Palakkad 864, Pathanamthitta 664, Idukki 645, Wayanad 484, Kollam 472 and Kasaragod 333 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/highest-single-day-spike/article34347958.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pooram begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pooram-begins/article34347940.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wheels of change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wheels-of-change/article34348487.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-festival/article34347954.ece
18 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Monuments of Sri Mukhalingam deserve World Heritage status’||Some architectural masterpieces created by the rulers of the Eastern Ganga dynasty in the then capital of Kalinga kingdom, Sri Mukhalingam (in Srikakulam district), need to be given World Heritage status by the UNESCO, opines Archaeological Survey of India former superintending archaeologist, Temple Survey Project (Southern Region), D. Kanna Babu. Madhukesvara, Bhimesvara and Somesvara temples built during the 8-10th C A.D. in distinct Kalinga architectural style on the banks of the Vamsadhara river, though having the requisite outstanding ‘universal value’ are yet to be accredited by the UNESCO under the World Heritage sites list. These have no less intricate workmanship compared to the UNESCO-recognised Pattadakal structures in North Karnataka, Mr. Kanna Babu told The Hindu . “These ancient vestiges are the paramount examples of original architectural creations of human intellectuality in different periods with outstanding ‘universal value’ in terms of rich modelling, finite forms of archetypal superstructures, unique layouts, cohesively culminated blend of northern and southern Indian structural building styles, sculptures, exuberant carvings of pillars-walls-niches, ceilings, and inimitable iconographic forms of divinities etc.,” he added. These monuments can satisfy four out of six selection criteria prescribed by the UNESCO for submitting it to the ‘Tentative List’ and thereafter to the ‘Nomination’ under ‘Cultural Heritage’ category. The Madhukesvara shrine is the most popular one and known as the Sri Mukhalingesvara temple. It has a very close resemblance with the grand architectural pattern of the Parasuramesvara shrine at Bhubaneswar but excels in sculptural exuberance. Classical architecture As a man who has minutely studied the architecture of the majority of the temples in the southern region, Mr. Kanna Babu said these temples are considered as one of the most outstanding groups of ancient shrines in Andhra Pradesh edifying the earliest classical phase of art and architecture. Sri Mukhalingam is identified as Kalinganagaram, the capital city of the early Eastern Ganga dynasty, and played a unique role in the life and development of the Kalinga region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monuments-of-sri-mukhalingam-deserve-world-heritage-status/article34348518.ece
18 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten students test positive in Hindupur||Ten students of a hostel in Hindupur got infected on Saturday. Recently, the number of teachers and students in residential schools testing positive has increased. On Thursday, 27 students of a hostel in Kurnool, with the majority of them studying in municipal schools, contracted the infection. At least 18 students of KGBV Adoni tested positive the same day. On Saturday, 507 fresh cases were reported in Kurnool and 420 in Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ten-students-test-positive-in-hindupur/article34347737.ece
18 April 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Acute shortage of vaccine, drugs causing distress among people||Acute shortage of vaccine, drugs and testing facilities is causing distress among the public. The scarcity is attributed to the spurt in demand due to surge in the second wave cases and also due to lack of supply. There was no vaccine stock in the district on Saturday. This was the situation exactly a week ago with the vaccine stocks exhausted in the district and the district administration being forced to call off the Tika Utsav. The vaccine supplies had resumed a couple of days later but again they are being exhausted almost every day with more and more people, who were earlier reluctant to take the jab, rushing to the vaccine centres. “Continued supply of vaccines and making available drugs apart from SMS (social distancing, mask and sanitisation) are vital to break the chain. COVID beds should be increased to deal with the surge,” says the general secretary of Praja Arogya Vedika T. Kameswara Rao. “We have given 55,000 doses of vaccine a day in the district during the last couple of days but the demand far outweighs the supply. There is no vaccine today (April 17) and we are not sure as to when the supply will be resumed,” District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana told The Hindu . “As many as 4,000 tests a day are being done in the district but the laboratories are unable to cope with increasing demand as many making a beeline for the test centres. Remdesivir is available at government hospitals,” he says. “We have invoiced 1,000 vials of Remdesivir for Visakhapatnam district on Thursday and we got the stock. Each patient had to be given six vials and the stock was exhausted soon. The supply has to be increased but there is no stock at the Vijayawada Depot. Our Director General is monitoring the situation,” says K. Rajitha, Assistant Director, Drugs Control Authority, Visakhapatnam. Rapid spread “During the first wave, patients showed symptoms like cold, cough and fever but many of those affected by the new strain are not showing external symptoms. The asymptomatic, young patients and those in home isolation, mingling with the crowds, are contributing to the rapid spread of the virus,” says K. Rambabu, State Nodal Officer for COVID-19. “The State government has brought Remdesivir under price control and fixed it at Rs. 2,500 per dose to check black-marketing of the drug,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acute-shortage-of-vaccine-drugs-causing-distress-among-people/article34348591.ece
18 April 2021||bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka, Kerala see record new cases||Kerala recorded its highest case spike of COVID-19 cases in a single day on Saturday, with 13,835 persons found to be positive from 81,211 samples tested in 24 hours. In October last, the daily spike was just over 11,000 cases and that too, on just one day. The TPR shot up to 17.04%. On Saturday, 27 new deaths were added to the toll. There is always a two to four weeks lag between infections and deaths, indicating that these deaths are a reflection of the infections before two weeks. This essentially means that the huge spike in the daily cases now could result in high mortality figures after two weeks or more. The cumulative case burden now stands at 12,21,167. The active case pool in the State was 80,019, with Ernakulam district having the maximum number at 11,992, while Kozhikode had 11,393 patients. The active case pool was swelling in Kannur (7,903), Malappuram (6,365) and Kottayam (6,089). Total hospital admissions stood at 10,539, and 20,702 persons were added to home or institutional quarantine, which totalled 2,08,003 people in quarantine. The State’s cumulative death toll was 4,904. Thiruvananthapuram reported six deaths, Thrissur and Kannur four each, Kozhikode three, while two deaths each were reported from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Kasaragod. Telangana on Friday reported 4,446 more people with coronavirus. The toll rose as 12 more patients died on Friday, as per the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department. This is the highest reported number in seven months. Also, 598 people were detected with the virus in Greater Hyderabad. COVID-19 infections rose rapidly in Andhra Pradesh although it continued to test a limited number of samples in a day, at around 35,000. With an additional 7,224 infections and 15 deaths on Saturday, the State’s TPR went up to 20.12% from 35,907 samples. Chittoor saw four new deaths, Nellore three, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool two each and Guntur, Krishna, Kadapa and Vizianagaram one death each in the past day. Chittoor also reported the highest single-day figure of 1,051 infections. Meanwhile, the number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in a day breached the 9,000-mark in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, touching 9,344. As many as 39 persons died. Chennai, along with Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi districts, accounted for a little over 50% of the fresh cases.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-kerala-see-record-new-cases/article34347714.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-fold rise in demand for oxygen in Karnataka hospitals||With a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the demand for medical oxygen has in the last few days shot up three-fold than the usual 200 metric tonnes required per day. Most hospitals, especially medium and smaller hospitals, said they are running out of stock. The situation took a turn for the worse on Friday with some smaller hospitals asking families to shift patients admitted there to other facilities as they could touch the zero mark at any time. In a fervent video appeal, Vijay Raghav Reddy, owner of Swastik Hospital in Bommasandra in Bengaluru, pleaded with the government to supply additional medical oxygen to his hospital failing which many of his patients could die. “We need 36 jumbo cylinders for our nine patients and we will run out of oxygen at any time. Last time we handled more than 40 COVID-19 patients at a time but did not face any oxygen deficiency. This year, suppliers say they do not have any oxygen and we cannot retain patients here without more supply,” he said, adding he was arranging to shift them to other facilities. PHANA’s letter On Saturday, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) also wrote to the government seeking intervention as the liquid medical oxygen suppliers have stopped supply to hospitals. “Private hospitals across Karnataka and in particular Bengaluru are facing an acute shortage of medical grade oxygen. The suppliers have either stopped supply or are not responding to deliver the required stocks,” said Prasanna H.M., PHANA president, in the letter. He said there could be a ‘major medical disaster’ if the situation continues. Dr. Prasanna, who met Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the latter assured him that the situation would be resolved in consultation with the Industries and Commerce Department. R. Ravindra, Managing Director of Suguna Hospital, said, “We were using a maximum of three mini bulk cylinders of liquid oxygen till a few days ago. This has gone up to 12 now. Yesterday we required ten such cylinders.” Syed Tousif Masood, who coordinates the oxygen helpline at Mercy Mission, a NGO, said he has been finding it difficult to arrange for oxygen to needy patients who have been calling the helpline. ‘Panic unnecessary’ However, sources in Karnataka State Drugs Control Department told The Hindu that the shortage was not as severe as it was being made out to be. “Panic is unnecessary. Karnataka’s manufacturing capacity is 812 metric tonnes per day. Till April 14, the total usage in Karnataka was 197 metric tonnes per day. During the first outbreak, the maximum consumption per day had not crossed 600 metric tonnes per day,” an official said. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the consumption has increased with a steep rise in cases. “Although the State’s manufacturing capacity is high, the supply line is irrespective of State boundaries. While some districts in Karnataka get supply from Maharashtra, some districts there and in other neighbouring States get supply from Karnataka,” said Mr. Gupta who previously monitored the oxygen supply chain in the State. “We had curtailed industrial consumption last year to make more oxygen available for medical purposes. A similar solution may be worked out this time too by the Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare),” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-fold-rise-in-demand-for-oxygen-in-karnataka-hospitals/article34347702.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka mandates permission to book halls||With COVID-19 cases continuing to increase by the day, the State government has made obtaining permission from Deputy Commissioners mandatory to book community halls, convention centres or auditoriums for weddings and other programmes, from April 17. Entry into weddings and other functions will be only for those carrying passes, which will be issued by offices of the DCs. Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons that all those booking halls for marriages and other events, from April 17, should obtain prior permission from respective DCs. The DC’s office would issue 100 passes and 200 passes, respectively, for indoor and outdoor weddings. In the case of community halls/auditoriums already booked, there is no need to obtain permission or passes. But organisers have to limit the number of people as stipulated. Warning to owners Mr. Bommai said FIRs would be registered against owners of community halls/auditoriums who failed to enforce COVID-19 rules. Such halls would also be ordered to close, he said. The police too would be posted to check the number of people attending weddings and other programmes. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue, said: “The move has been necessitated because restrictions on the size of public gatherings are being violated with impunity.” Civic officials admitted that the “pass rule” was tough to enforce. However, they said the very fact that one needed a pass to participate in the event would discourage people. Religious events Mr. Ashok said deputy commissioners had been instructed to ban all religious festivals/temple jatras to be held in May or June. Following a surge in cases in Bengaluru, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who tested positive for COVID-19 and is receiving treatment at Manipal Hospital, would hold a videoconference with city MLAs and top officials on Monday to brainstorm on measures to contain the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar has issued an order directing all department heads to control/regulate the number of meetings being organised for the next one or two months. In case they are a necessity, they have to be conducted through videoconference or by maintaining social distance. Only officials who have no symptoms should participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-mandates-permission-to-book-halls/article34347698.ece
18 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||H.D. Kumaraswamy, son test positive||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister of Karnataka H.D. Kumaraswamy has tested positive for COVID-19. He announced this on Twitter on Saturday and urged those who came in close contact with him over the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested. His mother, Chennamma Deve Gowda, had earlier tested positive and his father, H.D. Deve Gowda, too was in isolation for some time as a precaution. Mr. Kumaraswamy’s son, K. Nikhil, has also tested positive. He is asymptomatic and in home isolation. Mr. Kumaraswamy’s wife, Anita Kumaraswamy, who represents Ramanagaram in the Assembly, has been advised home quarantine till her reports arrive. While JD(S) MLC Ramesh Gowda alleged that Mr. Kumaraswamy was refused admission at Manipal Hospitals owing to non-availability of beds, C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the brother-in-law of Mr. Kumaraswamy, said Manipal Hospitals had reserved a bed and informed him. “However, Mr. Kumaraswamy chose to get admitted at Apollo Hospitals as the doctor who had earlier operated on him is in Apollo,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hd-kumaraswamy-son-test-positive/article34347701.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor, humanist, green warrior Vivekh no more||Actor Vivekh, né Vivekanandan Angaiah Pandian, who suffered a massive heart attack on Friday, died at SIMS Hospital here in the early hours of Saturday. He was 59, and is survived by wife Arulselvi and four daughters. He was taken to SIMS Hospital at Vadapalani on Friday morning after he complained of chest pain and collapsed at home. There, he was revived, an angioplasty was done to clear the block on the left anterior descending artery, doctors said at a press conference. He was later put on the ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) machine.  Dr. Raju Sivaswamy, vice-president, medical services, SIMS, said: “Vivekh had been put on ionotropic support to help the heart beat. But from about 2 a.m. Saturday, his health began to decline, and the blood pressure would not hold.” “Further, resuscitation itself, after he landed at the hospital, took about 45 minutes. There is a condition, called reperfusion injury, that may occur after this procedure and cause damage to tissues when the blood returns to the organ. He could not survive this injury,” he said. Even a day before the heart attack, he was at the Omandurar government hospital, taking his COVID-19 vaccine shot. He recorded his intention of going to a government hospital in the hope that this would create more awareness among the public of the need for vaccination and following safety protocols. Vivekh, a Padma Shri recipient and the winner of many film industry awards, is known for featuring in several hit films such as Minnale , Dhool , Kushi and Sivaji . He was last seen in Dharala Prabhu , the Tamil remake of the 2012 Hindi film Vicky Donor . He has also appeared as the protagonist in films like Vellai Pookal , for which he garnered praise. But he was more than an actor delivering some lines. Vivekh, also known as ‘Chinna Kalaivanar’, established a unique comedy track for himself, mixing social messages with uproarious dialogues. Condolence messages recorded how he was a green warrior, and took upon himself the task of planting one crore saplings, inspired by former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. In fact, students across the State honoured his memory by taking pledges to plant trees, and by planting saplings on Saturday. Condolences poured in, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah tweeting their messages. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Puducherry Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan conveyed condolences. Celebrities in the film industry and outside paid their last respects to the actor.  The body was cremated with police honours here in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-humanist-green-warrior-vivekh-no-more/article34347782.ece
18 April 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kartikeya Misra is new Collector of W. Godavari||Kartikeya Misra, a 2009 batch IAS officer, has been appointed as West Godavari District Collector, in place of Revu Mutyala Raju, who has been transferred. Orders to this effect were issued on Saturday. Mr. Mutyala Raju has been appointed as Additional Secretary to Chief Minister. Another IAS officer, N. Gulzar, Secretary to Government, Finance Department, has been placed in full additional charge of the post of Managing Director, AP State Finance Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kartikeya-misra-is-new-collector-of-w-godavari/article34347744.ece
18 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parks, stadiums shut in Guntur from tomorrow||In view of the alarming rise in the COVID-19 cases, the Guntur Municipal Corporation has decided to close down all parks, walking tracks and stadiums from April 19, Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha said on Saturday. The district recorded 903 cases in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning and 400 of them are from the city. The total cases in the district reached 85,766 with 690 deaths. District Collector Vivek Yadav took stock of the situation and ordered that nodal officers should be appointed immediately. He also instructed the tahsildars and police officers to assist the nodal officers in contact tracing, surveillance, hospital management etc. On Friday, the Indian Chamber of Commerce said that all shops and commercial establishments would be closed at 6 p.m. in view of the virus surge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parks-stadiums-shut-in-guntur-from-tomorrow/article34348585.ece
18 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Right preparation, commitment help crack Civils, says topper||The UPSC Civil Services exam is arguably one of the toughest examinations of the country, but one can make it with right direction, alignment and commitment, observed M. Surya Teja, 2020 IAS topper of the AP cadre. Speaking at an interactive session organised by the Career Guidance Cell in the JKC College auditorium, Mr. Surya Teja said that rowing harder does not help if the boat is headed in the wrong direction. ‘Choose right books’ “Though hard work is sine qua non of preparation, the right method of choosing standard books and NCERT textbooks is very important,” he said. While throwing light on the scheme of the exam, Mr. Surya Teja said that the examination is conducted in three phases – prelims, mains and interview – and it takes about a year for the complete process. Knowing the exam pattern and syllabus, good grasp and analysis of current affairs, getting the right type of material and online sources and practising mock tests are some of the other important ingredients of the preparation, he said. ‘Reading important’ He advised the students to appear for the examination early in their life as it would make their preparation stress-free. Nurturing the reading habit and jotting down important points is an effective learning and memory aid which will turn out to be immensely helpful in the long run. Principal I. Nageswara Rao said students can get through any examination once they make the right choices in consonance with their interest and abilities. V. Pala Prasada Rao, associate professor of English, coordinated the programme and S.R.K. Prasad, director of P.G. Courses were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/right-preparation-commitment-help-crack-civils-says-topper/article34347738.ece
18 April 2021||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID dampens tourism in Chittoor||The happiness of tourism officials in Chittoor district after gaining back full potential, after lockdown norms were eased, at several tourist locations in the district such as Horsely Hills, has become short-lived with a sudden dip in the number of visitors since the first week of April owing to the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. Horsley Hills near Madanapalle, a scenic hill station, which attracts a large number of tourists from Chennai and Bengaluru, was shut down following March 2020 lockdown. However, the hill station’s potential returned to normal in September last year. The officials said till February this year, the tourist destination remained jam-packed with tourists overflowing during the weekends. Since April, in spite of the increase in mercury levels, the occupancy rate of the accommodation blocks started showing a downward spiral. The vigorous spread of the virus in Chennai and Bengaluru is viewed as the prime reason for the dip arrival of tourists. The decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to suspend the Sarva Darshan facility (free darshan mode) for pilgrims also had its impact. The historical Chandragiri Fort and the Gudimalla Temple in the district, administered by the Archaeological Survey of India, would also remain closed till May 15. Waterfalls Following excess rainfall all over Chittoor district between July and December last year, some of the waterfalls such as Talakona, Kailasanatha Kona, Sadasiva Kona, Ubbalamadugu and Kaigal turned into busy picnic spots since September. However, the second wave of the virus has now turned several of them deserted. While the Talakona waterfalls is a big lure to the nature lovers from Karnataka, the Ubbalamadugu and Kailasanatha Kona generally receive a large number of visitors from Chennai and from towns bordering with Tamil Nadu. ‘Protocols being followed’ Tourism Manager (Chittoor) D.V. Chandramouli Reddy told The Hindu that the impact of the second wave of COVID-19 was clearly felt on the tourism sector in the district. “There is a sudden dip in the potential from April onwards and it’s clearly due to the fear factor among the tourists. In spite of this, we are continuously monitoring the COVID protocols at all our locations,” he said. Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) Jaya Prasada Rao said the number of visitors from Tamil Nadu at Ubbamalamadugu waterfalls (also known as Tada falls) had come down since the resurgence of COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-dampens-tourism-in-chittoor/article34347736.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breakthrough in girl’s death case||In a major breakthrough in the case pertaining to the mysterious death of a 13-year-old girl who was found drowned last month, the Kochi City police have received CCTV footage of Sanu Mohan, father of the deceased who has been missing since then, from the pilgrimage centre of Mookambika. The police are yet to rule out the possibility of murder. The girl’s body was found floating in the Muttar river on March 22, a day after she had gone missing along with her father. The police had been on the hunt for Mohan. He was eventually spotted in Mookambika on Friday around 8.35 p.m. “It has emerged that he had been staying at a hotel at Mookambika for three to four days before he left on Friday night without footing the bill. He was supposed to return around 11 a.m. but did not, leaving the hotel officials suspicious and prompting them to alert the police,” said C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City). The police have received a copy of the Aadhaar card that Mohan had given at the hotel. Though he had shared a mobile number, it was found to be no longer in use. It emerged that the number was the one that the police had tried to reach unsuccessfully several times. It is learnt that he was mostly cocooned in his room and was found invariably wearing the mask when he emerged out. “The footage has confirmed one of our theories that he is still alive,” said Mr. Nagaraju. Since receiving the information, the City police have deployed not less than five teams in Mookambika and cities abutting it. “We have also alerted airports and railway stations to foil his attempts to flee. We are confident of nabbing him in a matter of days,” said Mr. Nagaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breakthrough-in-kerala-girls-death-case/article34347709.ece
18 April 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC allows 9-year-old girl to visit Sabarimala||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the State government to allow a nine-year-old girl to visit the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple and have darshan along with her parents. The Bench comprising Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar and Justice K. Babu passed the directive on Saturday while allowing a petition filed by Nanditha Raj of Vaikom. The petitioner said her parents had made a vow before her birth that they would take the child once for Sabarimala darshan. Her parents had secured online bookings for darshan. However, her request was rejected. The government pleader submitted that as part of various measures taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during the 2020-21 pilgrimage season, a decision was taken not to permit children below the age of 10 years to visit the temple. Allowing the plea, the Bench pointed out that restrictions were intended for the 2020-21 pilgrimage season. Now, admittedly, the season was over. Therefore, the decision taken at a meeting on September 28, 2020 could not be an impediment to permitting the petitioner to have darshan at Sabarimala. The court ordered that the girl be allowed to visit the temple along with her parents on the day on which her parents had got booking for darshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-allows-9-year-old-girl-to-visit-sabarimala/article34347706.ece
18 April 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,212 new cases in Prakasam, Nellore||Three persons succumbed to COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district even as 1,212 persons tested positive in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours. With this, the toll rose to 1,126 in the region with SPSR Nellore district accounting for 534 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday night. With zero deaths in Prakasam, the toll remained unchanged at 592 during the period. After a record inoculation of about 1 lakh beneficiaries on the last day of ‘Tika Utsav’, the vaccination drive remained disrupted for the second day on Saturday. Those who came to the vaccination centres returned disappointed as the centres had run out of vaccine stock. Meanwhile, the number of active cases rose to 5,414 in the two districts in the last 24 hours as 624 persons in SPSR Nellore district and another 588 persons in Prakasam tested positive for the disease. With this, the overall tally rose to 1,32,674 in the region.Meanwhile, Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer(DMHO) P.Ratnavalli said the Centre supplied 35,000 doses of vaccine stock late on Saturday. Taking note of the fresh cases rising exponentially, the health authorities in Prakasam district decided to set up COVID-19 Care Centres in 18 of the 56 mandals which remained hot spots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1212-new-cases-in-prakasam-nellore/article34347740.ece
18 April 2021||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Volunteer system strengthened governance at ground level’||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday said that the Village/Ward Volunteer system has strengthened governance at the ground level as they continue to play a pivotal role in the implementation of various welfare schemes. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Saturday presented Seva Vajra and Seva Ratna awards to the volunteers, lauding their services in the Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment. Addressing the gathering here, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said: “The system has emerged an important pillar in the governance at the ground level. A volunteers’ contribution to tackle COVID-19 is remarkable and people are indebted to their services on all fronts.” Mr. Muralidhar said that the volunteer system yielded results beyond expectations in curbing corruption in the implementation of the welfare schemes.  Vaccination drive On the vaccination drive, Mr. Muralidhar said that nearly 40,000 people would be administered the vaccine across East Godavari district on April 19. Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer N.V.V. Satyanarayana, District Panchayat Officer K. Nageswar Naik and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteer-system-strengthened-governance-at-ground-level/article34348547.ece
18 April 2021||Staff reporter Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police perform last rites of suspected COVID patient||The police showed their humane side by performing the last rites of a 38-year-old woman who was suspected to have died after contracting COVID-19, at Perlavani Lanka village of Nagayalanka mandal in Krishna district on Saturday. The woman’s brother succumbed to the virus on Friday. Villagers raise a hue and cry Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said the woman was suffering from ill-health. When the residents raised a hue and cry to remove the body, a police team led by Avanigadda CI Bheemeswara Ravi Kumar and Nagayalanka SI Kuchipudi Srinivas rushed to the spot. “The unmarried woman gave her sample on Friday, the results of which are yet to come. Suspecting that she died of COVID-19, the residents demanded that her aged parents shift the body from the village immediately,” said Avanigadda DSP Sk. Masoom Basha. “Neither the relatives nor the locals came forward to shift the body. Instead, they demanded removal of the body. The villagers refused to give a vehicle to shift the body to the burial ground,” said Mr. Ravi Kumar. Village sarpanch’s husband Manikyala Rao gave his tractor and when nobody came forward to drive the vehicle, police constable K. Kalyan Kumar drove it, said Mr. Babu. Additional SP Mallika Garg said Avanigadda MLA Simhadri Ramesh Babu provided the bag, sodium hypochloride and other material to shift the body. He monitored the entire process at the graveyard, she said. “The CI, along with Nagayalanka SI, sanitation worker Lakshmaiah and journalist Venkat performed the last rites by following all COVID norms. The village was sanitised later,” the SP said, and appreciated the team for rising to the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-perform-last-rites-of-suspected-covid-patient/article34348529.ece
18 April 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke new G.O. on Thotlakonda, heritage enthusiasts urge govt.||On the eve of World Heritage Day, which is celebrated every year on April 18, the members of INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage), heritage enthusiasts and environmentalists in the city feel that the State government should revoke GO Rt No. 21 that was passed on February 12, 2021 amending the GO 27 dated July 13, 1978, regarding the protected site of Thotlakonda in survey No. 314. According to the new GO, the government had notified only 120 acres as protected area in the 2nd century BC Buddhist monastery site of Thotlakonda. Which the members of INTACH and heritage enthusiasts feel that is not as per the norms of heritage site protection and the government has bypassed the concept of buffer zone around any protected monument. In the earlier GO of 1978, about 3,000 acres was notified as protected area. This GO was annulled by the government, as it covered a vast area, including the adjoining Buddhist heritage site of Bavikonda. The authorities concerned have not considered the 300 metre buffer zone around the site and have forgotten to take studies into consideration that suggests that the excavation done earlier by the State Archaeology and Museums Department was only partial, and there are strong evidences of ancient history, probably prior to the Buddhist period buried in the site. If destroyed, will obliterate the ancient historical civilisation of Visakhapatnam, said INTACH Convenor (Vizag chapter) Mayank Deo. INTACH has already filed its objection, requesting for considering at least 600 acres as protected area and decision on the protected area be taken after a complete survey by experts from the Archaeological Society of India. World Heritage Day, initiated by UNESCO, is celebrated across the world to spread awareness about protection, conservation and preservation of heritage and culture. The day is promoted by ICOMOS, International Council for Monuments and Sites, since 1982 and the theme for this year is “ Glorious Pasts, Diverse Future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-new-go-on-thotlakonda-heritage-enthusiasts-urge-govt/article34348601.ece
18 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government expresses concern over border closure||Kerala on Saturday expressed concern over the Kanyakumari district administration’s decision to close 12 inter-State border roads and impose restrictions on the movement of people and goods. Economic activities In a letter sent by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy to his Tamil Nadu counterpart Rajeev Ranjan, the government pointed out that the closure of border roads was bound to create immense hardships for large sections and also severely hit economic activities in both states. Such restrictions violated the Centre’s guidelines that had barred any form of curbs on inter-State movement. The Tamil Nadu government has been urged to reopen the border roads with the State immediately and restore normalcy in the region. Six byroad closed According to official sources here, six byroads that led to Thiruvananthapuram district from Kanyakumari district at various places, including Parassala and Vellarada, were barricaded by the Tamil Nadu Police on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-expresses-concern-over-border-closure/article34347715.ece
18 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppn. shows ‘proof’ of impersonation||In the first two hours of polling, incidents of YSRCP activists allegedly accosting TDP and BJP booth agents were reported, which later subsided. Accusing the election authorities of turning a blind eye to attempts of impersonation, the Opposition parties got down to action and started identifying suspicious voters in the queue lines and exposed them on camera by going live on social media. CWC member and Congress candidate Chinta Mohan accused the ruling party of having “imported” fake voters from neighbouring constituencies for impersonation. He identified a handful of such voters and seized ‘doctored’ EPIC cards from their possession. Similarly, BJP candidate and former bureaucrat K. Ratna Prabha expressed shock at the ‘official apathy’ towards what she called gross violation of democratic norms. “Officials and staff are clearly afraid of taking action,” she told the media after reaching the Tirupati West police station to get her party agents released. The party’s spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas also produced before the media the fake identity cards supposedly meant to be used to impersonate non-resident voters. The party’s senior leader K. Santha Reddy went on camera chasing away non-locals pretending to be voters in her locality. Similarly, CPI(M) central committee member V Srinivasa Rao accused the ruling party of resorting to malpractice and criticised the election authorities for remaining indifferent. A TDP team led by constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav and former MLA M. Sugunamma accosted a bus full of passengers, who they alleged were fake voters ‘imported’ by the ruling party. Charge denied Brushing aside the allegations, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy said the YSRCP clearly had an edge and did not need to stoop to such levels. He flayed TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu for resorting to spreading canards to hush up his party’s failure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-shows-proof-of-impersonation/article34348520.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu cries foul, bats for repoll in Tirupati||The YSRCP “imported many outsiders” to rig the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency on Saturday, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu alleged. In a letter addressed to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), Mr. Naidu demanded cancellation of the election, which, he alleged, was replete with violations of the election code of conduct. Buses loaded with people from outside descended on Tirupati and fanned out to different booths, where the TDP election agents were denied entry, Mr. Naidu alleged. ‘Fake voters’ The local election authorities turned a blind eye even as the “fake voters” had a free run at the polling booths, he alleged. Stating that he had enclosed video evidence of impersonators, who were allegedly unable to tell their names and other details, Mr. Naidu alleged that the officials and the police personnel on duty were hand-in-glove with the ruling party leaders. Alleging that Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy had violated the code by staying back in the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency even after campaigning came to an end April 15, Mr. Naidu said, “The Minister is a native of Yerrathivaripalle of Sodum mandal in Chittoor district as per the election affidavit. But he stayed put in Tirupati and even addressed the media on the polling day in violation of the code.” Mr. Naidu demanded that the Minister be dismissed and a case booked against him. The police acted at the behest of the ruling party leaders, Mr. Naidu alleged. The police arrested TDP leaders who were trying to identify the “fake voters” and detained them in the Tiruchanur and Alipiri police stations, he said. “In view of the large-scale violations and anarchy unleashed by the ruling party leaders, the CEC should cancel the byelection and order re-election,” Mr. Naidu demanded. Earlier, in a letter addressed to the State’s Chief Electoral Officer, Mr. Naidu alleged that Mr. Ramachandra Reddy’s brother Dwarakanath Reddy was behind transporting the “outsiders to impersonate, capture booths, cast fake votes and trigger violence.” The PLR Convention Centre and a few other places in Tirupati were the hub of their activities, he alleged. The TDP agents were prevented from entering the polling booths at Ammapalyam in Srikalahasti mandal, Kandelugunta in Tottembedu mandal and Bhimunicheruvu and Kasimitta in Narayanavanam mandal, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-cries-foul-bats-for-repoll-in-tirupati/article34348524.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe sought into ‘irregularities’ by ex-corporators in housing scheme||The newly elected corporators sought an inquiry into the alleged irregularities by former corporators, particularly in the urban housing scheme of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, where many people were allegedly forced to pay more than the required amount. The first municipal council meeting was held here on Saturday. Members of the YSR Congress Party and the Central constituency MLA and Brahmin Welfare Corporation Chairman Malladi Vishnu asked the Mayor to order an inquiry into the complaints of many housing scheme beneficiaries. The YSRCP members alleged that the Telugu Desam Party former corporators took money from many beneficiaries promising them allocation of houses. However, no houses were allocated and the beneficiaries who borrowed money to pay the corporators were still paying interests, they alleged. The Telugu Desam Party corporators, who denied the allegations, also asked the Mayor to order an inquiry so that the veracity of the allegations is proved. Mayor Rayana Bhagya Lakshmi asked Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh to recommend a vigilance inquiry into the allegations. The council meeting had to be ended in about two hours as a few persons, including two corporators, who were in attendance tested positive for COVID. Minister and Vijayawada West MLA Velampalli Srinivasa Rao advised the council members to follow COVID safety protocols and ensure that the session ended soon without any prolonged arguments. However, the TDP and CPI(M) members raised an objection as most of the agenda points were passed by considering the suggestions of officials without giving any scope for discussion. Regarding the housing scheme, the Commissioner told the council that the previous government had collected Rs. 39 crore from 11,917 beneficiaries and construction of 6,574 houses was under way in the procured land. The remaining beneficiaries were given plots under the current government’s housing for all scheme and the amount collected from them would be returned in the coming months, he said. A few members skipped the meeting as they were in isolation and quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-sought-into-irregularities-by-ex-corporators-in-housing-scheme/article34348582.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solve issues in municipal schools: SFI||Leaders of the Students Federation of India (SFI) on Saturday urged the authorities concerned to look into the problems of the municipal schools located in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits.  ‘Start Nadu-Nedu works’ In a representation made to Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, federation's Krishna district president S. Koti and secretary M. Someswara Rao said there was a need to construct additional classrooms in many municipal schools and also fill the vacant teacher posts, as the educational standards were suffering in the absence of adequate student-teacher ratio. They also urged the authorities to start Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu works in municipal schools. The leaders took exception to the decision of the local municipal authorities to convert a hostel attached to a college run by the SC Welfare Department in the Kabela region, into a function hall for the local residents and demanded that Municipal Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh withdraw the decision. Referring to reports that the mid-day meal was not being implemented properly in municipal schools, they said the officials concerned should look into the issue. They urged the Mayor to ensure that the officials inspected the schools regularly and monitored proper arrangements in view of the rapid spread of COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solve-issues-in-municipal-schools-sfi/article34348586.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Consultants begin work on Vizag node of industrial corridor||The National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Ltd. (NICDCL) has recently appointed consultants for master planning and preliminary engineering of the Visakhapatnam, Srikalahasti and Kadapa nodes in the Visakhapatnam - Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC). This facilitates the creation of basic infrastructure by the State government and exploration of opportunities by the prospective investors. The Visakhapatnam and Srikalahasti nodes have the potential to generate employment for about 1,80,000 people. As far as the Visakhapatnam node is concerned, the master planning and preliminary engineering exercise has been initiated. The process is set to begin in the Kadapa and Srikalahasti nodes, according to official sources. Meanwhile, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs had approved the development of the Krishnapatnam node in the Chennai - Bangalore Industrial Corridor (CBIC) at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,140 crore. The preparation for issuing tender documents for the appointment of a contractor for construction design, testing, commissioning and operation and maintenance of infrastructure on EPC basis was initiated by the SPV, NICDIT Krishnapatnam Industrial City Development Ltd. The employment generation is expected to about 98,000. The pre-project development activities commenced in the Orvakal node in Kurnool, which falls in the Hyderabad - Bangalore Industrial Corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/consultants-begin-work-on-vizag-node-of-industrial-corridor/article34348525.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No need for YSRCP to resort to bogus voting’||Terming the allegations of bogus voting in the Tirupati byelection as a conspiracy of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said on Saturday that there was no need for the YSRCP to bring voters from outside and make them cast fake votes as 80% of voters across the State were supporting Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Addressing the media at the party’s central office on Saturday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Mr. Naidu was resorting to cheap tactics having sensed his party's defeat. Mr. Naidu made a mockery of democracy through his words and deeds. He said the polling was conducted peacefully in six segments in the Parliamentary constituency, and Mr. Naidu chose Tirupati for his conspiracy as it was a pilgrim centre teeming with lakhs of floating population. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy slammed Mr. Naidu for writing a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer mentioning bus numbers and stating that fake voters were entering the constituency in those vehicles, calling it a pre-planned action of the TDP. He questioned what the agents of the BJP and the TDP were doing in the polling booths when bogus votes were being cast as claimed by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-need-for-ysrcp-to-resort-to-bogus-voting/article34348584.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP branding pilgrims as bogus voters: YSRCP||YSRCP general secretary L. Appi Reddy on Saturday urged K. Vijayanand, Chief Electoral Officer of A.P., to take action against TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his party leaders in Tirupati for “disturbing the by-election” to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat. In a letter to the CEO, Mr. Appi Reddy alleged that former TDP MLA M. Sugunamma and former chairman of TUDA G. Narasimha Yadav disturbed the polling and misled the voters by making false allegations against the YSRCP. “They have created a nuisance at the PLR Convention Centre, where they branded the devotees on a pilgrimage as bogus voters and tried to pull them out of their buses,” the YSRCP leader alleged. A few TV channels too misled the people by stating that the YSRCP brought bogus voters on a large scale to rig the election, Mr. Appi Reddy alleged. Had the pilgrims been bogus voters as was claimed by the TDP, they would have been identified at the polling stations, he said. The CEO should inquire into it and take action against Mr. Naidu and his party leaders, the YSRCP leader demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-branding-pilgrims-as-bogus-voters-ysrcp/article34348526.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID rise: call to shut shops today||Members of the Vijayawada Chamber of Commerce and Industry decided to shut all their establishments on Sunday in view of increasing COVID-19 infections in the city. The chamber gave a call to the members and all other business establishments in the city. Chamber president Konakalla Vidyadhara Rao said a representation to the Commissioner of Police was also made seeking support in ensuring that the shops were closed on Sunday as a COVID safety measure. The chamber also decided to close establishments by 6 p.m. daily from Monday to April 30, he said.  Meanwhile, the government suspended the ongoing summer annual exhibition at PWD Grounds in the city. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz issued orders cancelling the permissions given to the stall owners on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-rise-call-to-shut-shops-today/article34348583.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Malpractices galore: Cong.||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Saturday urged the State Election Commission to cancel the byelection held to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, alleging that it was replete with violation of poll code. Alleging that the YSRCP leaders had unleashed total anarchy, Mr. Sailajanath said “indiscriminate rigging of votes” made a mockery of democracy. Thousands of people were brought in from other places to rig the polls, he alleged, and accused the ruling party supporters of not allowing the agents of the opposition parties into the polling booths. He alleged that buses loaded with people from other places were brought in by the ruling party to have their way at the polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/malpractices-galore-cong/article34348522.ece
18 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll percentage may go up||Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand stated in a release Saturday night that 64.29% voting was recorded in the byelection to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency. The Assembly segment-wise polling percentage was as follows: Sarvepalli 66.19, Gudur 63.81, Sullurpeta 70.93, Venkatagiri 61.51, Tirupati 50.58, Srikalahasti 67.77, and Satyavedu - 72.68. The overall polling percentage is likely to increase as people who were in the queue at 7 p.m. were given the opportunity to cast their vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-percentage-may-go-up/article34348590.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second wave can last up to three months, says IMA||The second wave of coronavirus can last up to three months and such waves will keep coming till 75% of the population is vaccinated and herd immunity is achieved. There is every need to contain its spread, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said. In a letter to the State COVID Officer on Saturday, IMA president N. Subrahmanyam, president-elect C. Srinivasa Raju, and State secretary Nanda Kishore said that the new mutated virus has the potential to skip immunity and even vaccine. It is preying on children too. New symptoms Routine RT-PCR tests may not detect the mutated virus. However, loss of smell is a very strong indicator that a person is corona positive. Stomach upset, diarrhoea, severe headache and extreme fatigue are some of the new symptoms in this second wave. Political meetings, election campaigns and religious congregations along with callous and careless behaviour of people, especially youngsters, are the main drivers of this second wave, the IMA office-bearers said. Daily production capacity of medical oxygen in our country is 7,000 metric tonne and consumption is 4,000 metric tonne. Though there is sufficient production, distribution is skewed, they said and urged the government to look into the issue. They alleged hoarding of Remdesivir and urged the government to make the injection available immediately by enhancing production capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-wave-can-last-up-to-three-months-says-ima/article34348588.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kisan Rail leaves for Delhi with mangoes||The first Kisan Rail left Vizianagaram of Waltair Division for Adarsh Nagar, in New Delhi, carrying 220 tonnes of mangoes on Saturday. “Waltair Division has made consistent efforts for the uninterrupted supply of essential commodities during the pandemic. In the last financial year, despite odd situations the Division has run time-tabled parcel specials across the country and mangoes were transported in 20 special trains from Vizianagaram, the nodal point in North Andhra,” Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said in a statement. The Union government has started the concept of running Kisan Rails for boosting income to the farm sector, by providing hassle-free, safe and speedy transport services of agricultural produce. To encourage the farmers, the Ministry of Food Processing Industries in association with Indian Railways, announced 50% tariff concession on transportation of notified fruits and vegetables. The Business Development Unit (BDU) of Waltair Division, conducted regular negotiations with farmers and explained to them the benefits of transportation of their produce through Kisan Rails. The DRM appealed to the farmers, traders and exporters to utilise the Kisan Rail Special Trains for safe and speedy transportation of their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kisan-rail-leaves-for-delhi-with-220-tonnes-of-mangoes/article34348549.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 470 new COVID cases, 2 deaths||The district reported 470 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 67,896 as on Saturday morning. The death toll also rose to 568 as two more persons succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has increased to 3,812. As many as 297 persons recovered and the total number of recoveries increased to 63,516. With the new cases, the total number of infections and deaths reported in this month (April) are 5,598 and 22 respectively. On an average, around 330 cases are being reported every day in the district this April due to the second wave. Despite spurt in cases, several people are seen roaming without masks and completely ignoring social distancing. Passengers in city buses, and especially in auto-rickshaws, are flouting norms. Tourist places are receiving a good number of visitors during weekends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-470-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/article34348595.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Raipur spl. trains cancelled today||Train no. 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur special, scheduled to leave Visakhapatnam, on April 18 and 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special, leaving Raipur on April 18 are cancelled to facilitate safety-related modernisation works and bridge rebuilding works in Lakhna-Harishankar Road and Turekala-Babaganj sections of East Coast Railway(E Co R). Awareness campaigns are being made over the public address systems urging the public to wear masks, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Those entering railway premises like stations, platforms and trains without wearing masks would be fined up to Rs. 500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-raipur-spl-trains-cancelled-today/article34348592.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA PO pulls up HM||Integrated Tribal Development Agency(ITDA) Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula has expressed anger at the headmistress of G. Boddaputtu village Rupavathi for the poor quality of works taken up under ‘Nadu – Nedu’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/itda-po-pulls-up-hm/article34348593.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of girl||A four-year-old girl died under suspicious circumstances at Lagisipalli village in Paderu mandal in the district on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Golluri Srivalli. According to the police, Srivalli reportedly suffered some injuries while playing in the village. She was shifted to hospital immediately where she died while undergoing treatment. Though the parents of the girl claimed that she died due to internal injuries, a few locals expressed doubts. Post-mortem report is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-death-of-girl/article34348596.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC Commissioner visits inspects Ward no. 7||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana inspected several colonies in Ward No 7 (Zone II-Madhurawada) here on Saturday morning. She interacted with several residential welfare association (RWA) members and enquired about the segregation of waste in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-commissioner-visits-inspects-ward-no-7/article34348597.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC not to collect non-segregated waste||To implement 100% door-to-door segregated collection of waste, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) decided not to collect non-segregated waste from now onwards, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said in a release on Saturday. She said that three bins will be provided free of cost to the below poverty line (BPL) families for segregation of waste into wet, dry and hazardous. The GVMC has implemented two-bin system in every 50 metres in all the commercial areas .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-not-to-collect-non-segregated-waste/article34348598.ece
18 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dial Your Mayor tomorrow||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari will be taking part in Dial Your Mayor, from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. on April 19 (Monday). She would also take part in Spandana programme from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. The new Mayor will be taking part in the programmes for the first time after taking charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dial-your-mayor-tomorrow/article34348599.ece
18 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rush thins out at textile markets in Vizianagaram||As the country grapples with a deadlier second wave of the pandemic, movement of people in public places has come down significantly in the busiest market town of Vizianagaram. The city, a major economic and commercial hub in North Andhra region, always bustles with activity and sees a huge rush in PW Market, Balaji Market, Clock Tower junction, Pyditalli Ammavari temple premises and Vulli Veedhi with retail traders and customers coming from many places, including the neighbouring States of Odisha and Chhattisgarh. With the beginning of marriage season in the State, almost all the shops anticipated a decent business in the months of April and May. However, the spike in COVID cases in the district has cast a shadow over their plans. With many traders succumbing to COVID in 2020, shop owners are cautious this time and do not want to take any risk. Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce president Kedarasetti Sitaramamurthy and general secretary Kapuganti Srinivas have been considering to restrict trade hours. “We will observe the situation for one more week and take suggestions from all traders on whether or not to minimise trade hours,” said Mr. Srinivas. Active cases cross 1,000 Meanwhile, Balaji Textile Market president B. Venkata Rao at a meeting called for strict implementation of COVID-appropriate behaviour in all shops and establishments. The district administration, worried over active cases crossing 1,000 in the last 10 days, is expected to hold a meeting with representatives of theatres and restaurants. As the State government is not ready for another lockdown, the officials felt that the restriction of working hours would minimise the impact of COVID. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, Vizianagaram Municipal Commissioner S.S.Varma and District Medical and Health Officer S.V.Ramana Kumari and other officials have been monitoring the situation on daily basis to take necessary preventive steps to contain the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rush-thins-out-at-textile-markets-in-vizianagaram/article34347742.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCA busts Uttarakhand-based spurious COVID-19 drugs manufacturing racket||In a huge haul, officials of the Drug Control Administration (DCA) busted an inter-State spurious drug racket. They seized the spurious COVID-19 drug stocks, being manufactured for more than a year. The Uttarakhand-based racket was unearthed in Andhra Pradesh, which reportedly has links to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and other States. Drugs worth about Rs. 5 crore have been allegedly marketed in the last one year, investigation officers of the DCA said. Random checks The accused were manufacturing the Dewciff-AZ tablets (Cefixime, Azithromycin and Lactic Acid Bacillus tablets), Azidew-250 (Azithromycin tablets), FIXRAT-AZ and four other brands of tablets. The tablets were reportedly manufactured at Kancare Pharmaceuticals Private Limited, Roorke, Haridwar district, Uttarakhand, on the fictitious manufacturer’s name HPHIN Pharmaceuticals, which was not in existence. “As the sale of antibiotics, multi vitamin and C-vitamin tablets was high due to COVID for the last few months, we kept a vigil on sale of drugs and were doing random checks on the quality of the drugs,” said DCA Director-General S. Ravi Shankar Narayan. Intelligent sampling “During intelligent sampling, the DCA teams collected samples of several drugs, which were sent to the Drug Control Laboratory, Vijayawada. Tests confirmed that eight varieties of drugs were spurious and do not have any medicinal substances,” Mr. Ravi Shankar said. Based on the lab reports, the teams headed by Assistant Director K. Raja Bhanu, along with Bhimavaram Drug Inspector P. Mallikharnuna Rao, Rajamahendravaram (Urban) Drug Inspector A. Krishna conducted raids on the medical shops in West and East Godavari districts and seized huge quantity of sub-standard drugs, the DG said. The teams led by Drug Inspectors, J. Vinod and B. Anvesh Reddy raided a few other pharmacies in Krishna and other districts and seized about eight varieties of tablets. The DCA, A.P., alerted the officials concerned of other States, Mr. Bhanu said. Four arrested A team of investigators visited Roorke and raided the manufacturing unit, along with the local DCA personnel. The accused were marketing the drugs from Chandigarh on different labels. A report has been sent to the Drug Controller General of India on the racket and an alert has been sounded across the country, the official said. “We identified about 25 accused, including seven in Uttarakhand, 16 in Andhra Pradesh and two in Chandigarh. A case under Section 32 of The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and other charges has been registered. Four persons allegedly involved in the racket — Tyagi Gaurav, Goel Vipul, Girish Snehi and Dinesh Pandey — were arrested, and efforts are on to nab the remaining accused” Mr. Raja Bhanu said. The DCA officials raided more than 25 wholesale drug traders, pharmacies, labelling and packing in Andhra Pradesh and other States. Bank accounts, tax payment receipts, drug orders, some vital documents including some scientific evidences were confiscated, the DCA officials said. The DG said the licenses of the wholesale drug dealers and the pharmacies, which marketed the spurious COVID drugs, were cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dca-busts-spurious-covid-19-drugs-racket/article34348358.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cool idea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cool-idea/article34348551.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||64% voter turnout in Tirupati byelection||Voters were not allowed to enter the stations without wearing a face mask. COVID-19 patients and those with suspected symptoms were allowed to vote under medical supervision for an hour from 6 p.m. Poll staffer found positive Polling was stopped for over 30 minutes in a booth in Kaluvoya mandal in Venkatagiri Assembly segment as an election staffer was found COVID positive. The process was resumed after sanitising the station. Police had a tough time in removing a PDS van with the picture of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy parked near a polling station by a ration dealer allegedly to woo voters at Chembadipalem in Gudur Assembly segment. Voters in Buradagali Kothapalem in Chittamur mandal boycotted the bypoll in protest against bad roads in the village. Efforts by YSRCP MLA V.Varaprasad to persuade them to vote went in vain. Appeal by officials Tirupati Special Correspondent adds: The poor voter turnout in the morning hours made the election authorities to appeal at regular intervals through media to the voters to exercise their franchise. The Tirupati Assembly segment recorded the lowest percentage of 45.84 till 5 p.m., while Sullurpeta was the highest at 60.11. Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan, election observer Dinesh Kumar Giridhar Lal and MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha stayed at the control room and monitored the process through webcasting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/64-voter-turnout-in-tirupati-byelection/article34348521.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-track mind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-track-mind/article34347719.ece
18 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||As many as 138 nomination papers were filed by nominees of major political parties and Independent candidates on the second day of filing on Saturday for the April 30 election to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC). In all, a total of 117 candidates have filed their nomination papers for various wards of the total 60 of the KMC so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34348477.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Worst is yet to come, says DPH||“Mask up Telangana as the worst is yet to come,” said Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao at a press conference on Saturday, adding that COVID positive cases would further go up in the next few days. The senior official made the statement a day after the State recorded 4,446 cases, which is the highest since the first case was detected in the State on March 2, 2020. He cited carelessness about COVID-19 precautions in the past four months, and mutations in the virus, as the main reasons for the large number of cases. Apart from unrestricted movement of people, a large number of people gathered at marriages or other celebrations. And political parties in the State too, were reckless as they held rallies, public meetings and other campaigning programmes in the run up to the Nagarjunasagar byelection, he said. At the presser held at the Health campus in Koti on Saturday, Dr. Srinivasa Rao recalled Spanish flu and how similar recklessness among people led to 2-7 crore loss of lives in its second wave. Lessons have to be learnt from history, he added. “People need to think whether they will take precautions or all of us will sacrifice our family members, ourselves,” he said, and cited examples of the US, England and Brazil, which were ‘brought to its knees’ by coronavirus. He also urged people, at least four times, to take precautions in the coming four to six weeks. Officials and doctors too, have been anticipating a surge from May to mid-June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mask-up-worst-is-yet-to-come-dph/article34348468.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Move for a bin-free city ends in disaster||GHMC’s attempt towards a bin-free city has ended up in disaster, with garbage piling up at majority of the locations where bins existed earlier. Severe upbraiding by the Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao in this regard during a recent review meeting has not yielded much result, as apparent from the proliferation of garbage mounds. With the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic and the start of Ramzan month, GHMC’s failure in its basic duty stands out as a glaring lapse. The civic body, over a month ago, took the blue bins off the city streets, ostensibly towards improving the aesthetics. “They wanted to make the city bin-free, not garbage-free,” chuckles Mohd. Badruddin, a fruit vendor near Charminar. All areas surrounding the historical monument are dotted by heaps of garbage thrown liberally by residents of the localities. “When there were bins, there was a place designated for people to litter, which would be cleared every day. Now, the garbage is everywhere, and there is nobody to clear,” says Mr. Badruddin. The situation is especially of concern in Old City and slums where door-to-door collection of garbage is yet to be streamlined. “A tricycle collects garbage from our area, but only once in a blue moon. People do not wait that long, and throw the trash where bins existed earlier. GHMC truck comes once a day to clear the spot, but it gets littered again within no time,” said Syed Bilal, a resident of Shankar Nagar near Chaderghat, complaining that the garbage heaps were serving as breeding grounds for mosquitoes. During a review meeting recently, Mr. Rama Rao reportedly expressed ire about the number of complaints about city sanitation, and asked zonal officials to conduct field inspection on daily basis. He also issued directions for an audit of sanitation activities circle wise, and an estimate about the number of vehicles and staff needed. His chagrin seems to have had little impact. Complaints keep pouring in on social media about garbage heaps. “Hyderabad is now dust bin free with full of garbage on roads. Time to either lift garbage on daily basis or bring back dustbins. In this covid situation timely action needed [sic]” Murali Krishna G., a Twitter user complained tagging Mr.Rama Rao and Telangana Chief Minister’s Office. “We get to see mountains of garbage everywhere in the city. Ghmc officials & staff are you off the field [sic]?” questioned Shaik Habeeb, another person, tagging the Mayor, GHMC Commissioner and GHMC’s official Twitter handle apart from Mr.Rama Rao and the Telangana CMO, with none of them responding to the tweet. GHMC employees’ unions attribute the callousness to the ploy to bring in private players. “If they privatise sanitation directly, there will be protests by workers. Removal of bins is ruse to have private agencies parachute into sanitation, but it has failed,” says Udhari Gopal, president of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Employees’ Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-for-a-bin-free-city-ends-in-disaster/article34348455.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No lockdown in State’||With the huge surge in coronavirus cases, people in Telangana are wondering whether the government would impose a lockdown or curfew in the State. These concerns are mainly bothering daily wage workers, and business personnel. But, Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, on Saturday, clarified once again that there won’t be any lockdown or night curfew. Instead, he requested people to always wear mask and keep the virus under lockdown. “If someone says they cannot do it, they should keep themselves and their family members under lockdown. Else, the virus can claim lives,” Dr. Srinivasa Rao said. Earlier, Health Minister Eatala Rajender too, ruled out a lockdown. Speaking at a press conference in Hyderabad on Saturday, the DPH explained the reasons for imposing a lockdown last year. “It was imposed when the virus was new, its behaviour was not known, we did not know the precautions, and enough time to increase infrastructure was not available. But, we have learnt the lessons in the last one year. Now, infrastructure at government hospitals has improved. We are ready to face any situation,” he said. Reiterating tragedy due to lockdowns, he said that crores of people lost their livelihood, and thousands died of hunger, last year. “We saw more deaths due to lack of food and hunger than COVID. We should not go through the same situation again. Wear mask and keep the virus under control,” he said.  Lockdown was imposed last year when the virus was new, its behaviour was not known, we did not know the precautions, and enough time to increase the infrastructure was not available. But, we have learnt the lessons now.  G. Srinivasa RaoDirector of Public Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-lockdown-in-state/article34347978.ece
18 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Individuals step in to help COVID patients, relatives||As the SARS-CoV2 virus and its mutants rampage through the country creating medical and social havoc, citizens’ groups have stepped in to help patients and their relatives. The help ranges from resources for scarce medicines, food for quarantined families, arranging convalescent plasma, and transporting dead bodies, to weeding out fake helplines, and sometimes as simple as running household errands. “If you live in and around Khairatabad, are in isolation and need someone to run errands for you, reach out to me. Will be happy to help,” tweeted Rikit Shahi, a law student. “Pro tip: if you come across any phone numbers for any COVID-related services, try to dial and confirm the same before amplifying. Most numbers doing the round don’t work. This will help save time and put efforts in a better direction,” he shared. “Looking for help in #Hyderabad area (near King Koti - Kamneni Hospital) for a family for their meals as entire family has been detected COVID positive. Family has 2 seniors citizen, a lady & baby girl of 8 months,” tweeted Shehzad and within no time he got information about the resources at the location. “I sourced these directly from the people providing these services itself. I have five from different parts of the city that I got yesterday — didn’t check today though. Surely more might have stepped up,” says Ashish Chowdhury, a brand strategist who puts together the information about catering services. Even the State government has stepped in, with the Board of Intermediate Examination sharing phone numbers of clinical psychologists to help students deal with exam and COVID-related stress. But the supply of oxygen cylinders continues to baffle citizens and help groups as the supply has dwindled. “There a large number of suppliers in Jeedimetla, Shadnagar, Jalpally and other areas but there is no guarantee of supply. I have called a supplier in Kothur on the outskirts and have been promised supply by morning. I cannot guarantee till I get it,” says Ibrahim, an industrial oxygen supplier who has now switched to medical oxygen. On top of individuals stepping in, NGOs like Helping Hand Foundation, and Feed The Needy have reprised the role they played during the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doing-their-bit-to-help-patients/article34348473.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR orders special drive for removal of garbage||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has issued orders towards a special drive for total removal of garbage from the city roads in the coming four days. Medical Officer, Deputy Commissioner and Sanitation officials concerned in each circle should conduct field inspections every morning and take action for removal of garbage, he said, at a review meeting with Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar on Saturday. He asked the officials to bring in additional vehicles, dumpers and tippers needed for the drive. The Minister also issued instructions for intensive disinfectant spraying in view of COVID-19 second wave. Mr. Kumar later organised a tele-conference with GHMC Zonal and Deputy Commissioners and expressed dissatisfaction at garbage removal from the erstwhile spots of dumper bins. The bins have been removed in accordance with the Solid Waste Management rules. He asked the Zonal & Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Medical Officers of Health (AMOHs) to take up field inspections, and take action for removal of waste. Garbage should not be seen in crowded locations such as markets, bus stations, parks, and commercial areas. Door-to-door garbage collection should increase in view of removal of bins, Mr. Kumar said, and asked GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar to consult the management of Mahindra Group for procurement of additional Swachh Auto Tipper vehicles needed. Garbage on roads and streets will not be tolerated, and AMOHs and Deputy Commissioners will be made responsible for the same, he warned. The Principal Secretary asked officials to pay attention to garbage vulnerable points, and take up spraying of disinfectant wherever the garbage is removed. Sanitation staff should be given gloves, sanitisers and masks, he said. Dumping yards and intermediate transfer stations should be upgraded so that garbage does not pile up. In view of COVID-19 second wave, disinfectant spraying should be intensified at major junctions, busy locations, markets, parks and other areas, he instructed. Adequate measures such as water availability and lighting should be ensured in graveyards and cremation grounds where bodies are brought for last rites. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner said an intensive drive towards sanitation and garbage removal had begun on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-orders-special-drive-for-removal-of-garbage/article34348458.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No need for ‘no due’ certificate while filing nomination: SEC||The State Election Commission (SEC) has clarified that no directions have been issued from the Commission mandating submission of “no due” certificate by prospective candidates while filing their nomination papers. In a direction given to all Municipal Commissioners going to polls later this month including election to nine casual vacancies in as many urban local bodies (ULBs) including the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Secretary of SEC M. Ashok Kumar said on Saturday that it was brought to the Commission’s notice that some Returning Officers were insisting upon producing “no due” certificate issued by the Municipal Authority for acceptance of candidates’ nominations this time. However, the SEC had not issued any such direction and there was no need for candidates to submit ‘no due’ certificate by candidates along with their nomination papers this time, Mr. Ashok Kumar said. He directed all the Commissioners of ULBs going for polls now to inform all Returning Officers not to insist upon ‘no due’ certificate issued by the municipal authorities at the time of submission of nomination papers by the prospective candidates. The SEC Secretary warned of initiating serious action against any RO insisting upon the ‘no due’ certificate at the time of filing nomination papers by the candidates. Meanwhile, the SEC appointed general and expenditure observers to all ULBs facing polls now. Accordingly, Christina Z. Chongthu is the general observer for Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation, Ahmad Nadeem for Khammam Municipal Corporation, G. Kishan (Atchampet), T.K. Sreedevi (Siddipet), Vakati Karuna (Nakrekal), and E. Sridhar (Jadcherla and Kothur). Similarly, A. Devender and J. Sravan Kumar are expenditure observers for GWMC, B. Raju and B. Hussain for KMC, B. Srinivas Babu (Atchampet), Ch. Venumadhav Reddy (Siddipet), Md. Rahman (Nakrekal), L. Narya (Jadcherla) and Ch. Srinivas (Kothur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-due-certificate-not-required-while-filing-nomination-says-sec/article34348463.ece
18 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NSUI dharna at BIE||Demanding that the Intermediate first and second year students be passed without exams due to the rising COVID cases, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged a dharna at the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE). NSUI State president Venkat Balamoor accused the government of confusing parents while promoting the first year students. The decision lacks clarity as the government preferred to conduct exams at a later date without specifying when. It has only increased tension among them. He said that if both the first and second year students were declared passed, the latter can focus on the entrance examinations. Mr. Balamoor said this year first year students were in no mood to take the exams as they did not attend classes throughout the year except for a few days. He reminded that the NSUI had demanded the same last year as well and the government after much pressure took the decision to pass students appearing for the advanced supplementary exams. The Education Minister should immediately take a call and declare all the students passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nsui-dharna-at-bie/article34348472.ece
18 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Man kidnapped by ‘boyfriend’ of fiancée’||A 26-year-old man, who recently got engaged, was kidnapped by his fiancée’s alleged boyfriend from King’s Colony under Mailardevpally police station limits in the late hours of Friday. Shamshabad Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) N Prakash Reddy said that the victim, Nadeem Alam Khan, was on his way home on his motorcycle, after closing his pharmacy, when a group of four persons, including the prime suspect and his fiancée alleged boyfriend Waseem, were said to have picked up a heated argument with the man after intercepting him on the main road. ‘Manhandled’ The suspects manhandled Nadeem Alam Khan and forced him into a car and were headed to Zaheerabad. The Deputy Commissioner of Police said that Waseem asked three of his friends from Zaheerabad to help him in kidnapping his girlfriend’s fiancé and stop their marriage. Police said that the offence was committed around 12.30 a.m. on Saturday. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim‘s family, a case was registered and the policemen are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area to identify and nab the suspects. During investigation, they took Waseem into custody, who contacted his friends to release Nadeem. “While Nadeem was sent back to Hyderabad in a rental car on Saturday morning, our teams are searching for the other three at Zaheerabad and surrounding areas,” the Deputy Commissioner of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kidnapped-by-boyfriend-of-fiance/article34348457.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||11,538 building permissions granted||GHMC has issued a total of 11,538 building permissions during the financial year 2020-21 garnering a total of Rs. 797.13 crore by way of building permission fee. Of this, Rs. 136 crore was collected as part of the instalment scheme announced by the government for payment of building permission fee in view of the situation created by COVID-19. Of the total approvals granted, 11,372 were for residential buildings, 149 for commercial and 17 for institutional such as hospitals and schools. A total of 67 were high-rise buildings, of which 40 were residential, 23 commercial and four institutional. The number of permissions has been lower this year, owing to the pandemic and lockdown. Shortage of construction labour during the lockdown and later resulted in reduction in number of building permissions, a statement by GHMC said. As a relief for the Real Estate industry, government announced the instalment scheme for payment of building permission fee in four equal instalments. Further, a 5% rebate was given for payment at once without instalments. The scheme has been extended till June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/11538-building-permissions-granted/article34348459.ece
18 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 held for sale of duplicate goods||Two persons who were selling electrical cables and components of substandard quality were arrested by Hyderabad police here on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, the sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force (East Zone) raided Raj Alankar Electricals at Jambagh, Afzalgunj, and apprehended 31-year-old Bharath Kumar Rajpurohith and 19-year-old Sharavan Kumar Rajpurohith, who were procuring duplicate cable wires, carton boxes, holograms and QR codes of branded electrical wires of V-Guard and Havells from Delhi. “They were misleading the innocent customers by making them believe that they are original products of the brand owning companies,” Task Force Additional DCP G. Chakravarthy said. The material worth Rs. 4 lakh was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-held-for-sale-of-duplicate-goods/article34348456.ece
18 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nigerian held for gift fraud||A Nigerian, who was cheating people in the guise of sending gifts and forex, was arrested by the Cyber Crime police on Saturday. Henry Chukwuvi Opera (31) was a football coach in Greater Noida. The investigators also arrested his accomplice Suraj (29), an auto rickshaw driver, also from Greater Noida. They seized a mobile phone, a PAN card, a debit card and Rs. 16,000. Police said Henry came to India on a medical visa, got married to a woman from Karnataka and since then was working as a part-time football coach. In December last, he duped a person from Hyderabad on the pretext of sending a gift and Forex from the UK. Acting on a tip-off, police arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nigerian-held-for-gift-fraud/article34348555.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second SCCL solar plant synchronised with grid||The second solar power plant with 28 megawatt capacity in Mandamarri area of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCCL) was synchronised with the grid on Saturday. This took the total solar power capacity of the coal company linked with the grid to 152 MW. Directors of the company S. Chandrasekhar (Operations), D. Satyanarayana Rao (E&M) and president of the recognised workers’ union B. Venkat Rao and others switched on a panel on Saturday to formally synchronise the plant with the grid. Saving of Rs. 120 crore By completing the entire 300 MW capacity of solar plants by October-end, the company would save about Rs. 120 crore annually on energy bills, they said. Another 350 MW floating solar plant was being planned on the waters of Lower Manair Dam near Karimnagar, they stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-sccl-solar-plant-synchronised-with-grid/article34348465.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only 2L doses left, 2.7L more expected; no shots today||Vaccine shots will not be given at government vaccination centres across the State on Sunday, said Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao on Saturday night, adding that vaccination will continue from Monday onwards as per schedule. Shortage A few hours before issuing this statement, he said that Telangana continues to face a shortage of COVID-19 vaccine, with only two lakh doses left that are expected to last up to Saturday night or Sunday. The Director of Public Health said that as per the information from Central government, 2.7 lakh more doses were expected on Saturday night. Cases go up This shortage is experienced at a time when cases are increasing daily. There is shortage of vaccines at private and corporate hospitals too. Heads of the hospitals said it is better to call the hospitals before stepping out for vaccination. Vaccination is mooted as one of the methods to gain herd immunity and weaken mutations in coronavirus. Officials have been urging people eligible to get the jab to get vaccinated. 1.61 lakh doses On Friday, 1.61 lakh people were administered first dose, and 13,833 received the second dose. However, scores of people complained that they were not able to get the first one, and some said they could not get the second dose. Dr. Srinivasa Rao said that Covishield can be taken six to eight weeks after the first dose. “That is up to two weeks after 42 days (since first dose),” he said, adding that the second dose of Covaxin can be taken after four weeks and within five weeks after first dose. From January 16, a total of 24.51 lakh people in the State took first dose of the vaccine and 3,49,842 received second dose. There are around 80 lakh people in the State who are above 45 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-2l-doses-left-27l-more-expected-no-shots-today/article34348470.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||5 to 433 cases in a district in just 12 days||A festival in a Telangana district bordering Maharashtra involving around 50 people led to an outbreak of 433 cases in a span of only 12 days! This was the biggest outbreak detected in the State this month. The Director of Public Health cited this as an example to drive home the point on how rapidly coronavirus is spreading. The name of the district was not mentioned at the press conference on Saturday. Around 20 people from Maharashtra came to the bordering district to celebrate the festival, and they were joined by 30 people from Telangana. On April 4, a few developed symptoms of the infectious disease, and five people went for tests at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) and all of them tested positive. When the State Health teams took up contact tracing, 34 others tested positive. When further contact tracing was taken up, a total of 433 people spread in three to four villages tested positive up to April 6. The senior official said that the outbreak, which started with five cases increased to 433 in a span of 12 days. “Through this incident, we can understand how fast the virus is spreading,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5-to-433-cases-in-a-district-in-just-12-days/article34348471.ece
18 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefs/ Minister’s assurance on damaged paddy||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy assured paddy farmers that the government would procure the paddy that is damaged and discoloured in the recent untimely rains. In a teleconference held on Saturday, he appealed to farmers not to get worried about their produce that was damaged in the unexpected rains recently. Directions were issued to all District Collectors to procure the damaged paddy as guidelines were already issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefs-ministers-assurance-on-damaged-paddy/article34348464.ece
18 April 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Second wave of COVID spreading fast: doctors||The second wave of coronavirus infections has been spreading fast, which has caught even the medical officials by surprise. During the first wave, which was experienced last year, on an average 150 suspected cases would come for testing everyday. But this time the number of suspected cases who are coming for getting tested in Medak district alone has crossed 300 everyday, for the past few days. Officials are fearing that the number may soon rise exponentially. “In the past, we used to get one or two cases from a family if a person tested positive for COVID-19. Now, the situation is very different. Virus has been spreading through air. If one person in a family gets infected with virus and there are 10 members in the family, all the 10 are testing positive,” said District Surveillance Officer Naveen. The variant strain (mutated virus) may also be another reason for the fast spread of virus, he added. Dr. Naveen said that the number of deaths are also increasing to alarming levels. “During last year, patients used to have a time of day or two to get admitted in the hospital. But this time round, they do not have that luxury. Patients who appear normal are going out of control within an hour of developing dyspnea (medical term for shortness of breath) and dying within no time. Many patients are asymptomatic and do not know that they are carrying the virus. More than 70% are asymptomatic,” he explained. Meanwhile, Forest department officials held a massive vaccination drive in the district headquarters on Friday. “We have taken up this drive to clear all misgivings about vaccination among the staff. Similar programme will be organised for their families,” said District Forest Officer G. Gnaneswar. However, on Saturday, vaccine shortage was reported at some places and it was confirmed by a medical officer in the Medical and Health department. At least one centre was reportedly closed due to lack of stock while at another centre, patients were given appointment for vaccination on Sunday. The stock was expected to reach Saturday night. The streets of most places in the erstwhile undivided Medak district wore a deserted look due to fears among the people due to the surge in COVID-19 infections. The OP department of government hospitals were also shut down to minimize the spread of infection. At some places in the town and the district residents were erecting barricades to prevent others entering their area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-wave-of-covid-spreading-fast-doctors/article34348475.ece
18 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Couple killed in mishap||A couple was killed on Saturday afternoon when a tipper hit their two-wheeler at Patancheru. M. Sridhar, 34, died on the spot. His wife Deepika, 28, died while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-killed-in-mishap/article34348476.ece
18 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Not quite a fair deal for farmers||Seamless procurement ensuring Minimum Support Price (MSP) and timely payment have been the major challenges for the Haryana government during the harvesting season year after year. However this year, the task is even bigger amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation seeking legal guarantee for MSP; the fear of discontinuation of the “mandi system” in the wake of the three farm laws looming large over the farming community and a sense of “resentment” against the ruling regime. Much before the inception of the procurement season for wheat on April 1 this year, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala announced that the government would aim at transferring money directly to the accounts of the farmers within 48 hours. Chief Minister Manohar Lal too, following a meeting with the officials concerned, assured to pay 9% interest in case of delayed payments. Govt.’s false promises However, these announcements seem to remain “empty promises” for many farmers at new grains market in Sohna here. Giriraj Singh, a young farmer from Nuh’s Bhirawati village, sold off over 300 quintals wheat to separate commission agents 10 days ago, but he is yet to get the money. In an urgent need of money for his niece’s wedding, Giriraj has borrowed a few thousands from the arthiya (commission agent). “The government was quick to send me a text message for my turn to sell off the produce but the wait for the message from the bank [about the amount to be credited] seems endless,” he quips. Timely payment matters Dharambir, who runs Ganga Prasad-Hiralal commission firm, quickly reads through his “ bahee khaata ” (ledger account) to claim that none of over a dozen farmers, who sold off their wheat through him since the beginning of the procurement season, had got the money. He said that farmers were getting the promised MSP, but timely payment mattered the most. He says that, unlike other commission agents in the mandi, around two dozen in number, he was not scared to call “a spade a spade” and seeking basic amenities for farmers and labourers at the mandi for a long time. “The toilets are dirty. There is no arrangement for water and light. The problem of waterlogging is perennial every monsoon and the less said the better about sanitation. Repeated complaints have been to the market committee, the Deputy Commissioner and even at the CM Window system, but there has been no action,” an angry Dharambir says. Though Gaya Prasad (42) gives a big thumbs up to the present regime for streamlining the procurement system over the years, he recalls how he would have to spend several nights at the mandi to wait for his turn, but now he received a text message on his mobile informing him about his turn. Against farmers’ stir “It is hassle free. It just takes a few hours now,” he says. He also claims that earlier, it took 15-20 days for payments, but this year he had received the payment for a procurement made just three days ago. He discredits the farmers movement on the Delhi borders being “politically motivated”, but supports the demand for MSP. He does farming on around 20-acre land taken on lease, but finds it difficult to make both ends meet. “It is difficult to survive for a farmer without a guarantee for a minimum price,” says Prasad. Though Sohna mandi caters to around 60 villages in its vicinity, the farmers in the area prefer to go to bigger mandis in Nuh. More than 53,000 quintals of wheat has already been procured at the mandi till April 15, and as per the estimates of market committee secretary Krishan Kumar, another 15,000 quintals is expected to reach in a week’s time before the culmination of the procurement process. Movement regulation Mr. Kumar informs that 1,640 farmers have registered under “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” scheme, adding that registration was now almost cent per cent in the State. He, however, argues that restricting the number of farmers reaching the mandis every day was “impractical”. “It is difficult for the farmers to store the crop at home after harvesting. They prefer to come straight to the market to sell it off. It is not pragmatic to regulate their movement. The government too realised this and the Chief Minister announced to allow farmers to come out-of-turn,” says Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/not-quite-a-fair-deal-for-farmers/article34347989.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Night and weekend curfews spell trouble for sex workers||Still recovering from the impact of the lockdown and subsequent restrictions from last year, Delhi’s sex workers have been dealt another blow with the city government announcing night curfews, weekend curfews and other curbs to stop the resurgence of COVID-19 cases in the Capital. The exodus of migrant workers — their core clientèle — during the 2020 national lockdown left them with little to no work. Left with no other choice and facing starvation, sex workers slashed their fees by up to 75%. Just as business was beginning to pick up, the city government last week announced a night curfew between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. On April 15, a weekend curfew was also declared that threatens to erode their earnings further. “Before the lockdown, we used to charge Rs. 1,000 per client. After it was announced, fees came down to Rs. 250 per client as there were virtually no customers,” said Kusum, president of the All India Network of Sex Workers (AINSW). “We cater to labourers, rickshaw pullers, autorickshaw drivers, taxi and truck drivers. These people left for their villages last year. We had started getting most of them back, charging up to Rs. 500 till recently, before the COVID-19 cases surged again. The weekend curfew will take away clients who were part of the weekend rush due to the night curfew,” she added. Delhi’s red light district on Garstin Bastion (GB) Road, officially called Shradhanand Marg, has an estimated 68 kothas (brothels) and around 5,000 sex workers. Kajal*, a sex worker, said the night curfew had already negatively impacted trade and the weekend curfew would make matters worse. “Over the last week, the number of clients suddenly dipped because of the night curfew. We do most of our business between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. when the movement of people is not allowed,” she said. “Many regular customers decided to visit us over the weekend, but now weekend curfew has been announced. From our point of view, it is four days – including Friday night – of no work. COVID slashed our income by half and these curfews by another half of what was left,” she complained. Simran*, who used to work in a brothel on GB Road before the lockdown, has opted to become a “domestic sex worker” — working from a house occupied by other professionals like herself. “Customers have dipped by 80%. If there were around 10 clients for each girl before the lockdown, that number is now down to two. We fear this will go down to nothing because of the curfews,” she said, adding: “The average factory worker is no longer allowed to step out either at night or on the weekend, so how will he visit? We need help to survive. I do not know how we will be able to feed ourselves if things go on like this.” Survived on donations During last year’s lockdown, the sex workers were left to fend for themselves as there were no direct cash benefits transferred to their bank accounts or food kits from the government. They survived on donations from NGOs and civil society groups. The vaccination drive started in Delhi three months ago but there is no emphasis on prioritising the jab for sex workers, they rued. “No government helped us back then and no government is doing that now. We survived on donations from NGOs and other groups. This time, not a lot of us have documents needed to get a shot of the COVID vaccination,” Kajal said. “Even at that time [the lockdown], when neighbours were helping each other in times of need, we were looked down upon because of our ‘dirty trade’ and left on our own,” said Simran. According to Amit Kumar, country head of the AINSW, the Supreme Court had directed the Central and State governments to provide relief to sex workers in an order on September 29, 2020. “As part of this, dry ration kits were distributed to them for a few months but that too has stopped now,” said Mr. Kumar. * Name changed on request  Our core clientèle left for their villages last year. We had started getting most of them back before the COVID-19 cases surged again   Kusum  President of the All India Network of Sex Workers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/night-and-weekend-curfews-spell-doom-for-sex-workers/article34347991.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||A day after bail, Deep Sidhu arrested again||Delhi Police’s Crime Branch arrested actor-activist Deep Sidhu on Saturday in connection with an FIR lodged by the Archaeological Survey of India for allegedly damaging public property during the farmers’ tractor parade violence on Republic Day at Red Fort, officials said. The arrest came after a Delhi court granted bail to the actor-activist arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence. Special Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen granted relief to the accused on Friday on a personal bond of Rs. 30,000 and two sureties of a like amount. The court noted that the accused was in custody since February 9, with a 14-day remand in police custody. Unjustifiable plea It said that a police plea for further incarceration for the sole purpose of voice sampling was not justifiable. Rejecting the prosecution's contention that the accused might abscond if released on bail, the court said, “The accused as per the own case of the prosecution is a well-known public figure with deep roots in society and such apprehensions are capable of being allayed by imposing stricter conditions.” It further said, “It would violate and infringe the fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed to the accused, if the accused is denied bail in the present case on such nature of accusations and material only on the ground that the investigating agency is yet to establish the identity of the several other members of the unlawful assembly.” While granting the bail, the judge directed the accused to deposit his passport with the investigating officer and appear before the police station as well as the court as and when required. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police at ITO in Delhi, the agency claimed in its FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-day-after-bail-deep-sidhu-arrested-again/article34347981.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Water supply to remain affected for a week: DJB||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Saturday said water supply in parts of the Capital is likely to remain affected for a week due to “reduced availability” of raw water from the Upper Ganga Canal. The water utility said the “production” capacity at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi water treatment plants was reduced by 25 per cent to 30 per cent. “Water supply in areas of East Delhi, Northeast Delhi, South Delhi and NDMC will remain affected in the evening... The situation may remain so for a week until the situation improves,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/water-supply-to-remain-affected-for-a-week-djb/article34347982.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Jamia Millia Islamia defers PhD entrance examination||Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Saturday announced it would defer the PhD entrance examinations in view of an unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases in the national capital. According to a notice from JMI, the tests that were scheduled to be held on April 20, 22, 24, and 26 will be held at a later date. “The Competent Authority, keeping in view of COVID-19 surge in Delhi and weekend curfew imposed by the Government of NCT of Delhi, has postponed the Ph.D. Entrance Tests which were earlier announced to be held on 20, 22, 24 and 26 of April 2021 till further orders [sic.],” it said. On Wednesday, the university had announced it will defer the exams for Classes 10 and 12 at JMI schools, scheduled to be held from April 15, following the Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision on Wednesday to cancel Class 10 exams and defer Class 12 examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jamia-millia-islamia-defers-phd-entrance-examination/article34347983.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||JNU issues strict COVID norms, shuts sports stadium||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday ordered a slew of restrictions amid rising number of COVID-19 infections in the national capital. In a circular, the university said, the sports stadium has been closed with immediate effect and yoga activities in the offline mode have also been suspended. It, however, said such activities can be run in online mode. Dining facility at canteens and eateries in the campus will also be closed with immediate effect, said the university. “Dining facility at Aravali guest house canteen as well as other canteens and eateries will be closed and only home delivery and takeaway will be allowed,” said the administration. The operation of canteens and ‘dhabas’ of the schools, special centres and residential areas shall be only in takeaway and home delivery mode. “The hostel residents are strongly discouraged from visiting other hostels and going out of the campus or to schools/centres, unless it is absolutely essential,” the circular stated. JNU added that visitors’ movement will only be allowed through the north gate, and “other gates shall remain closed till further orders”. It advised residents to avoid “non-essential movement” inside or outside the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-issues-strict-covid-norms-shuts-sports-stadium/article34347984.ece
18 April 2021||Guwahati,||All those entering Assam need to be tested: Sarma||Assam Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said COVID neutral certificates from other States would not be accepted. He said all air and train passengers on reaching the State will have to undergo both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests. Assam’s current COVID-19 situation is primarily linked to people with travel history, he said. The Minister said the strain of virus found in the second wave is the U.K. variant, which is very light and spreads very fast. “Those coming from outside must undergo RT-PCR test on reaching Assam and the results will be available within 24 hours but till then they should stay in isolation”, he said. Mr. Sarma admitted that the situation has turned “complicated” in the State during the last few days. “As of now we are prepared, and the situation is under control”. Asked if the spike in COVID-19 cases can be linked to election rallies and campaigns held before the three-phase Assembly polls, which concluded on April 6, Mr. Sarma said no connection could be established between the two. “Out of the 126 Assembly constituencies in the state, there are no cases in around 100 of them,” he said. The State reported 2,22,940 positive cases and 1,127 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-those-entering-assam-need-to-be-tested-sarma/article34347961.ece
18 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. rejects ‘rumours’ of pvt. labs not conducting tests||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday dismissed the claims made by people, especially on social media, that private hospitals and laboratories were avoiding testing people for COVID-19. “Rumours are being spread that private labs are not testing COVID samples,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary information. Out of the 94,000 samples tested through RT-PCR on the day, 19,000 were in private labs, he said. Later in the day, the State health department said over 2.15 lakh samples had been tested in 24 hours. Over 27K fresh cases The State recorded 27, 357 new cases and 120 new deaths in 24 hours, including 5,913 new cases and 36 deaths in Lucknow alone, as per health department figures. ‘Set up 10 oxygen plants’ While government officials have maintained that there was no shortage of oxygen cylinders in the State, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed them to take immediate steps to set up 10 new oxygen plants. The sites should be identified soon and action taken on “war-footing”, the CM told officials. Mr. Adityanath also directed officials to increase the number of beds in COVID-19 hospitals in all districts. Every hospital should maintain oxygen backup of a minimum of 36 hours, he said. The testing capacity of private laboratories should be increased, he told the district magistrates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-govt-rejects-rumours-of-pvt-labs-not-conducting-tests/article34347962.ece
18 April 2021||Mumbai,||Vehicles to be colour coded to limit movement in Mumbai||In a bid to limit vehicular movement and avert traffic jams amid COVID-19 curbs, the Mumbai Police on Saturday directed vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services to sport colour-coded stickers. “The use of the red, green and yellow stickers has been introduced to ensure strict implementation of the restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government to control the spread of the virus,” city police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said. Vehicles belonging to doctors, medical staff, ambulances and those engaged in supplying medical equipment will have to sport red stickers, while vehicles transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries, dairy products, will have to place green stickers. People employed in essential services such as civic officials, personnel of electricity, telephone and press departments have to place yellow stickers on their vehicles. He said the move will discourage unwanted vehicular movement on roads and at checkpoints, easing the movement of ambulances and medical supply vehicles. The stickers, which should be six-inch circles, will also be made available at ‘nakabandi’ points and toll nakas for free, Mr. Nagrale said, adding that people found misusing the stickers will be strictly prosecuted. “If you fall under these categories, please fix the sticker on your vehicle and come out on the road,” he said.  Please fix the sticker on your vehicle and come out on the road Hemant Nagrale Mumbai Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vehicles-to-be-colour-coded-to-limit-movement-in-mumbai/article34347919.ece
18 April 2021||Mumbai,||‘Curbs may last beyond May 1’||The restrictions in Maharashtra may be extended beyond May 1, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. He said people have been supportive, but violations of prohibitory rules under Section 144 have also been reported. A decision will be taken after reviewing the result of the 15-day lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/curbs-may-last-beyond-may-1/article34347917.ece
18 April 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra hits new peak of 67,123 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 67,123 fresh COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day spike so far, taking its tally to 37,70,707. A total of 419 deaths took the toll to 59,970. With 56,783 patients being discharged, the tally of recoveries has risen to 30,61,174. The tally of active cases now stands at 6,47,933. Mumbai recorded 8,811 new cases and 51 fatalities, taking the city’s tally to 5,71,018 and the toll to 12,301. With 2,72,035 tests being conducted during the day, the number of samples tested has gone up to 2,35,80,913. The State’s recovery rate is 81.18%, while the fatality rate is 1.59%. The positivity rate is 15.99%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-hits-new-peak-of-67123-cases/article34347916.ece
18 April 2021||HAVANA,||Raul Castro steps down as head of Communist Party of Cuba||Raul Castro said on Friday he is stepping down as head of Cuba’s Communist Party, ending an era of formal leadership that began with his brother Fidel and country’s 1959 revolution. The 89-year-old Castro made the announcement in a speech at the opening of the eighth congress of the ruling party, the only one allowed on the island. He said he was retiring with the sense of having “fulfilled his mission and confident in the future of the fatherland.” “Nothing, nothing, nothing is forcing me to make this decision,” said Mr. Castro, part of whose speech to the closed Congress was aired on state television. “As long as I live I will be ready with my foot in the stirrup to defend the homeland, the revolution and socialism with more force than ever.” Mr. Castro didn’t say who he would endorse as his successor as first secretary of the Communist Party. But he previously indicated he favours yielding control to 60-year-old Miguel Díaz-Canel, who succeeded him as President in 2018 and is the standard bearer of a younger generation of loyalists who have been pushing an economic opening without touching one-party system. Photographs released by the official Cuban News Agency showed Mr. Castro, dressed in an olive green uniform, entering the compound with Mr. Díaz-Canel by his side. Mr. Castro’s retirement means that for the first time in more than six decades Cubans won’t have a Castro formally guiding their affairs and many had been expecting the change. “One has to step aside for the young people,” said 64-year-old retiree Juana Busutil. Pace of reforms The transition comes at a difficult time for Cuba, with many on the island anxious about what lies ahead. The pandemic, painful financial reforms and restrictions imposed by the Trump administration have battered the economy, which shrank 11% last year as a result of a collapse in tourism and remittances. Long food lines and shortages have brought back echoes of the “special period” that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s. Much of the debate inside Cuba is focused on the pace of reform, with many complaining that the so-called “historic generation” represented by Mr. Castro has been too slow to open the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/raul-castro-steps-down-as-head-of-communist-party-of-cuba/article34347623.ece
18 April 2021||Washington,||After outcry, Biden set to lift cap on refugees in May||Facing swift blowback from allies and aid groups, the White House said President Joe Biden plans to lift his predecessor’s historically low cap on refugees by next month, after initially moving only to expand the eligibility criteria for resettlements. In an emergency determination signed by Mr. Biden earlier on Friday, he stated the admission of up to 15,000 refugees set by former President Donald Trump this year “remains justified by humanitarian concerns and is otherwise in the national interest.” But if the cap is reached before the end of the budget year and the emergency refugee situation persists, then a presidential determination may be issued to raise the ceiling. That set off a deluge of criticism from top allies on Capitol Hill such as the second-ranking Senate Democrat, Dick Durbin of Illinois, who called that initial limit “unacceptable.” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said later that Mr. Biden is expected to increase the cap by May 15. Mr. Biden has been consulting with his advisers to determine what number of refugees could realistically be admitted to the U.S. between now and October 1, the end of the fiscal year, Ms. Psaki said. “Given the decimated refugee admissions program we inherited,” she said it’s now “unlikely” Mr. Biden will be able to boost that number to 62,500, as he had proposed in his plan to Congress two months ago. The new allocations provide more slots for refugees from Africa, West Asia and Central America and lift Mr. Trump's restrictions on resettlements from Somalia, Syria and Yemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-outcry-biden-set-to-lift-cap-on-refugees-in-may/article34347625.ece
18 April 2021||Tehran,||Iran names man behind Natanz attack||Iran named a suspect on Saturday in the attack on its Natanz nuclear facility that damaged centrifuges there, saying he had fled the country “hours before” the sabotage happened. While the extent of the damage from the April 11 sabotage remains unclear, it comes as Iran tries to negotiate with world powers over allowing the U.S. to re-enter its nuclear deal and lift the economic sanctions it faces. Already, Iran has begun enriching uranium up to 60% purity in response — three times higher than ever before, though in small quantities. The sabotage and Iran’s response to it also have further inflamed tensions across the West Asia, where a shadow war between Tehran and Israel, the prime suspect in the sabotage, still rages. State television named the suspect as Reza Karimi, 43. It showed a passport-style photograph of a man it identified as Karimi, saying he was born in the nearby city of Kashan, Iran. The report also aired what appeared to be an Interpol “red notice” seeking his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-names-man-behind-natanz-attack/article34347627.ece
18 April 2021||BATTICALOA,||Our lands are under threat, say Tamils in Sri Lanka’s Eastern Province||Over the last few months, farmers of Mavadi Odai in Sri Lanka’s eastern Batticaloa district frequently spotted something crop up on their land overnight — a border stone they had not planted. “The Forest Department people come and put their stones when we are asleep, and then claim the land to be theirs,” says Marimuthu Raveendrakumar, 51, speaking of a growing insecurity among residents over land that they returned to only in recent years, after years of displacement during the civil war. According to many in Batticaloa, the land where Tamil communities have resided and farmed for generations, is increasingly under threat from different governmental bodies that oversee agriculture, conservation and archaeology. The 36 Tamil families in Mr. Raveendrakumar’s village which lacks motorable roads — it takes over 45 minutes to cover a 3-km stretch to reach here — do small-scale farming for a living. A plot of land is all they have assuring them of a livelihood. A majority owns under 5 acres. “But every day, the Forest Department is claiming a new patch of land here to be theirs,” he says. Apart from tackling the Forest Department’s moves, the people of Mavadi Odai constantly dread wild elephants, and more recently, powerful humans eyeing their natural resources. Not far from their homes, a rapid sand mining operation has begun, with huge machines extracting truckloads of sand on a daily basis, villagers note. Following the intervention of local MPs, district authorities ordered that it be paused. Locals have not been able to obtain permission to mine sand in the resource-rich area. “We would be far more careful and not mine as deep as them, because we know our terrain, we know how our village gets flooded every monsoon,” says a farmer. ‘Sand mafias’ “The mining companies exploit the villagers’ poverty, get cheap labour, and make huge profits selling the sand. They don’t care about how that damages the environment here,” says Kanapathypillai Mohan, who heads ‘Thamizh Unarvaalargal’, a locally-run organisation that “stands up for Tamil people’s rights”. “We had seen sand mafias only in films, but here we see them in action right in front of our eyes, that too with the blessings of some prominent local politicians aligned to the Rajapaksa government,” he alleges. Admitting that sand mining is going on in a “drastic manner” in the province, Anuradha Yahampath, Governor of the Eastern Province, says the Geological Department takes “all factors into consideration” while issuing licences, but some who obtain the licence are “violating” the conditions. Asked about allegations of the Forest Department taking over agriculture land, the Governor, the highest official in the Province appointed by and representing the President, said in some instances, land is being freshly demarcated to indicate forest areas. “There are some other cases where people have encroached into forest areas, and we are looking at alternative lands that can be offered to them. It is very important that we provide agricultural land to our people, and at the same time, protect our forests,” Ms. Yahampath says, adding that a “strong environmental committee” headed by the Governor, with members of the Navy, Army and special task force, is looking into the concerns over land, “the biggest issue” in the Province. Land-related conflicts The government’s efforts are yet to inspire confidence among the people, going by their accounts. In fact, land-related conflicts in Batticaloa have escalated after President Gotabaya Rajapaksa came to power, they note. Livestock farmers in Mayilathamadu, about 70 km from town, have been agitating for months, against colonies of Sinhalese agricultural families, set up reportedly by the country’s Mahaweli authority that administers land and irrigation, on fields their cattle have been grazing for decades. Like some other farmers’ organisations and residents in the civil war-affected north and east, they too have recently filed a case, accusing governmental departments of taking control of their lands in the pretext of expanding forest cover, boosting domestic agriculture — in some areas involving the Civil Defence Force — or carrying out archaeological investigations, according to Jaffna parliamentarian M.A. Sumanthiran, a senior lawyer appearing for them. At least a dozen such cases have been filed in the last year. Task force Further, six months into office, President Rajapaksa set up a task force for Archaeological Heritage Management in the Eastern Province last June that has emerged another source of apprehension for Tamils. The panel, with only majority Sinhalese members — including senior Buddhist monks — has taken steps that Tamils fear, will threaten their places of worship, like the Kusalanamalai Kumaran temple in Batticaloa. The stones placed by the Archaeology Department around the shrine have already made temple administrators nervous. “The motive appears to assert Buddhism in these traditional Tamil areas,” says an office bearer, requesting anonymity. The Tamil-majority district is flanked by Trincomalee and Ampara, that together make the multi-ethnic Eastern Province that has been home to Tamils, a sizeable Muslim population who are also Tamil speaking, and a smaller proportion of Sinhalese. The clamour for land from different agencies, according to Batticaloa parliamentarian Shanakiyan Rasamanickam, is not a coincidence, but has a more sinister motive. “It is nothing but a systematic effort to change the demographics of the Tamil-majority areas.” Pointing to past moves by “majoritarian governments” in post-Independence Sri Lanka, of “settling” Sinhalese people in Tamil-speaking areas, the MP said: “We are only seeing similar attempts now. And they are happening at an accelerated pace after the Rajapaksas returned to power.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/our-lands-are-under-threat-say-tamils-in-sri-lankas-eastern-province/article34347629.ece
18 April 2021||Yangon,||Junta leader set to join ASEAN summit||Myanmar junta leader Min Aung Hlaing will join a special ASEAN summit next week, the Thai Foreign Ministry said on Saturday, his first official trip since masterminding a coup against the deposed civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The February 1 putsch triggered a massive uprising, bringing hundreds of thousands of protesters to the streets to demand a return to democracy, while civil servants have boycotted work in a bid to shutter the junta’s administration. The military has deployed lethal force to quell the anti-coup movement, killing more than 720 people. The international community has largely condemned the generals for use of force against unarmed civilians — imposing targeted sanctions against top military brass, their families and army-linked businesses. But regional leaders have sought to open communications with the regime, and on Saturday Thailand’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that a Summit of Southeast Asian leaders in Jakarta on April 24 on Myanmar’s situation will include the senior General.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/junta-leader-set-to-join-asean-summit/article34347631.ece
18 April 2021||Chittagong,||Bangladesh: 5 die in stir at Chinese-funded plant||At least five people were shot dead and dozens injured when Bangladesh police opened fire on Saturday on demonstrating workers at the construction site of a Chinese-financed power plant, officials said. Police started shooting after workers became violent, said Saiduzzman Chowdhury, government administrator in the southern coastal town of Banshkhali. They were protesting over unpaid wages, working hours and alleged discrimination. Azizul Islam, Banshkhali police chief, said about 2,000 protesters threw rocks and bricks at police, who responded with gunfire. The 2.5 billion-dollar, 1,200-megawatt coal power plant, 30% owned by Chinese engineering giant SEPCOIII, has been at the centre of other deadly protests in recent years. Police opened fire on a protest by villagers in 2016, when four people were killed. One man was killed in 2017 when police fired shots at a rally. Four bodies with bullet wounds were taken from the latest protests to Banshkhali's main hospital, a doctor there said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-5-die-in-stir-at-chinese-funded-plant/article34347626.ece
18 April 2021||Houston,||U.S. woman charged for ‘threatening’ to kill Harris||A 39-year-old nurse in Florida has been arrested for allegedly threatening to kill Vice-President Kamala Harris, according to media reports on Saturday. Niviane Petit Phelps was arrested following an investigation by the U.S. Secret Service, CNN reported. Phelps knowingly and willfully made threats on videos to kill and inflict bodily harm upon Ms. Harris, according to the criminal complaint filed against her. The complaint said Phelps had sent the videos to her husband, who is imprisoned. In one of the videos, “Phelps stated: ‘Kamala Harris you are going to die. Your days are numbered already.” Phelps expressed how she believes Ms. Harris is not actually ‘Black’ and how during inauguration she disrespectfully put her hand on her clutch purse instead of the Bible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-woman-charged-for-threatening-to-kill-harris/article34348354.ece
18 April 2021||Islamabad,||‘Insulting Prophet should be same as denying Holocaust’||Western governments should treat people who insult the Prophet Muhammed the same as those who deny the Holocaust, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said Saturday. Speaking a week after violent protests in Pakistan by a radical Islamist party outraged by French government support for magazines publishing cartoons of Mohammed, Mr. Khan said insulting the Prophet hurt Muslims around the world. “We Muslims have the greatest love & respect for our Prophet,” he tweeted. “We cannot tolerate any such disrespect & abuse.” The group Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) was banned on Thursday after days of violent protests. “I... call on Western govts who have outlawed any negative comment on the holocaust to use the same standards to penalise those deliberately spreading their message of hate against Muslims by abusing our Prophet,” Mr. Khan tweeted. Denying the Holocaust is illegal in several EU countries — including France — and offenders can be jailed. Mr. Khan suggested the ban on TLP was not because of its motivation, but rather its methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/insulting-prophet-should-be-same-as-denying-holocaust/article34347633.ece
18 April 2021||Yangon,||Over 23,000 prisoners released||Myanmar’s junta on Saturday announced it pardoned and released more than 23,000 prisoners to mark the traditional New Year holiday, but it wasn’t immediately clear if they included pro-democracy activists who were detained in the wake of the coup in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-23000-prisoners-released/article34347632.ece
18 April 2021||WINDSOR,||Prince Philip laid to rest at royal funeral||Queen Elizabeth II on Saturday bid farewell to her late husband, Prince Philip, at a royal funeral like no other, restricted by coronavirus rules but reflecting his long life of military and public service. The Duke of Edinburgh, who died on April 9 at age 99, was interred in the Royal Vault at St George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle after a 50-minute service attended by just 30 guests. The Queen, 94, seen for the first time since his death, sat alone dressed in mourning black, with a white-trimmed, black face mask. Close family, also masked, sat socially distanced in the historic 15th-century Gothic chapel. Prince Philip — described by royals as “the grandfather of the nation” — was Britain’s longest-serving royal consort and was married to the Queen for 73 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-philip-laid-to-rest-at-royal-funeral/article34347634.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||HDFC Bank’s Q4 net rises 16% to Rs. 8,434 cr. as advances climb||HDFC Bank on Saturday reported a 15.8% rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs. 8,434 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, buoyed by an increase in advances.  “Consolidated advances grew by 13.6% from Rs. 10,43,671 crore as on March 31, 2020, to Rs. 11,85,284 crore as on March 31, 2021,” HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing. The consolidated net profit for the year ended March 2021 was Rs. 31,833 crore, up 16.8%. Total income (consolidated) increased to Rs. 40,909.49 crore for the January-March quarter of FY 2020-21 from Rs. 38,287.17 crore in the year-earlier period. The full-year income (consolidated) in 2020-21 rose to Rs. 1,55,885.28 crore from Rs. 1,47,068.28 crore. NPAs inch up On the asset front, the bank’s gross non-performing assets as of March 31, 2021, stood at 1.32% of the gross advances, slightly up from 1.26% in the year-earlier period. In absolute value, the gross NPAs were worth Rs. 15,086 crore at the end of FY21, an increase from Rs. 12,649.97 crore. Net NPAs were 0.4% (Rs. 4,554.82 crore) as against 0.36% (Rs. 3,542.36 crore). Provisions for bad loans and contingencies were raised to Rs. 4,693.70 crore for the reported quarter, from Rs. 3,784.49 crore set aside in the year-earlier period. “The bank also continues to hold provisions as on March 31, against the potential impact of COVID-19 based on the information available at this point in time and the same are in excess of the RBI prescribed norms,” HDFC Bank said. The bank held floating provisions of Rs. 1,451 crore and contingent provisions of Rs. 5,861 as on March 31. Total provisions (comprising specific, floating, contingent and general) were 153% of the gross non-performing loans as of end March 2021, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-banks-q4-net-rises-16-to-rs-8434-cr-as-advances-climb/article34347756.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||PLI scheme for ACs, LED lights to exclude ‘mere assembly’||The department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has notified the PLI scheme for ACs and LED lights and said that selection of companies to avail the incentives would be done to support manufacturing of components which are not made in India presently. It said that mere assembly of finished goods would not be incentivised and companies investing in basic/core components would get a higher priority. Earlier this month, the government approved a production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for white goods — Air Conditioners (ACs) and LED lights — with an outlay of Rs. 6,238 crore. It will be implemented over 2021-22 to 2028-29. According to the notification, the Empowered Group of Secretaries chaired by Cabinet Secretary will monitor the PLI scheme, undertake periodic review of the outgo under the scheme, ensure uniformity of all PLIs and take appropriate action to ensure that the expenditure is within the prescribed outlay. DPIIT said that the incentive per beneficiary will be applicable on incremental sales (net of taxes) of manufactured goods (as distinct from traded goods) over the base year (2019-20) subject to ceilings. Focus on ‘Made in India’ “Mere assembly of finished goods shall not be incentivised. Selection of companies for the scheme shall be done so as to incentivise manufacturing of components or sub-assemblies which are not manufactured in India presently with sufficient capacity,” it said. Support under the scheme will be provided to companies/entities engaged in manufacturing of components of ACs (such as copper tubes, aluminium foil and compressors) and LED lights (like LED chip packaging, resistors, ICs, and fuses).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pli-scheme-for-acs-led-lights-to-exclude-mere-assembly/article34347758.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Pharma exports grew 18.7% in FY21’||India’s pharmaceutical exports grew 18.7% to $24.44 billion in the financial year ended March 31, spurred by strong demand for the country’s generic drugs. The industry posted its best export performance in value terms despite the global pharma market shrinking by 1-2% in 2020. This was due to a surge in demand for made-in-India generics, owing to their quality and affordability, said Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) Director General Ravi Udaya Bhaskar. Sharing quick estimates released by the Centre’s Department of Commerce, Pharmexcil said in a statement that drug formulations and biologicals remained the second-largest commodity exported by India. In the previous fiscal, pharmaceutical exports had increased by 7.57% to $20.58 billion. “We have observed a big leap in exports in March to $2.3 billion,” Mr. Bhaskar said. This was the highest in any month during the fiscal and 48.5% higher than March 2020’s exports of $1.54 billion. The year-earlier period’s performance was hurt by lockdowns and supply chain disruptions, he said. The March 2021 numbers were provisional, the official added. Mr. Bhaskar said the 18.7% growth was the best in eight financial years. North America remains the largest market for Indian pharmaceuticals, accounting for a more than 34% share. Exports to the U.S., Canada and Mexico recorded a growth of 12.6%, 30% and 21.4% respectively. Exports to Africa increased 13.4% as against the previous fiscal’s growth of 2.24%. South Africa emerged as the second-largest market for Indian pharmaceuticals. Exports to the country increased 28%, while Nigeria, Kenya and Tanzania were the other major markets in Africa. Growth in exports to Europe, the third-largest market, was about 11%. There is a growing demand for Indian pharmaceutical products in non-traditional markets such as Latin America (growth of 14.5%), CIS countries (23.5% growth) and Middle East (17.5%). The growth rates for less unexplored markets such as Australia (21%) UAE (43%), Uzbekistan (125%) and Ukraine (40.6%) were also encouraging, Pharmexcil said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pharma-exports-grew-187-in-fy21/article34347761.ece
18 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Online advice helps cut 45% litigation: LegalKart||With technology making inroads into the Indian legal system, citizens are now seeking legal advice online at affordable cost, leading to a drastic reduction in litigation, said Arvind Singhatiya, founder & CEO, LegalKart. LegalKart, an online platform, provides legal advice and all kinds of documentation help through an app. “Right legal advice and right documentation can prevent 50% of litigation,” Mr. Singhatiya said. “Preventive legal care is helping individuals save lot of time and money in uncertain litigation and empowering them with the right legal approach,” he added. “In the last eight months, we have received feedback that with the help of independent legal advice through our platform and proper documentation, more than 45% users were able to cut-short their litigation or avoid it completely,” Mr. Singhatiya added. He said currently 35% of the users were seeking advice on family matters, while 40% were discussing property related matters. The rest were start-ups and people posing miscellaneous queries. For a fee of less than Rs. 500, an individual can buy 15 minutes of time from a lawyer 24x7 on the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/online-advice-helps-cut-45-litigation-legalkart/article34347754.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||SpiceJet eases free change norm to 5 days||SpiceJet on Saturday said passengers will not be charged any fee for changing the date or time on their tickets at least five days prior to the date of departure. Earlier, zero fee was applicable only for changes done at least seven days prior to the journey, the airline said in a press release. “Under the new offering, passengers booking direct domestic flight tickets from April 17 to May 10 can enjoy a one-time waiver on the change fee for the travel period between April 17 and May 15,” SpiceJet clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-eases-free-change-norm-to-5-days/article34347759.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Nandini — gunning for greater glory||At 17, A. Nandini, widely tipped as a potential medallist in the big league, is stretching the limits to chase new targets — a ‘golden double’ in hurdles and long jump at the inter-State athletics meet this June in Bengaluru and the Junior Worlds in Kenya this August. Nandini set a long jump National record at the South Zone junior Nationals with an effort of 6.20m and also took the 100m hurdles gold. “I am preparing for the inter-State meet in Bengaluru (June 26-28) and then for the Junior Worlds in Kenya (August 11),” Nandini told The Hindu . “Just hoping the pandemic will not dent my goal of winning a double each at both the events. Preparations are going really well under the guidance of Ramesh Sir (SAI athletics coach N. Ramesh, who also coaches sprinter Dutee Chand),” says the gold medallist in long jump (5.80m) and 100m hurdles (13.83s) at the Guwahati Junior Nationals early this year. The fact that she won silver in the 100m hurdles in the senior Fed Cup at Patiala last month, competing against some big names, was a reminder that her National record was no flash in the pan. Born to a streetside tea vendor (Yellappa) and a housemaid, Nandini clearly presents yet another success story of an Indian athlete defying all odds. Nandini, whose family moved from Bellary in Karnataka to Hyderabad, when she was just five months old, was actually good at football in Kendriya Vidyalaya (Bolarum) before the school PET Muttaiah suggested she take up athletics. “I am grateful to Nagaraj Sir (deputy to N. Ramesh), who ensured that I continued in athletics after getting admission in the Social Welfare Residential College thanks to the initiative of Mr. Praveen Kumar, IPS,” she recalls. Ultimate dream The 5’ 8” Nandini is clearly gunning for bigger glory with the Gopi Chand-Mytrah Project helping young athletes like her. “The ultimate dream is to win an Olympics medal,” she concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nandini-gunning-for-greater-glory/article34348445.ece
18 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Ravi Kumar retains his 57kg freestyle title||World championships bronze medallist Ravi Kumar Dahiya became the third Indian male wrestler to secure a second Asian championships gold medal in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on Saturday. Dahiya defeated Iranian Alireza Nosratolah Sarlak 9-4 to retain his 57kg freestyle title, which he had won in front of his home crowd in Delhi last year. Yogeshwar Dutt and Bajrang Punia were the other wrestlers to have claimed two Asian crowns but none had won it in consecutive years. Dahiya, an Olympic-bound wrestler, got the better of Uzbek Nodirjon Safarov 9-2 and Palestinian Ali Aburumaila 11-0 in quarterfinals and semifinals respectively to book a spot in the gold-medal match. “The championship is not at the highest level so I was just trying to be relaxed. “I am wrestling after four months, so I was just keeping it simple,” Dahiya told www.unitedworldwrestling.org  Bajrang pulls out The much-anticipated 65kg summit clash between three-time Worlds medallist Bajrang Punia and defending champion and former World champion Takuto Otoguro of Japan ended on a disappointing note as the Indian pulled out due to an injury and settled for a silver medal, his third silver and seventh continental medal. Bajrang’s loss to Ottoguro in the 2018 World championships final and the 2020 Asian championships final had raised the expectations of the Indian’s fightback. Bajrang got past Yongseok Jeong of Korea 3-0 and Bilguun Sarmandakh of Mongolia 7-0 in quarterfinals and semifinals respectively to reach the final. Karan Mor (70kg), Narsingh Yadav (79kg) and Satyawart Kadian (97kg) landed bronze medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-kumar-retains-his-57kg-freestyle-title/article34347773.ece
18 April 2021||Monaco,||Tsitsipas to clash with Rublev in final||Stefanos Tsitsipas defeated Dan Evans 6-2, 6-1 in the semifinals of the Monte Carlo Masters on Saturday and will face Andrey Rublev for the title. Fourth seed Tsitsipas needed just over an hour to dispatch Britain’s Evans, who knocked out World No. 1 Novak Djokovic in the last 16. Tsitsipas has yet to drop a set in Monte Carlo this week and is through to his third Masters 1000 final. He finished runner-up in Canada in 2018 and Madrid the following year. “I am indeed pleased with the performance,” said Tsitsipas. “I found ways to play at my best. It was really difficult to maintain my level of consistency and I am really happy I managed to deal with all the different moments during the match.” Rublev beat unseeded Norwegian Casper Ruud 6-3, 7-5 to advance to his first Masters 1000 final, ensuring there was no letdown after his elimination of 11-time champion Rafael Nadal in the quarterfinals. “It is an amazing feeling. It is my first (ATP Masters 1000) final, so I am really happy,” said Rublev. “We will see what is going to happen. I will try to do my best.”  The results: Semifinals: Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Dan Evans 6-2, 6-1; Andrey Rublev bt Casper Ruud 6-3, 7-5. Quarterfinal: Rublev bt Rafael Nadal 6-2, 4-6, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tsitsipas-to-clash-with-rublev-in-final/article34347608.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||RCB looking for three in three||There will be some captivating game-changers in the day game between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kolkata Knight Riders at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai on Sunday. Yet, while RCB has discovered the tenacity to edge out the opposition in close encounters to top the table, KKR, the other night in Chennai, suffered a brain fade against Mumbai Indians. Chasing just 153, and 72 without loss at one stage, KKR inexplicably dug a hole, with its big-strikers hitting only thin air at the death. When the asking rate was a stroll, KKR’s trump card, powerhouse Andre Russell, could manage just nine off 15 balls. That game was a nightmare for KKR after a rewarding first half when Russell employed his strong shoulders to generate lift and scalp five. The dynamics of a day game — the match starts at 3.30 p.m. — are different, and there could be some moisture early on and then some dew during the critical evening phase. The contest will witness home boy Varun Chakravarthy matching his skills against three magnificent strikers of the ball — Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers and Glenn Maxwell. The strategy RCB batsmen adopt against mystery spinner Varun could hold the key. Will we see a calculated onslaught? Maxwell, this season, has been batting with maturity and power. KKR, too, has match-winners in Chennai’s Dinesh Karthik and skipper Eoin Morgan. Then the fiery Pat Cummins will be a threat. And you never know when the sleeping giant with the willow, Russell, will wake up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-looking-for-three-in-three/article34347611.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||PBKS faces Rabada-Nortje test||One of the highlights of last year’s IPL was the sight of Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje causing mayhem in tandem. Delhi Capitals’ wait to watch the South African duo in action together for the first time this season will end against Punjab Kings at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on Sunday night. While Rabada made his presence felt in his maiden outing, the loss against Rajasthan Royals, Nortje — after serving an extended isolation of 10 nights because of a false positive test report for COVID-19 — is set to begin his IPL-14 sojourn. And the duo couldn’t have wished for better timing to spew venom — it will be interesting to see whether the PBKS batting, tormented by Deepak Chahar’s swing on Friday night, can lift itself for what promises to be another challenging examination. With Chris Woakes having impressed in both of DC’s outings so far, Nortje is set to replace Tom Curran in the team. Barring that, the side is unlikely to make changes. PBKS will be hoping that Mayank Agarwal repeats last season’s heroics against DC. It was Agarwal’s 89 against Delhi that had set IPL-13 alight, with a Super Over deciding the contest. While the fans won’t mind a Super Over to end a Super Sunday, PBKS will want Agarwal, who has been quiet so far, to get going and offer captain Rahul much-needed support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-pbks-lift-for-rabada-nortje/article34347598.ece
18 April 2021||Los Angeles,||Sixers snap Clippers’ streak||Joel Embiid scored 36 points and grabbed 14 rebounds as the NBA East-leading Philadelphia 76ers snapped Los Angeles Clippers' seven-game winning streak with a 106-103 win on Friday. Embiid became the first Philadelphia player since 2006 to score 35-plus points in three straight games. Over the past half dozen games Embiid is averaging over 30 points and nine-plus rebounds per game.   The results: Dallas Mavericks 109 lost to New York Knicks 117; San Antonio Spurs 106 lost to Portland Trail Blazers 107; Toronto Raptors 113 bt Orlando Magic 102; Chicago Bulls 115 lost to Memphis Grizzlies 126; Houston Rockets 99 lost to Denver Nuggets 128; Minnesota Timberwolves 119 bt Miami Heat 111; Detroit Pistons 110 bt Oklahoma City Thunder 104; Philadelphia 76ers 106 bt LA Clippers 103; Washington Wizards 117 bt New Orleans Pelicans 115 (OT); Utah Jazz 119 bt Indiana Pacers 111; Brooklyn Nets 130 bt Charlotte Hornets 115.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sixers-snap-clippers-streak/article34347964.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gujrathi returns to Champions Tour||In a first, two young Indians — Vidit Gujrathi and R. Praggnanandhaa — will be part of a field headed by World champion Magnus Carlsen when the $100,000 New in Chess Classic online event begins on April 24. Vidit returns to the $1.5 million Meltwater Champions Tour as one of the nine wild-cards in the 16-player field while Praggnanandhaa gains playing rights as the winner of the recent Polgar Challenge rapid event. Praggnanandhaa, 15, last faced an elite field in November 2018 when he was included in the blitz section of the Tata Steel event in Kolkata. As a result of the large number of wild-cards, Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Azerbaijan), Leinier Dominuez (USA), Sergey Karjakin (Rus), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Poland), Vidit, Liem Quang Le (Vietnam), Gawain Jones (England), Aryan Tari and Johan-Sebastian Christiansen (both Norway) have made it. Iranian Alireza Fiouzja, 17, playing under the FIDE flag, was voted to be part of the field by premier members of the official broadcast partner, chess24.com after Daniil Dubov opted out to honour his commitment to do commentary during the Candidates Tournament. Carlsen (Norway), Levon Aronian (Armenia), Wesley So (USA), Teimour Radjabov (Azerbaijan) and Hikaru Nakamura (USA) qualified as the top-eight players as per the Tour standings after four events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gujrathi-returns-to-champions-tour/article34347965.ece
18 April 2021||Chennai,||India sailors in need of COVID vaccines||The Indian sailors face a race against time to travel to Portugal for training, ahead of the Olympics Games in Tokyo. And they have still not received their COVID-19 vaccines that are mandatory for travel to Portugal. Varun Ashok Thakkar, K.C. Ganapathy, Nethra Kumanan — all belonging to the Tamil Nadu Sailing Association — and Vishnu Saravanan from Vellore (he lives in Mumbai), have qualified for the Olympics. ‘Qualified’ for first time This is the first time when the Indian sailors have ‘qualified’ for the Olympics; on other occasions they have participated as wildcards or travelled on ‘quota.’ Since the sailors are below 45 years of age and are without co-morbidities, they are not being allowed by the government portal to get vaccinated. Special permission has to be sought for sportspersons. They need to travel to Portugal on May 1 and already their plans may have to be postponed. The sailors, who only have access to the Sports Ministry, took their case to the parent body. When the sports body, with Sports Authority of India (SAI) backing its saliers, wrote to the government in this regard, they were told the request had to come from the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine here to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in Delhi Such a request has since been made and the Ministry of Health is expected to respond on Monday. The sailors need to get vaccinated soon or they could end up missing valuable practice, so crucial to their chances, in Portugal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-sailors-in-need-of-covid-vaccines/article34347768.ece
18 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Mirabai sets new world record in clean and jerk||S. Mirabai Chanu set a new clean and jerk world record on way to the 49kg bronze at the Asian weightlifting championships at Tashkent on Saturday. Mirabai lifted 86kg in her final snatch. She began her clean and jerk with 113kg and improved it to 117kg before finishing with 119kg (old record 118kg) on her final attempt. She totalled 205kg to bag her first medal in the event. “It is a big moment. No other Indian had established a world record before this,” said chief coach Vijay Sharma. China’s Hou Zhihui and Jiang Huihua took the gold and silver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-bags-bronze-with-world-record/article34347606.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sevastova helps Latvia seal tie in third rubber||Former World No.11 Anastasija Sevastova blew hot and cold, but was firmly in control of the match as she beat Ankita Raina 6-0, 7-6(4) to seal the tie 3-0 for Latvia in the Billie Jean King Cup World Group playoff in Jurmala on Saturday. When the youngsters were given a chance to get a feel of a dead rubber at this level, Rutuja Bhosale and Zeel Desai grabbed the opportunity for a face saving doubles victory over Patricija Spaka and Daniela Vismane. There was no doubt that Latvia was the superior team. But it was disappointing for India that it could not stretch the fight a little more, especially considering the manner in which Ankita had teased French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko in three sets on the opening day. However, Sevastova had a different grade of tennis, quite solid as Ankita pointed out about the first set, which was over in a jiffy.  At 2-5, 15-40 in the second set, Sevastova was too sharp to let Ankita smell any chance of taking the set, even when she had those two set points. It was a mystery that the 31-year-old Sevastova actually made mistakes that gave Ankita hope and stretched the set into the tie-break. Without taking any credit away from Ankita, it was too clear that Sevastova was street smart, crafty and assured about the way she went about her game. Sevastova did miss a matchpoint in the 12th game on her serve, but returned to her ruthless ways in the eventual tie-break. In getting on par with the Asian giants Japan and China, India had done remarkably well to quality to this stage. The fight could have been stronger, but India did give a good account of itself, suggesting a better future for women’s tennis.  The results: Latvia bt India 3-1 (Anastasija Sevastova bt Ankita Raina 6-0, 7-6(4); Patricija Spaka & Daniela Vismane lost to Rutuja Bhosale & Zeel Desai 4-6, 7-5, [2-10]) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sevastova-helps-latvia-seal-tie-in-third-rubber/article34347614.ece
18 April 2021||Imola,||Pole No. 99 for Hamilton||World champion Lewis Hamilton edged out the Red Bull duo to claim pole position for the Emilia-Romagna Grand Prix on Saturday. It was his 99th career pole and although there is a Red Bull directly behind the Mercedes driver, it will be Sergio Perez rather than Max Verstappen. Hamilton edged Perez by .039 seconds and was .087 faster than Verstappen, who is expected to be his main challenger this season. “I didn’t expect to be ahead of two Red Bulls, they’ve been so quick this weekend,” Hamilton said. “The car is feeling much better, I want to thank the team for their hard work.  Hamilton’s teammate Valtteri Bottas had a scrappy final lap and will start from eighth on the grid after finishing .487 slower. Lando Norris will start just ahead of Bottas. The McLaren driver was heading for the front row after a superb final lap but had his time deleted because of exceeding track limits.  Starting grid: 1 st row: Hamilton (Mercedes), Perez (Red Bull); 2 nd : Verstappen (Red Bull), Leclerc (Ferrari); 3 rd : Gasly (AlphaTauri), Ricciardo (McLaren); 4 th : Norris (McLaren), Bottas (Mercedes); 5 th : Ocon (Alpine), Stroll (Aston Martin); 6 th : Sainz Jr (Ferrari), Russell (Williams); 7 th : Vettel (Aston Martin), Latifi (Williams); 8 th : Alonso (Alpine), Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); 9 th : Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), Mick Schumacher (Haas); 10 th : Mazepin (Haas), Tsunoda (AlphaTauri).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pole-no-99-for-hamilton/article34347615.ece
18 April 2021||TASHKENT,||Rich haul for India on final day||Srihari Nataraj came up with yet another personal-best performance, bagging the men’s 50m backstroke gold in 25.11 seconds on the concluding day of the Uzbekistan Open swimming championships, on Saturday.  Sajan Prakash won the men’s 100m butterfly for his fourth gold at the event while S. Danush came first in the men’s 200m breaststroke. Maana Patel emerged victorious in the women’s 50m backstroke event and Divya Satija secured the women’s 100m butterfly gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rich-haul-for-india-on-final-day/article34347769.ece
18 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Manika to train with Sharath in Chennai||In a bid to start preparations for the mixed doubles table tennis event at the Tokyo Olympics, Manika Batra will train in the city with Sharath Kamal and a few others from April 20 to 25. “We are planning to do some basick work. First, I will have to sit and chat with her [Manika] to chart out our course of action. Rajath Kamal, my brother, will be the video analyst. Of course, paddlers Sudanshu Grover and Manush Shah will assist us,” Sharath told The Hindu on Saturday. Sharath plans to travel to Pune, which is Manika’s training base, in May. “But that depends on the COVID situation prevailing in the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-to-train-with-sharath-in-chennai/article34347770.ece
18 April 2021||KIELCE (POLAND),||Ankit Narwal moves up||Srihari Nataraj came up with yet another personal-best performance, bagging the men’s 50m backstroke gold in 25.11 seconds on the concluding day of the Uzbekistan Open swimming championships, on Saturday.  Other gold winners: Men: 100m butterfly: Sajan Prakash. 200m breaststroke: S. Danush.   Women: 50m backstroke: Maana Patel. 100m butterfly: Divya Satija .  Ankit Narwal outsmarted Uzbek boxer Akhmadjon Akhmedov and advanced to the men’s 64kg pre-quarterfinals of the World youth boxing championships here.  The results: Men: Pre-quarterfinals: 49kg: Chongtham Bishwamitra bt Parvizi Khosroshahi Mahdi (Iri) 5-0; 56kg: Sachin bt Jose Valdez Jiminez (Col) 5-0; +91kg: Jugnoo lost to Levente Kiss (Hun) 4-1.   Women: Pre-quarterfinals : 48kg: Gitika bt Arailym Marat (Kaz) 5-0 .      Philadelphia 76ers snapped Los Angeles Clippers' seven-game winning streak with a 106-103 win on Friday.  The results: Mavericks 109 lost to Knicks 117; Spurs 106 lost to Trail Blazers 107; Raptors 113 bt Magic 102; Bulls 115 lost to Grizzlies 126; Rockets 99 lost to Nuggets 128; Timberwolves 119 bt Heat 111; Pistons 110 bt City Thunder 104; 76ers 106 bt Clippers 103; Wizards 117 bt Pelicans 115 (OT); Jazz 119 bt Pacers 111; Nets 130 bt Hornets 115.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankit-narwal-moves-up/article34347774.ece
18 April 2021||LIVERPOOL,||Tottenham earns a draw||Harry Kane scored twice before limping off with an ankle injury in Tottenham’s 2-2 draw at Everton in the Premier League on Friday.  The results: Premier League: Newcastle United 3 (Diop 36-og, Joelinton 41, Willock 82) bt West Ham 2 (Diop 73, Lingard 80-pen).   Serie A: Crotone 1 (Nwankwo 68-pen) lost to Udinese 2 (De Paul 41, 74); Sampdoria 3 (Jankto 46, Gabbiadini 73-pen, Thorsby 82) bt Hellas Verona 1 (Lazovic 13).   Bundesliga : Borussia M’Gladbach 4 (Ginter 10, Hofmann 60, Bensebaini 67, Wolf 90+50 bt Eintracht Frankfurt 0; Wolfsburg 2 (Weghorst 35, Philipp 54) lost to Bayern Munich 3 (Musiala 15, 37, Choupo-Moting 24); Freiburg 4 (Holer 7, Sallai 22-pen, Gunter 50, 74) bt Schalke 0; Union Berlin 2 (Promel 20, Musa 43) bt Stuttgart 1 (Forster 49); Augsburg 0 drew with Arminia Bielefeld 0.   Friday: Premier League: Everton 2 (Sigurdsson 31-pen, 62) drew with Tottenham 2 (Kane 27, 68).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tottenham-earns-a-draw/article34347616.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajagopalan delivers for Jai||A.K. Rajagopalan's six for 16 set up an eight-wicket win for Jai CC against M.G. Bavanarayanan MCC in the DCAC league recently.  The scores:   M.G. Bavanarayanan MCC 60 in 16.2 overs (A.K. Rajagopalan 6/16) lost to Jai CC 61/2 in 9 overs.   Srishti CC 179/6 in 20 overs (K. Sukumar 79 n.o., B. Rishikanth 59 n.o.) bt Seshadri Memorial CC 127/6 in 20 overs (A. Ashwin 55, N. Aashish Sharma 3/28).   Mani Memorial CC 62 in 17.4 overs (M. Subanandam 5/24 ) lost to Seshadri Memorial CC 63/1 in 5.5 overs (M. Sujendran 39 n.o.).    Sunil Prabhu's five-wicket haul helped Medavakkam CC beat Willow CC by seven wickets in the CDCA second division league match on Friday.  The scores: Dev CC 230/8 in 30 overs (N. Aakaash 77, R. Raj Kumar 50) bt Thiruporur CC 139/2 in 30 overs (S. Arunachalam 66, V. Shrijith 54).   Willow CC 141 in 22 overs (K. Pandian 75, Sunil Prabhu 5/22) lost to Medavakkam CC 145/3 in 23.4 overs (Jemoh Roshan 40, D. Johny Christopher 41).   Sivaji CC 155/8 in 30 overs (S. Sridharan 45, D. Mohan Raj 3/32) lost to Challengers CC 156/5 in 23.5 overs (G. Vignesh 100).   United Indians 38 in 15.5 overs (S. Karthik 5/12, A. Aasrit 4/9) lost to Air Warriors 39/2 in 7.1 overs.    M.O.P. Vaishnav College for Women’s sports quota online registration for the year 2021-22 for all sports has begun. Those seeking to join the college (Arts & Science stream) can register. Outstanding players are offered free hostel and are exempted from fees. To register, fill the form: https://forms.gle/K3FywLgWvyqkzzyi8  For details, contact Amutha, Director of Physical Education at 98407 37407.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajagopalan-delivers-for-jai/article34348388.ece
18 April 2021||Kochi:,||KSEB enters semifinals||Nijo Gilbert and Eldhose George scored a goal each and helped each other to a goal too as former winner KSEB thrashed defending champion Kerala Blasters FC 4-1, topped Group ‘B’ and entered the semifinals of the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football here on Saturday. Though KSEB and Kerala United FC finished level with 12 points each on top of the group, and though the latter had a superior goal difference, as per the KPL rules the head-to-head result was taken into account to decide the group topper. Kerala United, which finished second in the group, also entered the semifinals. Meanwhile Royal Basco FC, riding on Muhammed Shafi's brace, blanked FC Kerala 4-0 for its first win and it was enough to carry it to the semifinal from Group-A. After Gokulam Kerala FC took the top spot, there was a three-way tie between Basco, Kerala Police and Tirur's SAT for the second spot with all of them finishing with six points. Basco, made the semifinal on superior goal difference. In Monday’s semifinals, Basco will play KSEB in Kochi and later in Thrissur, Gokulam will meet Kerala United FC. The final will be played in Kochi on April 21.  The results: Group A (at Thrissur): Royal Basco FC, Mlp 4 (Abdu Raheem 11, C. Muhammed Shafi 16 & 48; Ajay Krishnan 40) bt FC Kerala, Tsr 0.   Group B (at Kochi): KSEB, Tvm, 4 (Nijo Gilbert 34, Eldhose George 40, M. Viknesh 81, P. Ajeesh 87) bt Kerala Blasters FC, Ekm, 1 (Naorem Mahesh Singh 90+3) .    Vincenzo Alberto Annese will continue to coach Gokulam Kerala. The club has extended the contract with the Italian for another year. Annese had guided Gokulam to the I-League title recently. “I am so excited to be part of the Gokulam family again,” Annese said. “We have already set our targets for the next season. We need to repeat our I-League title win and also concentrate on AFC Cup. I am so happy that I can continue my project at Gokulam next year also.”     Malappuram boys and Thiruvananthapuram girls won the titles in the 49th State junior kho kho championships held at Thonnakkal, near here, on Saturday.  The results (final): Boys: Malappuram bt Palakkad. Girls: Thiruvananthapuram bt Malappuram .      BK 55 CA will meet RSC SG in the final of the Satish K. Pillai Trophy under-14 cricket tournament. In the semifinals, BK 55 scored a six-wicket win over host Loongs CA, while RSC SG defeated Tripunithura CC by four wickets.  The scores (semifinals):   Loongs 131/8 in 25 overs (V.S. Abhiram 63, Adarsh Ranjith 31, Abhiraj 4/30) lost to BK 55 135/4 in 21.4 overs (Imran 62 n.o.).   Tripunithura 189/8 in 25 overs (Amay Manoj 57, P.A. Mithul 4/43) lost to RSC 190/6 in 25 overs (Noel Kurian 64 n.o., Govind Nikhil 57).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kseb-enters-semifinals/article34347923.ece
18 April 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Narrow win for Crosswings||Crosswings Club scored a narrow, 10-9 win over Marredpally Playground in the league phase of the Gina Campos Braganza memorial baseball tournament (under-13) for boys and girls at Marredpally Playground here on Saturday.  The results: Marredpally Blues 10 (Deepansh Reddy 3, Manoj Kumar 2, Stephen 2, Praveen 2, D. Shivanand 1) drew with Hyd Chargers 10 (K. Karthik 3, B. Charan 3, L. Madhukar 2, M. Ajay 1, A. Hemanth Yadav 1).   Sunny Sports Club 11 (D. Srinath 2, Buchi Srinivas 3, S. Harshith 2, Chelsea Rose 2, Kenny Joel 1) drew with MP Youngmen 11 (Noah Naraboine 3, C.H. Lokesh Reddy 3, P. Guna 2, N. Sujan 2, S. Benhur Joshua 1).   Crosswings Club 10 (M. Nikith Sai 3, Jessica 2, N. Archana 2, P. Taksheel 2, Digvijay Goud 1) bt MPG 9 (P. Karun 3, Bharath 3, K. Akshay Paul 1, J. Dev 1, C.H. Parthiv 1).    Former national kabaddi player U. Sudharshan Yadav passed away here on Friday following a cardiac arrest. He was 75 and survived by wife and six daughters. He represented Hyderabad (representing Telangana region) in the Nationals between 1974-76. He was also secretary of Hyderabad District Kabaddi Association and chairman of Referees Board of State Association. K. Jagdishwar Yadav, general secretary of TKA, expressed condolences.   Telangana Football Association condoled the demise of former ‘Blue Tigers’ centre-back Ahmed Hussain Lala, who passed away on Friday in Bengaluru. TFA president Dr. Mohd Ali Rafath, secretary G.P. Palguna, Sk. Khaleel Rahman, TFA Youth Development Programme head coach, former India football captains Shabbir Ali, Victor Amalraj were among those who offered their condolences to the bereaved family members.   Jagruthi Academy of Cricket scored a 39-run win over Chakri Cricket Club in the KDCA B division T20 league cricket championship for Devineni Venkataramana and Pranitha memorial trophy at Mangalagiri and Mulapadu Grounds near here.  The scores: Jagruthi Academy of Cricket 170/4 in 20 overs (L. Prasanna 34, P. Nihar 34 n.o.) bt Chakri CC 131 in 19.3 overs (K. Venu Babu 66, S. Rayhaan 3/35).   Yard Yuvasena 158/8 in 20 overs (Ch. Neelgagan 55, Md. Sharif 4/23) lost to SRR Strikers 163/4 in 16.1 overs (S. Sai 64, S. Naveen 50).   Sri Lasya Enterprises 102 in 16.3 overs (Mahesh 3/16) lost to Mulapadu GLGR 103/9 in 17.2 overs (N. John 3/17, V. Vikranth 3/22).   Azam Army 191/8 in 20 overs (M. Chaitanya 58, M. Chakri 33) bt MCA Challengers 114/9 in 20 overs (K. Gopi 3/14, T. Suresh 3/17).   Abhis CC 161 in 19.4 overs (Venu Gopal 48) bt Ramesh Cricket Nets 48/7 in 20 overs.   Cricket Assn of Nuzvid 167/5 in 20 overs (Ramana 34, G. Deepak Chand 33, Saketh 3/22) bt Machilipatnam CA XI 68 in 12.4 overs (Nawab Pashee 3/4).    For the second consecutive day, the two matches scheduled for the day in the VDFA Senior knock-out football tournament witnessed walkovers. CH SM Football Club got a walk-over against East Coast Railway while Rising Stars was declared winner with SKR Football Club failing to turn up.  The results: CH SMFC w/o East Coast Rly. Rising Stars w/o SKRFC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narrow-win-for-crosswings/article34348443.ece
18 April 2021||DINDIGUL:,||Boopathi slams century||M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar (137) starred in St. Peter’s CC’s 169-run win over Jahir CC in a super-league fixture of the DDCA first division on Saturday.  The scores:   St. Peter’s 259 in 43.4 overs (M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 137, N. Mithilesh 45, P. Elayaraja 3/45, M. Ashok 3/38) bt Jahir 90 in 25.3 overs (M. Mohammed 4/10, R. Suthesh 3/17).   Vignesh SC 263 in 44.5 overs (K. Aashiq 38, K. Vinoth Kumar 72, N. Bala Subramani 47, A.R. Siva Murugan 40, A. Sheik Fareeth 4/59, M. Kavin Raj 3/18) bt NPR 123 in 29.4 overs (M. Vijay Prakash 27, R. Sabarish 27, R. Ram Thilak 4/29, K. Aashiq 4/31).    Chennai’s M.O.P. Vaishnav College for Women’s sports quota online registration for the year 2021-22 for all sports has begun. Those seeking to join the College (Arts & Science stream) can register. Outstanding players are offered free hostel and are exempted from fees. To register, fill the form: https://forms.gle/K3FywLgWvyqkzzyi8  For details, contact Amutha, Director of Physical Education at 98407 37407.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boopathi-slams-century/article34347763.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||MI pulls off another heist, defends 151 against troubled SRH||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mi-pulls-off-another-heist-defends-151-against-troubled-srh/article34347600.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TDCA league, I div., Ambattur CC vs Korattur CC (9.30 a.m), Hindu ‘A’ ground; IV div., Frankworrell CC vs Jaya Education Group RC (1 p.m.) OCF, SRF RC vs CPCL RC (1 p.m.), Gojan SBT. KDCA league, II div., Fine Star CC vs Seshadri Memorial (7.30 a.m.), Asian Sports vs Venu Gopal CC (12.30 p.m.), Dhanish Ahamed Engineering College. Young Talents GRCA under-12 inter-academy tournament (8 a.m. & 1 p.m.), Kabilan CA Perumbakkam; RPS School under-13 inter-academy tournament (8 a.m.), Nellai Nadar MHSS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34348389.ece
18 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||ITF women’s events cancelled||The two back to back $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournaments, scheduled to be held on clay in Jhajjar from April 26, have been cancelled. The organisers of the two tournaments, Joygaon Tennis Academy, expressed confidence of hosting the events in future, in better times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/itf-womens-events-cancelled/article34347767.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 07:26 IST,||Sudoku — April 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-18-2021/article34348605.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A never-say-die attitude||Protest music is not new to Shayaan Bhat aka Shen B. In Class IX, the Jammu-based hip hop singer had sat on dharna with his friends demanding a drum kit for their school’s music department. Now, in a four-track debut EP album, the singer questions the censorship, bullying and corruption that he experienced and asks why things do not change for artistes in Jammu, his hometown. The 2020 lockdown was particularly hard on Shen: the family battled COVID-19 and he lost his mother to the virus. He wrote the lyrics of ‘Zamaana’, one of the tracks, during his 20-day stay at the hospital. “I could survive only because of music,” he adds. Shen edited, produced, and composed the recently-released music video ‘Zamaana’.  It was directed by his long-term creative collaborator, Wikki Cole, and was shot at a friend’s studio. The song is a nostalgic trip and captures his yearning to undo certain actions. “‘Zamaana’ is also a message to people who have been bullied and who are bullies: this era of exploitation and wickedness must pass... we must be the change,” he says. In Urdu and English, the EP’s other tracks ‘Chal Beta’  (his first track on bullying), ‘Fankaar’  and ‘Mujhe Dekh’ pose the questions, ‘Is this how you want to live? How can you do better?’ “People in Jammu are a little inclined towards the administrative services; you are not respected if you are not from the Government sector. I speak for the struggling artistes,” says the singer. He adds, “It is a call to action that makes people question and think.” His father wanted him to join the civil services but he pursued a degree in Mass Communication from Jamia Millia Islamia in Delhi. While there, he was part of Moon Dogs, a band that performed at different venues. In 2019, the singer shifted base to Jammu from Mumbai. Here, he finds it tough to stay positive and concentrate on music. “Unlike in Delhi or Mumbai, there is no music culture or night life here. Artistes do not have gigs to play,” he says. Determined to fulfil his dreams, he says, “I took things in my stride even when I felt life was against me. The region experienced a clampdown on 4G Internet for a period of 18 months and I had to fight against the odds to create and release music. I never lost hope,” he says.  In a four-track debut EP album, the singer questions censorship, bullying and corruption that he experienced in Jammu, his hometown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-never-say-die-attitude/article34347753.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Reeling in the truth||Danish Renzu describes The Illegal as a film about Hassan (Suraj Sharma), a middle-class Indian student from Delhi, who goes to Los Angeles to study film. “He leaves his home, country and family to pursue the American dream,” Danish says over a phone call from Mumbai. The director, who grew up in Kashmir, now splits his time between Mumbai and Los Angeles. “The film is the journey of an immigrant, who finds the strength to overcome obstacles and make his dream come true, which is to become a filmmaker.” Drawing inspiration The 34-year-old Danish studied electrical engineering at the University of California and worked for AT&T for five years before quitting to make films. “I have been an immigrant in the U.S. I went there at a very young age. I also was an international student and did multiple jobs to survive. I met fellow veterans and listened to the stories of their journey, which inspired me to write the script.” About the autobiographical elements in the film, Danish says, “Of course, as an artiste when you write something, you have to relate to it. The Illegal is a fictional drama about an immigrant, inspired by real events. It was mostly an inspiration for filmmakers and artists who want to make their dreams come true.” First choice Suraj Sharma was always Danish’s first choice for the lead. “We reached out to him when the script was ready. It was perfect timing because he graduated the same month from New York University. He loved it right away. I met Shweta Tripathi, Neelima Azeem and Adil Hussain at various film festivals across the world when I was travelling with my script. The Illegal is about a Delhi family and miraculously Shweta, Adil and Neelima are all from Delhi. It was just meant to be.” The Illegal is shot in Los Angeles and Delhi. “We shot in Daryagunj in July. It was very hot. My crew was from LA and not used to the heat at all. They would fan themselves even if they were right in front of the fan or AC. That was funny.”  After two short films ( In Search of America Inshallah and First Love ) and two features, Half Widow and The Illegal , Danish is ready for a change. “I have been doing hard-hitting drama and would now like to explore romance and comedy. There is no genre I would not want to try. I am open to everything that comes my way and do not believe in restricting myself. At the end of the day, you want your films to be seen by a bigger, wider audience.” A fan of the Iranian director, Majid Majidi, Danish says finding a producer was difficult. “It was quite a journey, just like Hassan’s. We went through a lot but now it is out there. Everything happens for a reason.” Universal message  The Illegal got a great deal of critical appreciation, including making it to the Oscar Best Picture shortlist. “It was amazing. Getting so much love was encouraging. The universal message of humanity, survival and inspiration in The Illegal struck a chord.” The pandemic was a productive time for Danish as he wrote scripts and learnt the piano. “The biggest thing is that we all survived. It was a time of being there for each other, and realising that we all connected. We got time to reflect.” The Illegal is currently steaming on Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/reeling-in-the-truth/article34347749.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Music and mysticism||Four years ago, filmmaker Sairam Sagiraju, Grammy-winning composer Ricky Kej, and historian Vikram Sampath set out to document music traditions in India. They decided to begin the project with the Bauls of Bengal. The mystic singing minstrels living in rural West Bengal and Bangladesh have a big influence on Bengali culture, especially on the works of one of the land’s most famous sons — Rabindranath Tagore. The Baul songs are also listed under UNESCO’s Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Once Kej and Co started the project, however, they realised that telling the Bauls’ story shouldn’t just be a segment of their work. “They have a tradition that is over 1,000 years old. Incredibly, they have been passing on their philosophy through songs and music — they don’t have any written text. And, they use music as a path to spirituality, a path to God. So, we thought we should go deeper into their story,” says Kej over a phone call. The 54-minute documentary (directed by Sagiraju and produced by Kej, Sampath and Rajib Sarma) begins with the titular question — Who is Baul? — posed to a few people in Bengal. One clan, many forms Bauls are primarily identified by their music — loud vocals accompanied by an ektara (a single-stringed instrument) and a khomok (hand-drum). They are musicians wandering through villages, singing in trains and tea shops, living on alms. The music and appearance of the Bauls have transmuted over the years. There are now renowned paid performers. Not all wear ‘orange clothes’. What has not changed is their philosophy — of the moner manush or the inner man. A guitar-wielding young Baul says, “For me, someone who searches for inner knowledge is a Baul.” The Bauls believe their goal is to discover the moner manush , which might take a lifetime. This pursuit is spiritual but seldom religious. Some Bauls stay in temples, sing about Hindu gods like Krishna but they are atheists, to whom divisions of caste and religion don’t make sense. Co-producer Sampath says in the documentary, “The mysticism of Baul music, the social critique that they offer, and the constant poking of fun at societies and hypocrisies — that is what lends this music to any kind of adaptation. You can have a sanyasi Baul in Birbhum singing with ektara ; it also finds as much reference in an urban setting. Because there is nothing puritanical about it. The very existence of Bauls is being an iconoclast. So, nothing is sacrosanct.” ‘More than just music’ The documentary is rich in music. There is a Baul song every 15 minutes or so with lyrics about humanism. “It was quite challenging to compose a score, which is completely in line with the Baul music. You not only had to learn the music of the Bauls but also understand the thinking behind the music, its lyrical content and its emotion,” explains Kej. Aniket Nandi, one of the Baul musicians featured in the documentary, says, “The Baul philosophy and Baul music are not two different things. The gaan (song) and gyan (wisdom) are the same. All the knowledge is stored in the songs.” Filmmaker Sagiraju recalls his interaction with Nanda Babaas his most memorable moment in the 100-plus days he spent making the documentary. Nanda Baba, a reed-thin, bare-chested man with a dirty white beard says in the middle of the documentary, “You can’t find moner manush merely through singing. You can find him only through meditation, focus and spiritual training.” This explanation, Sagiraju tells me, changed the course of the documentary. “It suddenly became more than just music and tradition.” From then on, the focus was on the philosophy propagated through songs over centuries. Sagiraju, however, admits it is difficult to answer the question posed by his documentary in a nutshell. “The philosophy itself is quite vast. But what they try to tell us through their songs, through their lives, is to shatter all sorts of divisions in society, whether it is caste, creed, religion, gender. They shatter all these divisions. They live as one in pursuit of the moner manush .”  The documentary was screened at Indian Music Experience museum on March 28. The makers are planning to release it on OTT platforms within a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/music-and-mysticism/article34347747.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the beak do the talking||The twenty-first century family is divided at the dining table, parents separated from children by the contents of their individual Swiggy orders. Eat your hearts out, human parents! Your Eurasian-Oystercatcher ( Haematopus ostralegus ) counterparts are on vastly better gastronomic ground, being better placed to influence their progeny in not only what they feed on — but also how they feed on it. On the Chennai coast, this side of the Eurasian Oystercatcher would remain unseen, as the bird is a migrant in these parts. Knowing how someone is around home, is to really know them. So it is with birds. And therefore, read on. Under the blinding glare of research for long, the Eurasian Oysterctacher’s feeding behaviour has throw up studies as wide-ranging as the wingspan of the Wandering Albatross. Recently, ornithologist V. Santharam encouraged this writer to get his beak into some of these studies. What the Rishi Valley-based ornithologist did next virtually sealed all avenues to procrastination: He promptly forwarded links to not one, but three of them. The one that was pecked at — the 1968 study “The feeding behaviour of the oystercatcher, Haematopus ostralegus ” by M. Norton-Griffiths under University of Oxford — is an acclaimed work. Just from the abstract, there are these takeaways. One, effective feeding is a result of sustained parental coaching — in Chennai, the resident, breeding Purple Moorhen and Bronze-winged Jacana (the male of this species) are among birds that will demonstrate this idea to some extent. It is the level of coaching that puts the Eurasian Oystercather ahead of most winged parents. Eurasian Oystercatcher parents that had signed up for Norton-Griffiths’ study showed how they drew up a mental time-chart of when their young should be allowed to go solo on a particular kind of prey. Norton-Griffiths noticed that around “6-7 weeks”, the parents trusted the young ones to be adept at “probing for worms”. Where making of meal of “molluscs and crustacea” was concerned, the parents wound up the training programme anywhere between 12 and 20 weeks. For the young slow on the uptake, this training sometimes went up to a patience-draining 43 weeks, the study notes. The techniques employed by Oystercatchers to tear into their prey are discussed, with Norton-Griffiths particularly elaborating on a five-pointed reportoire: Namely, “stab, hammering, levering, prising and chiselling”. With so many ‘fork-using techniques’ in its quiver, the Eurasian Oystercatcher is bound to remind one of the Ruddy Turnstone. Norton-Griffiths found that the young Oystercatchers proved adept only at those skills the parents themselves themselves were past-masters at. The parents’ ability impart these skills to the young also mattered. Three locations Now, off to the bird’s stomping grounds during migration, which includes patches of the Chennai coastline. Here, the Eurasian Oystercatcher can launch into bivalve molluscs, including those much-desired oysters, free of the pressure of having to prepare for a feeding-masterclass every day. “The bird comes at certain times of the migration season, and is not found regularly around Chennai. It comes in small numbers and is found in very specific locations on the Chennai coast — that is how it used to be. At Pulicat, you might see it more often,” says Santharam, largely from his observation of the species at Adyar Estuary and Pulicat from the late 1970s to the early 1990s. When this writer sought eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan’s view in the matter, one could hear the echo of the past. The species seems to have hardly veered away from the pattern if has always followed around Chennai. Vikas’ observation: “It is found in specific areas — Pulicat, Mudaliyarkuppam Backwaters and Adyar Estuary. It is recorded off and on at Adyar Estuary. Muttukadu in the Covelong area is where they may likely be found. With its mudflat habitat, Muttukadu has oysters to offer these birds.”  In small numbers From his observations around the Adyar Estuary, Santharam points out that the river mouth is a good place to look for the Eurasian Oystercatcher. “The species does not occur in the interiors, and is found very much on the coast, at river mouths. Between the late 1970s and early 1990s, at Adyar Estuary, I have seen the species several times,” says Santharam. “When I would visit Pulicat, I would head to the lake part, and not the mouth of the Pulicat lake, where I think there is a better chance of sigthing the bird.” In the 1990s, Santharam was carrying out bird-ringing with BNHS at Sriharikota. S. Balachandran, deputy director, BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre, brings a similar observation from his stomping ground, Point Calimere, where the Centre is located. “In Point Calimere, at the sea mouth, there is the possibility of seeing two or three Eurasian Oystercatchers, occasionally.”(See box). Shantaram, considers the Eurasian Oystercatcher more of a passage migrant. “It comes in the autumn migration: It comes fairly early. It probably goes down south — to Sri Lanka, Rameswaram and the coastal areas around there.” (Migrant Watch is a weekly column that discusses the birds visiting Chennai and its thereabouts during the migratory season)  The bird comes at certain times of the migration season, and is not found regularly around Chennai. It comes in small numbers and is found in very specific locations on the Chennai coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/let-the-beak-do-the-talking/article34348186.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A slice of time||A few months ago, the Clock Tower at Royapettah and the traffic island surrounding it received a new caretaker. The role was bestowed on Rotary Club of Royapettah by Greater Chennai Corporation as part of its Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement (PASUMAI). “As our Club’s logo is a clock tower, we thought it would be symbolic for us to be associated with this landmark,” says Reji Jose K., president, Rotary Club of Royapettah. Due to the surge in Coronavirus cases in Chennai, the Club has had to put its plans on hold. Its agreement with GCC stipulates that the Club ensure the clock is ticking and the traffic island with its lush greenery is a feast for the eye. Reji reveals that the Club has invited historians to unwrap the past around the tower clock. “By the time we beautify this place, I hope to bring out a brochure that will present the history that goes with the place,” says Reji, a resident of Arumbakkam. The 19-year-old Club has also launched a few social initiatives in the neighbourhood that it plans to scale up. Says, “Ultimately, we are planning to go back and do something around Royapettah.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-slice-of-time/article34348174.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching meaning into existence||Recently, the tailoring unit at Sri Arunodayam in Kolathur was up against a steep target. Three thousand masks had to be delivered to the voluntary organisation REACH, and the work had to be accomplished in 15 days, with 12 tailors. In regular circumstances, this would hardly be a pressure-cooker situation. At this Kolathur unit though, intellectually challenged teenagers constitute its 12-member workforce. They work from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. usually, and on days with an unusual ask, they put in those much-needed extra hours. That is how they met this target. “When they have put in that extra work, they will make sure we treat them with eats such as boli and mini-samosa,” chuckles Iyyappan Subramaniyan, founder of Sri Arunodayam. “As they had not been out in the last one year due to the pandemic, we organised an outing for them, taking all the COVID-19 safety measures.” This month, Sri Arunodayam, a non-profit that provides a home for 108 children with intellectual disabilities who have been abandoned by their parents, completes one year of its mask project. When the pandemic started, the centre was stitching and donating free masks to the poor and the homeless. Today, this has become the regular work at the vocational unit, fetching the management and its residents a decent income. “In the first three months, we would have given at least 10,000 masks away, all done by the young adults from the vocational centre,” says Iyyappan. Launching the mask project was not easy. Not all residents were trained in the use of the sewing machine and it took them two months to pick up this new skill. “During the first 15 days, they were trained to work on the machine without the needle. Following this, adaptations were made in the “power machines” so that the needle would not pierce their hands,” says Baskar M, who teaches tailoring at the home. Later, each of them was assigned roles and responsibilities based on their ability. These special-needs children, he says, are comfortable stitching but cannot take up cutting or measurement work. “When we began, on an average, five to six masks were made every day. Now, the team stitches 40 to 50 masks,” says Iyyappan, adding they have stitched more than 30,000 masks. The pandemic opened new avenues. Earlier, they made sold candles, diyas and wire baskets, a work plagued by the fact that these products came with limited scope for marketing. “The pandemic has forced them to learn a new skill and put it to good use. We also give them a small stipend every month for the work they put in at the unit,” says Iyyappan. The mask project is being run with the support from many donors. “Our donations have come down due to the pandemic, but we have had many supporting us by placing bulk orders, marketing our masks or promoting them in social media,” says Iyyappan. For example, Hari Das from Vanagaram bought a few hundred masks to distribute them to the support staff at his apartment, colleagues and his circle of friends. “Photography being my hobby, I take pictures of the masks, which help in marketing them,” says Das. Another well-wisher Haripriya puts out a post on social media that usually translates into orders. Recently, a donor placed an order for 500 masks for children. The group is working on honouring this order. Once the demand for masks die down, Baskar says, the plan is to see if they can use their sewing skills to stitch clothes. For further details, visitwww.sriarunodayam.org  When we got started on this project, five to six masks were made every day. Now, it is 40 to 50 masks a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-meaning-into-existence/article34348182.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Service lane at Thirumangalam junction thrown open for traffic||At long last, the service lane under the flyover at Thirumangalam junction — towards CMBT — is open for traffic. This development, which took place a few days ago, was long overdue. Months had elapsed since the water pipelines had been relaid at this service lane on Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Koyambedu. Delay by the State Highways Department in relaying the opened-up section of the service lane was holding up the logical move. Following this move, the alternative traffic arrangements were dismantled. So, 13th Main Road, Second Avenue Road and Fourth Avenue Road have gone back to being two-way roads. When one-way arrangements were in place, many motorists had to take a de-tour of around two kilometres while heading to their usual destinations. The pipeline work by Chennai Metrowater began on August 31, 2020 to replace decades-old pipelines. “Opening the service lane is a welcome move. However, the damaged service lane should be completely re-laid,” says S. Venketaramani, a social activist from Mogappair. Areas like Shanthi Colony, Fourth Avenue, Second Avenue, Sixth Avenue and 13th and 14th Avenues are also being covered by the pipeline-laying work which is set to ensure water supply from the Kilpauk pumping station to tail-end areas including Z, Y and V in Anna Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/service-lane-at-thirumangalam-junction-thrown-open-for-traffic/article34348153.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow a micro action and get water-wise||Conerned about depleting water resources? Here is how one can be part of the solution. ‘One Cup Is Enough’, an initiative by Chennai-based Gandhi Peace Foundation promotes “water wisdom” — in other words, judicious and careful use of water. The initiative requires a participant to take a pledge, which is followed by a 21-day challenge. “Just fix your want of water that you use for your morning ablution by using it from a container or mug instead of letting the water run from the tap,” says S. Kulandaisamy, honorary secretary of Gandhi Peace Foundation. Those who practise it for 21 days must share their experience with the Foundation through an email, and they have a chance of winning a book of inspirational stories. “We would like to hear from the participants the change in mindset that taking small steps in saving water, has brought about in them,” he says. Those who complete the project will be honoured with certificates. Kulandaisamy points out that this project was instituted to celebrate the centenary celebration of the Foundation’s former secretary Gandhiya Mamani and freedom fighter TD Tirumalai. He calls ‘One Cup is Enough’ a micro action. “I have evolved 150 small stories that drive 150 micro actions, which I have published in 21 small-sized books; these can be accessed onhttps://youtube.com/c/gpfmadras,” he says. Those who cross every stage of this initiative would finally get the 21 books by courier. To create awareness about the project, the Foundation is in touch with heads of schools and colleges. Recently, students of Krishnaswamy College for Women in Anna Nagar took part in an online workshop where 100 students promised to join the initiative, the release says, adding that students and teachers from various institutions have enrolled in it as volunteers. The Foundation is also encouraging youngsters to take a pledge to wear masks when they step out and follow other COVID-appropriate behaviour.For details, emailkulandhaisamy.gpf@gmail.com; website https://gandhipeace.foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/follow-a-micro-action-and-get-water-wise/article34348165.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Park takes centre stage||Millennium Park at Park Road in Anna Nagar brings out a rare emotion from the residents of the neighbourhood. Long-time members of Anna Nagar Western Extension Association explain how residents fought back when undesirable elements had encroached upon the land that had been earmarked for the creation of this park. It is therefore no surprise that the residents welfare association has approached Greater Chennai Corporation to be allowed to maintain Millennium Park, under the civic body’s Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement (PASUMAI). “We submitted our application in mid-February and are waiting to hear from GCC officials,” says P. Vadivel, secretary of Anna Nagar Western Extension Association. (As the model code of conduct is in effect, its processing of application would have to wait) Millennium park was developed under Namakku Namey Thittam by Anna Nagar Western Extension Association in the year 2000. Executive committee members feel that maintaining the sprawling park should not be difficult for an Association whose influence extends from plot number 1 to 922, covering Sectors A to D. The RWA is confident of meeting the monthly expenses that would go into maintaining the park. “We expect a monthly expense of Rs. 20,000, which includes payments to be made to the security personnel and the gardener,” says Vadivel. The Association has its own space at Park Road and offers its for music, dance programmes and other activities. Besides, a tennis court is also used by the public. “We are planning to meet the operational expenses from the subscription collected from life members and from well-wishers from the association,” says Vadivel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/park-takes-centre-stage/article34348176.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Motorists welcome safety feature||Notorious for accidents due to non-functional street lights, the time has probably arrived for the Thiruninravur flyover to live down this unsavoury reputation. Recently, the State Highways Department installed LED street lights on the steel poles on both sides of the bridge, as a stop-gap measure. The bridge is a lifeline for many people and the lack of functional lights over these months was a matter of concern. Despite considerably populated sections — notably, Periyar Nagar, Muththamizh Nagar, Swadeshi Nagar and the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board housing quarters along the lake — residents depend on route no: 54A (Thirunindravur - Poonamallee via Avadi), the lone service that is operated on four trips from the open bus terminus in Thiruninravur.  “With many temporary LED street lights at the bridge, on the blink, motorists depend on headlights of their vehicles,” says B. Paramasivan, a motorist from Thirunindravur.  Further, as a majority of the residents in the town are farmers, transportation of the produce including vegetables, fruits and greens to the Koyambedu wholesale market is carried out largely by two-wheelers and the lone bus service. The one-km-long bridge has stormwater drains; a footpath for walkers; staircases to reach the railway station in the neighbourhood and a concrete median. Most of the 30 street lights on the bridge remained damaged with the bulbs in many of these lamp posts having gone missing. Each street light was installed at a height of 30 feet to ensure the carriageway and service lane are well-lit. Over the years, poor maintenance led to neglect of the public facility. The new LED street lights were fixed on the lamp posts at a height of four feet from the side wall of the bridge on both sides. “Steps will be taken to repair the existing street lights on the bridge soon,” says a State Highways official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/motorists-welcome-safety-feature/article34348159.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A fast forward through art||‘Art Challenge — Voices of Youth’ was an effort to encourage children and young adults to reimagine the future, post-COVID-19, through the medium of art. Initiated by Inklink Charitable Trust with support of UNICEF India, the exercise saw participants factoring sustainability, well-being and mental health, education and work and children’s rights into the lines. According to a communication from InkLink, participants included students of six institutions across Tamil Nadu. Three of these institutions are from Chennai — National Institute of Fashion Technology; Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science and Head Start International School. The highlight, the communication added, is that “the children of Kannagi Nagar also participated” in this awareness-creating art initiative. To commemorate World Art Day (April 15), here is presenting three artworks from a collection of artworks from the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-fast-forward-through-art/article34348180.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||New bridge at Elephant Gate coming up at a brisk pace||The brisk pace at which the bridge at Elephant Gate is being constructed raises hopes that the facility would be up an functional by March next year. The concrete pillars that would support the carriageway are almost complete. Coming up on Elephant Gate Main Road — which connects Choolai Main Road and Wall Tax Road — the new bridge takes the place of a British-era bridge. The old bridge did not have much of load to take — supplies from port were transported to the Central railway station and British settlements in the northern parts of Madras through pushcarts. Pushcarts continue to be a lifeline for many traders in George Town. Even after the British era, for many decades, the pushcars would be wheeled through Elephant Gate bridge transport goods picked up from wholesale units in Choolai, Perambur, Korukkupet, Tondiarpet, Washermenpet, Purasawalkam and Tiruvottiyur. “Early completion of the bridge work will help ease traffic congestion on Wall Tax Road especially during rush hour. The new bridge should also be pedestrian-friendly as the facility will connect the Basin Bridge railway station,” said K. Rajesh, a motorist from Park Town. The new facility, which is being built jointly by the Chennai Corporation and Southern Railway, will cost Rs. 26.45 crore. While the length of the bridge will be increased from 47 metres to 155 metres to accommodate more railway tracks below it, there is no plan to increase its width above 20 metres. The total length of the reconstructed bridge will be 575 metres, including the length of the two ramps leading from Raja Muthiah Salai (Choolai Main Road) and Wall Tax Road. The two arms of the bridge will each be 7.5 metres wide. As the Basin Bridge railway station handles a large volume of freight and passenger traffic every day with limited rail lines, a detailed plan is being made to operate trains on alternative tracks for the bridge work above the rail lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-bridge-at-elephant-gate-coming-up-at-a-brisk-pace/article34348164.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The median is no place for these signboards||Six large-sized digital signboards are designed to guide motorists on the possible turns and routes to take, at crucial points on Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road — between Vadapalani junction and Koyambedu junction. Out of these, five hardly draw a glance from motorists. When they do, the glance invariably leads to mystified curiosity. For, these signboards are hardly where they should be — instead of having them installed and up and functioning, the State Highways Department has allowed them to take extended rest on the median. One of the six was installed two months ago at the ramp of the flyover at Vadapalani junction, on the side where the traffic movement is towards Ashok Pillar. The points at which the signboards wait to be installed include MMDA and Periyar Pathai junctions. “To prevent vandalisation, such signboards should be brought to the spot only at the time of installation,” says K. Bharath, a resident of Vadapalani. State Highways officials underline that practical difficulties in installation are causing the delay — continual traffic movement and narrow carriageways. Installation of these signboards would take at least a week and involve traffic diversions. Steel pillars, around 20 feet tall, have to be installed on both sides of the road, with supporting pillars, to receive and hold these signboards. Given this, the installation remains a non-starter. Officials point out that installation of the signboards would be carried out soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-median-is-no-place-for-these-signboards/article34348160.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A time table||The management committee at Rani Meyyammai Towers has formed a sports committee to manage the facility. The committee has drawn up an ad hoc time chart on how different age groups could share the facility. It was on trial in the few days that the facility was open, and would be frozen when it reopens, states the secretary of the community’s RWA, J. Madhan. Jayashree Sundaresan, who is part of the sports committee, explains: “We have categorised the children into different age groups — and adults as well — and given a different time slot to each of them. Because, for example, the older boys, the ones who are 18-plus, wanted to play serious cricket. So, we told them ‘In the early-morning hours, the turf is all yours.’ It had a transformative effect on these boys. Those who would stay up till one or two in the morning, spending the hours on social media, started showing up at 6 a.m., having gone to bed early.” On creating simple provisions that support multiple sports, Jayashree says, “Right now, the plan is to have basketball hoops at both ends, and holes in the middle to also play volleyball and throwball. With portable goalposts, even football can be played.” As expected, cricket is still going reign supreme. Says Madhan, “Residents of neighbouring communities visit the facility as they have friends at RMT. And vice versa, as these communities also have their OSR parks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-time-table/article34348170.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||New paediatric dental clinic||Coimbatore-based We Little, a clinic for preventive paediatric dentistry, has opened its 4000 sq.ft facility at RK Salai in Mylapore. According to a press release, the centre practises painless dental procedures. It uses iTero 3D scanning. Its key specialities include paediatric feeding, tongue-tie, paediatric sleep, myoline - naturally aligning teeth, sedation dentistry, laser dentistry, paediatric cosmetic dentistry, says the release. The clinic has a play area for children. The facility was inaugurated by actress Vijayalakshmi. The clinic can be reached at 97515 58000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-paediatric-dental-clinic/article34348144.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a fast track||Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) launched Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance (PASUMAI) on 24 December, 2020, to lop off processes that made it difficult for entities — corporate houses, voluntary organisations, residents’ welfare associations and individuals among them — to take up the development and maintenance of parks, traffic islands and median gardens. “The park adoption process is being carried out at Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of Greater Chennai Corporation,” said a Corporation official attached to GCC’s Parks Department. The Corporation official elaborated: “Before executing an MoU, we have to understand the entity who is coming forward to maintain the park. If they are fit enough to handle it — that is, whether they have the resource and know-how to handle it.” The official said that the entity should comply with standards, and failure on their part to maintain the adopted facility efficiently could make later restoration doubly arduous. The Corporation official stated that to make it easy for entities to adopt parks, traffic islands and medians, through PASUMAI, for projects signed up after 24 December, 2020 (when PASUMAI was launched) the refundable caution deposit of Rs. 100 per sq.m for parks, and Rs. 50,000 for traffic islands and median gardens, was waived. “The Adoption process cannot be done online, because an MoU has to be executed. And before that, we have to ascertain the background of the entities coming forward to adopt a park. We have to make sure that the entities would not exploit it for commercial purpose,” the Corporation official added. The Corporation official said that from the time the Model Code of Conduct for the Assembly elections came into effect, no agreements were being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-fast-track/article34348171.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Velammal Bodi campus now opens at Anna Nagar||Velammal Bodhi Campus at Ponneri is opening a new campus in Anna Nagar. According to a press release, the new facility will be offering coaching in CBSE, IIT-JEE and NEET examinations. Experts from the institute would guide students so that they could perform well in various competitive examinations. The institute has also designed a range of courses. It will soon be starting crash courses for NEET 2021 as well as for the year-long NEET learning programmes. Classes are offered in both offline and online platforms. They have also launched an online live tutoring platform by the name “VBLive”, which will offer technical expertise in online coaching during these times, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/velammal-bodi-campus-now-opens-at-anna-nagar/article34348149.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Is it a dwindling species?||The Eurasian Oystercatcher is a near-threatened species, a fact that should be obvious to anyone tracking the species over the last four decades — in their breeding or wintering grounds. From the 1980s — when he was a habitue of the Gulf of Mannar, on account of his doctoral work — to now, S. Balachandran, deputy director, BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre at Point Calimere has noticed the species is on a downward spiral. The contrast between then and now is nowhere as stark as in this region. “Earlier, 20 to 30 birds would come regularly to Gulf of Mannar during the migratory season — from 1980s to 2000s, the bird would be seen regularly. But the numbers were dropping steadily, and now the bird seems to be completely absent in Gulf of Mannar. That has been the experience for the last seven years,” says Balachandran. Even in the best of times, the species would arrive in trickles in its wintering grounds on the East Coast. “It was earlier seen regularly in small numbers, with the maximum numbers coming from Rameswaram, more precisely around some of the islands near Rameswaram. From their numbers being registered now, the species seems to be dwindling. At Point Calimere and Pulicat, there are occasional sightings of one or two Eurasian Oystercatchers,” elaborates Balachandran. From its name, the bird’s preference for oysters is evident. However, the bird also has a taste for other bivalve molluscs. “Around Point Calimere, there is not much of oysters to be found. During the monsoon, other bivalve molluscs are moved ashore. During that time, the Eurasian Oystercatcher may come in numbers of three or four — that has been my experience this year too. At Point Calimere, at the sea mouth, one tends to see two or three of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/is-it-a-dwindling-species/article34348183.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Virtual competition on problem solving||HCL is inviting students of classes VI to IX to take part in the ‘HCL Jigsaw’. According to a press release, the critical reasoning platform is designed to assess key 21st century skills in young students and build a culture of problem solving. HCL Jigsaw will assess participating students on 10 parameters under three primary attributes — research skills, communication process and critical thinking. The pan-India competition will take place virtually in two rounds — qualifier (June 24 – 27) and finale (July 17 and 18). Participating students will get an opportunity to win prizes and gadgets worth Rs. 16 lakh, says the release. For registration and other details, visitwww.hcljigsaw.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/virtual-competition-on-problem-solving/article34348145.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer camps go online||Zentangle workshop Sandhya Manne, a certified zentangle teacher, is conducting a workshop on the art of zentangle. This is an easy-to-learn and fun way of creating beautiful images through structured patterns, says a release. No artistic skills are required; the workshop is open to children aged above 13. When:April 24; 3 p.m.– 6p.m. Contact:9042072639 *** Experiential learning Vijayalakshmi is conducting a summer camp on “Experiential Learning”, which she says has been introduced by the CBSE. It is open for children aged between four and six years. Contact: 98947 43415/99622 95729  (Mail your announcements regarding summer camps to downtownfeedback@thehindu.co.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/summer-camps-go-online/article34348147.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on April 22. A session on composting methods will be held on April 23. Prior registration is required. For details, call 044 – 22250511/ 22501960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-mushroom-cultivation/article34348150.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34348151.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Green adoptions||Here is the break-up of the parks, traffic islands and median gardens that Greater Chennai Corporation has given to various entities, including corporate houses, voluntary organisations and residents’ welfare association for development and maintenance, under its Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement. 11 parks 26 traffic islands 26 median gardens 3 roadside parks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-adoptions/article34348172.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching meaning into existence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-meaning-into-existence/article34348155.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a shared turf: Are RWAs ready to make a green pact with Chennai?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-shared-turf-are-rwas-ready-to-make-a-green-pact-with-chennai/article34348157.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a shared turf: Are RWAs ready to make a green pact with Chennai?||Past a population threshold, a gated community has at the least, one teenager fancying oneself as the next Ravichandran Ashwin. The next Mithali Raj. The next PV Sindhu. The next Ajith Lal. The next Geethu Anna Jose. And there is the masters’ circuit to boot — the hyperlocal Bhutias and Tendulkars spoiling for a go at a sport they once adorned. So, multifarious sporting aspirations stamped with the same address is usually a fact of big-community living. A residents’ welfare association has its work cut out when these aspirations have to be accommodated in a measly 2000 sq.ft or thereabouts. The pitch is further queered when the development of this space is contingent upon meeting stipulations from the local civic body. Wedged into a similar situation, Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) at MRC Nagar in Raja Annamalaipuram, with its 300-plus units, found its answer in a synthetic multi-purpose turf. As J. Madhan, secretary, Rani Meyyammai Towers Residents Welfare Association puts it, when the question of developing a Greater Chennai Corporation park found at the community’s OSR land came up, the idea of a multi-purpose turf was nowhere on the horizon. (In early March this year, the community unwrapped the facility in a soft launch. The sudden surge in Coronavirus cases led the facility to be temporarily closed on April 6.) The exercise largely began when RMT parents were plunged into depression over their inability to control their fledglings’ gadget usage. A need was felt to provide older as well as younger children with an outdoor-space that would appeal to both. It had to be within the safe confines of the community. Not only that, the facility had to also serve every other age group, so that the entire community could be co-opted into the project. The secretary points out that the management committee zeroed in on a section of the Corporation park for establishing a play area of this kind. “This section largely remained unused over the last 15 years. With its corroded metal fitness fixtures, it hardly made a welcome sight. Besides, the overgrowths raised fears of insect attacks,” he explains. “One of the committee-members — Avinash Senthil — coordinated with Corporation authorities and attended to the formalities that go with a community taking up the development and maintenance of an open space reservation park. There were development guidelines to be met. First and foremost, the Corporation stipulated that the space’s essential character as a park should not be diluted. A part of it can be developed into a general play arena though. Two, this play arena should not be dedicated to any particular sport with permanent fixtures. As per the scheme then, we also paid a caution deposit with the Corporation in September 2020.” Says Avinash, “We initiated the park adoption process with Greater Chennai Corporation more than six months ago; and the final approval came in January.” (It may be noted that the Corporation has further simplified the process of park adoption by entities — which include corporates, NGOs, resident welfare associations and even individuals — under what it calls Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance, which goes under the acronym PASUMAI. See box “On A Fast Track”) As remarked by the management-committee members, in its embryonic stage, the exercise was a million years removed from what it ultimately evolved into. When it was decided a multi-purpose turf would meet the expectations of one and sundry, the question of resources popped up. Turfs do not come cheap. “We have spent a huge amount to develop the facility, which was made possible by major contributions from some donors within the community. A part of the expenditure was met with an outlay from the community fund,” the secretary elaborates Following the turf’s inauguration, when residents got to have a taste of it before the fresh surge shut it down, many parents reportedly registered their happiness over how their children deserted gadgets for the turf. That probably more than justifies the effort that went into the exercise.  A need was felt to provide older as well as younger children with an outdoor-space that would appeal to both. It had to be within the safe confines of the community. Not only that, the facility had to also serve every other age group, so that the entire community could be co-opted into the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-shared-turf-are-rwas-ready-to-make-a-green-pact-with-chennai/article34348169.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||at the Friday market near perambur||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/at-the-friday-market-near-perambur/article34348162.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the beak do the talking||The twenty-first century family is divided at the dining table, parents separated from children by the contents of their individual Swiggy orders. Eat your hearts out, human parents! Your Eurasian-Oystercatcher ( Haematopus ostralegus ) counterparts are on vastly better gastronomic ground, being better placed to influence their progeny in not only what they feed on — but also how they feed on it. On the Chennai coast, this side of the Eurasian Oystercatcher would remain unseen, as the bird is a migrant in these parts. Knowing how someone is around home, is to really know them. So it is with birds. And therefore, read on. Under the blinding glare of research for long, the Eurasian Oysterctacher’s feeding behaviour has throw up studies as wide-ranging as the wingspan of the Wandering Albatross. Recently, ornithologist V. Santharam encouraged this writer to get his beak into some of these studies. What the Rishi Valley-based ornithologist did next virtually sealed all avenues to procrastination: He promptly forwarded links to not one, but three of them. The one that was pecked at — the 1968 study “The feeding behaviour of the oystercatcher, Haematopus ostralegus ” by M. Norton-Griffiths under University of Oxford — is an acclaimed work. Just from the abstract, there are these takeaways. One, effective feeding is a result of sustained parental coaching — in Chennai, the resident, breeding Purple Moorhen and Bronze-winged Jacana (the male of this species) are among birds that will demonstrate this idea to some extent. It is the level of coaching that puts the Eurasian Oystercather ahead of most winged parents. Eurasian Oystercatcher parents that had signed up for Norton-Griffiths’ study showed how they drew up a mental time-chart of when their young should be allowed to go solo on a particular kind of prey. Norton-Griffiths noticed that around “6-7 weeks”, the parents trusted the young ones to be adept at “probing for worms”. Where making of meal of “molluscs and crustacea” was concerned, the parents wound up the training programme anywhere between 12 and 20 weeks. For the young slow on the uptake, this training sometimes went up to a patience-draining 43 weeks, the study notes. The techniques employed by Oystercatchers to tear into their prey are discussed, with Norton-Griffiths particularly elaborating on a five-pointed reportoire: Namely, “stab, hammering, levering, prising and chiselling”. With so many ‘fork-using techniques’ in its quiver, the Eurasian Oystercatcher is bound to remind one of the Ruddy Turnstone. Norton-Griffiths found that the young Oystercatchers proved adept only at those skills the parents themselves themselves were past-masters at. The parents’ ability impart these skills to the young also mattered. Three locations Now, off to the bird’s stomping grounds during migration, which includes patches of the Chennai coastline. Here, the Eurasian Oystercatcher can launch into bivalve molluscs, including those much-desired oysters, free of the pressure of having to prepare for a feeding-masterclass every day. “The bird comes at certain times of the migration season, and is not found regularly around Chennai. It comes in small numbers and is found in very specific locations on the Chennai coast — that is how it used to be. At Pulicat, you might see it more often,” says Santharam, largely from his observation of the species at Adyar Estuary and Pulicat from the late 1970s to the early 1990s. When this writer sought eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan’s view in the matter, one could hear the echo of the past. The species seems to have hardly veered away from the pattern if has always followed around Chennai. Vikas’ observation: “It is found in specific areas — Pulicat, Mudaliyarkuppam Backwaters and Adyar Estuary. It is recorded off and on at Adyar Estuary. Muttukadu in the Covelong area is where they may likely be found. With its mudflat habitat, Muttukadu has oysters to offer these birds.”  In small numbers From his observations around the Adyar Estuary, Santharam points out that the river mouth is a good place to look for the Eurasian Oystercatcher. “The species does not occur in the interiors, and is found very much on the coast, at river mouths. Between the late 1970s and early 1990s, at Adyar Estuary, I have seen the species several times,” says Santharam. “When I would visit Pulicat, I would head to the lake part, and not the mouth of the Pulicat lake, where I think there is a better chance of sigthing the bird.” In the 1990s, Santharam was carrying out bird-ringing with BNHS at Sriharikota. S. Balachandran, deputy director, BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre, brings a similar observation from his stomping ground, Point Calimere, where the Centre is located. “In Point Calimere, at the sea mouth, there is the possibility of seeing two or three Eurasian Oystercatchers, occasionally.”(See box). Shantaram, considers the Eurasian Oystercatcher more of a passage migrant. “It comes in the autumn migration: It comes fairly early. It probably goes down south — to Sri Lanka, Rameswaram and the coastal areas around there.” (Migrant Watch is a weekly column that discusses the birds visiting Chennai and its thereabouts during the migratory season)  The bird comes at certain times of the migration season, and is not found regularly around Chennai. It comes in small numbers and is found in very specific locations on the Chennai coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/let-the-beak-do-the-talking/article34348256.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching meaning into existence||Recently, the tailoring unit at Sri Arunodayam in Kolathur was up against a steep target. Three thousand masks had to be delivered to the voluntary organisation REACH, and the work had to be accomplished in 15 days, with 12 tailors. In regular circumstances, this would hardly be a pressure-cooker situation. At this Kolathur unit though, intellectually challenged teenagers constitute its 12-member workforce. They work from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. usually, and on days with an unusual ask, they put in those much-needed extra hours. That is how they met this target. “When they have put in that extra work, they will make sure we treat them with eats such as boli and mini-samosa,” chuckles Iyyappan Subramaniyan, founder of Sri Arunodayam. “As they had not been out in the last one year due to the pandemic, we organised an outing for them, taking all the COVID-19 safety measures.” This month, Sri Arunodayam, a non-profit that provides a home for 108 children with intellectual disabilities who have been abandoned by their parents, completes one year of its mask project. When the pandemic started, the centre was stitching and donating free masks to the poor and the homeless. Today, this has become the regular work at the vocational unit, fetching the management and its residents a decent income. “In the first three months, we would have given at least 10,000 masks away, all done by the young adults from the vocational centre,” says Iyyappan. Launching the mask project was not easy. Not all residents were trained in the use of the sewing machine and it took them two months to pick up this new skill. “During the first 15 days, they were trained to work on the machine without the needle. Following this, adaptations were made in the “power machines” so that the needle would not pierce their hands,” says Baskar M, who teaches tailoring at the home. Later, each of them was assigned roles and responsibilities based on their ability. These special-needs children, he says, are comfortable stitching but cannot take up cutting or measurement work. “When we began, on an average, five to six masks were made every day. Now, the team stitches 40 to 50 masks,” says Iyyappan, adding they have stitched more than 30,000 masks. The pandemic opened new avenues. Earlier, they made sold candles, diyas and wire baskets, a work plagued by the fact that these products came with limited scope for marketing. “The pandemic has forced them to learn a new skill and put it to good use. We also give them a small stipend every month for the work they put in at the unit,” says Iyyappan. The mask project is being run with the support from many donors. “Our donations have come down due to the pandemic, but we have had many supporting us by placing bulk orders, marketing our masks or promoting them in social media,” says Iyyappan. For example, Hari Das from Vanagaram bought a few hundred masks to distribute them to the support staff at his apartment, colleagues and his circle of friends. “Photography being my hobby, I take pictures of the masks, which help in marketing them,” says Das. Another well-wisher Haripriya puts out a post on social media that usually translates into orders. Recently, a donor placed an order for 500 masks for children. The group is working on honouring this order. Once the demand for masks die down, Baskar says, the plan is to see if they can use their sewing skills to stitch clothes. For further details, visitwww.sriarunodayam.org  When we got started on this project, five to six masks were made every day. Now, it is 40 to 50 masks a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-meaning-into-existence/article34348254.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow a micro action and get water-wise||Conerned about depleting water resources? Here is how one can be part of the solution. ‘One Cup Is Enough’, an initiative by Chennai-based Gandhi Peace Foundation promotes “water wisdom” — in other words, judicious and careful use of water. The initiative requires a participant to take a pledge, which is followed by a 21-day challenge. “Just fix your want of water that you use for your morning ablution by using it from a container or mug instead of letting the water run from the tap,” says S. Kulandaisamy, honorary secretary of Gandhi Peace Foundation. Those who practise it for 21 days must share their experience with the Foundation through an email, and they have a chance of winning a book of inspirational stories. “We would like to hear from the participants the change in mindset that taking small steps in saving water, has brought about in them,” he says. Those who complete the project will be honoured with certificates. Kulandaisamy points out that this project was instituted to celebrate the centenary celebration of the Foundation’s former secretary Gandhiya Mamani and freedom fighter TD Tirumalai. He calls ‘One Cup is Enough’ a micro action. “I have evolved 150 small stories that drive 150 micro actions, which I have published in 21 small-sized books; these can be accessed onhttps://youtube.com/c/gpfmadras,” he says. Those who cross every stage of this initiative would finally get the 21 books by courier. To create awareness about the project, the Foundation is in touch with heads of schools and colleges. Recently, students of Krishnaswamy College for Women in Anna Nagar took part in an online workshop where 100 students promised to join the initiative, the release says, adding that students and teachers from various institutions have enrolled in it as volunteers. The Foundation is also encouraging youngsters to take a pledge to wear masks when they step out and follow other COVID-appropriate behaviour. For details, emailkulandhaisamy.gpf@gmail. com; website https://gandhipeace.foundation  This initiative by Chennai-based Gandhi Peace Foundation is encouraging citizens, especially youngsters, to use water judiciously||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/follow-a-micro-action-and-get-water-wise/article34348242.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A slice of time||A few months ago, the Clock Tower at Royapettah and the traffic island surrounding it received a new caretaker. The role was bestowed on Rotary Club of Royapettah by Greater Chennai Corporation as part of its Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement (PASUMAI). “As our Club’s logo is a clock tower, we thought it would be symbolic for us to be associated with this landmark,” says Reji Jose K., president, Rotary Club of Royapettah. Due to the surge in Coronavirus cases in Chennai, the Club has had to put its plans on hold. Its agreement with GCC stipulates that the Club ensure the clock is ticking and the traffic island with its lush greenery is a feast for the eye. Reji reveals that the Club has invited historians to unwrap the past around the tower clock. “By the time we beautify this place, I hope to bring out a brochure that will present the history that goes with the place,” says Reji, a resident of Arumbakkam. The 19-year-old Club has also launched a few social initiatives in the neighbourhood that it plans to scale up. Says, “Ultimately, we are planning to go back and do something around Royapettah.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-slice-of-time/article34348251.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Park takes centre stage||Millennium Park at Park Road in Anna Nagar brings out a rare emotion from the residents of the neighbourhood. Long-time members of Anna Nagar Western Extension Association explain how residents fought back when undesirable elements had encroached upon the land that had been earmarked for the creation of this park. It is therefore no surprise that the residents welfare association has approached Greater Chennai Corporation to be allowed to maintain Millennium Park, under the civic body’s Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement (PASUMAI). “We submitted our application in mid-February and are waiting to hear from GCC officials,” says P. Vadivel, secretary of Anna Nagar Western Extension Association. (As the model code of conduct is in effect, its processing of application would have to wait) Millennium park was developed under Namakku Namey Thittam by Anna Nagar Western Extension Association in the year 2000. Executive committee members feel that maintaining the sprawling park should not be difficult for an Association whose influence extends from plot number 1 to 922, covering Sectors A to D. The RWA is confident of meeting the monthly expenses that would go into maintaining the park. “We expect a monthly expense of Rs. 20,000, which includes payments to be made to the security personnel and the gardener,” says Vadivel. The Association has its own space at Park Road and offers its for music, dance programmes and other activities. Besides, a tennis court is also used by the public. “We are planning to meet the operational expenses from the subscription collected from life members and from well-wishers from the association,” says Vadivel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/park-takes-centre-stage/article34348252.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||This patch needs a better solution||A month ago, Tangedco laid an underground electricity cable on a one-kilometre stretch of Arcot Road near Porur junction. There are tell-tale signs of the completed project, which was essentially aimed at resolving the issue of power fluctuations and disruptions in the locality, especially during summer. The State Highways Department is yet to have this section relaid. As a quick-fix, it was levelled it with coarse sand and blue metal. “At night, motorists miss the damaged portion, which has even resulted in skids,” says S. Babu, a resident of Porur. Arcot Road comes under the purview of two government departments, with the stretch from Alwarthirunagar to Kodambakkam being maintained by Greater Chennai Corporation, and the one from Porur to Alwarthirunagar by the State Highways Department. The stretch between Alwarthirunagar and Porur is narrow mainly due to encroachments by commercial establishments and haphazard parking of vehicles. Traffic moves at a snail’s pace near Kesavardhini bus-stop. A State Highways official says “Steps will be taken to relay the damaged portion of the road at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/this-patch-needs-a-better-solution/article34348237.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The median is no place for these signboards||Six large-sized digital signboards are designed to guide motorists on the possible turns and routes to take, at crucial points on Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road — between Vadapalani junction and Koyambedu junction. Out of these, five hardly draw a glance from motorists. When they do, the glance invariably leads to mystified curiosity. For, these signboards are hardly where they should be — instead of having them installed and up and functioning, the State Highways Department has allowed them to take extended rest on the median. One of the six was installed two months ago at the ramp of the flyover at Vadapalani junction, on the side where the traffic movement is towards Ashok Pillar. The points at which the signboards wait to be installed include MMDA and Periyar Pathai junctions. “To prevent vandalisation, such signboards should be brought to the spot only at the time of installation,” says K. Bharath, a resident of Vadapalani. State Highways officials underline that practical difficulties in installation are causing the delay — continual traffic movement and narrow carriageways. Installation of these signboards would take at least a week and involve traffic diversions. Steel pillars, around 20 feet tall, have to be installed on both sides of the road, with supporting pillars, to receive and hold these signboards. Given this, the installation remains a non-starter. Officials point out that installation of the signboards would be carried out soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-median-is-no-place-for-these-signboards/article34348223.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A fast forward through art||‘Art Challenge — Voices of Youth’ was an effort to encourage children and young adults to reimagine the future, post-COVID-19, through the medium of art. Initiated by Inklink Charitable Trust with support of UNICEF India, the exercise saw participants factoring sustainability, well-being and mental health, education and work and children’s rights into the lines. According to a communication from InkLink, participants included students of six institutions across Tamil Nadu. Three of these institutions are from Chennai — National Institute of Fashion Technology; Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science and Head Start International School. The highlight, the communication added, is that “the children of Kannagi Nagar also participated” in this awareness-creating art initiative. To commemorate World Art Day (April 15), here is presenting three artworks from a collection of artworks from the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-fast-forward-through-art/article34348253.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Do not shrink the burial ground’||A composting takes up 2,000 sq.ft at a Corporation cremation-cum-burial ground in Nungambakkam. The plan to construct a foot-over bridge (FOB) at the Nelson Manickam Road subway nearby would eat up another 2,000 sq.ft from the crematorium. For this reason, residents of Choolaimedu and nearby localities request the government to drop the plan to construct an FOB. There is only one electrical crematorium at the facility; and more is required, and for that to happen, adequate space has to be there in the first place. Another reason why we want the FOB plan to be dropped is that we believe it would not really serve the cause of pedestrians on this section. So, we request the government to drop the FOB project. S. Kasturi Rangan is secretary of Choolaimedu Exnora Innovators ClubJawarharlal Nehru Main Road||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/do-not-shrink-the-burial-ground/article34348234.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccination camp held at Ramapuram||K.P Nagar Residents Welfare Association and AKM Enclave Apartment Owners Association in Ramapuram with the support of the Greater Chennai Corporation organised a COVID-19 vaccination camp. According to a press release, 64 residents aged 45 and above were vaccinated. “On the occasion, masks were distributed and people were requested to wash their hands frequently,” says Thirumurugan, secretary, K.P Nagar Residents Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vaccination-camp-held-at-ramapuram/article34348228.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on April 22. A session on composting methods will be held on April 23. Prior registration is required. For details, call 044 – 22250511/ 22501960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-mushroom-cultivation/article34348244.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Police booth near Virugambakkam market is in a deplorable condition||The police booth on Arcot Road, near the common market in Virugambakkam, does not inspire confidence or pride in it occupants. The small structure has cracks on its roof and side walls. Their is no electricity supply. Attached to the Virugambakkam police station, the booth was opened in year 2000 to monitor the movement of vehicles and people. The police booth is also meant for traffic police to take rest. “Weather-beaten, this booth needs to be renovated. The plastering is peeling off. Further, there is no water supply,” says a duty police. Besides, there is a garbage bin near the entrance of the booth. During weekends, the bin can be seen overflowing with garbage, and some of it would be found at the booth’s entrance. Police personnel would often have to remove the waste before entering the booth. Repeated requests to Greater Chennai Corporation to have the bin shifted some distance away have gone unheeded. The road is at a level much higher than that of booth, a factor causing water stagnation around it when it rains. Further, sewage stagnation is another broblem encountered around the booth. A police official says, “Steps will be taken to give a facelift to the police booth at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/police-booth-near-virugambakkam-market-is-in-a-deplorable-condition/article34348246.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A time table||The management committee at Rani Meyyammai Towers has formed a sports committee to manage the facility. The committee has drawn up an ad hoc time chart on how different age groups could share the facility. It was on trial in the few days that the facility was open, and would be frozen when it reopens, states the secretary of the community’s RWA, J. Madhan. Jayashree Sundaresan, who is part of the sports committee, explains: “We have categorised the children into different age groups — and adults as well — and given a different time slot to each of them. Because, for example, the older boys, the ones who are 18-plus, wanted to play serious cricket. So, we told them ‘In the early-morning hours, the turf is all yours.’ It had a transformative effect on these boys. Those who would stay up till one or two in the morning, spending the hours on social media, started showing up at 6 a.m., having gone to bed early.” On creating simple provisions that support multiple sports, Jayashree says, “Right now, the plan is to have basketball hoops at both ends, and holes in the middle to also play volleyball and throwball. With portable goalposts, even football can be played.” As expected, cricket is still going reign supreme. Says Madhan, “Residents of neighbouring communities visit the facility as they have friends at RMT. And vice versa, as these communities also have their OSR parks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-time-table/article34348248.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A fall is still possible’||The glossy granite floors at Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) can lead to falls, which can have far-reaching effects for senior citizens. Anti-skid tiles are installed as lengthy strips (as seen in this photo), and these do not reduce the risk of fall considerably. The entire floor should have an anti-skid surface. Carpets made of coir or any other suitable material may be spread on the floor, ensuring commuters’ protection against falls. A. Jainulabdeen is a resident of Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-fall-is-still-possible/article34348231.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a fast track||Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) launched Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance (PASUMAI) on 24 December, 2020, to lop off processes that made it difficult for entities — corporate houses, voluntary organisations, residents’ welfare associations and individuals among them — to take up the development and maintenance of parks, traffic islands and median gardens. “The park adoption process is being carried out at Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of Greater Chennai Corporation,” said a Corporation official attached to GCC’s Parks Department. The Corporation official elaborated: “Before executing an MoU, we have to understand the entity who is coming forward to maintain the park. If they are fit enough to handle it — that is, whether they have the resource and know-how to handle it.” The official said that the entity should comply with standards, and failure on their part to maintain the adopted facility efficiently could make later restoration doubly arduous. The Corporation official stated that to make it easy for entities to adopt parks, traffic islands and medians, through PASUMAI, for projects signed up after 24 December, 2020 (when PASUMAI was launched) the refundable caution deposit of Rs. 100 per sq.m for parks, and Rs. 50,000 for traffic islands and median gardens, was waived. “The Adoption process cannot be done online, because an MoU has to be executed. And before that, we have to ascertain the background of the entities coming forward to adopt a park. We have to make sure that the entities would not exploit it for commercial purpose,” the Corporation official added. The Corporation official said that from the time the Model Code of Conduct for the Assembly elections came into effect, no agreements were being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-fast-track/article34348249.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Is it a dwindling species?||The Eurasian Oystercatcher is a near-threatened species, a fact that should be obvious to anyone tracking the species over the last four decades — in their breeding or wintering grounds. From the 1980s — when he was a habitue of the Gulf of Mannar, on account of his doctoral work — to now, S. Balachandran, deputy director, BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre at Point Calimere has noticed the species is on a downward spiral. The contrast between then and now is nowhere as stark as in this region. “Earlier, 20 to 30 birds would come regularly to Gulf of Mannar during the migratory season — from 1980s to 2000s, the bird would be seen regularly. But the numbers were dropping steadily, and now the bird seems to be completely absent in Gulf of Mannar. That has been the experience for the last seven years,” says Balachandran. Even in the best of times, the species would arrive in trickles in its wintering grounds on the East Coast. “It was earlier seen regularly in small numbers, with the maximum numbers coming from Rameswaram, more precisely around some of the islands near Rameswaram. From their numbers being registered now, the species seems to be dwindling. At Point Calimere and Pulicat, there are occasional sightings of one or two Eurasian Oystercatchers,” elaborates Balachandran. From its name, the bird’s preference for oysters is evident. However, the bird also has a taste for other bivalve molluscs. “Around Point Calimere, there is not much of oysters to be found. During the monsoon, other bivalve molluscs are moved ashore. During that time, the Eurasian Oystercatcher may come in numbers of three or four — that has been my experience this year too. At Point Calimere, at the sea mouth, one tends to see two or three of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/is-it-a-dwindling-species/article34348255.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘An FOB is necessary near Guindy railway station’||I request the Southern Railway and the Greater Chennai Corporation to ensure the construction of a foot over-bridge (FOB) near the Guindy railway station. The FOB should connect Subha Reddy Colony Road and Race View Colony Street in Guindy. An FOB would be of immense help to the residents of areas near the Guindy railway station. At present, the residents use the foot overbridge at the terminal to go to Anna Salai. The other option is to come through Race Course Road, Chakrapani Street and Muthu Kumaraswamy Naicker Road. Hence, an FOB is a necessity. P. Sathyanarayanan is a resident of Guindy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-fob-is-necessary-near-guindy-railway-station/article34348226.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34348229.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Waterbody in Virugambakkam should be restored’||A waterbody in Virugambakkam needs to be restored . It is surrounded by Lambert Nagar, Vembuli Amman Kovil Street, Annagi Nagar, Udayam Colony, and Kaikkan Kuppam. It is understood from a notice board installed at the waterbody that it belongs to Tamil Nadu Waqf Board. On behalf of the residents, I request the Board and the Tamil Nadu government to ensure the restoration of this waterbody. At present, it is in a sorry state. Garbage is being dumped and sewage let into it. Freddy. R. Jayapalan is president of Lambert Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/waterbody-in-virugambakkam-should-be-restored/article34348232.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Signboards needed at DMS subway’||In the absence of proper signboards, a road user is bound to get confused around DMS subway on Anna Salai. The section is busy with many components. Besides connecting the eastern and western sides of Anna Salai, the subway also connects to the DMS Metro train station, Hence, signboards are a huge necessity. V S Jayaraman is a resident of T.Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/signboards-needed-at-dms-subway/article34348235.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Dental clinic opened||Coimbatore-based We Little, a clinic for preventive paediatric dentistry, has opened its 4000 sq.ft facility at RK Salai in Mylapore. According to a press release, the centre practises painless dental procedures. It uses iTero 3D scanning. Others facilities include modern sterilisation and infection control, advanced rotary endodontics, digital radiography, laser technology, invisible aligner technology, laughing gas painless dentistry and sedation dentistry, the release says. Its key specialities include paediatric feeding, paediatric sleep, myoline - naturally aligning teeth, sedation dentistry, laser dentistry, paediatric cosmetic dentistry, says the release. The clinic has a play area for children. The facility was inaugurated by actress Vijayalakshmi. Contact: 97515 58000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dental-clinic-opened/article34348241.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Green adoptions||Here is the break-up of the parks, traffic islands and median gardens that Greater Chennai Corporation has given to various entities, including corporate houses, voluntary organisations and residents’ welfare association for development and maintenance, under its Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement. 11 parks 26 traffic islands 26 median gardens 3 roadside parks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-adoptions/article34348250.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Guindy bus stop road is battered’||The road along the MTC bus stop in Guindy is in a bad shape. At night, motorists will fail to notice the uneven surface, which also makes for water stagnation during rains. I request the authorities concerned to attend to this issue.  Sundari Gandhi is a resident of Poonamallee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/guindy-bus-stop-road-is-battered/article34348239.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a shared turf: Are RWAs ready to make a green pact with Chennai?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-shared-turf-are-rwas-ready-to-make-a-green-pact-with-chennai/article34348224.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching meaning into existence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-meaning-into-existence/article34348225.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a shared turf: Are RWAs ready to make a green pact with Chennai?||Past a population threshold, a gated community has at the least, one teenager fancying oneself as the next Ravichandran Ashwin. The next Mithali Raj. The next PV Sindhu. The next Ajith Lal. The next Geethu Anna Jose. And there is the masters’ circuit to boot — the hyperlocal Bhutias and Tendulkars spoiling for a go at a sport they once adorned. So, multifarious sporting aspirations stamped with the same address is usually a fact of big-community living. A residents’ welfare association has its work cut out when these aspirations have to be accommodated in a measly 2000 sq.ft or thereabouts. The pitch is further queered when the development of this space is contingent upon meeting stipulations from the local civic body. Wedged into a similar situation, Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) at MRC Nagar in Raja Annamalaipuram, with its 300-plus units, found its answer in a synthetic multi-purpose turf. As J. Madhan, secretary, Rani Meyyammai Towers Residents Welfare Association puts it, when the question of developing a Greater Chennai Corporation park found at the community’s OSR land came up, the idea of a multi-purpose turf was nowhere on the horizon. (In early March this year, the community unwrapped the facility in a soft launch. The sudden surge in Coronavirus cases led the facility to be temporarily closed on April 6.) The exercise largely began when RMT parents were plunged into depression over their inability to control their fledglings’ gadget usage. A need was felt to provide older as well as younger children with an outdoor-space that would appeal to both. It had to be within the safe confines of the community. Not only that, the facility had to also serve every other age group, so that the entire community could be co-opted into the project. The secretary points out that the management committee zeroed in on a section of the Corporation park for establishing a play area of this kind. “This section largely remained unused over the last 15 years. With its corroded metal fitness fixtures, it hardly made a welcome sight. Besides, the overgrowths raised fears of insect attacks,” he explains. “One of the committee-members — Avinash Senthil — coordinated with Corporation authorities and attended to the formalities that go with a community taking up the development and maintenance of an open space reservation park. There were development guidelines to be met. First and foremost, the Corporation stipulated that the space’s essential character as a park should not be diluted. A part of it can be developed into a general play arena though. Two, this play arena should not be dedicated to any particular sport with permanent fixtures. As per the scheme then, we also paid a caution deposit with the Corporation in September 2020.” Says Avinash, “We initiated the park adoption process with Greater Chennai Corporation more than six months ago; and the final approval came in January.” (It may be noted that the Corporation has further simplified the process of park adoption by entities — which include corporates, NGOs, resident welfare associations and even individuals — under what it calls Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance, which goes under the acronym PASUMAI. See box “On A Fast Track”) As remarked by the management-committee members, in its embryonic stage, the exercise was a million years removed from what it ultimately evolved into. When it was decided a multi-purpose turf would meet the expectations of one and sundry, the question of resources popped up. Turfs do not come cheap. “We have spent a huge amount to develop the facility, which was made possible by major contributions from some donors within the community. A part of the expenditure was met with an outlay from the community fund,” the secretary elaborates Following the turf’s inauguration, when residents got to have a taste of it before the fresh surge shut it down, many parents reportedly registered their happiness over how their children deserted gadgets for the turf. That probably more than justifies the effort that went into the exercise.  A need was felt to provide older as well as younger children with an outdoor-space that would appeal to both. It had to be within the safe confines of the community. Not only that, the facility had to also serve every other age group, so that the entire community could be co-opted into the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-shared-turf-are-rwas-ready-to-make-a-green-pact-with-chennai/article34348247.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||FOB work begins at Tambaram Sanatorium railway station||Southern Railway is acting on a long-time collective request of residents welfare associations in Tambaram Sanatorium East, Tambaram Sanatorium West and Chitlapakkam — a foot over-bridge (FOB) connecting Station Border Road in Tambaram Sanatorium (West) and Chitlapakkam Second Main Road in Tambaram Sanatorium (East). Construction of the FOB is under way. In the exesiting format, the connection between these two areas is through a flyover-cum-grade separator and a subway “For years, we have been requesting the Southern Railway to construct a foot over-bridge. During rains, water would seep through ceilings and walls making it slippery. It is matter of great relief that Southern Railway is constructing an FOB at the terminal,” says P. Aravindhan, secretary, Sundaram Colony Residents’ Welfare Association, Tambaram Sanatorium (West). An FOB is a necessity here because MEPZ (Madras Export Processing Zone), National Institute of Siddha, and Government Hospital of Thoracic Medicine, Tambaram Sanatorium and Tambaram Taluk Government Hospital are in the vicinity and a sizeable section of the staff from these institutions commute by trains. Besides, there are many residential localities in Tambaram Sanatorium (East) and Tambaram Sanatorium (West), East Tambaram, and Chitlapakkam. Residents have pointed out that the lack of adequate walking space in the subway is felt during rush hour. As the ceiling is low, many pedestrians choose to cross via the tracks, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fob-work-begins-at-tambaram-sanatorium-railway-station/article34348188.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching meaning into existence||Recently, the tailoring unit at Sri Arunodayam in Kolathur was up against a steep target. Three thousand masks had to be delivered to the voluntary organisation REACH, and the work had to be accomplished in 15 days, with 12 tailors. In regular circumstances, this would hardly be a pressure-cooker situation. At this Kolathur unit though, intellectually challenged teenagers constitute its 12-member workforce. They work from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. usually, and on days with an unusual ask, they put in those much-needed extra hours. That is how they met this target. “When they have put in that extra work, they will make sure we treat them with eats such as boli and mini-samosa,” chuckles Iyyappan Subramaniyan, founder of Sri Arunodayam. “As they had not been out in the last one year due to the pandemic, we organised an outing for them, taking all the COVID-19 safety measures.” This month, Sri Arunodayam, a non-profit that provides a home for 108 children with intellectual disabilities who have been abandoned by their parents, completes one year of its mask project. When the pandemic started, the centre was stitching and donating free masks to the poor and the homeless. Today, this has become the regular work at the vocational unit, fetching the management and its residents a decent income. “In the first three months, we would have given at least 10,000 masks away, all done by the young adults from the vocational centre,” says Iyyappan. Launching the mask project was not easy. Not all residents were trained in the use of the sewing machine and it took them two months to pick up this new skill. “During the first 15 days, they were trained to work on the machine without the needle. Following this, adaptations were made in the “power machines” so that the needle would not pierce their hands,” says Baskar M, who teaches tailoring at the home. Later, each of them was assigned roles and responsibilities based on their ability. These special-needs children, he says, are comfortable stitching but cannot take up cutting or measurement work. “When we began, on an average, five to six masks were made every day. Now, the team stitches 40 to 50 masks,” says Iyyappan, adding they have stitched more than 30,000 masks. The pandemic opened new avenues. Earlier, they made sold candles, diyas and wire baskets, a work plagued by the fact that these products came with limited scope for marketing. “The pandemic has forced them to learn a new skill and put it to good use. We also give them a small stipend every month for the work they put in at the unit,” says Iyyappan. The mask project is being run with the support from many donors. “Our donations have come down due to the pandemic, but we have had many supporting us by placing bulk orders, marketing our masks or promoting them in social media,” says Iyyappan. For example, Hari Das from Vanagaram bought a few hundred masks to distribute them to the support staff at his apartment, colleagues and his circle of friends. “Photography being my hobby, I take pictures of the masks, which help in marketing them,” says Das. Another well-wisher Haripriya puts out a post on social media that usually translates into orders. Recently, a donor placed an order for 500 masks for children. The group is working on honouring this order. Once the demand for masks die down, Baskar says, the plan is to see if they can use their sewing skills to stitch clothes. For further details, visitwww.sriarunodayam.org  When we got started on this project, five to six masks were made every day. Now, it is 40 to 50 masks a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-meaning-into-existence/article34348218.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Chitlapakkam lake needs a sluice gate||A section of Chitlapakkam residents have requested the Water Resources Department to construct a gate at a sluice in the Chitlapakkam waterbody. As part of the lake restoration works, WRD constructed a sluice in the form of a well. “A gate to control the sluice and let out the excess water has not been constructed. As a result, the lake is not able to store rainwater,” says K. Dayanand, president, Pradeep and Karthik Avenue Residents’ Welfare Association, Chitlapakkam. Excess water from the lake gushes through the sluice to the rainwater canal and drains into the Sembakkam lake. Many years ago, the water from the sluice used to flow through the rainwater channel and agricultural fields to Sembakkam lake. The sluice, located at the deepest point of the lake, was operated for irrigation purpose and to flush excess water. “We want the WRD attend to this work immediately,” adds Dayanand.  “A gate to control the sluice and let out the excess water has not been constructed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chitlapakkam-lake-needs-a-sluice-gate/article34348195.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||MTC terminus presents a picture of squalor||The sprawling Metropolitan Transport Corporation terminus on Medavakkam Koot Road is a picture of squalor, as open urination and dumping of waste and happens at the facility. Besides, private vehicles are parked inside the terminus. The floor of the terminus is pockmarked with potholes. The washrooms and drinking water facilities are under lock and key. “Tipplers doze off on the benches at the terminus. Commuters prefer standing to sitting next to tipplers,” says N. Babu, a resident of Medavakkam. Residents have requested the Medvakkam Village Panchayat to take steps to spruce up the terminus. Route numbers 31G (operated to Tambaram East) 76 (Koyambedu), and 14M (NGO Colony) originate at the terminus. A Medavakkam Village Panchayat official says that the terminal will be spruced up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-terminus-presents-a-picture-of-squalor/article34348197.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Parking lot in Tambaram railway station gets a shelter||To my pleasant surprise, I recently noticed that the two-wheeler parking facility on the western side of Tambaram railway station had received a shelter. The parking lot badly needed it. Hundreds of two-wheelers were parked in the open and exposed to the vagaries of the weather. Further, I would like to point out that construction materials required for the work relating to the third line between Tambaram and Chengalpattu are dumped near the existing parking lot. After the work is completed, Southern Railway should have these materials cleared, level the land and set up a four-wheeler parking lot. R V Baskaran is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/parking-lot-in-tambaram-railway-station-gets-a-shelter/article34348211.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A fast forward through art||‘Art Challenge — Voices of Youth’ was an effort to encourage children and young adults to reimagine the future, post-COVID-19, through the medium of art. Initiated by Inklink Charitable Trust with support of UNICEF India, the exercise saw participants factoring sustainability, well-being and mental health, education and work and children’s rights into the lines. According to a communication from InkLink, participants included students of six institutions across Tamil Nadu. Three of these institutions are from Chennai — National Institute of Fashion Technology; Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science and Head Start International School. The highlight, the communication added, is that “the children of Kannagi Nagar also participated” in this awareness-creating art initiative. To commemorate World Art Day (April 15), here is presenting three artworks from a collection of artworks from the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-fast-forward-through-art/article34348217.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Park takes centre stage||Millennium Park at Park Road in Anna Nagar brings out a rare emotion from the residents of the neighbourhood. Long-time members of Anna Nagar Western Extension Association explain how residents fought back when undesirable elements had encroached upon the land that had been earmarked for the creation of this park. It is therefore no surprise that the residents welfare association has approached Greater Chennai Corporation to be allowed to maintain Millennium Park, under the civic body’s Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement (PASUMAI). “We submitted our application in mid-February and are waiting to hear from GCC officials,” says P. Vadivel, secretary of Anna Nagar Western Extension Association. (As the model code of conduct is in effect, its processing of application would have to wait) Millennium park was developed under Namakku Namey Thittam by Anna Nagar Western Extension Association in the year 2000. Executive committee members feel that maintaining the sprawling park should not be difficult for an Association whose influence extends from plot number 1 to 922, covering Sectors A to D. The RWA is confident of meeting the monthly expenses that would go into maintaining the park. “We expect a monthly expense of Rs. 20,000, which includes payments to be made to the security personnel and the gardener,” says Vadivel. The Association has its own space at Park Road and offers its for music, dance programmes and other activities. Besides, a tennis court is also used by the public. “We are planning to meet the operational expenses from the subscription collected from life members and from well-wishers from the association,” says Vadivel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/park-takes-centre-stage/article34348221.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Dental clinic opened||Coimbatore-based We Little, a clinic for preventive paediatric dentistry, has opened its 4000 sq.ft facility at RK Salai in Mylapore. According to a press release, the centre practises painless dental procedures. It uses iTero 3D scanning. Others facilities include modern sterilisation and infection control, advanced rotary endodontics, digital radiography, laser technology, invisible aligner technology, laughing gas painless dentistry and sedation dentistry, the release says. Its key specialities include paediatric feeding, paediatric sleep, myoline - naturally aligning teeth, sedation dentistry, laser dentistry, paediatric cosmetic dentistry, says the release. The clinic has a play area for children. The facility was inaugurated by actress Vijayalakshmi. Contact: 97515 58000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dental-clinic-opened/article34348207.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedestrians pushed to the margins||Pedestrians are pushed to the margins on Bharatha Matha Street in East Tambaram — literally. Parked along the road margins, vehicles hinder not only the movement of pedestrians but also vehicular traffic. Residents attribute this situation to the proliferation of eateries and refreshment stalls along the street. A majority of the haphazardly parked vehicles would be those of customers. “Walking on this road is fraught with risk. As pedestrians are walking on the carriageway, they have look over their shoulder to see if there is any threat from a speeding vehicle,” says S. Johnson, a longtime resident of East Tambaram. Motorcycles, cars and vans — you find all of then standing where pedestrians should be walking. There are also abandoned vehicles contributing to the problem. Further, garbage pile-ups and construction debris eat up the space along the road. “We have to honk persistently to warn the pedestrians. None of the commercial establishments has a parking lot,” says V. Ananth, a motorist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pedestrians-pushed-to-the-margins/article34348202.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Nanganallur’s forum’s request to GCC||Members of Senior Citizens’ Forum, Nanganallur have requested the Greater Chennai Corporation to set up mobile clinics at different localities across the city. According to V. Rama Rao, vice-president of the Forum, some of the vaccination centres are witnessing long queues and one way of preventing crowding is to initiate mobile clinics. “GCC can deploy three vehicles per zone. If a section of an area is left out, the vaccination process can be carried out the following day,” he adds. Tokens can be provided and GCC should inform the public about the camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nanganallurs-forums-request-to-gcc/article34348193.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Fence Chitlapakkam lake’||On April 15, three children drowned in Chitlapakkam lake. This sad incident causes us to pause and ponder over the lack of foresight that characterises our actions? With the foresight that there could be accidents of this nature, and the proactive move of having a permanent fence, at least six-feet tall, along the walkers pathway could have averted this tragedy. Further, we should have thought through the possibility of such danger overtaking children coming alone to the lake. If we had and fenced the lake to prevent children from walking in at will, unaccompanied by elders, this tragedy would have been averted. L.Sundararaman is president of Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fence-chitlapakkam-lake/article34348209.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedestrian woes at Camp Road junction||The Camp Road junction in Selaiyur is unsafe for pedestrians. It is very difficult to cross this section due to heavy flow of vehicular traffic and also because of the‘free left” for vehicles bound for Agaram. Besides, an unscientifically created median has also reduced the space for pedestrians. Further, encroachments by shops, stacking of construction materials and parking of an ambulance by a private hospital eat up the space on the road. S. Sabarinathan is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pedestrian-woes-at-camp-road-junction/article34348212.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Commuters see a need for a fourth parking lot at Sanatorium railway station||There are three parking lots for two-wheelers at Tambaram Sanatorium railway station — two on the eastern side and one on the western side of the station. However, a need has emerged for creation of one more parking facility for two-wheelers. It is mainly because of the COVID-19 situation, which led to poor patronage of share-auto services that operate between Tambaram Sanatorium and Chitlapakkam. A good number of commuters now come to the station using their private transport, especially motorcycles. Therefore, there is literally a scramble for space in these parking facilities. “There is a mad rush among the commuters during rush hour to park their vehicles. Due to lack of space inside the parking facilities, some park their vehicles on the pavement of Chitlapakkam Second Main Road. Hence it is suggested that the adequate space below the flyover-cum-grade separator which connects Chitlapakkam Second Main Road in Tambaram Sanatorium (East) with the Railway Station Road, Tambaram Sanatorium (West) should be developed as a parking lot. Also, a parking lot dedicated for bicycles can be created. I have given petitions in this regard to all the authorities concerned,” says K. Dayanand, president, Pradeep and Karthik Avenue Residents Welfare Association, Chitlapakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/commuters-see-a-need-for-a-fourth-parking-lot-at-sanatorium-railway-station/article34348214.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘An FOB is necessary near Guindy railway station’||I request the Southern Railway and the Greater Chennai Corporation to make sure that a new foot over-bridge (FOB) is constructed near the Guindy railway station, connecting Subha Reddy Colony Road and Race View Colony Street. An FOB would be of immense help to the residents of areas near the Guindy railway station. At present, the residents use the foot overbridge at the terminal to go to Anna Salai. The other option is to come through Race Course Road, Chakrapani Street and Muthu Kumaraswamy Naicker Road. Hence, an FOB is a necessity. P. Sathyanarayanan is a resident of Guindy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-fob-is-necessary-near-guindy-railway-station/article34348215.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer care for animals at Vandalur zoo||Animals at the Vandalur zoo are given a special diet to beat the heat. According to Zoo officials, big ragi balls made with jaggery; papayas; sugarcane and coconut are part of the cooling diet for elephants. Additional showers and sprinklers have come up in the enclosures of giraffes, zebras, ostriches, deer and gaurs. Juicy fruits like watermelons are provided to the animals in their enclosures. For visitors, sanitised sprinklers have come up at various spots in the zoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/summer-care-for-animals-at-vandalur-zoo/article34348205.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a fast track||Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) launched Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance (PASUMAI) on 24 December, 2020, to lop off processes that made it difficult for entities — corporate houses, voluntary organisations, residents’ welfare associations and individuals among them — to take up the development and maintenance of parks, traffic islands and median gardens. “The park adoption process is being carried out at Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of Greater Chennai Corporation,” said a Corporation official attached to GCC’s Parks Department. The Corporation official elaborated: “Before executing an MoU, we have to understand the entity who is coming forward to maintain the park. If they are fit enough to handle it — that is, whether they have the resource and know-how to handle it.” The official said that the entity should comply with standards, and failure on their part to maintain the adopted facility efficiently could make later restoration doubly arduous. The Corporation official stated that to make it easy for entities to adopt parks, traffic islands and medians, through PASUMAI, for projects signed up after 24 December, 2020 (when PASUMAI was launched) the refundable caution deposit of Rs. 100 per sq.m for parks, and Rs. 50,000 for traffic islands and median gardens, was waived. “The Adoption process cannot be done online, because an MoU has to be executed. And before that, we have to ascertain the background of the entities coming forward to adopt a park. We have to make sure that the entities would not exploit it for commercial purpose,” the Corporation official added. The Corporation official said that from the time the Model Code of Conduct for the Assembly elections came into effect, no agreements were being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-fast-track/article34348219.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34348216.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching meaning into existence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-meaning-into-existence/article34348190.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Are RWAs ready to make a green pact ?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/are-rwas-ready-to-make-a-green-pact/article34348192.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On a shared turf: Are RWAs ready to make a green pact with Chennai?||Past a population threshold, a gated community has at the least, one teenager fancying oneself as the next Ravichandran Ashwin. The next Mithali Raj. The next PV Sindhu. The next Ajith Lal. The next Geethu Anna Jose. And there is the masters’ circuit to boot — the hyperlocal Bhutias and Tendulkars spoiling for a go at a sport they once adorned. So, multifarious sporting aspirations stamped with the same address is usually a fact of big-community living. A residents’ welfare association has its work cut out when these aspirations have to be accommodated in a measly 2000 sq.ft or thereabouts. The pitch is further queered when the development of this space is contingent upon meeting stipulations from the local civic body. Wedged into a similar situation, Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) at MRC Nagar in Raja Annamalaipuram, with its 300-plus units, found its answer in a synthetic multi-purpose turf. As J. Madhan, secretary, Rani Meyyammai Towers Residents Welfare Association puts it, when the question of developing a Greater Chennai Corporation park found at the community’s OSR land came up, the idea of a multi-purpose turf was nowhere on the horizon. (In early March this year, the community unwrapped the facility in a soft launch. The sudden surge in Coronavirus cases led the facility to be temporarily closed on April 6.) The exercise largely began when RMT parents were plunged into depression over their inability to control their fledglings’ gadget usage. A need was felt to provide older as well as younger children with an outdoor-space that would appeal to both. It had to be within the safe confines of the community. Not only that, the facility had to also serve every other age group, so that the entire community could be co-opted into the project. The secretary points out that the management committee zeroed in on a section of the Corporation park for establishing a play area of this kind. “This section largely remained unused over the last 15 years. With its corroded metal fitness fixtures, it hardly made a welcome sight. Besides, the overgrowths raised fears of insect attacks,” he explains. “One of the committee-members — Avinash Senthil — coordinated with Corporation authorities and attended to the formalities that go with a community taking up the development and maintenance of an open space reservation park. There were development guidelines to be met. First and foremost, the Corporation stipulated that the space’s essential character as a park should not be diluted. A part of it can be developed into a general play arena though. Two, this play arena should not be dedicated to any particular sport with permanent fixtures. As per the scheme then, we also paid a caution deposit with the Corporation in September 2020.” Says Avinash, “We initiated the park adoption process with Greater Chennai Corporation more than six months ago; and the final approval came in January.” (It may be noted that the Corporation has further simplified the process of park adoption by entities — which include corporates, NGOs, resident welfare associations and even individuals — under what it calls Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance, which goes under the acronym PASUMAI. See box “On A Fast Track”) As remarked by the management-committee members, in its embryonic stage, the exercise was a million years removed from what it ultimately evolved into. When it was decided a multi-purpose turf would meet the expectations of one and sundry, the question of resources popped up. Turfs do not come cheap. “We have spent a huge amount to develop the facility, which was made possible by major contributions from some donors within the community. A part of the expenditure was met with an outlay from the community fund,” the secretary elaborates Following the turf’s inauguration, when residents got to have a taste of it before the fresh surge shut it down, many parents reportedly registered their happiness over how their children deserted gadgets for the turf. That probably more than justifies the effort that went into the exercise.  A need was felt to provide older as well as younger children with an outdoor-space that would appeal to both. It had to be within the safe confines of the community. Not only that, the facility had to also serve every other age group, so that the entire community could be co-opted into the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-a-shared-turf-are-rwas-ready-to-make-a-green-pact-with-chennai/article34348220.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||VACCINATION CAMP AT MEPZ||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vaccination-camp-at-mepz/article34348199.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Put your coat and tie on||The bitter debates about whether the postcolonial writer can write in English that rocked mid-20th-century debates in decolonised nations have, for the most part, been laid to rest — to the resolution “Yes we can!” But a crucial question has escaped attention: Can the postcolonial reader read in English? Numbers deceive. When it comes to India, small fractions run into hundreds of millions. The size of the English-reading middle class (and above) is larger than the population of most countries in the world. If you doubt this, just take a look at the size of the English-language textbook industry in the country. English-language textbooks — that’s a good place to begin this conversation. Ever since the Anglicists defeated the Sanskritists in early 19th century debates over education, the craving for English-medium education across India has attained the status of a cliché. People want to function in English — and as the middle class expands, more and more people are able to do this. Tangible goals Therein begins the problem for literature. What happens when English is the language of aspiration, power and mobility? These three things have very unpredictable, sometimes impossible relationships with art. Art loves failure and weakness just as much as it loves success and power. Perhaps the former a little bit more than the latter? It is natural that most people who read English language books in India don’t have time for this irregularity nonsense. They read with tangible and quantifiable goals to improve themselves, to rise through the grades, to crack exams, to get better jobs, to make more money, and the most abstract, to appear smart to the maximum number of people, in the most obvious ways possible. From a book written in English, we want something concrete and directly profitable. Intensity of truth There are those books, Virginia Woolf had said, which call upon you to act when you read them to join a club, make a donation, go to a meeting, and then your conscience rests and you are finally ‘done’ with the book. And there are those books which call you to no action but leave you in a state of perpetual, tender unrest, about which you can ‘do’ nothing, and you’re never ‘done’ with that book, never in your life. When it comes to English in India, it is quite understandable that there will be precious few takers for the latter kind. Of course, you can say, isn’t that true of books in any language, anywhere? Right from the European Renaissance to the Victorian age, books on self-fashioning and self-help have done splendid business, and when did lyric poetry overshadow their bestselling glory? Absolutely true. But it takes on such intensity of truth when the language in question is one of universal aspiration in a deeply stratified, postcolonial nation that its difference from reading in the indigenous languages becomes all too clear. Personal triumph A fascinating example is that of the rise of Indian English popular fiction in the 21st century. The novels of Chetan Bhagat, who essentially pioneered the ‘homeward turn’ of Indian-English pop fiction, felt perfectly in sync with the pulse of a hotly aspirational India in the first decade of the 21st century, whether his focus was engineering schools, cricket, or call centres. There was a more personal arc of aspiration often inscribed in a typical Bhagat plot — that of a small-town boy, more comfortable in Hindi than in English, arriving at the big city/ fancy college and realising his dreams in a roundabout way. It often involves bumpy romantic relationships with posh, English-fluent city girls, but that’s a whole other kind of aspiration. However, it was not just the aspirational plot, but critically the easygoing colloquial language, the now-famous ‘Hinglish’, that made reading these novels a personal triumph for millions of readers in a country where pleasure reading in English was limited to those with an elite and rarefied education. I remember an editor at a publishing house telling me that India abounds in readers for whom reading an English book for pleasure feels like a different kind of achievement altogether, a true personal milestone. It is a perfectly legitimate one, and one worth celebrating. Legacy of betterment The far more subtle and far less tangible problem is the diffuse and insidious way such an aspiration translates into the various forms of expectations we bring to literature on the whole. It is truly difficult for Indians to see the English language as a medium of entertainment or education as separate from a narrative of upward mobility. A legacy of betterment is deeply ingrained in the very colonial legacy of English education. Thomas Babington Macaulay’s vision of a colonial curriculum to create subjects who are brown in flesh but white in spirit was doubtless a masterstroke of the soft power of imperialism, but it was articulated in the language of self-improvement and upward mobility. It is now historically established that a sizeable segment of the colonial bourgeoisie bought that vision, and many of those who couldn’t, longed for the purchasing power to do so. The sale went so well, outdone only by unfulfilled desire for it in those who could not afford it, that an aura of aspiration now permanently colours the act of ‘Indian reading in English,’ including that of imaginative literature. A work in English immediately invites expectations of a kind, many of which wither away when one sits down to read in the local languages. It is as if our mind puts on a jacket and tie the moment we start to read in English, no matter how faint and invisible that donning is, and no matter how relaxed and pleasure-seeking we imagine ourselves to be. At some level, even for the Indian middle-class English reader, entering an imaginative world created in English is like entering an upscale restaurant. And when in a restaurant, fancy or not, Indians don’t like to eat roti and dal , the everyday home fare, unlike, say, Americans who delight in eating pancakes in a boutique diner. Reading works in English that merely articulate the quotidian texture of life, with no clear arc of development or progress, is like getting the same old rice and dal, which is okay to expect in indigenous literature, but not in the great Western language. When such things are served in the fancy crockery of English, it leads to a crumbling of expectations that doesn’t make any sense to the secretly aspirational English reader. English literature is expected to somehow uplift us, and in more worldly ways than what Cassius Longinus imagined as the elevating effect of ‘sublimity’ in literature. To use the language of the great Romantic opium-addict, Thomas de Quincey, imaginative literature in English in this postcolonial nation must always be, on a fundamental level, a literature of knowledge (that has external utility), and far less often, a literature of power, with no reward beyond itself. The postcolonial writer has written a wide variety of things in English. The postcolonial reader of English, on the other hand, has had sharp and exclusive goals. Their mismatch, in the end, is not one of aptitude, but of expectation from the very act of reading. The writer’s novels includeThe Firebird, The Scent of God, and the forthcomingThe Middle Finger.  At some level, even for the Indian middle-class English reader, entering an imaginative world created in English is like entering an upscale restaurant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/put-your-coat-and-tie-on/article34348310.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Entry stamps||In 1966, on his 75th birth anniversary, and a decade following his death, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was honoured by the Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department with a commemorative stamp. The stamp carries a portrait of a solemn, bespectacled, middle-aged Ambedkar in a suit, an image that recurred in most of his subsequent philatelic representations. He is described as an “authority on Constitutional Law” in the information brochure released alongside the stamp. While the brochure acknowledges “his patriotism”, “the role he played during India’s transition from a colony to a republic” and the “leading part” he played “in the framing of the Indian Constitution,” it describes him as a leader who “often appeared” to take “extreme positions on social and political matters.” His involvement in social movements for the upliftment of the “Harijans” (a term not used in subsequent brochures) is briefly noted, but his conversion to Buddhism is not mentioned. This stamp marks the modest and tentative entry of Ambedkar into the philatelic world. In the 25th year of Independence, in 1973, the Posts and Telegraphs Department issued another commemorative stamp that addresses him as Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar. This stamp shows Parliament in the background to Ambedkar’s image. The brochure describes him variously as a “fervent nationalist,” “the Great Emancipator of the Oppressed,” one among “progressive social thinkers” such as Raja Rammohan Roy and Mahatma Phule, “the first revolutionary leader to emerge from the down-trodden untouchables in the last twenty five hundred years,” and an “eminent Constitutional Lawyer.” Both the brochure and the cachet of the first day cover (FDC) carry quotations from Ambedkar. The cachet quotes from his November 26, 1949 speech in the Constituent Assembly: “We must make our political democracy a social democracy as well.” The brochure also carries Nehru’s tribute that recognises Ambedkar’s “very important role in the making of the Constitution of India and the Hindu Law Reform.” The brochure notes the Chowdar Tank Struggle (Mahad, 1927) and the Kalaram Temple Entry Agitation (Nashik, 1930) launched by Ambedkar, and refers briefly to his three-decade-long journey toward Buddhism. Transformed image Between 1966 and 1973, Ambedkar had transformed from a “leading” contributor to the Constitution into its “architect.” The 1973 stamp also marks the broadening of the philatelic imagination of Ambedkar that now associated him with not only the Constitution, but also Parliament. However, the “ enfant terrible of Indian politics” was not yet fully acceptable in the philatelic space, as reflected in Nehru’s tribute that terms him “a highly controversial figure.” The third commemorative stamp on Ambedkar was issued in 1991, on his birth centenary, and a year after he was honoured with the Bharat Ratna and a commemorative coin. The stamp shows a middle-aged Ambedkar in the foreground, while in the background is his younger, dhoti-clad self “leading the satyagraha for liberation of Chowdar Tank”. The cachet of the FDC shows a statue of Ambedkar standing on a pedestal with the index finger of his right hand pointing toward the sky, and the Constitution in his left hand. The brochure describes him as “the chief architect of the Indian Constitution” and a champion of “human rights and social justice” and “rights of the workers.” For the first time, he is addressed as “Baba Saheb” in the postal material. In the following years, quotes attributed to Ambedkar began to appear on postcards and inland letter cards. Ambedkar had to wait for another decade, though, before being formally admitted into the postal pantheon of figures honoured with definitive stamps, which unlike commemoratives are printed on a very large scale for regular use. In 2001, the government issued special definitives on Ambedkar along with Sardar Patel and Subhas Chandra Bose, an honour that was until then reserved for Gandhi and Nehru. Two other definitives on Ambedkar were issued in 2009 and 2016. Patriotic focus The next commemorative stamp, released in 2013, depicts a smiling Ambedkar with Chaitya Bhoomi, where his last rites were performed in Mumbai, in the background. Along with the familiar biographical details, the brochure borrows a sentence from the 1966 stamp’s brochure to emphasise that Ambedkar was a patriot who “stood for a united self-governing community of Indians with special constitutional safeguards for the depressed classes” and offers glimpses of the last days of his life. In 2015, to mark his 125th birth year, Ambedkar was honoured with a coin as well as a stamp. The stamp shows Parliament in the background, which is reminiscent of the 1973 stamp, but places it underneath the Preamble to the Constitution. This marks the closure of the philatelic imagination of Ambedkar in relation to the Constitution and Parliament. The brochure of this stamp uniquely refers to the Poona Pact, 1932, between Ambedkar and Gandhi, and Ambedkar’s resignation from Nehru’s cabinet due to differences over the Hindu Code Bill. This, however, was not the first time Ambedkar and Gandhi had found themselves together in postal material. In 2000, a stamp ‘50 Years of the Republic of India: Father of the Nation’ was released with an elegant and evocative sketch of Gandhi. While the brochure pays tribute to Ambedkar and other founding fathers of the republic and reproduces a fuller version of the quote carried on the 1973 cachet, the beautifully designed cachet of the FDC carries an image of Ambedkar and his signature in the foreground of the Preamble. Later in the year, Ambedkar appeared in the background of another stamp on R. Srinivasan, “a great leader of the depressed classes in the erstwhile province of Madras.” In 2017, Ambedkar figured on a se-tenant stamp, where a pair of conjoined stamps share an image, for the first time. It shows him with a statue of Buddha on his right and Deekshabhoomi, where he embraced Buddhism, on his left. The brochure is entirely devoted to locating Ambedkar in the Buddhist universe stretching back in time to Emperor Ashoka. Citizens no longer needed to be reminded of his academic qualifications or contribution to the making of modern India. We were for the first time given a tour through Ambedkar’s turn to Buddhism, which was only briefly referred to in the 1973 brochure. The brochure also gives a glimpse of the banal ways in which the state co-opts what began as “controversial”, when it informs us that the Maharashtra government had granted the status of Grade-A pilgrimage centre to Deekshabhoomi. The cachet of the FDC of the Nagpur Tercentenary stamp issued in 2002 also depicts Deekshabhoomi. So far, all the stamps on Ambedkar had been released on his birth anniversary. But in a first, another stamp was issued in 2017, a week after the occasion. This stamp on the Bharat Ratna Bhimrao Ambedkar Institute of Telecom Training, Jabalpur also happens to be the first Ambedkar-related commemorative stamp to be issued in the form of a miniature sheet as well. The most recent stamp featuring Ambedkar was released on the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution. This se-tenant depicts the seven-member drafting committee including Ambedkar seated at the table, the Constitution, the national emblem and Parliament. Outsider no more When Ambedkar was admitted into the philatelic world on April 14, 1966, the postal department introduced him as an erudite person notwithstanding “the accident of this birth as an ‘untouchable’” and showcased him as a nationalist and patriot, while papering over his differences with the founding fathers. This stamp appeared a decade after his death, whereas D.K. Karve (1958), M. Visvesvaraya (1960) and Rajendra Prasad (1962) had been previously honoured with a stamp while they were alive and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan received the same honour in 1967. The barebones information brochure of the 1966 stamp pales in comparison to the elegant eight-page booklet with a foreword by Vice President Zakir Husain issued along with the stamp on Sarojini Naidu. Interestingly, neither this nor the subsequent brochures on Ambedkar (except the 2015 brochure that mentions his last book) refer to his scholarly career, which seem to be overshadowed by his role in framing the Constitution. Over the next three decades, Ambedkar transformed from a disruptive outsider into an endearing and revered Baba Saheb, the patron saint of the Indian Constitution and its progressive moorings. By the mid-2010s, his academic qualifications acquired at prominent Western universities ceased to matter, while his role in constitution-making was securely established and did not need to be belaboured. Today, Ambedkar is the third most important philatelic figure in the country after Gandhi and Nehru but ahead of Swami Vivekananda, Swami Dayananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Sri Aurobindo, Sardar Patel, Subhas Chandra Bose and Indira Gandhi. The writer teaches economics at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and is co-author ofNumbers in India’s Periphery: The Political Economy of Government Statistics.  When Ambedkar was admitted into the philatelic world on April 14, 1966, the postal department introduced him as an erudite person notwithstanding “the accident of this birth as an ‘untouchable’”, and showcased him as a nationalist and patriot   In 2001, the government issued special definitives on Ambedkar along with Sardar Patel and Subhas Chandra Bose, an honour that was until then reserved for Gandhi and Nehru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/entry-stamps/article34348272.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The many missing links||On a mid-March morning in 2008, as our convoy of cars entered the Panna Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh, I could see wheat crops on either side of a mostly kutcha road in various states of readiness. Signs of a waning winter and waiting spring were all around me in the forest vegetation. The flame of the forest was already brightly in bloom. But the southwest monsoon, the previous year, had been 30% below normal in this region of Bundelkhand (which straddles Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh), and the depleted Ken River reflected the shortfall. I was part of an expert committee  on the Interlinking of Rivers (ILR) programme, constituted by the Union Ministry of Water Resources  in 2005-06, on my way to talk to the people of Daudhan village in Chhatarpur district, through which the Ken River flows.  ILR envisaged 30 river links both in the Himalayas and peninsular India, an ambitious project that was first conceptualised in the 1980s as part of the National Perspective Plan by the irrigation ministry to link rivers with ‘surplus water’ to those with ‘deficit water’. The detailed scheme, made public in 2002, included  the Ken-Betwa Link Project that proposed to link the Ken River that flows through Panna in Madhya Pradesh, and the Betwa River that runs through central Madhya Pradesh and southern Uttar Pradesh. The rationale was to augment water in the Betwa by linking it with the Ken, which, it was claimed, has surplus water. The proposal picked up momentum in the early 2000s, and was finally given environment clearance in 2017. Spirited opposition I did not anticipate the storm of spirited opposition that hit us from the people of Daudhan village, which  is located close to the proposed Greater Gangau Dam site, the main dam that would facilitate the proposed Ken-Betwa Link Project through a 230 km long canal. Ten villages, including Daudhan, were  expected to be submerged, with over 10,000 people displaced. No one expected the people of Daudhan to know about our visit. But they did, and the atmosphere at the meeting was charged. An elderly woman, Dadi, made it abundantly clear that they wouldn’t leave their village, come what may. Everyone at the meeting was vehemently opposed to the project. A memorandum in Hindi, submitted by the people of Daudhan village, read thus: “The whole village is against displacement to another place. We have clean water, air, forests and land for agriculture, which won’t be available to us at a new place. All of us want basic facilities like electricity, roads, schools and health facilities, so we can enjoy a basic standard of living. So, instead of displacing us, kindly help us get these basic facilities.” We received about a dozen memorandums during the visit. Cut to 13 years later. On March 22, 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the signing of a memorandum of agreement between the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, which talks about the water distribution between the two States. The current cost of the Ken-Betwa project is Rs. 38,000 crore, and the contours of the ecological destruction that the project will wreak are clearer now: 9,000 ha of submergence, most of it in the Panna Tiger Reserve. This would include the felling of 23 lakh trees with a girth of 20 cm or more. The key wildlife species that will be affected include tigers, endangered vultures, mahseer fish, and gharials in the Ken Gharial Sanctuary. The primary question, however, is this. Even after all this unbelievable destruction in the Bundelkhand region, will the project help the people? As early as 2005-8, Panna’s district magistrate wrote a series of letters to the Planning Commission and the principal secretary of water resources in Madhya Pradesh and he concluded: “Ken Betwa Project is [a] disaster for Ken Basin People, there is NO surplus water in Ken Basin”. The claim  by the National Water Development Agency (NWDA), formed in the 1980s to study the proposed ILR, is that the Ken has surplus water; but these hydrological figures have never passed independent scrutiny. There are bottlenecks to the project’s clearance. NWDA applied for forest clearance in 2015 but the Stage I forest clearance accorded in May 2017 stipulates several conditions that would imply a fundamental restructuring of the project. The conditions include that the proposed 78 MW power house shall not be constructed in the forest area and that no building material is to be taken from the forest, among others. Unique ecosystem Then, the wildlife clearance recommended by the standing committee of the National Board of Wildlife in a meeting in 2016 has also been challenged by the central empowered committee (CEC)  of the Supreme Court in a scathing report of August 2019. The CEC concluded that the standing committee had not examined the “Impact of the project on the downstream Gharial Sanctuary and the vulture nesting sites”, and has “not taken into account the decision of this Hon’ble court... wherein it is held that our approach should be eco-centric and not anthropocentric”. The CEC report notes “the loss of the special and unique ecosystem of gorges, rocky cliffs and riverine flora and fauna on either [bank] of the River Ken.” It adds: “The wildlife including micro flora and fauna which have evolved in this ecosystem will, on commissioning of the project, perish forever... Most of the important geological sites are going to be affected either by submergence upstream of the proposed dam or would dry up when the full flow of [the] river is arrested by the proposed dam. No amount of mitigative measures can create this kind of unique ecosystem which has evolved over millions of years to reach the present level of biodiversity.” Indeed, during a 2017 visit, I was mesmerised by the beauty of the Ken River downstream of Panna Tiger Reserve; it is rightly likened to a mini Grand Canyon and Niagara Falls. A challenge to the environmental clearance given to the Ken-Betwa project is pending before the National Green Tribunal. The environmental impact assessment of the project, based on which the project was given environmental clearance in 2017, was shamefully shoddy: there is little in it about the biodiversity that will be destroyed. A number of official agencies, including the Forest Advisory Committee within the environment ministry, have noted factual errors and inadequacies in the assessment. Huge manipulation The recommendation of environmental clearance for the project by the expert appraisal committee of the environment ministry in 2016 was a huge exercise in manipulation. In fact, there has been opposition, manipulation, non-transparency and compromised decision making at every step of the project. The project has to get a final forest clearance, and even here, there could be legal challenges. The entire process exemplifies how a development project should not be undertaken. At the  heart of India’s river linking project is a ‘surplus-deficit’ claim. But a scientific case for such a claim can be made only with an exhaustive assessment of all available options of water resource development in any basin or sub-basin, including rainwater harvesting, groundwater recharge, watershed development, protecting wetlands, forests, soil moisture, optimising existing storage infrastructure, sustainable cropping patterns, demand-side management, reuse and recycling of sewage, and so on. No such assessment has been made for any basin or sub-basin in India. The equating of floods with surplus and drought with deficit is also fundamentally flawed  because these could be seasonal phenomena. In fact, there is general acceptance of the fact that groundwater is, and has been, at least for the last four decades, India’s water lifeline. The focus of our water resources policy, plans, projects and practices, therefore, should be about nurturing this lifeline. This would include identifying and protecting existing groundwater recharge mechanisms, enhancing recharge where feasible, installing artificial recharge where possible and necessary, and also regulating groundwater use at aquifer level. One thing is clear. River linking projects are not going to help us save this lifeline. The writer is the coordinator of the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers & People.  At the  heart of India’s river linking project is a ‘surplus-deficit’ claim. But a scientific case for such a claim can be made only with an exhaustive assessment. No such assessment has been made for any basin or sub-basin in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-many-missing-links/article34348302.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The quest to rewrite DNA||The Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 2020 was shared by Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuelle Charpentier. It is common for Nobel Laureates to be on hold for decades until their contribution to the advancement of a particular subfield in science is recognised. By that metric, Doudna and Emmanuelle’s prize was remarkably quick. The first papers by the group had been written less than a decade ago. Walter Isaacson is a biographer of several archetypal ‘masculine geniuses’ — men who have sparked intellectual and consequent cultural revolutions by their individual striving such as Leonardo da Vinci, Albert Einstein and Steve Jobs. Other than being timely and his first biography of a woman scientist, there are several other departures from his oeuvre. Doudna may be the central character but she is not the focus and the tropes of masculine genius pervading similar books — precociousness, adolescent non-conformity, sociopathy glossed over as eccentricity, the trouncing of resident Goliaths — are absent. Collaborative exercise What comes through is the highly collaborative nature of 21st century science where ‘breakthroughs’ are the result of well-funded departments peopled by ambitious researchers who — along with their science — are acutely aware of goings-on in competing labs (largely in the United States and Europe). Isaacson, a former editor of Time and also a historian, combines the best of these fields and what we get is not only riveting insight into how modern science works but engaging reflections on the ethics of gene editing, its history, and implications for humanity. CRISPR, the breezy acronym of clustered regularly insterspaced short palindromic repeats, is the Microsoft Word of the genome editing world. There are other gene editing tools too but while CRISPR isn’t yet in the league of Microsoft, it’s poised to be there. One of the reasons for this is an intense battle over patent rights to CRISPR led by the two rival teams of Doudna, at University of California, Berkeley, and Feng Zhang at the Broad Institute, MIT Boston. Isaacson has extensive interviews with several prominent biotechnologists who are embroiled, in various degrees, and the reader is left with a clear overview of the stakes involved. There are accusations of skulduggery, backstabbing and questionable academic conduct. Until 2012, Doudna was yet to publish a significant scientific paper on CRISPR though there were already many groups of researchers who had put in place some important blocks. For instance, in order to protect themselves from viral attacks, bacteria had devised a system in which they stored chunks of assailing viral particles as repeating sets of genetic code within themselves. Segments of RNA This was to ‘remember’ these attacks and launch a defence in case of a future infection by the virus — much like how immune systems produce antibodies. Doudna played a seminal role in assembling scientists in her lab and forming intercontinental groups that used a variety of techniques to understand, at a molecular level, all the different components that showed how CRISPR-associated enzymes enabled the cutting and pasting of traces of viruses that attacked bacteria. They also created short segments of RNA that could guide a scissors-like enzyme to a virus and cut up its genetic material. From here the field quickly moved to the realisation that these enzymes and techniques could be used to edit genes and remove and replace them in the cells of plants, animals and even people. Isaacson goes on to describe how with such realisation came the revival of an older debate in genetic engineering on what were the boundaries, or whether there should be any, on modifying genes. If it was permissible to edit out genes that caused debilitating disease, was it any worse to tweak genes to create ‘designer babies’? The concern came into international spotlight when in 2018 it emerged that He Jiankui, a Chinese biotechnologist, trained in America, reported that he had edited out a gene linked with HIV, in embryos, implanted them in wombs of couples who had signed up for the process, and delivered ‘healthy’ children. Jianke thought he had brought about a revolution but was met with global outrage, from Doudna and other scientists, as the prevailing American scientific consensus is that germline editing, or transforming undifferentiated human cells, was out of bounds. Jiankui is in jail, was fined $430,000 and banned for life from working in reproductive science. The America conundrum Though Isaacson devotes considerable space to the moral dilemmas that accompany gene editing, he does not consider the geopolitical question. Has America taken it upon itself to decide who gets to advance gene editing? If germline editing is repugnant now, why is it morally acceptable on Isaacson’s part to not only condone, but pretty much extol as competition driven innovation, the battle for owning the patent rights to edit human genes for future commercial applications? Already, in the United States there are a breed of ‘bio-hackers’, who ordered DNA-modifying CRISPR-based kits to edit their own genes, such as Josiah Zayner, who finds considerable space in the book. They see themselves as the computer technologists and Open Source pioneers of the 1970s. If the American exceptionalism can be muted, The Code Breaker is an expansive, eminently readable review of the genome revolution that we are currently living through.  The Code Breaker  Walter Isaacson  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 899    Though Isaacson devotes considerable space to the moral dilemmas that accompany gene editing, he does not consider the geopolitical question||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-quest-to-rewrite-dna/article34348321.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Tsering had a little lamb||Last month Khenrab Phuntsog, wildlife guard at Hemis National Park in Ladakh, received a frantic telephone call. Could he urgently visit Gya, a remote village in Ladakh, and help the caller catch a couple of wild wolves that had attacked her sheep? The wolves had already killed four sheep in the last three days, the caller said. So Phuntsog immediately set off with his colleague and reached Gya by late evening. And it was not hard to locate the house of the caller, Tsering Dorjai. She is after all the only herdswoman in the village and everyone knows her. Untouched by fame Tsering walks her flock of 300 sheep and pashmina goats on the high Himalayan plateaus. For this, she has to spend 11 months a year at an altitude of 4,500 to 6,000 metres, in temperatures ranging from -35°C to 35° C, with just her flock for company. Besides weathering the harsh conditions, she also faces the constant threat of wolves and snow leopards, waiting for an opportunity to attack the herd. This does not intimidate her. “I chose this life. I love my sheep and goats. I know no other way of life,” says the 58-year-old shepherdess. Inspired by her life, Tsering’s younger brother, Stanzin Dorjai, a filmmaker, decided to tell her story. He and his team followed Tsering for one year to capture her demanding way of life. The resultant documentary, The Shepherdess of the Glaciers , directed by Stanzin and Christiane Mordelet, won them the best director award at the Mountain International Film Festival, 2016, held in Autrans, France. A slew of other awards at various international and national film festivals followed over the next two years. The documentary was recently screened at the ongoing 2021 Rising Gardens Film Festival as part of the annual One Billion Rising (OBR) celebrations saluting Indian women and their resilience. Feminist writer Kamla Bhasin, who is also the OBR India coordinator, says the film was chosen along with others because they showcase women with the courage to challenge existing practices and offer new perspectives on ways of living. Tsering remains untouched by the fame. Although she is happy that some women were inspired by her to take up shepherding, she says they must also love their flock as their children. “It is the only way they can survive this tough job.” Special bond Even as a child Tsering shared a special bond with goats and sheep. With no school near her village, she spent most of her time tending to the animals. Although pastoralism is one of the main livelihoods in Gya, many from the younger generation are giving it up, as they are unwilling to spend 11 months in a year camping alone with their flock in remote valleys. But giving up was never an option for Tsering. Earlier, Stanzin often accompanied her. Then, at the age of 14, he left Gya to attend a non-formal alternative school near Leh. His sister, however, continued and when their father died, she took over the entire responsibility. Tsering, 27 at the time, had already spent 15 years herding the flock and knew the drill. Not only was she familiar with the lay of the land, especially the good grazing grounds, she had also learnt to cope with the problems that came with the job. She says, “I come down to my house in the village for one or two months a year. Every day in the mountains is a challenge. But my flock are like my children. How can I give them over to someone else just because conditions are difficult?” Philosopher, guide Tsering has turned down marriage proposals, opting to stay single so that she can dedicate time to the flock. What does she do to ward off loneliness? “I converse with the sheep or turn on the radio, my only connection with the outer world,” she says. Says Stanzin: “I gave her the radio many years ago. She listens to the news and weather forecasts. But I don’t think those are of much help considering the depth of her own knowledge. She knows every crevasse in the glaciers, all the plants that can be used for healing, and reads weather changes by the way the wind blows. My sister is a doctor, weather forecaster, veterinarian, botanist, Himalayan guide, philosopher and goatherd all rolled into one.” It was these qualities that Stanzin wanted to bring out in his film. He was keen to show that women like Tsering are more than capable of entering a male domain and carrying forward the family and local tradition. But his sister wasn’t so sure that anyone would want to watch such a film. “I thought at first he was making a Bollywood film. Then he told me he wanted the world to see my life as a shepherdess. I told him nobody would spend time on such a film. It was only when he took me to France for the award acceptance ceremony that I realised how many people had watched the film. Yes, it made me happy. However, nothing can compare with the happiness I feel when I am with my flock.” The writer is an independent journalist writing on development and gender.  Every day in the mountains is a challenge. But my flock are like my children. How can I give them over to someone else just because conditions are difficult?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tsering-had-a-little-lamb/article34348339.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Super twist in the plot||A villain teaming up with heroes is nothing new for the superhero genre. But recent episodes of The Falcon and the Winter Soldier have gone beyond. In earlier episodes, we saw how Sam Wilson/ Falcon (Anthony Mackie) and James “Bucky” Barnes/ Winter Soldier (Sebastian Stan) are forced to break their old enemy, Helmut Zemo (Daniel Brühl), out of prison in order to fight a new, dangerous adversary. Zemo goes so far as to say that Karli Morgenthau (Erin Kellyman), the show’s super-soldier villain, is a “supremacist”. Latest gambit “She’s a supremacist,” Zemo tells Wilson. “It’s that warped aspiration that led to Nazis, to Ultron, to the Avengers... The desire to become superhuman cannot be separated from supremacist ideals.” And the way the show has been written, Zemo is very much the voice of reason, the moderate caught between the excesses of both Morgenthau and the ‘new’ Captain America, John Walker (Wyatt Russell). This latest gambit by The Falcon and the Winter Soldier isn’t entirely original; Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons’ landmark graphic novel Watchmen (1986) also featured superheroes becoming tools for white supremacy. The 2019 miniseries adaptation of the book expanded upon this theme, incorporating shameful chapters from America’s past, like the Tulsa Race Massacre of 1921. Original or not, that Zemo dialogue was further proof of the growing prominence of the ‘anti-superhero’ genre — an ever-expanding roster that includes Amazon Prime Video’s The Boys , the earlier movies Kick-Ass (2010) and Kick-Ass 2 (2013), the Brendan Fraser series Doom Patrol , and several others. These stories are an attempt at critiquing standard superhero tropes, the kind both Marvel and DC movies deal heavily in. Easy laugh The two latest entrants to this genre are the Netflix film Thunder Force and the Amazon Prime Video animated series Invincible . Thunder Force has an interesting comedic premise — two estranged best friends (Melissa McCarthy and Octavia Spencer) become superheroes after one of them, a scientist, invents a formula that gives regular people superpowers. At one point, a villain who has just been humiliated by Spencer and McCarthy’s characters, shouts in exasperation: “How did we get our asses kicked by two middle-aged women?” The subtext is that most superhero films have no space for middle-aged women, whereas Robert Downey Jr. and Ben Affleck can still ‘suit up’ at 50. Unfortunately, Thunder Force squanders its potential, opting for the easy laugh and some shoddily-written physical humour. Darkest turn Invincible, on the other hand, is a whole other kettle of fish — it starts on a comedic note, as we meet budding superhero Mark Grayson/ Invincible (Steven Yeun), son of Omni-Man (J.K. Simmons), a literal alien and the most powerful superhero on the planet (clearly modelled after Superman), who has married a regular woman and is living the American suburbia dream. For much of the first episode, we see Mark doing regular teenage things at home and at school, while also praying for his latent powers to kick in. He hero-worships his father, but the audience’s perceptions are neatly reversed by the first episode’s horrific, blood-soaked conclusion. Omni-Man single-handedly murders his colleagues, the Guardians of the Globe (modelled after the Justice League), after luring them away from their headquarters. He makes it look like the assassin also injured him, knocking him unconscious so he couldn’t see who did it. Even for the anti-superhero genre, this is the darkest turn since a superhero murdered a pregnant Vietnamese woman in cold blood in Watchmen . But Invincible isn’t only interested in shock value. It is also very invested in critiquing the superhero genre’s obsession with lineage and the idea of superhero kids taking the family legacy forward, so to speak. If Mark Grayson really is his father’s son, the show asks, is it inevitable that one day he too will lose control and turn into a homicidal maniac? Or perhaps, Zemo is correct — all super-powered roads lead straight to fascism? Increasingly, the ‘anti-superhero’ genre seems to suggest that Zemo’s analysis is spot on.  The subtext is that most superhero films have no space for middle-aged women, whereas Robert Downey Jr. and Ben Affleck can still ‘suit up’ at 50||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/super-twist-in-the-plot/article34348334.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On April 18, 1915, during World War I, fighter pilot Roland Garros was shot down. He managed to glide to a landing on the German side of the lines, where he was taken prisoner. Eventually, he escaped and returned to fly again. Earlier, he had invented a wedge to fit onto the propeller to deflect any bullets that might strike it from the machine gun mounted behind it. As a tribute, one of the most celebrated sporting events and its venue are named after him. Which event that is scheduled to start on May 17 is named after this pilot? 2This is a 2017 American documentary film about famed tennis coach Nick Bollettieri and his troubled relationship with his top player, Andre Agassi. It is about how his relentless desire to win cost him his relationships with the people he valued most. The title of the film refers to the fact that relationships mean nothing to him and also refers to a basic rule in the scoring system in tennis. What is the name of the documentary? 3Toni, one of the most successful coaches, introduced his elder brother Sebastian’s three-year-old son to tennis. The kid was actually right-handed but his uncle started coaching him and made him play left-handed, as this was a natural advantage on a tennis court. The nephew went on to be the first and only left-hander as of 2020 to get four Grand Slam titles and the longest win streak on clay courts. Who are the nephew and uncle? 4This term is associated primarily with tennis but also golf and baseball (though with varying uses). However, its origins can actually be traced back to a card game, as far back as 1800, where it described winning all 13 tricks in a game of bridge. What interesting term is this that is now used to describe the act of winning the highest-paying events? 5This player began playing tennis at the age of four and won the Czechoslovakian national tennis championship at 15, before defecting to the U.S. at 19 and taking up citizenship there. The player went on to win 369 titles over a great career, including 59 major titles and a record nine Wimbledon wins. Who is this trailblazing tennis star and activist? 6This is a sport where two teams of 10 players with racquets compete against each other on a field. The sport is played with tennis balls and you score by throwing a tennis ball into a goal. The goal is defended by a goalkeeper who can deflect the ball only with a racquet. This is a fast-paced sport known by a name that combines the two sports from which the equipment and rules are taken. What is the name of this sport? 7Esther Vergeer was a number one player in her sport and had a fantastic career until she retired in 2013, with a 470-match winning streak. She has won 21 major singles titles and, when she retired, the last match she had lost was in 2003. What sport did this incredible player play that got her seven Paralympic titles? 8There are many records in tennis that are close to unbeatable, and one of them is this player who in between Wimbledon 2005 and Australia 2010 reached 18 major finals in 19 chances. He is currently the only player to win two grand slams five consecutive times and one of only four players to have won a career grand slam on three different surfaces. Who is this player who was ranked number one for 310 weeks? 9David Foster Wallace used to play competitive tennis but as he grew older, he found that he couldn’t compete at the higher levels. His love for the sport didn’t fade, however, and he started writing about tennis. In 2016, a posthumous collection of his journalistic essays was released with a clever title that references an integral part of the sport and also a complex subject in physics. What is the name of the book that should make you think about either the racquet or black holes? 10A study by the British Journal of Sports Medicine , which examined the link between various sports and the risk of early death, identified racquet sports as the best for helping people live a longer life. This may be explained by a form of movement that racquet sports offer that other sports typically do not. This particular type or direction of movement results in improved balance and weight-shifting, which may lower the risk of falls. What is the physical movement involved? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34348343.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Difficult stories that must be told||We tend to think of the significance of events in quantitative terms. But a focus on numbers hides the fact that suffering is neither magnified nor diminished by scale. The mind balks at the magnitude of loss associated with such events as the Holocaust (6 million dead), the Khmer Rouge massacre (3 million), the Hutu-Tutsi conflict in Rwanda (8,00,000) or the decimation of the Native American population (1,20,000 in California alone). Next to these overwhelming numbers, 8,000 seems small. Until you begin to listen to the human stories, each one representing incomparable tragedy occasioned by a deep impulse to obliterate. “So... this is a difficult story, without a happy ending. I’m just going to tell you that now,” begins Aleksandra Bilic, host and narrator of the podcast Untold Killing . “It takes place during the Bosnian war, in the 90s. But it isn’t just about the war. It’s about the darker sides of humanity. It’s about hate; incomprehensible hate.” Thus begins the story of the Bosnian town of Srebrenica, and “the last genocide to take place on European soil”. Told in six searing episodes, Untold Killing , produced last year by the podcast studio Message Heard and the non-profit Remembering Srebrenica, to mark the 25th anniversary of the genocide, describes the horrors of the ethnic cleansing unleashed by the Serbian army against the Bosnian Muslim population after the disintegration of Yugoslavia. It’s told in the voices of those who experienced it, watched their loved ones die: mothers separated from their sons, wives who were forced to look on as their husbands were pushed into a different line, never to be seen again. Amalgam of culture The opening episode, The Siege , describes the events of July 1995, when the Serbian army shelled the small town of Srebrenica. This was “a multi ethnic, multi religious town; we didn’t think of people along ethnic lines, we were all one nation together... some people would go to a mosque, some to a church, some nowhere,” says Kader, a Bosnian Muslim (Bosniak) woman who lost her son in the conflict. This particular amalgam of culture is familiar to us, as perhaps is the hate that suddenly arises, fueled by an invisible yet palpable force that seeks to eliminate all traces of the Other, in seeking to build an “ethnically pure” nation. Those who survive are forever scarred, haunted by the memories of those who did not. Bilic introduces us to two young survivors — Nijad and Hassan — who were in their late teens when Srebrenica fell. In the episode titled The Death March , we learn about how they were part of the more than 15,000 men, women and children, who decided to attempt an escape through the woods. Just 3,000 survived. Connected to land The story of Srebrenica is personal to Bilic, whose family sought asylum in the U.K. just before the fall of Sarajevo in the early 1990s, before the worst days of the conflict. This intimate connection with the land, and the history, is evident in the cadence and the content of her narration, whether she is speaking to the survivors, or to the forensic scientist who helped in the massive effort to identify the victims from the mass graves, or the investigator who helped build the case against the Serbian general Mladic. It’s a difficult story to hear, but Bilic makes it a story that one cannot stop listening to, all the way to its tragic end. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.  ‘But it isn’t just about the war. It’s about the darker sides of humanity. It’s about hate; incomprehensible hate’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/difficult-stories-that-must-be-told/article34348351.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||People of the book||No sense of a narrative or place,” sighs a daughter to herself as she recalls a couple of unfinished novels found among her late father’s things in Siddharth Chowdhury’s The Time of the Peacock. It tells us something about Chowdhury’s own priorities. His novel is finely structured through multiple points of view, and the sense of place — whether we’re in Patna or the Scottish Highlands or South Delhi — is striking. Patna is Chowdhury’s hometown and it shows. This rootedness gives Chowdhury the locus standi to comment on a dichotomy that unspools over this short novel: bhasha literature versus Indo-Anglian fiction, bhasha India versus metropolitan India. There is no unbridgeable chasm between the two, neither condescension nor idolatry; there’s only a certain large-heartedness, conveyed lightly, whether in John Nair’s evolving perceptions of fellow Delhiwalas or Ritwik Ray’s relationship with Ramanuj Sahi.  The Time of the Peacock is all about the meta. Writers, editors and literary agents populate its pages and trade bon mots , bits of wisdom, and a formidable array of cultural references. They orbit the world of Delhi publishing and come together for the main event: the big party thrown by John Nair — managing editor, Peacock India — to celebrate the launch of Best in Show: The Peacock Book of Indo-Anglian Fiction . When Patna’s Ritwik Ray approaches Nair with his new book, Godse Chowk , what’s an editor to do? What’s acceptable and safe to publish in the current climate? Ought dissent to be gentle or unapologetically passionate? This insider’s take on the publishing world, its characters and their foibles, is at the same time a venue to air broader questions about politics, culture, gender, caste and language. There’s not a huge amount of plot, and the three main characters are developed through long and largely introspective narratives that give real, believable pictures of them, their pasts and presents. But such passages can sometimes drag; the first couple of pages in particular — a rather mundane description of a drive outside Delhi — are rather dull. As people are encountered and events develop, it gets better. However, it was a bhasha compulsion to find out why anybody would be named John Nair that kept me reading.  The Time of the Peacock Siddharth Chowdhury Aleph  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/people-of-the-book/article34348308.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stories about women who fought against the system in court||Approaching courts is a daunting and frightening process for most people. For women it is harder since it is fraught with difficulties as they may have no support most of the time. And when women do so, despite these hurdles, they have to be applauded. The book, Listen to my Case! , narrates the stories of 20 such courageous women and their interface with the courts in Tamil Nadu primarily the Madras High Court. Justice Chandru takes out their voices from dusty law journals and brings to life the women, who fought the system, sometimes successfully, sometimes with no success but always with great courage. Innovative handling There is the story of Muhabath Beevi who was arrested in the early hours of the morning on a complaint of dowry. She was not permitted to change her clothes and was not informed of the reasons for her arrest. The court found the police officer who arrested her guilty of contempt having violated the D.K. Basu guidelines. However, instead of punitive action which would have served no purpose to Muhabath Beevi and would have resulted in the officer losing her job, the court in a very innovative manner asked the officer whether she was willing to apologise. The officer did so and Beevi accepted the apology. Or take the case of an intrepid grandmother Janaki, a senior citizen who lived in the by lanes of Kumbakonam where she had two steps on the street that led to her house. All houses on her road were built two feet above street level. Quoting a High Court order that directed all encroachments to be demolished, the Municipality held that these steps were an encroachment and promptly removed them. Fearing that she would be a virtual prisoner and will not be able to come out of her house, she wrote a postcard to the High Court which was treated as a writ petition. Holding that the act of the Municipality was malicious and petty the court ordered the steps to be rebuilt. Many voices With moral policing and ‘cultural’ vigilantism on the rise, the story of Umadevi, an Anganwadi worker, is worth narrating. Umadevi was 35 years old and Krishnan, a headmaster of an elementary school, was 51. They were planning to get married. While travelling, they stayed in a hotel which was raided by the police under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Showing absolute non-application of mind, the magistrate remanded them to custody. Their pictures were flashed in local papers as persons arrested on charges of ‘prostitution’ thanks to the police. They lost their jobs and were ostracised by their family members and neighbours. Umadevi remained unfazed and challenged her termination. The child welfare officer argued that being unmarried she was staying with a man in a lodge and was arrested under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and hence her services were terminated. The High Court severely reprimanded the police officers holding that no criminal act can be alleged against two consenting individuals. It further restored both Umadevi and Krishnan in service with full back wages. The cases are varied. They range from custodial death, police excesses and sexual violence to the right to practise religion, the right to livelihood and the right to life, choice and dignity. The personal journeys of the women, their demands, hopes and despairs are skillfully narrated and in the process our understanding of justice gets enriched. Most of the stories are from judgments delivered by the author when he was a judge of the Madras High Court. It is an extremely moving book and a must-read to understand the voices of women who approach the legal system. It also shows how application of various laws can be done in an imaginative and dynamic manner.     The reviewer is an advocate at the Madras High Court.  Listen to My Case! When Women Approach the Courts of Tamil Nadu  Justice K. Chandru  LeftWord Books  Rs. 195||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stories-about-women-who-fought-against-the-system-in-court/article34348318.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Black earth and broken dreams||This book is a valuable addition to the translation initiative by the Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation. The voices of the black soil or karisal region of Tamil Nadu — comprising Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi, and Ramanathapuram districts — resound in English in this translation by Padma Narayanan, and become a part of world literature. The land here — “the path was cracked, covered with patches of broken earth” — is more than just a backdrop. It controls people’s lives, limiting even their dreams — getting rice to eat every day is the best they can hope to have. As the story, ‘Cooked Rice’, by K. Ramasami puts it: “Rain or shine — either way, it is a nuisance”. The title story by Sa. Tamilselvan is about a girl who could not marry the man designated for her . Her love for her machchan is mixed with her love for the land. This theme is presented even more forcefully in ‘A Fierce Love for One’s Soil’ by Ve. Sadasivan. In stories such as these, the karisal acts as a metaphor for the complexity of the local, with the land acting as a site of both violence and virility. The editor, Ki. Rajanarayanan, was the first to write stories about the karisal country’s people, their lives, struggles and folklore. In his editor’s note, Ki. Ra talks of how the trend he started was carried forward by subsequent writers: “The karisal literary movement that I ventured into all by myself received substantial nourishment.” For him, Along with the Sun is a literary “map of the black soil region”. The collection has 20 stories including those by Poomani and Jeyaprakasam, who, Ki. Ra says, “nourished the movement”. The translation is enriched by notes on authors, culture-specific expressions (apart from the glossary), the inclusion of Ki. Ra’s preface to the first edition, and last, but not the least, a map of the karisal region. There is also Cho. Dharman’s emotionally-charged foreword translated by Aadhavan. The reviewer is Professor of English, University of Madras.  Along with the Sun: Stories from Tamil Nadu’s Black Soil Region  Edited by Ki. Rajanarayanan, trs Padma Narayanan Harper Perennial  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/black-earth-and-broken-dreams/article34348306.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Time and tide wait for this bunch||This world of ours is full of “anti-crastinators”, those goading us with their incessant “do it now” and cracking the whip on us peaceful procrastinators. They have the top jobs such as managing directors and for good measure, have grabbed positions of power in the domestic circuit — in-laws, uncles, aunts and spouses. This means the world runs pretty much on the unrealistic, unnecessary deadlines they set. To clarify, unlike shirkers, we don’t avoid work; we only wait for the right moment to do it. Unfortunately, those who swear by deadlines swear at those who don’t. It strikes me as strange that a world which lays so much importance on getting the right hour and precise minute for weddings and other ceremonies, doesn’t seem to care about any muhurat when it comes to work. But we procrastinators do care. So when you see us lolling in the sofa instead of completing that project report, it’s because the muhurat hasn’t yet struck us. We Indians have been viewing time as a relative concept long before Einstein, and the joke about IST being Indian Stretchable Time is something we all grew up with. But it’s not Indians alone — procrastinators can form an elite international group. Bill Clinton was described by his Vice-President as “punctuality challenged”. Leonardo da Vinci waited for 16 years before he felt he got the smile on the lady right. I bet if today’s time management experts had been snapping at his heels, Mona Lisa would have ended up bang on schedule but indistinguishable from a film poster. Mozart was one of us too, and his views on the subject of postponing his creations should be music to our ears. It was English poet and philosopher Edward Young who was the outlier. He stigmatised our noble vocation with “Procrastination is the thief of time”. So let me give you Young’s back story. He would manage to get handsome patronage from wealthy noblemen but none of it lasted. Soon after the agreements were done, his patrons’ fortunes inevitably took a downturn. If only Young had put off signing the deal and waited to see how his potential patrons fared, he would have ended up a richer man. Lofty ideals Well, whatever ordinary people say, you will find the force is with you. Let’s say, your wife has asked you to clear the loft. But for one reason or the other, you put off the task, overlooking her reminders. The reasons are sound — your back has been hurting, you need a longer broom, and you have not yet found a place to store those old issues of Readers’ Digest . After a month or so, you will find that the loft has been cleared. No point in enquiring about details. Obviously, there is some cosmic force at work. If you still can’t make up your mind about all this, turn to that unfailing fount of wisdom — vintage Bollywood. A timeless Raj Kapoor classic has this gem: Jo aaj karna hai, woh kal; jo kal karna hai woh parson; aisi kya jaldi hai jab jeena hai barson ? It’s time we changed the world’s image about ourselves with a Procrastinators’ Manifesto. I promise I will get down to writing it this afternoon. Or perhaps tomorrow… jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/time-and-tide-wait-for-this-bunch/article34348294.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||How to fight a terror virus||It is often said of documentation, to underline the importance of that task, that if you do not record it, it never happened. While that might not strictly be true in the case of the COVID-19 pandemic, painstaking documentation of the country’s journey through its rather unexpected, unprecedented battle with a single-strand RNA virus is a welcome move for the future. Indeed, every country has its own battle, but Till We Win is a valiant attempt to chronicle those very crucial early months of the pandemic. It is also valiant, because the authors are scientists who seldom write in medias res, they are more used to waiting for the results of a trial to be assessed and present a picture that attempts to be as accurate as possible. As far as we can see, the pandemic is still around, waving in and out of countries and communities, and every day, new understanding emerges and old theories are categorically busted. But then, as we have already acknowledged, extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures. Addressing gaps The book, a reasonably-priced publication, was a brainchild of Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, public policy and health systems expert, and has certainly benefitted from the involvement of two key personnel in India’s responses — Dr. Gagandeep Kang, renowned vaccine researcher and virologist, and Dr. Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The authors state that this is a fast-evolving story, early on disabusing notions that the book intends to be the last word on COVID. It touches on all key aspects of the crisis, including the nature of viruses, the corona virus family, a timeline, the country’s state of unpreparedness, upgradation of health infrastructure, health systems and funding, treatment protocols that constantly evolved, raises and answers questions about quarantine, safety protocols, vaccines, based on scientific prudence at that point of time, hoping to address the gaps in communication that exist despite the carpet bombing of information on COVID. Interestingly, it also touches upon the massive migrant crisis that shook India due to the lockdown, the significant social economic implications. The story of the pandemic is also the story of the people who went through those tough times, as well, whether they were migrants or frontline workers and doctors treating COVID-19 or patients, or even people who lost incomes during the lockdown. Its chapter on heroes without capes gives the book a heart, a rare but welcome addition in what could be called a self-help book in COVID times. Invaluable primer Deep insights into what was happening in crucial pockets such as Dharavi, Kerala, and Delhi and the exemplification of what worked well during the pandemic are crucial as documentary evidence. As an epidemiologist friend struck by epiphany, remarked: “This is everything we were taught in epidemiology, and a rare chance to implement it all.” Clearly, we are not yet free of COVID-19 and by now, having steeled ourselves to witness the fulfilment of prophecies of future epidemics, these lessons from the past are invaluable. In fact each State government would do well to consider commissioning such texts for itself. As the book itself enunciates, “assessment of a fight against an enemy has to be context dependent”. Indeed, what better tool to prepare us for the future than what we did in the past.   Till We Win: India’s Fight against the COVID-19 Pandemic  Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Dr. Randeep Guleria  Penguin Books  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-to-fight-a-terror-virus/article34348323.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Tulsi and feni magic||Dear Agony Akka,  I am in a holy mess. Let me start from the beginning. On April 12, I had the divine fortune of visiting Haridwar and taking a dip in the slightly turgid ambrosia that is the Ganga. Yes, I was part of three million lucky souls who washed away their sins at the Kumbh Mela. And there was a bonus. Rose petals came showering down from the sky, delivered from a helicopter that emerged like a pushpaka vimana . One petal landed on my nose and I ate it as prashad for good measure. But the unfathomable has happened. Instead of making me invincible, at the end of the mela, I began to hack and cough. Now I have been diagnosed with COVID. I know god works in mysterious ways, but this seems very unfair. How do I explain this curse? —Still on Medication    Dear SOM,  First things first. Are you sure you have got COVID? These days, there are many alternative patients floating around. These are people who pretend to be infected with the deadly virus just to discredit India. They are simply coughing and turning blue like Tintin in comics when all they have to do is try to breathe and do some pranayama and everything will be okay. In fact, many people are even preferring to die just to spite the government. Before you blindly trust science, invest in alternative science. That is why beginning of 2020, I have thrown away all my thermometers and I prefer to use a lactometer instead to check temperature these days. It is the trendy instrument of today’s youth and it is proving very accurate. It has not recorded any fever at all for me since the start of the pandemic. Anyway, Indians are immune to pandemic-shandemic. Our bodies have special genes, ripped genes, that protect us from corona, common sense etc. Moreover, this COVID virus cannot enter holy place like Haridwar. It has been scientifically proven that it frequents crowded events of only certain communities. Second place virus cannot enter is Goa crowded night-clubs. One report was produced by Harvard that virus can be killed by feni, so fashionable people are all going to Goa and dancing all night and singing ‘Ra Ra Rasputin’ as if pandemic is pastemic. Which is why I am beginning to think that maybe this is all your fault. In Haridwar, there are many, many holy men and cows. Did you make any effort at all to stand next to one so that you can get some live-streaming gaumutra ? Did you try to acquire a thali or two to bang? Without making any decent effort, how can you expect good results? Remember, god helps only those who help themselves. Of course, the rose petal was a good move. Full marks for trying. But look at me. Only last month I topped up on supplies of manure toothpaste and fresh bovine piddle — for Rs. 130 you can get a 500 ml bottle — which I am glugging away like anything. That is how I am roaming around so healthy and glowing that ground-floor Gaurishankar is asking why I need vaccine I am looking like below-40 maiden hahaha. Oh wait, I know. Did you eat burger-pizza? Yoga Baba clearly announced in Hardiwar that eating fast-foods and all is having negative impact on the body, but will you people listen? Never. There are many, many desi miracle foods like Chyawanprash Ice-cream, Haldi Hummus and Tulsi Tortillas. Please to indulge to heart’s full. (Avoid stealing neighbour’s tulsi leaves, of course.) Also avoid kissing. You can try chin-to-chin contact instead. That is our most protected body part these days and can be safely utilised for greeting, sexting, pressing lift buttons etc. Get well soon.   — AA     agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tulsi-and-feni-magic/article34348341.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Marketing magic in old Madras||Decades ago in December in Madras, now Chennai, dawn would see the winter mist hovering over the vast expanse of empty land. This was on Thirumala Pillai Road in T. Nagar. In the middle of this area was where we as children lived with our parents in a huge old building on a two-acre property. On one such morning, workers set up camp next door for a large construction project and men, women and children moved in. Within days, through the mist came a husky feminine voice announcing for all to hear, “  Idiayappo , Idiyappo  ”. That voice haunts me even now and at that time drew me out of bed to the terrace. That voice came closer and from the mist she emerged, an elderly woman with a basket balanced on her head and a vessel in her hand. Unloading the basket, she “set up shop” in the middle of the site. Then I saw her handing out the string hoppers with some chutney on dry leaf plates to the workers and their families. As work progressed, the worker population grew and the old women did marvellously well. Our gardener who lived in his quarters at the far end of our compound became my reporter of the new market trends. One fine morning, however, the husky voice was followed by a shrill and younger voice with its own challenging  Idiyappo , Idiyappo  . The market had expanded and competition had entered. Within minutes, the air echoed with Tamil expletives as a trade war exploded. The new entrant was offering an incentive with each sale in the form of a neem twig crushed at one end to be used for a toothbrush. The older lady made a strategic retreat that day. The younger one appeared the next day and in minutes so did her older competitor.  Idiyappo , Idiyappo  became a battle cry. The older woman laid out her wares and then with a flourish revealed her competing gift — a neem twig crushed at one end and sharpened at the other to a point to act as a tooth pick — plus one more piece of Idiyappom free! More shouts, more expletives till the market grew and peace returned.I have quoted this story for years to marketing classes to show how ingenuity in marketing tactics existed long before this expertise was passed on to the MBAs! kuttydignity@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/marketing-magic-in-old-madras/article34348297.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Trick one||It is often said that trick one is the most important trick for the defense. This not only refers to the opening lead, but third hand play as well. Third-hand play is often indicated by the choice of lead. Today’s deal is from a team competition. North- South were trailing in the match and South’ s off-beat opening bid was made in an attempt to create a swing. South played low from dummy and East routinely played the 10. This lost to South’s queen and the contract could no longer be defeated. South established the spades and easily took nine tricks. Many experts today will only lead a low card from an honor against a no-trump contract. They will lead a high card, or second highest, with no honor in the suit. This is a good idea all the time, in our opinion, but certainly against no trump contracts. Had West led the nine of clubs, or the eight, East would deduce that declarer held the queen. He would win with his king at trick one and continue the suit. Should South win in dummy and lead a spade, East should see that there would be no harm in playing his king, and it might be crucial. Another club after winning with the king would leave South with no chance for his contract. Had that happened, South’ s opening bid would have indeed created a swing. The South player at the other table opened a normal one spade and made four spades easily after a diamond lead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/trick-one/article34348346.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3146||Across  1 Protect two companies? Almost; one (6) 4 M. le Président, missing mother, drinks fizz to become resolute (4-4) 9 Museum for the blind? (6) 10 Playwright, Shaw, not half confusing reading, mostly (8) 12 In a little Nissan, Guinevere is cheerful (8) 13 Spout about aliens: ‘They’re often seen in the sky’ (3,3) 15 Young and wary, woo nervously in song (2,4,3,3) 18 Superintendent Kerr: ‘Folks, cow has run amok’ (5,2,5) 21 Everyman’s wearing, on and off, clergy’s distinctive garb (6) 22 Some forks I’d picked up in the northeast(8) 24 Butler’s conveying luggage at first: I’m grateful, that’s capital (8) 25 Moistens black turnip after flipping (6) 26 With Pence gone, White House inhabitant’s now a kind of doctor (8) 27 Exceedingly determined inventor; salesman of note, primarily? (6)  Down  1 It’s heard on radio: ‘In California, 50 N American soldiers rising’ (4,4) 2 Relishes chance to slyly hit you up, nervous, excited, initially aroused (8) 3 Victorian novel in which Spooner solicits orange healer? (3,6,6) 5 Desire fish in East End (4) 6 Rudely, they wakened deer needing longer rest (5-3,7) 7 Spoke up, at first ignored, wanting hot veg (6) 8 Degree of precision: ‘Number ... not 100 ... bit less than 100’ (6) 11 Fuss about nothing, principally, arriving from South in principality (7) 14 Opposite motorway, under a Gormley (7) 16 Personal ones may wear these! (8) 17 Announces only a little blusher’s intended to be seen (6,2) 19 Musical old organ (6) 20 Tuvalu’s topless resort with fleshy bodies (6) 23 School kept going with odd absences (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3146/article34348349.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Testing times||Amid rising alarm over the COVID-19 surge, the Ministry of Education cancelled the CBSE board exams for Class 10 and postponed the Class 12 exams, both due to start on May 4. The Class 12 exams will be rescheduled after a review on June 1. Class 10 students, however, will be evaluated on the basis of an unspecified “objective criterion”. Several State boards had made or were considering similar moves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/testing-times/article34348274.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Second worst||India became the world’s second worst-hit country by the pandemic after the U.S., surpassing Brazil in the total number of cases. As a second wave of the disease swept the nation, India on April 14 registered a record daily high of over two lakh cases, taking its total toll to more than 1.4 crore. Maharashtra remained the worst-affected State with 58,952 fresh cases on April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/second-worst/article34348276.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Fast track||With widespread reports of vaccine shortages and urgent requests for more supplies by States, India decided to fast-track approval for COVID-19 vaccines that have got emergency use authorisation in the U.S., U.K. E.U. or Japan, or have been listed by the W.H.O. Meanwhile, the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine was approved for emergency use in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fast-track/article34348278.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of the desert||U.S. and NATO forces will completely withdraw from Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks. “It’s time to end America’s longest war,” said President Joe Biden in an address. Some 2,500 U.S. troops and 7,000 from NATO allies are currently in the country. The Taliban had threatened to step up attacks if an earlier May 1 withdrawal deadline, negotiated by the Trump administration, was not met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/out-of-the-desert/article34348280.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Nuclear water||Japan announced that, starting in 2022, it will release into the ocean over 10 crore tonnes of contaminated water from the Fukushima nuclear power station that was destroyed by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The move has been opposed by both the local fishing industry and countries such as China and South Korea. Japan has, however, said that the waste water will be treated to remove most radioactive elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nuclear-water/article34348282.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Madoff dead||Bernard “Bernie” Madoff, the mastermind behind the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, died in an American prison aged 82. Madoff, an investment guru who was once chairman of the NASDAQ stock market, ran a scam that swindled thousands of clients out of around $20 billion in original investments and $65 billion on paper over some 16 years. He was arrested in 2008, pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to 150 years in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/madoff-dead/article34348284.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Adani delisted||The New York-based stock exchange S&P Dow Jones Indices removed Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd from its sustainability indices, citing the firm’s ties with the Myanmar military. It was reported last month that the company paid $30 million to the military-backed Myanmar Economic Corporation to build a $290 million port in Yangon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/adani-delisted/article34348286.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Crematorium overload||Crematoriums and burial grounds across the country are struggling to take the load as COVID-19 deaths mount. In Surat, the president of a trust running a crematorium toldBloombergthat the bodies coming in had increased from 15-20 a day to 100. New Delhi’s largest cremation ground is arranging for more wood pyres, according toBloomberg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/crematorium-overload/article34348288.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Ship seized||The Suez Canal Authority (SCA) impounded the giant container shipEver Given, which had blocked the waterway for almost a week, on an Egyptian court’s order, pending payment of $900 million in compensation. The SCA said it had calculated the amount on the basis of the “losses incurred by the grounded vessel” and “flotation and maintenance costs”. The ship’s Japanese owners were reportedly unwilling to pay and contested 90% of this claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ship-seized/article34348290.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Song of a Rebel||Bina Sarkar Ellias  Red River Rs. 230 The poems here spreak of exposing corruption and defying violence. They record a continuing response to the social and political landscape we live in. There is also mourning for the lost and a reminder that the perpetrators of crimes won’t be forgiven.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/song-of-a-rebel/article34348304.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||All Drama, No Queen||Andaleeb Wajid  Penguin Random House Rs. 299 Farida deeply feels the absence of her parents, who died in an accident when was 12. She has vague memories of her distant cousin, Irshad, on whom she had a crush. When Farida starts staying with her friend, Priya, Priya’s boyfriend serendipitously finds Irshad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/all-drama-no-queen/article34348312.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bad Muslim Discount||Syed M. Masood  Doubleday Rs. 474 (Kindle price) Anvar Faris’s Karachi family decides to start life over in California. Ironically, Anvar’s devout mother and model-Muslim brother adjust easily to life in America, while his fun-loving father can’t find anyone he relates to. For his part, Anvar fully commits himself to being a bad Muslim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-bad-muslim-discount/article34348316.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A Wedding Beneath a Banyan Tree: A rich tapestry of family history||Ganga Kumar Powell  Silverbird Publishing Rs. 3,600 This engaging account of the author’s unconventional family story living through turbulent times is written with warmth and a light touch. She navigates the storyline, with its subversive message of universal brotherhood, deftly joining the dots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-wedding-beneath-a-banyan-tree-a-rich-tapestry-of-family-history/article34348325.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Rumours of Spring: A Girlhood in Kashmir||Farah Bashir  HarperCollins  Rs. 499 Farah Bashir’s adolescence was spent in Srinagar in the 1990s. As Indian troops and militants battled across the cityscape, the young schoolgirl found out that ordinary tasks, like studying for exams, were riddled with anxiety and fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rumours-of-spring-a-girlhood-in-kashmir/article34348327.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||In the Plex||Steven Levy  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 799 Granted access to Google, Levy discloses that the key to its success lay in its engineering mindset and adoption of internet values such as speed, openness, and experimentation. He discloses details behind Google’s relationship with China and why its social networking initiative failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-the-plex/article34348329.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Braided River: A Journey Along the Brahmaputra||Samrat Choudhury  HarperCollins  Rs. 499 A journalist follows the course of the mighty Brahmaputra from the edge of Tibet where it enters India down to where it meets the Ganga in Bangladesh. Amid many encounters with people and animals, he weaves in faultlines of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-braided-river-a-journey-along-the-brahmaputra/article34348331.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Can Covaxin booster dose prolong protection?||In a meeting held on March 24, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the India drug regulator permitted Bharat Biotech to carry out a phase-2 trial of Covaxin wherein a booster dose is to be administered six months after the second dose to further improve vaccine efficacy. Currently, two doses of Covaxin are administered 28 days apart. In the phase-2 trial 380 participants were recruited in all and were split into two groups of 190 each to receive either 3 microgram or 6 microgram of the vaccine. With the SEC directing Bharat Biotech to conduct the booster dose study only in the cohort that received 6 microgram of the vaccine, the phase-2 booster dose trial will be limited to 190 participants. The booster dose will be given six months after the second dose and the company has been directed to follow up the participants who get a booster dose for at least six months. Virologist Dr. Jacob John, formerly with CMC Vellore, feels that providing a booster dose will be a good idea in increasing the duration of protection. “The immunological principle says that to make long-lived antibody secreting cells as well as long-lived memory T cells, the first and second dose should be given 28 days apart and the third dose should be given with a minimum gap of four months after the second dose and optimally five months after the second dose,” he says. Priming and boosting According to him, when only two doses of the vaccine are given with a gap of 28 days between doses, the immunity would last for about a year or so. “So if the disease is around for more than a year, then a booster dose is needed after a year if only two doses are given one month apart,” says Dr. John. “The reason being that the first dose is a priming dose while the second dose given 28 days later is partially priming and partially boosting. As a result, the boosting effect of the second dose is short-lived, which is about a year.” Since Covaxin uses an inactivated virus platform, the virus does not multiply in the body and so the antigen level is maximum only for a day or two. In order to stimulate the immune system, a second dose is needed. He warns that when the second dose is given less than 28 days after the first, no boosting effect is achieved, and when given after 28 days, the booster effect is only partial and will last for about a year. So a booster dose will be needed after a year if the disease is around. “If the third dose is administered four–five months after the second dose, the immunological principle is that the immunity will be long-lived. This is because the antibody secreting cells will be treated specially by the body and will be taken into the bone marrow and will live for years and continue secreting antibodies,” Dr. John says. North Arcot study He recalls the North Arcot (in Tamil Nadu) Polio study of 1986–95 where the inactivated polio vaccine was tested as three doses under the government’s watch. As required by ICMR, the study compared oral polio vaccine (OPV) and the inactivated polio vaccine (IPV). While the CDC recommends four doses, most countries use three doses of inactivated polio vaccine. In the beginning, three doses of inactivated polio vaccine were given, with the second and third doses given with one month gap. But even after three doses a booster was needed a year later. But the second dose given with at least eight weeks gap after the first resulted in higher antibody levels and longer duration of protection. However, a booster dose is still required and so the third dose is given a year after the second dose. In the North Arcot Polio study of 1986–1995, Dr. John and his team administered the first dose at 14 weeks and the second dose 22 weeks later. The third dose was administered at nine months of age. “Polio almost disappeared,” Dr. John vividly recalls. Despite the very encouraging results of the study, the government dumped inactivated polio vaccine and instead went ahead using oral polio vaccine to combat polio in the country. Unfortunately, even the results of the study were not published. Drop in cases But in 1998, Dr. John and three others included the critical data of the North Arcot Polio study in a paper in The Lancet. The paper dealing with district-level disease surveillance showed that increasing vaccine coverage both in private and public health facilities resulted in a substantial drop in the prevalence of vaccine-preventable diseases. In the case of polio, the drop was from 150 cases in private hospitals and 116 cases in government hospitals in 1989 to just 14 polio cases in private hospitals and five cases in government hospitals six years later in 1995. “The intervention was not to eradicate but to contain polio,” says Dr. John recalling the study. Even in the case of the HPV vaccine, three doses were initially given, with the second dose given a month after the first and the third dose given at six months. “Scientists soon found that the second dose was irrelevant. If the gap between the first and second dose is more than five months then a third dose is not required,” he says. “Protection between the first and second dose is not good. But since there is no pandemic and we don’t need short-term protection, the second dose of HPV is generally administered six months later. If both short-term and long-term protection is needed then three doses at 0-1-6 months interval are needed for HPV.” Given the immunological principle that immunity will be long-lived when a third dose of inactivated vaccine is given four–five months after the second dose (SEC has asked Bharat Biotech to give the booster dose six months after the second dose) and examples of long-lived immunity in case of IPV and HPV vaccines, which too are inactivated vaccines, Dr. John is optimistic that protection from Covaxin can be prolonged with a booster dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/can-covaxin-booster-dose-prolong-protection/article34347696.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The story of 220-million-year-old rat-like creatures via microfossils||The Tiki Formation in Madhya Pradesh, a treasure trove of vertebrate fossils, has now yielded a new species and two genera of cynodonts, small rat-like animals that lived about 220 million years ago. The researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, used scanning electron microscopy to study about 10 teeth samples collected from the village of Tihki in Shahdol District, Madhya Pradesh. Teeth trail The teeth were studied for size, crown shape, structure of the cusps and compared with previously reported cynodonts. The results showed that they had found a new species, and they named it Rewaconodon indicus, indicating India, the country it was discovered from. The team also identified two new genera from the area. The first was named Inditherium floris, after India and the Latin word therium meaning beast. As the teeth had a flower-shaped crown, it earned the species name floris. The second was named Tikiodon cromptoni, after Tiki Formation and Greek word odon meaning tooth. The species name is after paleontologist A.W. Crompton. Evolutionary link Sanghamitra Ray, the corresponding author of the work, explains: “Cynodonts are important in evolutionary studies as this group ultimately gave rise to the present-day mammals. By studying their molar and premolar teeth, we see how they slowly evolved and modified. Their crown shape shows that these animals are actually intermediate forms that are very near to the mammalian line of evolution.” She is from the Department of Geology and Geophysics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. Advait M. Jukar from the Department of Paleobiology at the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, who was not involved in the work explains some more: “Cynodonts and living mammals both belong to a group of egg-laying vertebrates (amniotes) called synapsids. The close relationship of cynodonts with living mammals is seen in their bones. They also have differentiated teeth ( for example, different teeth in the front of mouths compared with the back), a secondary palate in their mouths, which, like humans, allowed them to breathe and eat at the same time. Some cynodonts show evidence for the inferred presence of whiskers and fur.”  DNA analysis When asked if DNA studies can be done on these teeth Dr. Ray explained that as the samples are extremely old, the organic matter would have completely degraded making it impossible to look at DNA. About eighty cynodont genera have been reported from around the world. The ones similar to the newly discovered ones were previously found in Laurasia which includes North America, England, Germany, Switzerland, France, and Belgium. “This possibly suggests abiotic interchange between India and Laurasian regions and/or similarity in paleoclimatic conditions, but this requires further study,” according to the paper, which is recently published in the Journal of Paleontology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-story-of-220-million-year-old-rat-like-creatures-via-microfossils/article34347688.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||ARIES facility will host the support centre for Aditya-L1||The Indian programme to study the Sun and the region between the Sun and the Earth from space – Aditya-L1 – is due to be launched next year. It will carry seven payloads which have been developed by various institutions across the country. Once the mission is launched, there will be a need for a ground support centre to monitor and coordinate the work on its various payloads. This role will be played by the ARIES facility (short for Aryabhata Research Institute for observational Sciences) which is situated near Nainital. In January 2021, an agreement was signed to this effect based on the proposal submitted by the ARIES team, led by Dipankar Banerjee, Director of ARIES, who is a solar physicist and co-chair of the science working group of the Aditya-L1 mission. With about four to five personnel, this centre will come up at Haldawani, where ARIES is setting up a data centre also.  Guest users Researchers who may not even be associated with core Aditya-L1 team will be able to book a specific payload to conduct observations for a particular time. Any PhD student or postdoctoral fellow in a research institution can submit observing proposals through the online proposal submission system. “The main aim of this centre is to let every researcher in India perform analysis over scientific data obtained from Aditya-L1. The total number of guest users will be from a few tens to a few hundreds,” says Prof. Banerjee. A time allocation committee comprising senior and expert scientists will evaluate proposals based on their merit and feasibility to decide the priority. “We are open to users outside India by giving hand-outs of data analysis during international meetings and online training in the later phase of the mission,” he adds.  Studying lower corona The Aditya-L1 Support Centre (ASC) will provide training through regular workshops for the guest users. Apart from this, it will provide ready-to-use Python and Java apps for the satellite data and demos and handouts to facilitate the guest users. An ARIES team has recently developed an algorithm to study the accelerating solar eruptions in the lower corona called CMEs Identification in Inner Solar Corona (in short, CIISCO), where CME stands for coronal mass ejection. Prof. Banerjee explains how this will be put to use: “The centre will also provide source code for advanced data analysis. For example, it will provide the source code for CIISCO that we have developed in ARIES to detect accelerating CMEs in the solar atmosphere.” The group has also developed several advanced image processing algorithms to detect fine-scale structures in the solar atmosphere. Such techniques are important to capture dynamics at different spatial and temporal scales. Prof. Banerjee gives an example of this: “While ISRO will provide raw and calibrated spectra of the solar atmosphere, at ASC we will further process the spectra to derive meaningful quantities such as intensity, Doppler velocities and line widths and provide these quantities to the scientific community.” The facility will store co-aligned data from other observatories. That is, data taken at other wavelengths of observation than by Aditya-L1 and aligned in time and space so that they complement Aditya-L1 observations.  Long-term plans The centre will host a compendium of the location and duration of different features on the solar surface such as coronal holes, prominences, flares, CMEs and sunspots. “We will employ automated methods to detect these features,” he says. Continuous monitoring of the location and duration of these features will help in monitoring the Earth directed CMEs and thereby, the space weather. “Also, it will help us to understand the long-term evolution of these features and underlying physical mechanisms responsible for this,” says Prof. Banerjee. “This centre will expand the visibility of Aditya-L1 beyond India at the international level. Also, it will expand its reach within India. It will allow every interested individual to be able to perform scientific analysis of the data,” he adds.  The group has developed several advanced image processing algorithms to detect fine-scale structures in the solar atmosphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/aries-facility-will-host-the-support-centre-for-aditya-l1/article34347691.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Warmth and change||How does temperature determine the sex in some specific reptile and fish embryos? Bearded dragon embryos can use two different sets of genes to become a female lizard — one activated by the sex chromosomes and the other activated by high temperatures during development ( PLOS Genetics) . This so-called temperature-dependent sex determination was discovered in the 1960s. Now, for the first time the molecular details of how it happens have been found by scientists from the University of Canberra. It is known that male bearded dragons have ZZ sex chromosomes, while females have ZW sex chromosomes. However, hot temperatures can override the ZZ sex chromosomes, causing a male lizard to develop as a female. The researchers discovered that, initially, different sets of developmental genes are active in the two types of females, but that ultimately the pathways converge to produce ovaries, according to a release. The findings support recent research proposing that ancient signalling processes inside the cell help translate high temperatures into a sex reversal. This study is the first to show there are two ways to produce an ovary in the bearded dragon, revealing partially how temperature determines sex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/warmth-and-change/article34347689.ece
18 April 2021||new delhi,||Traders, residents embrace weekend at home||The first day of the weekend curfew, which came into effect on Friday night, saw fewer people venturing out and strict enforcement at most locations. While the streets of south Delhi were devoid of traffic, Delhi Police and civil defence volunteers were seen stopping vehicles at traffic lights and pickets set up on the main roads, asking for e-passes and identification from drivers as well as commuters. Less traffic Vehicular traffic was visibly less across the city with police personnel manning checkpoints. Vehicles bearing “COVID duty” stickers or a particular hospital’s name were allowed to sail through, though some ordinary vehicles without any such identifiers also managed to pass some checkpoints without being stopped. The number of buses, auto rickshaws and app-based cabs were also less. At checkpoints, the passengers were questioned about why they were out on the road. Policemen on bikes were seen patrolling the streets and questioning pedestrians on what they were doing outside. Residential colonies like Greater Kailash 1 and 2, Defence Colony and Anand Lok set up barricades at all entry points to ensure only residents could enter the colonies. Delivery agents of food delivery apps were wearing their company T-shirts and were seen delivering from restaurants that are permitted to be open only for home delivery. Only shops selling groceries and essentials were open, with fruit and vegetable vendors saying they did not face any issues in procuring produce from mandis in the morning. No panic buying Several grocers across CR Park reported low footfall. Comparing it to last year’s restrictions, the shopkeepers said people were now more equipped to handle the curbs and that buying in bulk had not yet started. Biplab Pramanik, a shopkeeper, said: “Unlike last year, the panic among customers about the curfew is comparatively less as there were a couple of days between the announcement and the implementation. There was not much chaos this time.” “On Saturday, we saw a small number of people come to the shops for basic items but beyond that there was not much activity. But with the cases increasing, we now need to wait and watch as to what other restrictions are imposed over the next few days,” said Mr. Pramanik. Shopkeepers and traders in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar said that their business will be impacted because of the weekend lockdown but said they understood that this step was required. “Even during the last lockdown, we had suffered losses but this wave of cases is a lot scarier than last time,” said Girish Thakral, owners of Dayal Bakers in Moti Nagar. He added that their shop also sells groceries and were, therefore, allowed to open. “I have applied for e-passes for my employees and will not open till they have received the permits,” he said, adding that his earnings have dipped by 30-40%. Ganesh Market Association’s general secretary Harmeet Singh, who runs Ludhiana Woollen Industries dealing in school uniforms, said that traders have taken a hit in sales and the government has not helped them in any way. “We have to pay renewal license, GST and other commercial taxes as well. Business or no business, there is no relief for us. But health is more important than anything else so we support the restrictions,” he said. Representatives of a dozen city markets met to discuss the possible impact of the weekend curfew on business. The consensus was in favour of staggered or reduced operational timings at major retail markets. Stricter enforcement In a joint statement issued by representatives from retail markets such as Khan Market, Connaught Place, Karol Bagh, Chandni Chowk, Aurobindo Place, Lajpat Nagar and Janpath and Green Park among others, the associations demanded stricter enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviour. The operational timings at such markets could be between noon and 7 p.m.. The association also demanded strict action against street hawkers to break the chain of infection. Over 100 arrested Till 8 p.m. on Saturday, the police had arrested 164 people, registered 363 FIRs and issued 2,432 challans for violating the weekend curfew. Delhi Police COVID helpline number received over 1,500 calls till Saturday evening. The majority of the calls related to queries pertaining to what is allowed and what is not during the night and weekend curfews, apart from issues related to difficulties in obtaining e-passes or movement passes.  (With inputs from Jaideep Deo Bhanj, Hemani Bhandari, Shinjini Ghosh, Nikhil M Babu and Jatin Anand)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/traders-residents-embrace-weekend-at-home/article34347915.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccines and blood clots||The story so far: Reports of rare blood clots occurring after COVID-19 vaccination have led some countries to limit the usage of AstraZeneca’s vaccine for certain categories of people, while other countries have paused the administration. More recently, the United States put the Johnson & Johnson vaccine on hold after reports of blood clots emerged. What are these adverse effects? An adverse effect following immunisation with the AstraZeneca jab is not merely blood clots in large vessels, but also a low platelet count. The effect is similar to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), where heparin, which is used to clear clots, actually causes blood clots and a fall in the platelet count. “The heparin combines with platelet factor 4 to form a complex. This immune complex induces an abnormal immune response, in which antibodies are generated against the complex. This antibody-platelet factor 4-heparin immune complex binds to platelets and activates them. The platelets form clots everywhere. The low platelet count is because the platelets are used up,” said Vincent Rajkumar, haematologist and oncologist, Mayo Clinic, United States. A similar process seems to follow vaccination, except there is no heparin trigger. Scientists are still trying to establish a clinical definition for this adverse effect. The World Health Organization’s Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety conducted a review of the latest evidence of rare adverse blood coagulation events with the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. It said, “A very rare new type of adverse event called Thrombosis with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome (TTS), involving unusual and severe blood clotting events associated with low platelet counts, has been reported after vaccination with COVID-19 vaccines Vaxzevria and Covishield.” Further, the WHO committee said that a specific case definition for TTS is being developed by the Brighton Collaboration to assist in identifying and evaluating reported TTS events and aid in supporting causality assessments. At this stage, a ‘platform-specific’ mechanism related to the adenovirus-vectored vaccine is not certain, but it cannot be excluded. Research should include all vaccines using adenoviral vector platforms. So far, TTS has not been linked to vaccines built on mRNA platforms (Pfizer or Moderna), the group added. Why are we discovering this only now? The answer lies in the rarity of such incidents. “The EU data put the deaths at 1 in 1,00,000, while in the U.K., it is one in 25,000, and in the U.S., it is one in a million. Since the event is so rare, it is unlikely that any kind of vaccine trial could have thrown up such rare side effects. You probably need two million or more trial participants to find such a rare event, and it is practically impossible to study so many,” said Dr. Rajkumar. While specific TTS has not been assigned to any post-vaccination adverse event in India, post facto analyses have shown that heart attacks and brain strokes (that could be caused due to clots) were major factors for hospitalisation and deaths. In India, where Covishield (from the AstraZeneca stable) is being used widely, an analysis, by the expert group investigating serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), of 79 deaths caused after vaccination found that over 50% of the people had heart attacks and brain strokes. The concern is that even with the very low rate of occurrence, in a few otherwise healthy people, such adverse reactions have proven to be fatal. Another issue is the current inability to identify vulnerable groups in a population. Does the vaccine prevent more harm than it may cause? Decisions in the medical field are governed by the risk-versus-benefit principle. If the benefits of undergoing a procedure or taking a drug far outweigh the risks, then it is sensible to proceed. But in this case, the clots have the potential to cause fatalities, and that is seen as an “unacceptable risk” by some. Gagandeep Kang, eminent virologist and vaccinologist who worked on the Rotavirus vaccine, said, “I’d like for every vaccine and drug to be 100% safe. But that is not possible. So, we have to try and handle the situation as best as we can.” Her argument is that adverse events are bound to occur, but we need to make sure that every such event is investigated thoroughly. With any adverse event, there will be reasonable geographic variation. For instance, there is a difference in the occurrence of TTS between the U.S. and the U.K. In India, there is a mechanism in place and an analysis of deaths after vaccination is available in the public realm. But detailed analysis for every case is important, added Dr. Kang. As of now, since a larger number of people have got their first dose, we are seeing these adverse events among them. When the population that is totally vaccinated increases, it might even manifest among that group, said Dr. Kang. But she added, “Is this serious enough a risk? Actually, the risk is greater with COVID-19 infection than with the vaccine, I’m going with this point of view.” In fact, Panagis Galiatsatos and Robert Brodsky said in Hopkins Medicine, “Some people infected with SARS-COV-2 develop abnormal blood clotting … In the lungs (pulmonary embolism), legs (deep vein thrombosis) and elsewhere.” Arecent studyby researchers at the University of Oxford stated, “The risk of the rare blood clotting known as cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) following COVID-19 infection is around 100 times greater than normal, several times higher than it is post-vaccination or following influenza.” The authors counted the number of CVT cases diagnosed in the two weeks following the diagnosis of COVID-19, or after the first dose of a vaccine. They then compared these to calculated incidences of CVT following influenza, and the background level in the general population. They concluded that compared to current COVID-19 vaccines, the risk of CVT following COVID-19 is eight to 10 times higher, and compared to the baseline, approximately 100 times higher. What lies ahead? Dr. Kang has a prescription: “We know what we have to do. You need to watch out for symptoms to indicate clotting, and you must know when it occurs — adverse effects usually occur four to 20 days after the first dose right now.” While fever, body pain and tiredness after vaccination last a couple of days and are not worrisome, symptoms of concern during this extended period include chest pain, persistent abdominal pain, shortness of breath, pain in the extremities, severe headache and blurry vision. “Fortunately, we know that HIT  has a specific treatment — treating with intravenous immunoglobulin and anticoagulants (other than heparin). We will be able to prevent deaths as a result of vaccination,” said Dr. Kang. A simple D-dimer test can also be done to check whether blood clots have formed. There are two takeaways, said Dr. Kang. First, a rare side effect does not have the same rate of occurrence around the world. So, each country must pay attention to AEFI that manifest as TTS. Second, since a class effect is suspected, paying attention to vaccines built on adenovirus platforms is important. Meanwhile, a German and Austrian group led by Andreas Greinacher of University Medicine Greifswald, Germany, has differentiated the blood clots arising after vaccination. It has also outlined a way to test patients exhibiting the symptoms. The group has developed a screening assay to determine whether the person has developed these specific antibodies.  Researchers at Oxford University state that the risk of rare blood clotting following COVID-19 infection is several times higher than it is after vaccination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-vaccines-and-blood-clots/article34347618.ece
18 April 2021||new delhi,||Only 274 ICU beds vacant as Delhi reports 24K new cases||Delhi reported 24,375 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The total number of cases stood at 8,27,998. A total of 167 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours — the highest till now — taking the total number of deaths to 11,960. This is the first time over 20,000 cases have been reported in a single day. The test positivity was 24.56% on Saturday, which is the highest in months. This means that 24 out of 100 people taking the tests are testing positive for the virus. Out of the total 16,979 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 74.8% were occupied. But 93.25% of the total 4,062 ICU beds are occupied and there are only 274 ICU beds were vacant in Delhi on Saturday night, as per a government website. The hospitals which did not have a single ICU bed include bigger Delhi government-run hospitals such as Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, and central government-run Safdarjung Hospital. Of the total cases, 7,46,239 people have recovered and there are 69,799 active cases. A total of 48,046 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the Capital in the last 24 hours, as per the bulletin. A total of 99,230 tests were conducted in a day, the bulletin said. “Under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi govt deputes IAS and DANICS officers in government and private hospitals across Delhi to ensure better COVID management,” said Health Minister Satyendar Jain. He said that the government has deployed IAS officers as nodal officers in 10 State government hospitals to oversee overall COVID-19 management. “15 DANICS officers posted in private hospitals across Delhi to handhold the management and oversee adherence of all COVID measures. 24 DANICS Probationers deployed in state government hospitals to assist the Nodal IAS officers in overall general superintendence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/only-274-icu-beds-vacant-as-delhi-reports-24k-new-cases/article34347909.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Assessing students amid a pandemic||The story so far: Faced with a massive surge in COVID-19 cases, the Central government cancelled the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Class X examination and postponed the Class XII examination scheduled to be held from May 4. The decision, which will be reviewed by the Ministry of Education on June 1, was followed by the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE or Class X) and Indian School Certificate (ISC or Class XII) examinations also being postponed, with a review scheduled in the first week of June. As of Saturday, the International Baccalaureate and several State Boards had taken similar decisions. What are the challenges? Aligning examinations of various Boards is a practical necessity since admission to higher education courses must be done uniformly and entrance examinations have to be conducted for professional courses. While the government has bought itself time to address the wildfire spread of COVID-19 by getting public examinations out of the way, students are left wondering about the nature of formative academic assessment that will be applied to their Class X performance during the year gone by, which was marked by a shift to online classes and TV-based instruction. For many, it was a total lack of access without electricity, connectivity, computers and smartphones. The challenge now is to take up formative assessments where pen-and-pencil annual examinations cannot be held. What is formative assessment? The annual high-stakes public school examination is referred to as a summative assessment. It had to be cancelled or deferred this year due to the pandemic, and the academic system had to fall back on continuous evaluation techniques or other metrics. This is known as formative assessment. According to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the key aspects of this pattern are use of observation, quizzes, assignments and feedback. While summative assessment is described as a ‘testing of learning’, formative assessment is ‘testing for learning,’ which helps teachers assess the strengths and weaknesses of individual students and suggest remedial measures. The CBSE introduced a formative assessment system through a Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) framework in 2009-10, but abandoned it in favour of a compulsory public examination for Class X, eight years later. However, the year 2020-21 stands apart due to the disruption to routine schooling and the use of online and remote instruction. UNESCO says that in such a remote-learning situation, formative assessment has to rely on Learning Management Solutions and digital tools such as the open-source Moodle, Google Classroom and Schoology, and other tools that facilitate the creation of adaptive instructions for personalised learning. Many teachers in India used video-calling tools to deliver instructional material and to coach and assess students. The Boards must now come up with a formative assessment framework that fixes clear metrics. How have schools responded? After the latest move by the Centre, prominent CBSE schools say they will not face disruption because they conducted periodic internal examinations, practicals, as well as “pre-Board” testing for Class X. This will be useful to evaluate students. However, the switch from a reformist model of formative assessment to the traditional public examination was not seen as a move forward by others. The decision to reintroduce a public examination for Class X in CBSE was defended by the then Human Resource Development Minister, Prakash Javadekar, as the removal of discrimination against 1.93 crore secondary students of State and other Boards who continued to take an exit examination. Can all schools assess fairly? The question of schools’ capabilities to conduct sound formative assessments has become important because not all have similar facilities. While CBSE schools may be more urbanised, the picture for other Boards is mixed. The Unified District Information System for Education data show that in 2017-18, there were 1,88,742 rural schools and 83,207 urban schools under all managements. Data from the National Sample Survey (NSS) for the same year indicate that only 4% of rural households and 23% of urban households had a computer. Internet access was restricted to 15% of rural and 42% of urban households. What reforms are needed? As COVID-19 cases from the first wave dropped, CBSE launched a competency-based assessment plan for Classes VI to X in March this year, aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. It was prepared jointly with the British Council, for science, mathematics and English. The aim was to strengthen critical thinking and analytical capacity for competency-based learning. In fact, even the National Policy on Education, 1986, had de-emphasised rote learning and recommended a CCE-like framework. The NEP 2020 emphasises (formative) assessment for learning and critiques existing Board examinations as forcing students “to learn a very narrow band of content/material in a single stream”. Future reforms would, therefore, have to work on two fronts — to ensure access to learning for every student, in classrooms or remotely, and make formative assessment possible through a scientifically designed set of metrics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assessing-students-amid-a-pandemic/article34347622.ece
18 April 2021||April 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Copyright war||The story so far: On April 5, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favour of Alphabet Inc.’s Google in a case where it was accused by Oracle of violating the country’s copyright law. The case, dubbed “the copyright case of the century”, began with Oracle’s charge in the San Francisco federal district court in 2010 that Google’s Android platform infringed upon its copyright in a platform called Java SE. In the process of finally being decided by the U.S. Supreme Court in a 6-2 verdict, this case made its journey through a federal district court and an appellate court twice. What is the background of the case? Oracle’s lawsuit came shortly after it acquired Sun Microsystems, which had developed the Java language. Consequently, it came to own the copyright in Java SE (standard edition), a platform that programmers use to build programs that work on any personal computer. Oracle’s charge was that Google copied a part of this platform’s program while developing the Android platform for programmers. What did the courts find? The courts found that Google did negotiate with Sun Microsystems, prior to it being bought by Oracle, to license the use of the Java platform in Android. But negotiations fell through. Eventually, as the Supreme Court noted, it created the Android platform software using the services of about 100 engineers who worked for more than three years. But Google also wanted the millions of Java programmers around the world to be able to work with Android seamlessly. As Justice Stephen Breyer wrote in the majority opinion, “It also copied roughly 11,500 lines of code from the Java SE program.” What were the legal questions that the Supreme Court had to weigh in on? Prior to Google bringing the case to the Supreme Court, the Federal Circuit, an appeals court, had ruled in Oracle’s favour. The lower courts had focused on two major questions, something that the Supreme Court had to review. The first was whether Oracle could copyright the part of the code that Google copied, and the second was whether the copying constituted fair use, if the answer to the first was in the affirmative. In ruling in Oracle’s favour, the Federal Circuit had held that the portion of the copied code is copyrightable and that Google’s act did not constitute fair use. The Supreme Court decided to sidestep the first question, saying, “In reviewing that decision, we assume, for argument’s sake, that the material was copyrightable.” The question of the copyrightability of the code remains significant also because the lower courts gave different judgments on it. But the Supreme Court decided the second question in Google’s favour, saying that its copying of a part of the code constituted fair use, and therefore it did not violate the copyright law. What is fair use? According to the U.S. Copyright Office, “Fair use is a legal doctrine that promotes freedom of expression by permitting the unlicensed use of copyright-protected works in certain circumstances.” So, activities such as “criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research” may qualify under fair use. In other words, these activities can be exempt from copyright infringement charges. How did the court decide that Google’s action came under the ambit of fair use? Section 107 of the U.S. copyright law provides a framework to judge fair use. It contains four factors, in the following order — the purpose of the use, the nature of the copyrighted work, the substantiality of the portion used in relation to the whole work, and the effect of the usage upon the potential market. The court decided to start with the second factor, the nature of the copyrighted work. What worked in Google’s favour was that the court made a distinction between a code “that actually instructs a computer to execute a task” and the code that Google copied, which were the lines of an API (application programming interface), which “allows programmers to call upon prewritten computing tasks for use in their own programs”. To understand this, it is best to go back to the district court’s explanation of what happened. That court said, “An API is like a library. Each package is like a bookshelf in the library. Each class is like a book on the shelf. Each method is like a how-to-do-it chapter in a book. Go to the right shelf, select the right book, and open it to the chapter that covers the work you need.” The Supreme Court said Google’s copying was transformative, as it “copied only what was needed to allow programmers to work in a different computing environment” (which is Android) using a familiar programming language (Java). What is the implication of this ruling? There is a view that the software industry is relieved that the Supreme Court differentiated between the type of code Google copied, i.e., software interface, and other creative codes. Digital rights group Electronic Frontier Foundation said, “This decision gives more legal certainty to software developers’ common practice of using, re-using, and re-implementing software interfaces written by others, a custom that underlies most of the internet and personal computing technologies we use every day.”  The Supreme Court said Google’s copying was transformative, as it ‘copied only what was needed to allow programmers to work in a different computing environment’ (which is Android) using a familiar programming language (Java)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/copyright-war/article34347620.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Need more medicines, oxygen, CM tells Centre||Amid the surge in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said he had spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about the shortage of oxygen, beds and essential medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in the Capital. Mr. Kejriwal said the government was in the process of adding 6,000 beds across various facilities over the coming three-four days and requested the Centre for assistance. He added that the weekend curfew, which came into effect at 10 p.m. on Friday night and will remain in force till 5 a.m. on Monday, was put in place out of “compulsion” and the government was constantly monitoring the situation. If the gravity of the surge in the city increases further, Mr. Kejriwal said the government would take “any step” to ensure the safety and health of the citizens. “With the pace at which COVID is spreading, none of us know when it will reach its peak,” he said at a digital briefing. “I told Dr. Vardhan there is a huge shortage of beds in Delhi. In November, the Centre allotted us 4,100 beds. This time, they have provided 1,800 beds even though this wave is three times more fatal than the previous ones,” he added. There are around 10,000 beds under the Centre in Delhi of which at least 50% must be reserved for COVID-19, he said, adding: “At AIIMS, there are 1,162 beds out of which only 23 are reserved for COVID patients.” On test results taking 3-4 days instead of 24 hours, the Chief Minister said strict action would be taken against labs that accept more samples than their capacity and do not provide results in 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/need-more-medicines-oxygen-cm-tells-centre/article34347910.ece
18 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. stops sending samples to major private lab for testing||The Delhi government has decided to stop sending samples for RT-PCR tests to SpiceHealth, which was testing the highest number of samples, as per an official order. The Hinduhad reported earlier this week that multiple districts had complained that test results from SpiceHealth are getting delayed over 72 hours. SpiceHealth had then said that there was only a “slight delay”. The order issued on April 16 by the Health Department has removed SpiceHealth from the list of labs to which samples are sent by the collection centres, compared to an earlier order. Samples collected by government-run testing centres are sent to private and government labs. When contacted, SpiceHealth spokesperson, said: “We continue to work closely with the Delhi government and ICMR and continue to process thousands of test samples on a daily basis sent by the Delhi government.” But after sharing a copy of the Friday’s order, the company did not comment on its name not being in the list of labs. Despite multiple attempts, the SpiceHealth spokesperson also did not comment on whether it received any samples from the government on Saturday for RT-PCR test, or the number of such samples, if they did. According to an order issued on January 15, all 11 districts were asked to send samples for testing to SpiceHealth and the total number of samples to be sent daily was 13,500. The number was later increased to 25,000, as per officials. In the April 16 order, SpiceHealth is not mentioned in the list of labs for any of the 11 districts. “To ensure districts have adequate number of slots available in labs to get their samples processed within a stipulated time frame (preferable 24 hours and latest within 48 hours). The linkage of public and private labs with each district of Delhi is amended with immediate effect,” read the April 16 order which amended the January 15 order. “Since SpiceHealth is not on the list, we did not send any sample to them on Saturday,” a district official said. The testing facilities of other labs are also stretched, and many labs have 2-3 days delay in collection of samples from home. People have also complained about getting results late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-stops-sending-samples-to-major-private-lab-for-testing/article34347911.ece
18 April 2021||new delhi,||Nizamuddin dargah to remain closed till April 30||The Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia Dargah will remain closed till April 30 in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases, its chairman Afsar Ali Nizami said on Saturday. “We took the decision keeping in view the daily rise in novel coronavirus cases in the Capital. Even though we have been following all COVID-19 protocols, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, we thought it best to keep the dargah closed till April 30," he said. In case the prevailing situation does not improve, we can extend the dargah’s closure further, he added. The holy month of Ramzan is currently on and Muslims from across the country come to pay obeisance at the dargah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nizamuddin-dargah-to-remain-closed-till-april-30/article34347905.ece
18 April 2021||new delhi,||High Court Chief Justice tests positive||Delhi High Court Chief Justice D.N. Patel has tested positive for COVID-19 and is in home isolation, according to court sources. They said the chief justice is asymptomatic. Three other judges Earlier this week, three other judges of the Delhi High Court had tested positive. They are exhibiting mild symptoms and are also in home isolation. The Delhi High Court, which had resumed full-fledged physical hearing from March 15, decided to again adopt the virtual mode of proceedings from April 9 to April 23 in view of the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/high-court-chief-justice-tests-positive/article34347907.ece
18 April 2021||new delhi,||50 inmates get vaccine in new centre at Rohini jail||The Delhi prisons department on Saturday said that a COVID-19 vaccination centre has been established in Rohini jail and a total of 50 inmates have been inoculated so far. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said a vaccination centre was opened in Tihar jail on March 23. “Earlier, the eligible and willing inmates of Rohini jail were being taken outside to the nearest vaccination centre under police guard,” Mr. Goel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/50-inmates-get-vaccine-in-new-centre-at-rohini-jail/article34347906.ece
