19 April 2021||CHENNAI,||India records 2.75 lakh new cases, 1,620 deaths on Sunday||India’s COVID-19 cases tally crossed the 1.5 crore mark on Sunday. The country has so far reported a total of 1,50,58,019  cases and 1,78,793  deaths. The country registered 2,75,196  new COVID-19 cases as of 11.30 p.m. on Sunday, the highest single-day rise. As many as 1,620 deaths were also recorded. The figures do not include cases and deaths from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Ladakh. This data is sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. Maharashtra reported 68,631 infections, accounting for nearly 25% of the new cases, on Sunday, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 30,566 new infections and Delhi with 25,462 new cases. Maharashtra also recorded the maximum casualties, 503, on Sunday. Chhattisgarh followed with 170 new deaths, while Delhi registered 161 new casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-257-lakh-new-cases-1384-deaths-on-sunday/article34354131.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Mass testing raises State’s tally over 18,000 mark||Kerala is likely to see many of its prior records fall, as the second wave of COVID-19 tears through the State. As results of the augmented mass testing drive is beginning to come in, daily spike is seeing a dramatic increase, a sign of the immense challenges that the health system may be up against in the coming weeks. Likely to prolong With the State’s population remaining naive (the sero prevalence in January being just 10.8%), the second wave is likely to be intense and prolonged. On Sunday, as the results of 1,08,898 samples tested in the past 24 hours came in, 18,257 persons tested positive, making it the highest ever daily case figure to be reported by the State. The test positivity rate remained a notch below Saturday’s rate at 16.77%. The cumulative case burden has risen to 12,39,424. Nasopharyngeal samples had been collected from a total of 3,00,971 persons as part of the augmented testing drive conducted on Friday and Saturday. The rest of the results would be released in the next two or three days. To slow down transmission However, while an increase in tests will see an increase in case graph, by removing as many infected persons from the community and isolating them, the State could slow down the current pace of disease transmission, it is hoped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mass-testing-raises-states-tally-over-18000-mark/article34354313.ece
19 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Tougher restrictions expected to be announced in parts of State||Tougher restrictions are expected to be announced in parts of Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru, which are witnessing a big surge in the number of COVID-19 cases, causing anxiety in the administration. Non-essential businesses -- barring the non-essential retail business --- that attract big crowds could be the first to take the blow as a crucial meeting gets under way on Monday to which all the elected representatives from Bengaluru have been invited. Among those on agenda is to increase the curfew hours and also the weekend lockdown, sources said. While some tough steps could be expected to be announced soon after the meeting in Bengaluru, it is likely to be extended to some other places across Karnataka, the sources said, adding that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has also indicated of its extension to a couple of more districts. Ruling out a lockdown, Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Sunday said that strict measures would be announced on Monday after the meeting of political representatives. He held a precursor meeting with Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Sunday. Monday's meeting has been convened by Mr. Ashok, who is the vice-chairman of the State Disaster Management Committee, in the absence of the committee chairman Mr. Yediyurappa, who is recuperating in a hospital here after testing positive for COVID-19. Outside Bengaluru While Bengaluru has been a focus with a huge surge, places such as Mysuru, Tumakuru, Bidar, and Kalaburagi seems to be area of concern. “If you compare the numbers with the population ratio there, they are almost equal or more than Bengaluru. These areas are also expected to see tighter rules,” said government sources. Mr. Yediyurappa is likely to chair another meeting on Tuesday, in a virtual mode, after which tougher measures for the State is expected to be announced. “Though night curfew has been implemented in only eight urban centres, strict measures could be announced for the full State following Tuesday’s meeting,” the sources said. The State government also has to decide on the future of night curfew, which has been implemented in eight urban centres, including Bengaluru, since April 10 to Tuesday. The reasoning for the tough measures, the sources said, was weighing heavily as the numbers had more than doubled since the first measure of night curfew was announced by the Chief Minister on April 8. “The doubling rate has been higher now when compared to the first wave. For example, the numbers were around 7,500 across the State on April 8, which has more than doubled since, and is expected to breach the 20,000 mark in a day or two. It is also a psychological barrier that will weigh heavily on the decision-makers to decide on tough measures,” the sources said. Further, the sources added that the higher numbers was stretching the medical infrastructure, causing enormous stress on manpower and shortage of critical medicines and facilities. The sources, however, said that the cost of a lockdown was going to be disastrous for the economy, the reason for which the State was vacillating on tougher measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tougher-restrictions-expected-to-be-announced-in-parts-of-state/article34354281.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana hits new high in daily cases, fatalities||Telangana has hit yet another peak in new COVID-19 infections with 5,093 cases being detected on Saturday. For the State, which has been crossing one grim milestone after another during the second wave of the pandemic, this is the first time that the 5,000-mark has been breached since the outbreak. Following detection of a high number of cases, Health department officials said the cases will increase further, indicating that tough times lie ahead. Apart from the heavy caseload, the State also recorded the highest number of deaths in a day. On Saturday, 15 COVID patients died. Until then, the maximum deaths were 14 which was recorded multiple times since March last year. The death toll stands at 1,824. However, multiple doctors who attend COVID patients at government hospitals said the actual deaths were higher than the numbers mentioned in daily media bulletin. Of the 33 districts in the State, 17 have recorded over 100 cases. A total of 1.17 crore samples have been tested so far, leading to detection of 3,51,424 cases. Of the total, 37,037 were active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-hits-new-high-in-daily-cases-fatalities/article34354651.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi has less that 100 ICU beds left, says CM Kejriwal||As Delhi reported 25,462 fresh COVID-19 cases with 161 deaths on Sunday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the situation in the Capital was worrisome as the number of vacant ICU beds had fallen below 100 and oxygen was in short supply. He appealed to the Central government to increase the number of beds for COVID-19 patients in its hospitals and provide oxygen immediately. “We have asked the Central government for help and we are receiving it as well. I have spoken to Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about the need for more beds in Central government hospitals and oxygen for COVID-19 patients,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that there were 10,000 beds in Central government hospitals in the city out of which the Delhi government has requested for at least 7,000 to be reserved for COVID-19 patients. The Chief Minister also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him for more beds to me made available. On Sunday evening, Mr. Kejriwal tweeted, “Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL.” The Chief Minister said his government was trying to add 6,000 more beds with oxygen over the next two-three days. “We have seen that most patients need high flow oxygen and we are making arrangements for this. These beds will be set up at schools, Yamuna Sports Complex, Commonwealth Games Village and at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas facility.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-has-less-that-100-icu-beds-left-says-cm-kejriwal/article34354639.ece
19 April 2021||Patna,||Night curfew in Bihar till May 15||After a four-hour meeting with top officials on Sunday after an all-party meeting on Saturday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced a night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. and closure of schools, colleges, cinema halls, parks, religious places and pools till May 15. “After a long meeting today with officials, the crisis management group decided to impose night curfew in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases,” Mr. Kumar told media persons, adding, “We’ll keep monitoring the situation to take our next course of action.” Shops, organisations, vendors will be opened till 6 p.m. and all government and non-government offices will be shut by 5 p.m., he added. “We’ve also discussed at length about availability of oxygen cylinders, beds, ambulances and other things at the meeting,” he said. “Quarantine centres at divisional headquarter level will be opened for those coming from outside of the State and employment generation will be looked into for them.” Earlier on Saturday a senior doctor and superintendent of Bihar’s COVID-19 dedicated Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) had written to the government seeking to be relieved from his post due to lack of oxygen supply in the hospital which has put life of dozens of patients in danger. “Despite my several reminders, the hospital is not being provided adequate oxygen supply which has put lives of dozens of patients in danger. I’m afraid that after patient’s death due to lack of oxygen, blame will be pinned on the NMCH Superintendent,” wrote Dr. Vinod Kumar Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-in-bihar-till-may-15/article34354350.ece
19 April 2021||Pune,||At 68,631, Maharashtra records highest single-day surge in cases||Maharashtra reported 68,631 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike in cases, taking its active cases to 6,70,388. The State also reported an all-time high fatality spike of 503 deaths, pushing its total death toll to 60,473. Of the latest deaths, 210 occurred in the last 48 hours, 128 were from last week and the remaining 165 were from an earlier period. This is the third consecutive day the State has posted fresh peaks in daily cases, adding over 5 lakh cases since March 18 and 6.30 lakh cases since February 18. Just 45,654 recoveries were reported, as the State’s recovery rate dipped to 80.92%. While the total case tally has now reached 38,39,338, the cumulative recoveries stand at 31,06,828, with a record 2.74 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s case fatality rate has declined to 1.58%. Pune district reported more than 11,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,25,819. As per State Health Department figures, 47 deaths were reported. Mumbai added 8,468 new cases, taking its total tally to 5,79,486, of whom 86,688 are active. Fifty-three fatalities took the death toll to 12,354.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-68631-maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-surge-in-cases/article34354739.ece
19 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||COVID-19 deaths in Gujarat far exceed govt. figures||Rupal Thakkar, the 48-year-old mother of a two-year-old, tested COVID-19 positive on April 13. She was rushed to a posh hospital in the city on Friday night after her condition deteriorated. Within a few hours of admission, she died. The Shalby Hospital, in the death certificate, mentioned “sudden cardiac arrest” as the cause of death. Patients missing from list In Gujarat, there are several such cases of COVID-19 patients missing from the list of those infected as hospital authorities mention other conditions as the primary cause of death and not COVID-19. For example, on Friday, as per the State health bulletin, total deaths were 78. But from seven cities — Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar — 689 bodies were either cremated or buried following COVID-19 protocols on the disposal of bodies. “From Ahmedabad’s 1,200 bed COVID-19 designated Civil Hospital, almost 200 bodies were moved out on Friday from the morgue,” a source in the hospital’s mortuary toldThe Hindu. Similarly, from Surat’s two main hospitals, officials said that “around 190 bodies were sent for cremation”. “From the beginning of this month, an average of two dozen bodies are sent daily from the Guru Gobind Singh hospital, Jamnagar,” a local official said. The hospital caters to patients from Jamnagar district as well as neighbouring Porbandar and Dwarka districts. Like Rupal Thakkar’s case, a 58-year-old man died in a private hospital here but the hospital mentioned kidney failure as the cause of death. “My father, 58, died after he was infected with coronavirus. The hospital, however, mentioned that he died as his kidneys failed due to chronic diabetes,” said Maulin Panchal. The State, overwhelmed by the second wave of the pandemic, is witnessing a tale of two sets of data: one from by the Health Department and the other emerging from hospitals and crematoria/burial grounds. And there is a massive mitsmatch between the numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-deaths-in-gujarat-far-exceed-govt-figures/article34354133.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Give options to States, boost vaccine supply: Manmohan||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering suggestions on fighting the second wave of COVID-19 by ramping up vaccination efforts, giving more flexibility to State governments to decide on the categories that need to be vaccinated and invoking licensing provisions to expand the number of vaccine producers. Dr. Singh said the Centre should publicise orders of vaccine doses placed with different producers and accepted for delivery over the next six months. He said while the Centre can keep 10% of these expected deliveries for emergency needs, it should spell out a distribution plan among State governments based on a transparent formula. “...States should be given some flexibility to define categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are below 45 years of age. For example, States may want to designate school teachers, bus, three-wheeler and taxi drivers, municipal and panchayat staff, and possibly lawyers who have to attend courts as frontline workers,” Dr. Singh said. Currently, only those who are 45 years and above are eligible for vaccination. “The Government of India must pro-actively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions. In addition, I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law,” he said. He also suggested that any vaccine that has been cleared for use by credible authorities such as the European Medical Agency or the USFDA, should be allowed to be imported for a limited period without insisting on domestic bridging trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-options-to-states-boost-vaccine-supply-manmohan/article34354135.ece
19 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata writes to PM on surge in cases amid vaccine shortage||Highlighting that the supply of COVID-19 vaccines to West Bengal from the Government of India has been “scarce and erratic”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the State needs to vaccinate 2.7 crore people and urgently needs 5.4 crore doses of vaccines. “We request your urgent intervention to ensure that the State gets its requirement of vaccine doses fulfilled at the earliest,” Ms. Banerjee said in her letter. Ms. Banerjee pointed out that she had written to the Prime Minister on February 24 asking that the State be allowed to purchase vaccines directly with its funds, but was yet to the get requisite clearance. The Chief Minister, in her communication, pointed out that the number of COVID-19 cases in the State had begun to increase sharply, particularly in view of “coming of large number of outsiders to the State for election campaign and other purposes at the behest of some political parties”. In a number of meetings, she has said that the BJP and Mr. Modi are to be blamed if the COVID-19 cases in the State rise. On April 17, the State has registered a record 7,713 infections in the past 24 hours and 34 deaths. The surge of COVID-19 cases continues in the State as it is in the midst of marathon eight phase elections with three phases yet to go. On Sunday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee held multiple public meetings with la arge number of people in the Assembly seats going to polls in the later phases. The Trinamool Congress has urged the ECI to club the remaining phases of elections. The ECI has barred political parties from campaigning in the evening and increased the silent time ahead of every phase from 48 hours to 72 hours . In the letter, the Chief Minister has cited that the supply of essential medicines like Remedesvir and Tocilizumab ( Actemera) is extremely scarce and uncertain today. “We need around 6,000 vials of Remedesvir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab daily. However, at present only 1,000 vials of Remedesvir is available daily and no fresh supply of Tocilizumab is coming,” the letter states, urging the Prime Minister to ensure steady supply of essential medicines as soon as possible. The third issue which the Chief Minister highlighted in her communication was the supply of oxygen which she said must be assured and certain. Ms Banerjee said the public sector SAIL is meeting the State’s need at the moment and urged the PM to instruct them to maintain steady supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-writes-to-pm-on-surge-in-cases-amid-vaccine-shortage/article34354137.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Drive to vaccinate healthcare, frontline workers begins today||Following the steep rise in the number of COVID-19 infections and in conformity with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions, the State government is going to conduct a special drive from Monday to vaccinate all the frontline and healthcare workers in the next few days, according to Andhra Pradesh COVID nodal officer A. Srikanth. Meanwhile, the State received 2 lakh more Covishield doses on Sunday, in addition to the 6 lakh doses it received on Saturday. In a release, Mr. Srikanth said the government was all set to launch the special drive to ensure that the remaining frontline and healthcare workers were administered the vaccine. Out of 10 lakh workers, 5 lakh had so far been vaccinated, he said. “An application that monitors and captures individual vaccination data has been developed to ensure all the beneficiaries are vaccinated in the State,” Mr. Srikanth said. “The application will be used from Monday. All the medical officers will use it to enter the details of the vaccinated workers. It contains the list of all the frontline and healthcare workers,” he said. Meanwhile, no sample collection centre and vaccination centre functioned on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drive-to-vaccinate-healthcare-frontline-workers-begins-today/article34354138.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. announces Sunday lockdown, night curfew from tomorrow||To curtail the spread of COVID-19, the Tamil Nadu government has announced curbs from April 20, including a night curfew from 10 p.m. to 4 a.m. and a full lockdown on Sundays. The curbs are likely to be reviewed on April 30. Following a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday, the government said access to beaches, zoos, parks, museums and tourist spots will be prohibited on all days. It postponed the Class 12 State Board exams without specifying dates, while allowing practical exams to proceed. During the night curfew, private and public transport, autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles will not be allowed. But vehicles used for medical emergencies, and autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles used for transporting people to hospitals, airports and train stations, can ply. Vehicles used for essential services like milk and newspaper delivery, medical services and mortuaries and those carrying goods and fuel will be allowed, as will fuel outlets.  Class 12 State Board exams postponed, practical exams to continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-announces-sunday-lockdown-night-curfew-from-tomorrow/article34354203.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul cancels election rallies in West Bengal||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday announced the suspension of his rallies in West Bengal because of the COVID-19 situation and appealed to other parties to reconsider organising large gatherings. Mr. Gandhi’s move is likely to put pressure on other parties, including the BJP and the Trinamool Congress. “In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “Applause & respect. Lives are too important to be risked in rallies.” Mr. Gandhi’s move comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came under criticism on social media for appreciating large crowds at his rally in West Bengal’s Asansol despite an alarming spike in COVID-19 cases across the country. Targeting Mr. Modi for referring to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as “Didi-o-Didi” at his public rallies, former Union Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted, “Is this the manner in which a Prime Minister should refer to a Chief Minister? I cannot imagine a Jawaharlal Nehru or a Morarji Desai or a Vajpayee speaking that language”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rahul-cancels-election-rallies-in-west-bengal/article34354145.ece
19 April 2021||Vijayawada,||22 succumb to COVID-19||The State reported 22 deaths due to COVID-19, the highest daily toll since October 21, in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. During the period, 6,582 new infections were reported, and Chittoor’s cumulative tally crossed the one lakh-mark, the second district to do so in the State after East Godavari. The cumulative tally of the State increased to 9,62,037 and the toll reached 7,410.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/22-succumb-to-covid-19/article34354139.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,||19,067 new cases reported||As many as 19,067 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases in Karnataka to 11.61 lakh. This is the highest single-day rise across the State. Of these, 12,793 were reported in Bengaluru Urban district. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate was 13.09% on Sunday. Number of tests conducted was 1.45 lakh and the case fatality rate was 0.42%. The number of COVID-19 related deaths on Sunday was 81, taking the total toll to 13,351.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/19067-new-cases-reported/article34354282.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||162 oxygen plants sanctioned||The Union Health Minister on Sunday said the Centre has sanctioned 162 pressure swing adsorption plants, of which 33 have been installed. Five of them were installed in Madhya Pradesh, four in Himachal Pradesh, three each in Chandigarh, Gujarat and Uttarakhand, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Telangana and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Additional ventilators are also being provided and Maharashtra would get 1,121 of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/162-oxygen-plants-sanctioned/article34354740.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. initiates fresh action against IPS officer||The State government has decided to take fresh disciplinary action against IPS officer A.B. Venkateswara Rao, who is under suspension for misconduct, under Rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 1969. It directed Mr. Rao to submit a written statement of his defence and mention whether he desires to be heard in person, within 30 days of the receipt of the order, for giving an explanation on the ‘derogatory comments and accusations’ made by him against the officers investigating the irregularities allegedly committed by him in the procurement of aerostat and unmanned aerial vehicle for the Police Department when he was the Additional DGP (intelligence).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-initiates-fresh-action-against-ips-officer/article34354141.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Back where they began||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-where-they-began/article34354143.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||April session of JEE (Main) postponed||The engineering Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Main) scheduled later this month has been postponed due to the surge in COVID-19 cases across the country, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said on Sunday. The JEE (Main)-2021 April session was scheduled for April 27 to 30. The NTA is organising the JEE (Main)-2021 examination in four sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/april-session-of-jee-main-postponed/article34354146.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Six killed in road accident||Six persons were killed and nine others suffered injuries in an accident at Narkhuda village near Shamshabad here on Sunday. According to Shamshabad Deputy Commissioner of Police N Prakash Reddy, the accident took place around 5.30 p.m. The victims used to work at various brick kilns in Sultanpalli village and were returning after purchasing vegetables from Shamshabad. When they reached Narkhuda, the lorry hit a car coming in the opposite direction and turned turtle, as a result the workers came under the lorry. “Three persons Sahadev (40), hailing from Odisha and Hasthu (45) and Parmanand (52), from Jagdalpur of Chhattisgarh died. Others were pulled out and rushed to nearby hospitals,” Mr. Reddy said. Three others Krupa Suna (40), Gopal Deep (45) and Kala Kumar (25) from Bolangir in Odisha were run over by the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-killed-in-road-accident/article34354293.ece
19 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Lingaraj Temple closed for public||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has restricted public entry into the 11th century Lingaraj Temple after four sevayat s (priests) tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “In view of detection of substantial number of COVID-19 positive cases among thesevayatsof Lord Shree Lingaraj Temple and in larger public interest and with a view to contain the further spread of virus, the public entry to the Shree Lingaraj Temple is restricted inside the temple until further order,” the corporation said. The temple administration will ensure that rituals are conducted by the sevayat s only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lingaraj-temple-closed-for-public/article34354349.ece
19 April 2021||Belagavi,||Tension after elephant enters varsity campus||Tension prevailed for some time on the campus of Karnatak University in Dharwad on Sunday after a tusker strayed onto it. Some staff members and students who sighted the elephant immediately called the police and the forest officers. Inmates of Shalmala hostel said that the elephant was seen in the eucalyptus plantation behind the hostel. Forest officers visited the campus and tried to chase it away. Within an hour, the elephant moved away. They suspected that it had come looking for food and water. It must have walked in from Kalghatgi jungles on the borders of Dharwad district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-after-elephant-enters-varsity-campus/article34354280.ece
19 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata writes to PM on vaccine shortage||Highlighting that the supply of COVID-19 vaccines to West Bengal from the Centre has been “scarce and erratic”, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the State needs to vaccinate 2.7 crore people and urgently needs 5.4 crore doses of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-writes-to-pm-on-vaccine-shortage/article34354641.ece
19 April 2021||Pune,||Nearby||Bharatiya Janata Party Leaders of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar on Saturday night went to Mumbai’s Vile Parle police station after the police questioned a director of a Daman-based pharmaceutical company for allegedly hoarding a large consignment of Remdesivir for export. The Mumbai Police said that the executive of the firm, Bruck Pharma, had been called in for questioning regarding allegations that a consignment of the antiviral drug was due to be sent abroad, despite the Centre banning its export.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article34354742.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI to study SC order in ISRO case to decide on further action||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will study the Supreme Court order directing it to look into the Justice D.K. Jain Committee report on senior Kerala police officials who allegedly framed space scientist Nambi Narayanan in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case of 1994, to decide the further course of action. “As soon as we get a certified copy of the order, it will be studied and a decision taken on whether the probe should be handed over to a special team or a unit,” a CBI official said. The agency has to furnish a report on the findings to the Supreme Court within three months. The case, initially pursued by the Kerala police, was transferred to the CBI on December 4, 1994, on the State government’s reference. In its closure report, the CBI had submitted that the espionage charge against the scientists at the ISRO, including Mr. Narayanan, was not proved and was found to be false. The findings were accepted by the court. ‘No evidence’ As regards the role of Siby Mathews, who headed the special investigation team (SIT) that earlier conducted the probe, the CBI had alleged in a report that he did not take adequate steps either in regard to the thorough interrogation of the accused persons by the Kerala police or the verification of the “so-called disclosure” made by them. “In fact, he left the entire investigation to the IB surrendering his duties. He ordered indiscriminate arrest of the ISRO scientist and others without adequate evidence being on record...,” said a CBI report addressed to the then State Chief Secretary, listing other alleged lapses. It has been mentioned in the Supreme Court’s September 2018 order, based on which the Justice D.K. Jain Committee was constituted. Among the other investigating officials were the then Inspector, Special Branch, S. Vijayan and the then Deputy Superintendent of Police, CB CID, K.K. Joshwa. Police lapses The CBI later submitted in the court that in spite of highlighting several lapses and faults on the part of the police officials while carrying out the investigation against Mr. Narayanan and other accused persons, the State government failed to take any action against the erring officials. “Learned counsel for the respondent no. 4 [CBI] has submitted that the conduct of the police officials is criminal in nature as per the investigation and report submitted by the CBI. The investigation of the CBI had clearly established that the investigation carried out by the State police was full of lapses and also involved employment of illegal means such as criminal torture,” as recorded in the 2018 order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-to-study-sc-order-in-isro-case-to-decide-on-further-action/article34354062.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||162 oxygen plants sanctioned||Amid heightened demand for medical-grade oxygen, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said the government had sanctioned 162 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, of which 33 had been installed. Five of them were installed in Madhya Pradesh, four in Himachal Pradesh, three each in Chandigarh, Gujarat and Uttarakhand, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Telangana and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The States had requested for 100 more plants, and they too were being sanctioned, the Ministry said in a series of tweets on Sunday. Additional ventilators Dr. Vardhan said oxygen production was being diverted from industrial use to medical use. Additional ventilators were being provided to the States. Maharashtra would get 1,121 of them, Uttar Pradesh 1,700, Jharkhand 1,500, Gujarat 1,600, Madhya Pradesh 152 and Chhattisgarh 230. Vaccines were being replenished in “small” States every seven days and in “big” States, every four days, he tweeted, without clarifying the criteria for big and small. As of Sunday, the Ministry reported administering 12 crore vaccines. Eight States accounted for about 60% of the vaccines administered. With 2.6 lakh doses being administered in the past 24 hours, it was the third day in a row that the number of daily doses administered fell below 3 lakh. Dedicated hospitals The Centre has asked hospitals affiliated to public sector units and Union Ministries to set up dedicated blocks, or even exclusive hospitals, to treat COVID-19 patients. “The need of the hour is to prioritise and systematise all our combined efforts towards effective management and ensure availability of sufficient healthcare infrastructure in the States to meet increased demand for treatment,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary, in a letter to several Ministries, including Defence and Atomic Energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/162-oxygen-plants-sanctioned/article34354101.ece
19 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP candidate shot at in Malda, taken to hospital||Gopal Chandra Saha, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Malda, suffered bullet injuries late on Sunday evening. Mr. Saha was shot at from a close range in the Sahapur area of Malda. The bullet has hit his neck. The BJP candidate was returning home after visiting a venue in the district where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address a rally on April 23. He was admitted to the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Tension prevailed in the area after the incident. The constituency will go to polls in the eighth phase on April 26. While several candidates of both BJP and Trinamool had suffered injuries during the campaign, this is the first occasion that a BJP candidate has been shot at. Video footage Video footage aired by local television channels showed the candidate being brought to the hospital on foot by his supporters. The State BJP leadership expressed strong condemnation. “This speaks volumes about the culture of political violence in the State,” BJP MP and Union Minister Deboshree Chaudhuri said. Trinamool Congress leader from Malda Krishendu Narayan Chowdhury said that there could be no involvement of the Trinamool Congress in the violence and demanded action against those responsible for the attack. Just a few months ago, State Minister Jakir Hossain had sustained serious injuries in a bomb explosion in February 2021 in the adjoining Murshidabad district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-candidate-shot-at-in-malda-admitted-to-hospital/article34354076.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Railways to map local festivals near tracks||More than two years after a train ran over 61 persons participating in the Dasara celebrations near Amritsar, the Ministry of Railways has decided to map local festivals celebrated along the railway tracks across the country and issue an advisory to loco pilots on speed restrictions and other safety aspects. In a note to the General Managers of Zonal Railways, the Railway Board said there were several local festivals celebrated in India during which crowds gathered near the railway premises and crossed the track in groups as part of the event. Such occasions had led to unusual incidents resulting in casualties in the past. All Divisional Railway Managers were advised to prepare a list of local festivals having the possibility of crowds gathering in and around railway tracks in all States. “The loco pilot of all trains passing through such locations on festival day should be suitably advised,” the note issued early this month said. There have been a few incidents of fatal accidents on railway tracks during the festival season. In one of the major such accidents in recent years, as many as 61 people, including women and children, were killed and dozens of others injured when a crowd that was watching a ‘Ravana’ effigy being burnt as part of the Dasara celebrations near Amritsar was run over by a train. In a related development, Principal Executive Director (Safety) Devendra Singh expressed concern that accidents and unusual incidents were being reported “very late or not reported” at all to the Railway Board. “It is being viewed seriously by the Board and the Apex Office of the Ministry [of Railways]. The information about the last few incidents of unusual incidents/accidents has come to Board through the media and not from the Division and Zonal Railways,” said Mr. Singh. He urged the authorities concerned to ensure information flow about accidents or unusual incidents be prompt before it got flashed by the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-to-map-local-festivals-near-tracks/article34354067.ece
19 April 2021||Patna,||Bihar facing a severe shortage of oxygen||The superintendent of a dedicated COVID-19 hospital in Bihar has written to the government to relieve him from the post as the lack of oxygen supply in the hospital has put the lives of dozens of patients in danger. Bihar has been facing a severe shortage of oxygen cylinders and the remdesivir medicine for the past one week, with the government claiming that it was taking adequate steps to replenish stocks. Vinod Kumar Singh, a senior doctor and superintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, the most prominent COVID-19 hospital in Patna, wrote to Bihar Principal Health Secretary Pratyaya Amrit to relieve him from the post. “Despite several reminders, the hospital is not being provided adequate oxygen supply which has put lives of dozens of patients in danger. I’m afraid that after patients’ death due to lack of oxygen, blame will be pinned on the NMCH superintendent. So, you’re requested to kindly relieve me immediately from my post,” said the one-page letter dated April 17. Earlier, the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) too had lodged a protest over the government’s mismanagement of COVID-19 treatment in hospitals. “Infected doctors are not being provided beds in hospitals, but VIPs have been occupying beds even with mild symptoms,” the IMA said. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav targeted Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on the issue. “The superintendent of NMCH has requested that he be relived from the post due to lack of oxygen in the hospital. Imagine the situation. You cannot question the Chief Minister of 16-years. Why 16, he will not accept his mistake even if he remains CM for 1600 years,” Mr. Yadav tweeted .  “If the situation is so grim in the State capital, Patna, one can imagine the State in remote districts where medical infrastructure is poor. The sooner the government provides proper medical infrastructure, the better it will be,” said a senior doctor of a government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-facing-a-severe-shortage-of-oxygen/article34354098.ece
19 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||NPP snubs ally BJP in tribal council in Meghalaya||The National People’s Party (NPP) has staked claim for power in a tribal council in Meghalaya without the BJP, its ally, as a partner. The BJP has played down the “snub”, claiming that the party led by Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma was scared of being exposed for having indulged in large-scale corruption in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC). The GHADC polls for 29 seats were held on April 12. The Congress emerged as the single largest party by bagging 12 seats, followed by the NPP with 11. The BJP won two seats and the regional Garo National Council (GNC) one, while three seats went to independent candidates. A party or coalition needs at least 15 seats to rule the council. ‘Automatic’ choice The BJP had hoped to be an “automatic” choice as the NPP’s ally in the GHADC by virtue of being a partner in the multi-party Meghalaya government headed by the NPP. But the NPP sought the support of the lone elected member of the GNC and the three independents to form the new council with exactly 15 members of district council (MDCs). “Every election is fought on its own terms and conditions,” Mr. Sangma told presspersons in Meghalaya, indicating that his party was not interested in taking the BJP along. One of the reasons for snubbing the BJP is believed to be the latter’s insistence on one of its two elected members becoming the Chief Executive Member of the GHADC. “They are ignoring the BJP because they are scared of being exposed for having indulged in corruption and manipulation in the GHADC,” State BJP vice-president and one of the party’s two MDCs, Bernard N. Marak, said on Sunday. The NPP had won 10 seats in the 2015 GHADC polls, but ended up ruling the council in coalition with some regional parties. Apart from being embroiled in alleged scams worth more than Rs. 100 crore, the outgoing council had failed to pay salaries to its employees for up to 35 months. “The NPP wants to bury the problems instead of trying to correct them. This is the reason why they don’t want the BJP as a partner in power, but this is not a big issue for us,” Mr. Marak said. He said the BJP would now work on the “bigger agenda” of winning as many seats in the Assembly election scheduled in 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/npp-snubs-ally-bjp-in-tribal-council-in-meghalaya/article34354063.ece
19 April 2021||Kolkata,||EC bars BJP and Trinamool leaders from campaigning||The Election Commission on Sunday barred two leaders, one from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and another from the Trinamool Congress, from campaigning for 24 hours beginning 7 p.m. on Sunday. The EC issued notice to West Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu for his remarks on the Sitalkuchi deaths. It sternly warned Mr. Basu and “strongly advised him to desist from using such statements while making public utterances when the Model Code of Conduct is in force”. Earlier, State BJP president Dilip Ghosh and former president Rahul Sinha were barred from campaigning for their remarks about the Sitalkuchi incident. Trinamool Congress leader Sujata Mondal, who contested the election from Arambagh, had made some remarks about the Scheduled Castes. The Commission had issued notice to her for “denigrating the Scheduled Caste community in West Bengal”. “Now, therefore, the Commission hereby sternly warns Sujata Mondal and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances when the Model Code of Conduct is in force,” said the EC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-bars-bjp-tmc-leaders-from-campaigning-for-24-hours/article34354352.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO sets up 500-bed facility in Delhi||A 500-bed COVID-19 facility being set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DDRO) near the airport in Delhi will start accepting patients by Monday. “The 1,000-bed facility, which was set up near airport [last year], was wound up in February first week. Now again a 500-bed facility is being set up at the same place. By Monday it should start taking patients. About 250 beds will be ready by Monday. Remaining in another few days,” DRDO spokesperson Narendra Kumar Arya said. A medical team from the Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) has arrived in Delhi and will look after the facility. Major General S.S. Bhatia will be commanding the facility and the team will also have two doctors from Central Armed Police Forces. For admission into the facility, a Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) COVID-19 positive report and Aadhaar card would be necessary. WHO standards Explaining about the facility, Dr. Arya said there would be no charges at the facility. All beds would be with oxygen and a large number of ventilators have also been provisioned. The facility has basic testing facilities and air-conditioning as per World Health Organization (WHO) standards. If there is any neurological or cardiac case, then the patient will be referred to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr. Arya said, adding, “The facilities are same as the last time with some improvements.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-sets-up-500-bed-facility-in-delhi/article34354088.ece
19 April 2021||New delhi,||Amid high demand, Railways to run ‘Oxygen Express’ trains||The Railways will run ‘Oxygen Express’ trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country, the national transporter said on Sunday. Amid spiralling coronavirus cases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen in the country has gone through the roof. Empty tankers will begin their journey from the Kalamboli and Boisar railway stations in and near Mumbai on Monday to load liquid medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro, officials said. The Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra governments had earlier approached the Ministry of Railways to explore whether liquid medical oxygen tankers could be moved by the rail network, they said. On the receipt of the request from the two States, the Railways immediately explored the technical feasibility of transportation of liquid medical oxygen. It has to be transported through roll-on-roll-off service with road tankers placed on flat wagons. ‘Green Corridor’ “Since the first empty tankers will move on April 19, we hope to begin operations of Oxygen Express over the next few days. We would be able to send oxygen wherever there is such demand. Green Corridor is being created for fast movement of the trains,” an official said.  “Instructions have been issued to zonal railways to ensure readiness to receive the trailers and load them back. Ramps have to be built at Visakhapatnam, Angul and Bhilai and the existing ramp at Kalamboli is to be strengthened,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-high-demand-railways-to-run-oxygen-express-trains/article34354093.ece
19 April 2021||Purbasthali/Swarupnagar,||Mamata will make an exit after Nandigram loss, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would bag more than 122 of the 180 seats for which polling was held in West Bengal in the five phases. Mr. Shah, who addressed two rallies during the day, claimed that the Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee would surely make an exit after losing the Nandigram seat to the BJP. “ Didi [Ms. Banerjee] is demoralised after the five phases of election as it has been established that the BJP, with more than 122 seats, is much ahead of her. Take it from me, Suvendu Adhikari [the BJP’s nominee] is winning the polls from Nandigram,” he said at a public meeting in Purbasthali. The Home Minister also said that the Trinamool chief had only one agenda — “abusing him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF)”. He said people should bid Ms. Banerjee farewell after ensuring a huge defeat for her party, one that “befits her stature”. He hoped the CM’s injured leg would heal soon so that “she is able to walk when she submits her resignation to the Governor after May 2”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-will-make-an-exit-after-nandigram-loss-says-shah/article34354080.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||PM reviews COVID-19 situation in Varanasi, speaks to officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, and stressed the need for vaccination of everyone over 45 years of age. He asked the local administration to help people with full sensitivity and asserted that the cooperation of society as well as the government is necessary to curb the pandemic. According to a statement, Mr. Modi emphasised on implementing the “tracking, tracing and testing’” protocol, saying this has to be fully followed to check the virus’s spread, in the same manner the first wave was curbed. Speaking to local officials and people’s representatives, Mr. Modi asked the administration to ensure that preventive measures like social distancing and the use of masks are practised. “The Prime Minister underlined the importance of the vaccination exercise and asked the administration to raise awareness among everyone over 45 years,” the statement said. As the Member of Parliament from Varanasi, he had also been taking regular feedback from people, said Mr. Modi, adding that expansion and modernisation of medical infrastructure in the city have helped in fighting the pandemic. The availability of beds, ICUs and oxygen is being increased, he said. Noting that the administration has set up the ‘Kashi COVID Response Centre’, he said other steps should be carried out swiftly. Mr. Modi was also informed about the mechanism put in place by the administration, including a control room for contact tracing, a command and control centre for home isolation and a dedicated phone line for ambulance service. The statement said 1,98,383 people have got the first dose of the vaccine, while 35,014 have got both the jabs in Varanasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-varanasi-speaks-to-officials/article34354083.ece
19 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen: U.P. CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to take immediate steps to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to patients amid reports of shortage in some places. While officials so far have maintained that there is no shortage, a government statement quoting Mr. Adityanath on Sunday took note of the complaints. “Have received information of shortage of oxygen cylinder in some places. Take immediate action in this regard,” he told officials. 10 new plants “There should be no delay in the process of purchasing the cylinders,” he said, directing the Medical Education Minister to personally monitor the supply and distribution of oxygen. The government has instructed that supply of oxygen to industries be stopped. It has also announced the setting up of 10 new plants. The State recorded more than 30,000 cases and over 100 deaths on Sunday, with Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Kanpur continuing to be the most-affected districts. Several reports have emerged of patients struggling to find beds, medicine and oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-uninterrupted-supply-of-medical-oxygen-up-cm/article34354086.ece
19 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata writes to PM on surge in cases, vaccine shortage||Highlighting that the supply of COVID-19 vaccines to West Bengal from the Government of India has been “scarce and erratic”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the State needs to vaccinate 2.7 crore people and urgently needs 5.4 crore doses of vaccines. “We request your urgent intervention to ensure that the State gets its requirement of vaccine doses fulfilled at the earliest,” Ms. Banerjee said in her letter. Ms. Banerjee pointed out that she had written to the Prime Minister on February 24 asking that the State be allowed to purchase vaccines directly with its funds, but was yet to the get requisite clearance. ‘Sharp increase’ The Chief Minister, in her communication, pointed out that the number of COVID-19 cases in the State had begun to increase sharply, particularly in view of “coming of large number of outsiders to the State for election campaign and other purposes at the behest of some political parties”. In a number of meetings, she has said that the BJP and Mr. Modi are to be blamed if the COVID-19 cases in the State rise. On April 17, the State registered a record 7,713 infections and 34 deaths. The surge of cases continues as the State is in the midst of a marathon eight phase election, with three phases to go. In the letter, Ms. Banerjee said the supply of medicines like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab was scarce and uncertain. “We need around 6,000 vials of Remdesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab daily. However, only 1,000 vials of Remdesivir are available daily and no fresh supply of Tocilizumab is coming,” she said, urging the Prime Minister to ensure a steady supply as soon as possible. The third issue which she highlighted was the supply of oxygen, which she said must be assured and certain. Ms. Banerjee said the public sector SAIL was meeting the State’s need at the moment and urged the PM to instruct them to maintain steady supplies. Seeking cooperation and support, Ms. Banerjee said the State government was “willing to extend its resources to the fullest in tandem with the Centre to tackle the pandemic”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-writes-to-pm-on-surge-in-cases-vaccine-shortage/article34354747.ece
19 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Bat with sticky discs found in Meghalaya||Meghalaya has yielded India’s first bamboo-dwelling bat with sticky discs, taking the species count of the flying mammal in the country to 130. The disc-footed bat ( Eudiscopus denticulus ) was recorded in the northeastern State’s Lailad area near the Nongkhyllem Wildlife Sanctuary, about 1,000 km west of its nearest known habitat in Myanmar. A team of scientists from the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) and a few European natural history museums stumbled upon this “very specialised” small bat with “disc-like pads in the thumb and bright orange colouration” while sampling in a bamboo patch almost a year ago. The finding by the ZSI’s Uttam Saikia, Rohit Chakravarty, Vishwanath D. Hegde and Asem Bipin Meetei has been published in the latest edition of Revue Suisse de Zoologie , a Swiss journal. The European authors of this report are Sergei Kruskop from the Zoological Museum of Moscow State University, Gabor Csorba of the Hungarian Natural History Museum, and Manuel Ruedi of Switzerland’s Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle. “There are a couple of other bamboo-dwelling bats in India. But the extent of adaptation for bamboo habitat in this species is not seen in the others,” one of the ZSI scientists involved in the study said, declining to be quoted. The newly recorded bat was presumed to be a bamboo-dwelling species, but its flattened skull and adhesive pads helped in identifying it as the disc-footed known from specific localities in southern China, Vietnam, Thailand and Myanmar. Dr. Saikia and his colleagues found that the flattened skull and sticky pads enabled the bats to roost inside cramped spaces, clinging to smooth surfaces such as bamboo internodes. The disc-footed bat was also found to be genetically very different from all other known bats bearing disc-like pads. Scientists analysed the very high frequency echolocation calls of the disc-footed bat, which was suitable for orientation in a cluttered environment such as inside bamboo groves. The disc-footed bat has raised Meghalaya’s bat count to 66, the most for any State in India. It has also helped add a genus and species to the bat fauna of India, the ZSI scientists said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bat-with-sticky-discs-found-in-meghalaya/article34354059.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Gopalkrishna Gandhi calls for virtual rallies||Former West Bengal Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi on Sunday wrote to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) to immediately ban all political rallies and door-to-door campaigning in the State and switch to virtual rallies to avoid the spread of COVID-19. In his letter, Mr. Gandhi said electoral democracy and public health should not be “out of harmony”. “Please consider placing an immediate ban on all public rallies and door-to-door campaigning in the State till the last vote has been cast on April 29. And direct them to move to virtual campaigning. It should not be said that India’s electoral democracy and India’s public health are out of harmony,” he wrote in his letter to the CEC. The former Governor said the surge in cases in West Bengal that has coincided with the ongoing Assembly election has jeopardised “the health of the electors, the election staff and security personnel on duty simultaneously and staggeringly”. It places the election process at dire risk, apart from endangering public health, he said. “Social distancing, a desideratum in the fight against the virus, is out of the question in election rallies. But very few candidates and campaigners, if any, are to be seen wearing masks either,” Mr. Gandhi said. “They are subjecting themselves and those they come in contact with, to great, in fact, potentially fatal, risk.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gopalkrishna-gandhi-calls-for-virtual-rallies/article34354073.ece
19 April 2021||Raipur,||5 COVID-19 patients die in Raipur hospital fire||Authorities have ordered an investigation after five patients died in a fire at the COVID-19 ward of a private hospital in Chhattisgarh’s capital city Raipur, police said on Sunday. Raipur Collector S. Bharathi Dasan has ordered an investigation into the incident. Officials have been directed to conduct safety checks at pandemic hospitals in the city. Negligence case “Five coronavirus patients died in the incident. One was charred to death and the others died due to suffocation,” a police official said, adding that a case of negligence will be registered against the owners of the hospital. A supervisor saw smoke coming out of the ward and informed the hospital authorities, who alerted the police. The fire brigade and hospital staff rescued the other patients. It took about an hour to extinguish the fire. At 4.30 p.m. “The fire broke out in the COVID-19 ward of Rajdhani super speciality hospital at 4.30 p.m. and was brought under control by the firefighters in 20 minutes,” the police said. When the fire broke out, there were around 30 patients in the ward, they said. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed grief over the incident and announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-dead-in-chhattisgarh-covid-19-hospital-fire/article34354081.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Bihar facing severe shortage of oxygen||“Despite several reminders, the hospital is not being provided adequate oxygen supply which has put lives of dozens of patients in danger. I’m afraid that after patients’ death due to lack of oxygen, blame will be pinned on the NMCH superintendent. So, you’re requested to kindly relieve me immediately from my post,” said the one-page letter dated April 17. Earlier, the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) too had lodged a protest over the government’s mismanagement of COVID-19 treatment in hospitals. “Infected doctors are not being provided beds in hospitals, but VIPs have been occupying beds even with mild symptoms,” the IMA said. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav also targeted Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-facing-severe-shortage-of-oxygen/article34354642.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Bihar facing severe shortage of oxygen||“Despite several reminders, the hospital is not being provided adequate oxygen supply which has put lives of dozens of patients in danger. I’m afraid that after patients’ death due to lack of oxygen, blame will be pinned on the NMCH superintendent. So, you’re requested to kindly relieve me immediately from my post,” said the one-page letter dated April 17. Earlier, the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) too had lodged a protest over the government’s mismanagement of COVID-19 treatment in hospitals. “Infected doctors are not being provided beds in hospitals, but VIPs have been occupying it even with mild symptoms,” the IMA said. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav targeted Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on the issue. “The Superintendent of NMCH has requested that he be relived from the post due to lack of oxygen in the hospital. Imagine the situation. You cannot question the Chief Minister of 16-years. Why 16, he will not accept his mistake even if he remains CM for 1600 years,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-facing-severe-shortage-of-oxygen/article34354745.ece
19 April 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. CM asks people to stay indoors till April 30||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday asked people to stay indoors till April 30 to break the chain of rising COVID-19 infections. The CM’s appeal triggered speculation that the ongoing ‘corona curfew’, which is in force in many parts of M.P. till April 23, may be extended till April 30. A weekend ‘corona curfew’ is also in place in the State on Saturday and Sunday. “It is very necessary to break the chain of the coronavirus infection in view of the rise in cases. No one should come out of the house unnecessarily till April 30,” Mr. Chouhan said. He also said the people should observe a ‘janata curfew’ in villages, localities, colonies and buildings during which only two to four persons should bring necessary items for others. Mr. Chouhan appealed to people to wear a face mask and follow social distancing norms. He said M.P. has received about one lakh Remdesivir injections since April 8. “A the government supply of 12,000 injections was received on Sunday. The State will start receiving about 20,000 injections from April 20,” he stated. The corona curfew will come into effect in Damoh, where the Assembly by-election was held on April 17, from 10 p.m. on April 19 till 6 a.m. on April 26. With 12,248 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest single-day spike, M.P.’s tally went up to 4,08,080. The death toll stood at 4,557.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-cm-asks-people-to-stay-indoors-till-april-30/article34354643.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||India records 2.75 lakh new cases, 1,620 deaths||About 26.84 lakh COVID-19 vaccination doses were administered in the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. on Sunday. It is about 29,000 doses less than what was recorded in the previous 24-hours. Also, it is about 2.5 lakh doses lower than what was recorded the previous Sunday. As many as 15,66,394 samples were tested in India on Saturday (results of which were made available on Sunday), the highest-ever number of tests conducted in a single day in the country. This is the first time the number of daily tests is crossing the 15-lakh mark in India. For the past one week, testing levels have remained high and are on an increasing trend. As of Saturday, 26.65 crore tests have been conducted cumulatively in India. The daily positivity rate (cases detected per 100 tests) in India in the last 12 days has doubled to 16.7%, while the weekly positivity rate has increased to 13.5% in the past month, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. Chhattisgarh reported the highest weekly positivity rate at 30%, followed by Goa at 24%, Maharashtra at 24%, Rajasthan at 23% and Madhya Pradesh at 19%, according to the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-257-lakh-new-cases-1384-deaths/article34354057.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Give options to States, boost vaccine supply’||He said the government must scale up vaccination efforts and asserted that with the right policy design, the country can do “much better and very quickly”. “...States should be given some flexibility to define categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are below 45 years of age. For example, States may want to designate school teachers, bus, three-wheeler and taxi drivers, municipal and panchayat staff, and possibly lawyers who have to attend Courts as frontline workers. They can then be vaccinated even if they are below 45,” Dr. Singh said. Currently, only those who are 45 years and above are eligible for vaccination. “At this moment of a public health emergency, the Government of India must pro-actively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions. In addition, I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law,” he said. He also suggested that any vaccine that has been cleared for use by credible authorities such as the European Medical Agency or the USFDA, should be allowed to be imported for a limited period without insisting on domestic bridging trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-options-to-states-boost-vaccine-supply/article34354064.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata writes to PM on surge in cases||In the letter, Ms. Banerjee said the supply of medicines like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab was scarce and uncertain. “We need around 6,000 vials of Remdesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab daily. However, only 1,000 vials of Remdesivir are available daily and no fresh supply of Tocilizumab is coming,” she said, urging the Prime Minister to ensure a steady supply as soon as possible. The third issue which she highlighted was the supply of oxygen, which she said must be assured and certain. Ms. Banerjee said the public sector SAIL was meeting the State’s need at the moment and urged the PM to instruct them to maintain steady supplies. Seeking cooperation and support, Ms. Banerjee said the State government was “willing to extend its resources to the fullest in tandem with the Centre to tackle the pandemic which the country is facing and to overcome it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-writes-to-pm-on-surge-in-cases/article34354065.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Respond to plea on wrong photo of Hathras victim’||The Delhi High Court has sought the responses of the Centre and three social media platforms — Facebook, Google and Twitter — on a petition seeking details of those who uploaded a wrong photograph of the Hathras rape victim. Justice Prathiba M. Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and the social media platforms, and asked them to place before the court, in a sealed cover, the basic subscriber information of the person(s) who uploaded videos and photos that wrongly showed another deceased woman as the rape victim. The direction came on an application moved by the widower of the deceased in his main petition. The petitioner contended that his wife’s photograph was being circulated on various social media platforms and that they wrongly depicted her as the victim of the unfortunate incident of the rape and murder of a young girl at Hathras, Uttar Pradesh last year. In January, Facebook, Google and Twitter had told the court that they had blocked or taken down all links that incorrectly showed the deceased woman’s photograph as that of the Hathras rape victim. On the last date of the hearing, Facebook and Google also told the court that they could not on their own search for such links and remove them without a court or government order. The petitioner’s lawyers told the court that a victim could not be expected to keep on providing the links after they had brought the issue to the notice of the social media platforms. The court had also earlier said, “A victim cannot go on searching for links and making complaints. There has to be some other solution.” The petitioner has also contended in his petition that the revelation of the identity of a rape victim is an offence under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), though the image of a wrong person was in circulation in the present matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-plea-on-wrong-photo-of-hathras-victim/article34354068.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Those dealing in narcotics key in causing deaths: SC||Persons dealing in narcotic drugs are instruments in causing the deaths of innocent and vulnerable victims, the Supreme Court said, adding that merely because an accused is poor is not reason enough to give him a lesser punishment A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said while awarding a sentence under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the interest of the society had to be taken into consideration. “Organised activities of the underworld and the clandestine smuggling of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances into this country shall lead to drug addiction,” the Bench said. The observation came on an appeal filed by Gurdev Singh challenging a decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court confirming the sentence for an offence under Section 21 of the NDPS Act. The court had sentenced the accused to 15 years imprisonment. The Bench dismissed the appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/those-dealing-in-narcotics-key-in-causing-deaths-sc/article34354069.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Virus deaths in Gujarat far exceed govt. figures||Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has said Gujarat “follows the ICMR guidelines in counting COVID-19 deaths”. According to sources, the government has formed a death audit committee in every district to determine the primary cause of deaths. After the first wave last year, the State government issued an order directing an audit of all COVID-19 deaths. Only cases where the primary reason of death is determined to be COVID-19 would be classified as “COVID-19 deaths”, the order stated. “The committee, consisting of civil hospital doctors and others, does not count any co-morbid death as a COVID-19 death. Only those deaths where the cause is viral pneumonia is considered a COVID death and counted in the official figures. In this disease, we have noticed that a large number of deaths occur due to cardiac arrest or heart failure, brain stroke and multiple organ failures and they are not considered,” a government official said. Since the second wave started in the last week of March, municipal and district administrations have ramped up crematoria capacity as bodies are piling up due to waiting periods of five to 12 hours. In Surat, the civic administration has started using three crematora that were in disuse for several years. In Ahmedabad, in several cremation grounds, multiple bodies are burnt on open grounds to cope with the inflows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-deaths-in-gujarat-far-exceed-govt-figures/article34354070.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||April session of JEE Main postponed||Two of these sessions have already been completed in February and March. The number of candidates appeared in session 1 was 6,20,978 and session 2 was 5,56,248, according to the NTA. “Given the COVID situation, I have advised National Testing Agency (NTA) to postpone the JEE (Main) – 2021 April session. I would like to reiterate that safety of our students & their academic career are Ministry of Education’s and my prime concerns right now,” he tweeted. Looking at the present situation of the pandemic and also taking into account the safety and well-being of the candidates and examination functionaries, it had been decided to postpone the JEE (Main-2021 April session.), the NTA said in a notice dated April 18. “The revised dates for the JEE (Main)-2021 April session will be announced later on at least 15 days before the examination.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/april-session-of-jee-main-postponed/article34354071.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi has fewer than 100 free ICU beds: CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the COVID-19 situation in Delhi was worrisome as the positivity rate in the past 24 hours had reached 30% from 24.56% the previous day and that there was a shortage of ICU beds and oxygen. In a digital address, he said that there were fewer than 100 ICU beds left in Delhi and there was a shortage of oxygen. “We have asked the Central government for help and we are receiving it as well. I have spoken to Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about the need for more beds in Central government hospitals and oxygen for COVID-19 patients” Mr. Kejriwal said. There were 10,000 beds in Central government hospitals in the city, out of which the Delhi government had requested that at least 7,000 of these be reserved for COVID-19 patients from the current 1,800 beds. 6,000 beds “Delhi government on its part is trying to add 6,000 more beds with oxygen over the next two or three days. There is a limit as to how many ICU beds we can add but we have seen that most patients need high-flow oxygen, and we are making arrangements. These beds will be set up at schools, Yamuna Sports Complex, Commonwealth Games Village and at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas facility which we are reopening,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-has-fewer-than-100-free-icu-beds-cm/article34354084.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Birth of the epic||Two great sages of high penance who are ‘kavis,’ that is, poets endowed with excellent poetic vision, are seen in conversation in the first chapter of the Valmiki Ramayana. Valmiki of austere penance asks Narada to tell him about that person who is of the highest admirable nature and even lists 16 specific qualities and attributes. Narada then brilliantly summarises the entire original Ramayana, believed to comprise 100 crore verses, in a mere 90 verses in the first chapter, said Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Hence the adjective ‘Vakvidam Varam’ is most apt for him. Valmiki is greatly impressed by the events and people in the story which, though short, is rich in emotion, pathos and depth of character. In this frame of mind, Valmiki goes for ablutions to the banks of Tamasa River, where he is moved when he sees the happiness of a pair of Krauncha birds rudely cut short by a hunter’s arrow. Spontaneously he curses the hunter and, strangely enough, he realises that this has taken the shape of a beautiful sloka with pleasing rhythm. It is surely divine will, he feels. This is confirmed when Brahma and Saraswati visit him in his ashram and bless him with the vision of the entire story of Rama and also the poetic talent to compose this great kavya Ramayana. The verse he spoke is considered as a mangala sloka for the epic. Thus, by divine grace, Valmiki Ramayana is born, wherein the core story briefly told by Narada is explained and expanded into a magnificent work of 24,000 verses. Valmiki composed the entire epic in that metre. He taught it to Lava and Kusa, the sons of the Divine couple who were born in his ashram. They learnt the verses and used to sing them in melodious notes to take it to the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/birth-of-the-epic/article34354085.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDG, others booked on graft charges||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a Deputy Director-General (DDG) of the Directorate General of Mines Safety, Arvind Kumar, and others on graft charges. The agency has also seized Rs. 35 lakh. “The DDG and two others have been detained,” a CBI official said. It is alleged that the official extended undue favours to 48 candidates who appeared in an oral examination after qualifying the computer-based tests for the Manager’s Certificate of Competency (Restricted and Unrestricted).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ddg-others-booked-on-graft-charges/article34354060.ece
19 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Former Assam CM Bhumidhar Barman dead||Former Assam chief minister Bhumidhar Barman passed away at a Guwahati hospital on Sunday evening after a prolonged illness. He was 89. The Congress veteran was Chief Minister for 23 days from April 22, 1996, after the death of his predecessor Hiteswar Saikia. He had held key portfolios such as Education, Health and Revenue. The holder of an MBBS degree, he was first elected to the Assembly in 1967 from the Barkhetry constituency in western Assam. He won six more State elections from the seat. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal mourned the demise. “Saddened to learn about the demise of former Chief Minister of Assam, Dr. Bhumidhar Barman. My sincere condolences to his bereaved family members and well-wishers,” Mr. Sonowal said. “Despite his age, he was active in politics, campaigning and attending party meetings to guide the party,” said Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-assam-cm-bhumidhar-barman-dead/article34354075.ece
19 April 2021||Shahdol,||6 dead due to low-pressure oxygen in ICU||At least six COVID-19 patients died in the ICU of a government hospital in Shahdol, Madhya Pradesh, allegedly due to low pressure of the medical oxygen supply. The incident occurred at the Government Medical College Hospital here on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. However, the district administration denied that these deaths were caused due to the “shortage of oxygen”. “Out of 62 patients admitted in the Intensive Care Unit ward of the medical college’s COVID-19 centre, six patients died following the low pressure of liquid oxygen late last night,” the facility’s dean, Dr Milind Shiralkar, said, adding that the other critical patients are safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-dead-due-to-low-pressure-oxygen-in-icu/article34354079.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Industrial O2 use restricted||The Centre has banned the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes from April 22. However, supply for industries that make ampoules and vials, pharmaceuticals, refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder, waste water treatment plants, food and water puri- fication would continue, an MHA order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industrial-o2-use-restricted/article34354089.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Off track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/off-track/article34354091.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. must apologise to nation: Cong.||Several Congress leaders on Sunday attacked the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, with Manish Tewari asserting that the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance owed an apology to the nation. Mr. Tewari posted a clip of JD(U) leader and Lok Sabha member Rajeev Ranjan Singh asking him to apologise for creating a scare. The Congress leader, who was the lead speaker from his party during the debate on demand for grants for the Health Ministry, had warned the government of a fresh COVID-19 wave. “When I flagged that second wave of COVID-19 would overwhelm us during debate on Demands or Grants of @MoHFW_INDIA in Lok Sabha hear response of NDA’s lead speaker Rajiv Ranjan Singh. I guess the shoe is on the other foot. It is NDA/BJP THAT owes our nation an APOLOGY,” Mr. Tewari tweeted, tagging the official JD(U) handle.  The Congress said thegovernment had done precious little in the past one year. “While ‘no vaccine’ boards hang on the door of most hospitals, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claims that ‘there is no shortage in the supply of vaccines’. Believe the Minister, there is no shortage of vaccines, oxygen, Remdesivir, hospital beds, doctors and nurses. There is only a shortage of patients!” former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted. “Thank you Prime Minister for sparing a little time for Covid amidst the urgent war to conquer WEST BENGAL and annexe it to the BJP’s empire,” he added. Former Law Minister Kapil Sibal tweeted that the government should declare a health emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-must-apologise-to-nation-cong/article34354099.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation reopens COVID-19 tele-counselling centre||The city is reporting over 3,200 cases every day, 1,000 more than last year’s peak, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said. Stressing the need for tightening regulations to contain the spread of COVID-19, he said the civic body was taking steps to restrict indoor activity and impose local restrictions. With the surge, the Corporation had permitted 80% of the 20,000 active cases to be under home isolation. The COVID-19 Control Room and Tele-Counselling Centre for assisting residents, which was shut last December after cases in the city reduced to less than 100, have been reopened. Residents under home isolation are requested to call the centre for assistance. Trained volunteers will answer calls on helplines 044-46122300 or 044-25384520 and help them in all aspects of COVID-19 management. Last year, the Corporation handled 4 lakh calls. “Residents of all the 200 wards of the Corporation will get answers for all questions, including ones on vaccination. Residents can call the number during an emergency to get assistance in reaching hospitals. They can even get information regarding precautions for COVID-19,” Mr. Prakash said. Volunteers will work three shifts at the COVID-19 control room. Residents can also ask questions about testing, vacancies in hospitals, essential medicine availability, disinfection of neighbourhoods, COVID-19 waste disposal, and emergency and psychological support for patients. “The centre will build confidence among residents that they will get help all the time,” the Corporation Commissioner said. “Traders have made representations against restrictions. We have to regulate to bring discipline during the pandemic. We will lock and seal the premises if violations continue for the second time after officials collect fine,” Mr. Prakash said. Restrictions in 240 playfields are expected shortly. Currently, 475 streets have registered more than three cases, 363 streets have more than six cases and 108 streets have more than 108 cases. “The streets with more than 10 cases will almost be like a sealed area. All streets will not be restricted as there may be public unrest,” he said. Pointing to the 3 lakh stock availability of vaccines in the city, he said 60% of the eligible age group had been vaccinated. “We will achieve complete coverage by the end of July. Over 13.5 lakh residents over 45 years have been vaccinated.” “The remaining residents in the eligible age group will be inoculated in 10 days,” Mr. Prakash said. COVID-19 testing crossed 20,000 on Sunday and was expected to touch 25,000 shortly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-reopens-covid-19-tele-counselling-centre/article34354596.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three city areas become model localities for waste management||Urbaser-Sumeet, the company that has taken over garbage collection and transport and cleaning of streets in seven of the 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation, has launched an initiative to transform three localities into models for waste management. These include Lock Nagar, major parts of Raja Annamalai Puram and some parts of Moores Road. While the initiative has been launched in Lock Nagar and Raja Annamalai Puram, preparatory work is under way for Moores Road. Representatives of Urbaser-Sumeet said apart from showcasing through these localities that 100% segregation at source, composting and recycling were possible, the initiative would help in understanding key challenges and possible solutions so that the same could be emulated in other areas. While Lock Nagar, with low-income households, and Raja Annamalai Puram, with predominantly high income households, are different types of localities, V.R. Hari Balaji, head of the Information, Communication and Education (IEC) division at Urbaser-Sumeet, said both had their challenges. “In both localities, we find a section of the population complying with segregation at source or willing to do so, and another section who are a bit reluctant,” he said. The entirety of Lock Nagar, which mainly comprises the 10 Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board apartment blocks, has been brought under this initiative. In Raja Annamalai Puram, seven main roads, three cross roads and Canal Bank Road have been included. Mr. Hari Balaji said the initiative involved several phases, namely the empathise, ideate, prototype, test and launch phases. There were close interactions with residents in each of these phases, he added. Prototype phase “We are in the prototype phase now, where we will be designing practices that best work for each locality,” he said. “For instance, we observed in Lock Nagar that people buy groceries on a daily basis and a lot of the waste was plastic sachets. Hence, we are tying up with local grocers to reward residents for returning used empty sachets. They can buy something in exchange for returning a certain number of sachets,” Mr. Hari Balaji said. While collection of waste, segregation at source and dumping of waste were some key challenges in Lock Nagar, residents of Raja Annamalai Puram expressed different needs for making their locality a model locality. Pointing out that a large section of the apartment complexes and residents were already segregating waste at source, T.N. Srinivas, vice-president, Raja Annamalai Puram Residents’ Association (RAPRA), said a key concern was the mixing of garbage in the battery operated vehicles (BOVs) and on the roadside bins. “This defeats the purpose and demoralises those who are segregating. We have expressed this to Urbaser-Sumeet and we are seeing some changes,” he said. Mr. Srinivas stressed on the need for improved colour-coding of bins in the battery-operated vehicles so that it was easier for the operator and also for residents to ensure that their segregated waste was being dumped into the right bin. “Right now, all these bins are grey and the sign boards are not prominent,” he said. “We would also like to move towards bin-less streets and also composting and recycling of the collected green and dry waste,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-city-areas-become-model-localities-for-waste-management/article34354609.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily cases surge past the 10,000-mark||For the first time, fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged past the 10,000-mark on Sunday. As many as 10,723 people contracted the infection, while 42 succumbed to it in the State. The record surge in daily infections took the State’s tally to 9,91,451. Chennai recorded another new high with 3,304 cases. The city accounted for 16 of the 42 fatalities. For the second day in a row, over a lakh samples were tested, taking the total figure to 1,10,130. As many as 1,08,155 people got tested on Sunday. With 5,925 people being discharged after treatment, the total figure rose to 9,07,047. The surge in cases pushed the active caseload to 70,391, of which Chennai accounted for 25,011 people. Thirty-seven of the 42 deceased had co-morbidities. Among the five persons who did not have co-morbidities was a 48-year-old man from Kancheepuram, who was admitted to a private hospital on April 14. He died on April 17 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. According to the medical bulletin, 11 of those who died were in their 50s. The fatalities took the State’s toll to 13,113. Of these, Chennai accounts for 4,400 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (866) and Coimbatore (707). As cases surged across the State, Chengalpattu recorded 954 cases and Coimbatore 727. There were 503 cases in Tiruvallur. Four districts recorded 300-plus cases — Kancheepuram (332), Tirunelveli (309), Tiruppur (307) and Tiruchi (311). A total of seven districts had 200-plus cases. These included Madurai (276), Salem (275), Thoothukudi (252) and Vellore (229). Among those who tested positive on Sunday were 29 returnees. They included six from Jharkhand and five each from West Bengal and Bihar.  Vaccine coverage dips The number of persons vaccinated dipped to 25,670 on Sunday, taking the total coverage to 47,31,143. Of the 25,670 people, 13,372 were aged 45-59 and 9,454 were senior citizens. Covishield was administered to 419 healthcare workers, 1,020 frontline staff, 8,167 people aged 45-59 and 6,049 senior citizens, while Covaxin was administered to 472 healthcare workers, 933 frontline staff, 5,205 people aged 45-59 and 3,405 senior citizens. On Sunday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar tweeted that the State had received 55.85 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-cases-surge-past-the-10000-mark/article34354230.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girija Vaidyanathan gets HC nod as green panel’s expert member||The Madras High Court on Saturday cleared the decks for former Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan to assume office as an Expert Member of National Green Tribunal (NGT). The court vacated an interim stay imposed on her appointment and rejected a public interest litigation petition which claimed that she does not meet the statutory requirement of possessing five years of experience in dealing with environmental matters. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the former Chief Secretary, a bureaucrat with 38 years of administrative experience, had served as the Environment and Forest Secretary for nine months between December 2001 and August 2002 and as chairperson of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for 19 months between November 2003 and May 2005. These positions pertained to environmental matters. Tenure as Health Secy. Apart from these, the judges agreed with her counsel M. Santhanaraman that her tenure as Health Secretary between August 2002 and November 2003 and once again from June 2011 to September 2012 should also be taken into consideration because then she was also the ex-officio chairperson of the State-level Advisory Committee for the implementation of Bio-medical Waste (management and handling) Rules of 1998. The judges wrote: “Matters like the critical manner of disposing of different kinds of waste, particularly biomedical waste, received attention only over the last few decades when the third respondent (Ms.Vaidyanathan) was actively in service and there is no doubt that the third respondent must have been involved in setting up the ground rules for the disposal of bio-medical waste in the State.” The first Division Bench, however, did not give much credence to her claim that she had dealt with environmental matters even in her capacity as the Chief Secretary of the State for more than two years and had even appeared before the NGT on various occasions to explain steps taken by the State on various environmental issues.  ‘Tenuous association’ “Thus, without looking into the tenuous association of the third respondent as the Chief Secretary with environmental matters and without giving credence to the number of times that she may have attended the National Green Tribunal or passed by the building, the two and a half years spent by her as Health Secretary together with the nearly 28 months combined in the Environment and Forest Department and as the Chairperson of the Pollution Control Board appears to have covered almost the entirety of the five years of requisite experience and, at any rate, if given the benefit the nearest integer of any fraction,” the Bench observed. The court also said that an exalted selection committee, comprising a sitting Supreme Court judge and a retired Supreme Court judge, would have certainly taken into consideration the experience of the Chief Secretary in dealing with environmental matters before selecting her for the post of Expert Member of NGT.  G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal, a voluntary environmental organisation, had filed the PIL petition early this year challenging the appointment of Ms. Vaidyanthan as Expert Member of the National Green Tribunal and the court had stayed the appointment on April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girija-vaidyanathan-gets-hc-nod-as-green-panels-expert-member/article34354258.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fact-finding team seeks CBI probe into Madras varsity students’ issue||A fact-finding team has sought a CBI inquiry into the alleged sexual assault of a woman student and the manhandling of a head of department at the University of Madras. The issue pertains to a group of students from the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, who failed in the semester exams, the results of which were declared in February. Since then, the students have been trying to get the university to address their grievance over the results. The situation got out of control on March 16 when a fracas erupted, in which a professor, who was also in charge of the department, was manhandled. The woman student alleged that during the incident, he touched her inappropriately. She also submitted a complaint to the University Grants Commission and the police. Four students of the department had failed in a few subjects. They claimed that they were deliberately declared fail in a subject taught by a guest lecturer. Their grievance was addressed by the department in-charge J. Soundararajan, following the intervention of the registrar, N. Mathivanan, to whom the students had made a representation. Their papers were revaluated by a retired professor from Bharathidasan University. However, two of the students failed even in the revaluation. The issue escalated as the students began heckling Mr. Soundararajan. On March 16, the students who had failed, along with the woman student, allegedly barged into the professor’s office when an online seminar was under way and harassed him over their results. Mr. Soundararajan decided to seek the registrar’s help, but with the latter having left his office for an event, he returned to the department. Those interviewed by the committee included administrative staff, a research scholar and technical staff in the department. The interviewees said the students gheraoed the professor and, at one point, they grabbed his clothes, demanding an apology. C. Lakshmanan, a professor at the Madras Institute of Developmental Studies and convener of the Dalit Intellectual Collective, which sent the team, said certain issues required further investigation. “We wanted to know what the procedure was for announcing the results; whether the procedure for releasing the results was adhered to; why the students didn’t go to the dean, and instead chose to protest and approach the registrar; why the registrar overruled the syndicate’s recommendation and awarded marks in violation of UGC norms; why the registrar opted to proceed to a sports function when the head of a department was seeking help to solve trouble in his office; and why the university didn’t mention anything about the assault on the woman or the commotion in the department when it revoked the suspension of the students,” he said. The university had a clear mechanism to address sexual harassment and yet, the woman student chose to file a police complaint, he pointed out. “Such an incident should not happen again at a university of good standing. Only a free and fair investigation will provide answers,” he added. The committee comprises six persons, including two women. Two of them are expected to issue separate dissent notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-probe-sought-into-students-issue-at-madras-university/article34354604.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fatty liver emerging a significant health burden||Fatty liver is increasingly becoming more prevalent and people must adhere to proper diet and periodic health checks to prevent it, said T.S. Chandrasekar, chairman and chief gastroenterologist, MedIndia Hospitals, Chennai, on Saturday. Delivering a talk as part of The Hindu Wellness Series webinar, presented by Kauvery Hospital, on the topic ‘Love your Liver’, ahead of ‘Liver Day’ that fell on Monday, he stressed on the importance of liver as one of the most important organs of the body that was responsible for carrying out more than 500 functions. Damage from alcohol He said proper balanced intake of food with low carbohydrates and staying away from alcohol, which could severely damage the organ, were crucial for a healthy liver. He said obesity was also increasingly emerging as a major cause for liver getting affected even at an young age. K. Elan Kumaran, senior consultant, liver transplantation and hepatobiliary Surgery, and head, Liver Diseases and Transplantation Centre, Kauvery Hospital, Chennai, highlighted the importance of periodic health checks as liver was remarkably self-renewable and symptoms of damage may not be clearly visible in many cases until two-thirds of the organ’s functionalities were affected. Pointing out that fatty liver need not occur only to those who were obese, he said regular health checks could help diagnose it at an early stage. “If detected early, it is possible in many cases to reverse the condition,” he said. Murali Jayaraman, consultant surgical gastroenterologist and advanced laparoscopic surgeon, Kauvery Hospital, Hosur, said medical interventions, including advanced surgeries, were becoming more available in tier-2 and tier-3 cities as well. “At my practice in Hosur, I see alcohol being a major reason for liver damage,” he said. Dr. Elan Kumaran highlighted the need for increased awareness on liver transplantation as only a fraction of the people who are in need were getting transplants. The panelists also spoke on the impact of hepatitis viruses on the liver and importance of getting vaccinated against Hepatitis B virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fatty-liver-a-significant-health-burden/article34354212.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No quarantine, stay for govt. doctors||Not all government doctors in Tamil Nadu are being granted a seven-day quarantine after completion of the week-long duty in COVID-19 isolation wards. In many districts, no accommodation is being provided for doctors on COVID-19 duty, forcing them to return to their houses or hostels, raising the risk of transmission. Last year, government doctors were granted a mandatory seven-day quarantine after COVID-19 duty. They had to undergo compulsory testing to return to work. During their posting in isolation wards and during their quarantine, accommodation was provided to prevent the transmission of infection. “Now, in many places, doctors are being forced to do continuous duty due to manpower shortage. There is no clarity and uniformity on quarantine rules. The government should clarify its stand and grant quarantine, as before, since the virus is causing infections even among vaccinated individuals. There is a need to recruit additional doctors in places where there is a shortage,” said a government doctor on condition of anonymity. The quarantine period has been reduced in several institutions from one week to just three days. “The situation is pathetic. For instance, in Thanjavur, doctors working in isolation wards are being given compulsory quarantine only for three days,” another doctor said. In a few places, there is no quarantine. A doctor in Salem said, “We are posted on regular duty following COVID-19 duty without any quarantine period. COVID-19 cases are rising, and the lack of quarantine poses the risk of infection among healthcare workers. No accommodation is provided for doctors.” Going back to regular duty also puts patients at risk, doctors added. Right now, medical college hospitals in Chennai grant a seven-day quarantine period to doctors. “Most government hospitals under the Directorate of Medical and Rural Services follow a three-day quarantine. Food and accommodation is provided in some institutions such as medical colleges in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore, while no food/accommodation is provided in most GHs coming under the DMS’ control,” a doctor in Tiruchi said. There are also instances of pending payments to hotels where accommodation was provided earlier, a few doctors said. The risk of cross infection can result in a shortage of manpower. “A few doctors have already tested positive and are on leave,” he said. K. Senthil, president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association said in spite of vaccination, doctors should be given a week’s quarantine after COVID-19 duty. “If we are going to do this for another four months, many will get exhausted,” he said. He said it was unfortunate that recruitments and transfers had been withheld, citing the model code of conduct. A Health official said in most places, seven-day quarantine was being granted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-quarantine-stay-for-govt-doctors/article34354222.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A need for long-term solutions||Bhavani Angel, who used to work in a play school but lost work due to COVID-19, is part of a women’s group being formed by Urbaser-Sumeet to take a participatory role in making Lock Nagar a model locality for waste management. She remembers a time when another private agency handling garbage collection for the Greater Chennai Corporation launched similar initiatives in her locality. “It all worked for a while with the initial enthusiasm. Soon after, people went back to their old ways of dumping waste in common areas,” she said. Acknowledging that awareness and consequent attitudinal change among individuals were key to bringing change, she, however, added that there were inherent problems that discouraged people from proper disposal and segregation of waste. Residents of Lock Nagar, for instance, complained about lack of space in their TNSCB apartments to keep two separate bins for green and dry waste. “Our kitchens are so small with barely any space for more than one person to stand,” said R. Meena, a resident. Similarly, many people pointed out that they used old buckets or containers to collect waste and buying bins would be an investment that many in the low-income neighbourhood would not be willing to do. All these have resulted in people throwing garbage in the narrow lanes between apartment blocks, which have become unusable. “The windows in the kitchens face these lanes. It is easy to toss the garbage through the window. That is what most people do,” Bhavani Balan, another resident, said. S. Sumathi Manimaran, team leader, Information, Communication and Education (IEC) division at Urbaser-Sumeet, who is working with residents of the locality, said a detailed study with feedback from residents had been conducted. Stating that the company was in the process of developing a model that would best suit the locality, she pointed out for instance that they were not planning to insist on having two bins at every household. Apart from a slew of awareness initiatives involving children and sports activities, Shamini Nagarajan, assistant manager, IEC, Urbaser-Sumeet, said that the company was also planning to keep bins near each apartment block so that residents do not have to walk long distances and form monitoring committees to ensure a long-term solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-need-for-long-term-solutions/article34354611.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kancheepuram flyover will be ready by June||In a few weeks, residents of Kancheepuram will be able to use the four-lane wide, nearly 1-km-long viaduct that links Chennai-Kancheepuram Road and Periya Kammala Street. With the Railways finishing work on the span over the tracks, the Highways Department is currently finishing construction of the 68th span. Sources in the department said it would take another month to complete the last two spans that connect with the span over the tracks. By June, the overpass is expected to be ready, an official said. The Highways Department had completed work on 66 spans in 2019 but had to wait for nearly a year and half for the Railways to finish their work. The Rs. 60 crore work began in May 2017 and is being carried out on a cost-sharing basis by the two departments.  Change in alignment The department had to change the alignment of the overpass as the original one ran close to the Iravadeeswarar and Piravaadeeswarar temples, which are heritage structures. This took time and also helped reduce the need for land acquisition. Only around Rs. 75 lakh was spent on land acquisition. The State government had announced the road-over-bridge to replace level-crossing 29 near the Kancheepuram railway station in 2011. Residents had objected to the alignment, thinking it would involve the demolition of many structures. However, with the change in alignment, there was very minimal land acquisition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kancheepuram-flyover-will-be-ready-by-june/article34354606.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents want temple shifted inside village on route to Tada||Residents of Azhinjivakkam, near Janapanchathiram, on the Chennai-Tada route want the Silambathamman temple shifted inside the village. They want it to remain near the present location and not be moved to an interior place off the main road where it cannot be accessed by everyone. The temple has to be moved since it is in the way of the widening of the National Highway. M. Bhaskaran, former panchayat president of Azhinjivakkam, said though the present structure was not old, the deity was very old and several generations had performed puja to the goddess. “The suggestion is that we permit the temple to be moved to another place. But it happens to be outside the limits of our village. This cannot be allowed. Silambathamman is our ellai deivam and we are sentimentally attached to her,” he said. Another resident said the land on which the temple stood had been registered as temple poromboke of the Arulmigu Silambathamman temple and not in the name of the deity as it is the case with other temples. “This is a hurdle in this case, which is why despite one person agreeing to gift land to the temple, they are unable to move it. The National Highways Authority of India, which needs the land for widening, must ensure the required money is provided for temple land and construction at the new site,” he said. A source in the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department said the Department was ready to move the deity to any location that the people wanted and construct a temple there. “We cannot go against the wishes of the devotees. According to religious tenets, the temple also cannot be shifted to a smaller piece of land. It should either be larger in size or at least similar. The adjacent neem tree is very much part of the temple,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-temple-to-be-shifted-inside-village/article34354616.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre assures T.N. of sufficient supply of Remdesivir, vaccines||The Union Government has assured Tamil Nadu of adequate supply of Remdesivir and COVID-19 vaccines, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Sunday. “I had a discussion with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who assured me of sufficient supply of Remdesivir and vaccines. He said he would instruct the Drug Controller-General of India to provide the stock sought by Tamil Nadu at the earliest. We are working on a war footing to ensure the uninterrupted availability of vaccines, antiviral drugs and oxygen at all government hospitals in the State,” Dr. Vijayabaskar told The Hindu . Expressing concern over him not being invited to the recent video conference of State Health Ministers chaired by Mr. Vardhan, he wondered how he and two others (Health Ministers of Kerala and West Bengal) would know of the action plan against the second wave of COVID-19 if they were not kept in the loop. Asked about the shortage of manpower in government hospitals, believed to be a reason for delay in opening COVID-19 Care Centres, he said hundreds of doctors, paramedical staff and technicians were recruited last year and they continued to serve in various districts. “We are preparing for another round of recruitment now. The bed strength in ICUs will be increased depending on the demand. Special teams are closely watching the developments in States such as Maharashtra and Gujarat that are badly hit by the second wave. Responses to healthcare demands that are arising in those States are being kept ready here in advance…,” he said. He said many youngsters were turning up in hospitals with breathlessness. “This is because they ignored symptoms in the initial stage and came to the hospital with moderate or severe conditions, making it challenging for doctors to treat. We have been repeatedly appealing to the people not to ignore initial symptoms,” he said. Labourers in some industries are already leaving for their home States. They seem to have been misled by rumours on social media, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-assures-tn-of-sufficient-supply-of-remdesivir-vaccines/article34354227.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rising COVID-19 cases lead to dip in traffic at airport||With the rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases across the country, the number of travellers to the airport has dipped in the last few days. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said for the last few days, the number of passengers was only around 16,000, as against 18,000-20,000 earlier. The number of aircraft movements had also come down over the last few days. “Up until last week, we had nearly 250 flights a day, both arrivals and departures. Slowly, it came down to 230 this week and, for the last two days, it has been 210 and 218 respectively. Though this is a gradual dip, the night curfew and the Sunday lockdown are likely to have an impact. People will get more cautious and travel only if they compulsorily have to,” an official said. In the past, on Sundays, when there was a full lockdown, some passengers found it a challenge to commute to the airport. At present, people coming to the airport will have to register online through the State government’s portal for e-passes. Those who come without registering can get an e-pass at the counters in the arrival hall of the airport. But sources said e-passes were not being checked. Before the lockdown was implemented, Chennai airport used to have nearly 400-500 flights and saw about 30,000 passengers every day, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-covid-19-cases-lead-to-dip-in-traffic-at-airport/article34354594.ece
19 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||50% capacity for commercial establishments||The Tamil Nadu government has announced that commercial establishments should operate at a maximum capacity of 50%, starting from Tuesday. Hotels and restaurants (except on Sundays), tea shops, vegetable shops, grocery stores, shopping malls, jewellery stores and large format stores can function at a maximum capacity of 50% at any given point in time, till 9 p.m. On Sundays, hotels and restaurants will be allowed to provide takeaway services alone, that too during specified hours: 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., 12 p.m. to 3 p.m., and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Food delivery apps and e-commerce sites that provide food delivery services will be allowed to operate only during these hours. Other e-commerce firms will not be allowed to operate on Sundays. Transport between Tamil Nadu and other States and within the districts will not be allowed during night curfew. Private and public transport operators must ensure compliance with norms including mask wearing, subjecting passengers to temperature checks and avoiding crowding. Continuous process industries and industries engaged in manufacturing essentials will be allowed to function during night curfew. Such industries have been directed to provide authorisation letters and identity cards to staff to enable them to travel to work. During the complete lockdown on Sundays, fish and meat markets, fruit and vegetable shops, cinemas and all other commercial establishments will not be allowed to function. However, essential and emergency services like those allowed during the night curfew will be allowed on Sundays. On all days, including Sundays, weddings can be conducted with a maximum of 100 people and funerals with a maximum of 50 people, by following COVID-19 protocols. The government directed all Information Technology companies in the State to ensure that a minimum of 50% staff are working from home. Temple ‘kumbhabhishekam’ events that have already been planned can proceed with a maximum of 50 general public with employees of the temple and the temple administration by following the necessary protocols and precautions. It has been advised that any new ‘kumbhabhishekam’ event and religious function be postponed. Permission will not be granted for them. Colleges and universities have been directed to conduct classes online, and examinations should also be held online. The government also banned summer camps. Hotels that wish to be converted into COVID Care Centres will be given permission for the same. The Health Department will evaluate the facilities before giving permission. Such hotels cannot allow customers to stay there. The government also warned cinema halls of strict action if they are found to be flouting the 50% capacity norm and other protocols like provision of soaps and sanitisers and wearing of masks. Following the Tamil Nadu government's announcement, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said the lockdown restrictions would not apply on May 2, a Sunday, as it is the counting day for the April 6 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-capacity-for-commercial-establishments/article34354232.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modi must resign, says VCK chief||VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi take moral responsibility for the loss of thousands of lives during the COVID-19 pandemic due to his “utterly inept handling of this public health crisis”, and resign immediately. In a statement, Mr. Thirumavalavan noted that Mr. Modi continued to campaign in West Bengal, drawing huge crowds, in spite of a huge increase in COVID-19 infections across the country. “The scale of the devastation caused by this second wave greatly exceeds that of the first wave. In the interim period, vaccines have been discovered to fight the virus, and India leads the world in vaccine production. If vaccines made in India were administered to the people in a proper and timely manner, such massive loss of lives could have been averted. However, without any care for the people of India, Mr. Modi was paying more attention to exporting Indian vaccines to other countries and to his election rallies,” he said. The VCK leader said the State governments were not being allowed to take decisions independently as their hands were tied. “If the State governments had been allowed to directly procure vaccines, the scale of damage could have been restricted. The PMGKP insurance scheme, created to provide insurance coverage to healthcare providers, including doctors and community health workers, has also been stopped by the Modi government since March 24. This is another example which shows the Modi government does not care about people’s lives,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan said the Prime Minister “does not have any long-term vision for handling the COVID-19 pandemic”. Demanding his resignation, Mr. Thirumavalavan said, “If Mr. Modi continues as the Prime Minister, it will further endanger the lives of Indians. His disregard for people’s lives has already caused enormous loss of life, a public health emergency and a financial emergency.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-must-resign-says-vck-chief/article34354614.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2020’s lessons help firms battle second wave||Lessons learnt during last year’s lockdown are seemingly helping large industries in Tamil Nadu handle production during the second wave of the infection. However, smaller businesses, especially MSMEs who are yet to come out of debts of the first wave, feel any further downturn will create a huge dent in their balance sheets. From vaccinating senior workers, arranging transportation, sourcing raw materials, providing accommodation near factory premises and re-aligning operations, big companies are confident of overcoming the current tide. “There has not been much of an impact on production at the automobile hub. Most firms have vaccinated senior employees and everyone is monitored. There are a few absentees but that has not hampered business in a big way,” a representative of a union which caters to the automobile sector said. However, he called for vaccination of all employees, irrespective of their age, as the sector employed many youngsters. The Danfoss India facility in Oragadam, Chennai, is operating at 50% capacity in the production, logistics and supply chain functions. Ravi Purushothaman, president, Danfoss India, said, “Special arrangements, including free vaccination for employees and their dependents, and added insurance coverage to manage any COVID-19-related medical expenses, have been introduced.” He acknowledged that the lessons from the last lockdown had helped address gaps across multiple levels of business. Grundfos India is accelerating production. “We are planning to work with our vendors to produce more materials and secure our stocks, especially for customers manufacturing essentials for combating COVID-19,” George Rajkumar, country president, Grundfos India, said.   “We are also planning to move stocks closer to the customers in the distribution chain to be able to deliver quicker if there is any stoppage in inter-State movement,” he added. For most firms in the Chennai leather cluster, this is the season for making shoes, boots and slippers. “We have not cut down on production so far,” said Rafeeque M. Ahmed, chairman, Farida Group. The scene is different for the MSME sector. “Unlike big firms, we cannot pile up stock and raw materials. We work based on orders. If there is a lockdown, we will face labour shortage, among other issues, like last year,” said the head of an MSME unit in Chennai. But most industrial estates in the State said in the last 10 days they had planned new strategies to fight the second wave. Hari Thiagarajan, executive director, Thiagarajar Mills Private Limited, said orders had been good and the pace of vaccination across industries had picked up. According to him, the only cause of concern was migrating workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2020s-lessons-help-firms-battle-second-wave/article34354224.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An old song that has now become a Dalit anthem||The song may be nearly four decades old, but its nuanced use in recent films has given it a new resonance among the oppressed classes. As the heroine enters in Karnan , the latest Dhanush starrer, playing in the background isPoraadada, Vaalenthada, played on the nagaswaram, accompanied by ‘naiyaandi melam’. The film’s director, Mari Selvaraj, seems to be enchanted by this song. He had used it in his previous work, Pariyerum Perumal too. Originally composed in 1983, for the film Alai Osai , in which actor Vijayakant played the lead role, the song has now become an anthem of sorts for Dalits; and the voice of those who stand up against oppression. Mr. Mari Selvaraj’s film actually captured the song’s popularity among Dalits in the southern districts of the State. The song is also featured in marriages. Audience requests “In the past, there used to be a request from the audience to play it once or twice. Now, I don’t know how many times I play it during a temple festival (kodai). Another ‘naiyandi melam’ player told me that he had played it 50 times in a temple in Kanniyakumari district in three days,” said ‘naiyandi melam’ artiste and nagaswaram player Panakudi Siva. The audience, particularly the youth, make a beeline to offer money to the nagaswaram player before requesting him to render the song. In Karnan , the tune was played by the troupe of Ramanathapuram-based P. Marungan, one of the leading ‘naiyandi melam’ artistes. He and his troupe also played for other songs in the film. Asked about the song’s popularity, Ilayabharathi, who penned it, said he was happy it had struck a chord with the people. “Even after four decades, its message seems to be evergreen,” he said. But performers should be careful about playing the song in temples of other communities where it may not be taken lightly because of the reference to Dalit communities.  One of my friends was let off with a warning for playing the song in a temple run by caste Hindus. But it will not happen in all placesPanakudi SivaNagaswaram player||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-old-song-that-has-now-become-a-dalit-anthem/article34354770.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNRERA orders recovery warrant against builder for not refunding a home buyer||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has ordered the issue of a recovery warrant against Vivendi Ventures Padapai Projects (P) Ltd., after a home buyer complained that the developer failed to refund the amount and compensation as directed by the authority. In February 2020, TNRERA directed the developer to refund the sale consideration of about Rs. 15.17 lakh, along with interest of 10.15% per annum, and pay compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to P. Murugan for non-delivery of a row house flat in its project Villagio in Padappai, Kanchivakkam, Kancheepuram. Execution petition Mr. Murugan moved an execution petition before the authority, stating that the developer had not complied with its order. G. Saravanan, adjudicating officer, TNRERA, noted that since the amount due to the complainant was yet to be recovered as arrears of land revenue, it was just and necessary to issue a warrant under Section 40(1) of the RERA Act, read with Rule 26 of the TNRERA Rules. He also directed the recovery warrant to be sent to the District Collector to collect the due in favour of the home buyer. According to a source, the Collector will now serve a notice to Vivendi Ventures to pay the claims and if it does not, the properties would be attached or auctioned to recover the dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnrera-orders-recovery-warrant-against-builder-for-not-refunding-a-home-buyer/article34354602.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bicycle rally held as part of Fire Services Week||Over 100 personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services and volunteers on Sunday took out a 15 km bicycle rally as part of Fire Services Week, which is being observed from April 14. The Director of the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS), Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, and Joint Director, North, N. Priya Ravichandran took part in the event. The cycle rally began at the Ashok Nagar fire station and ended at the Ambattur fire station. The cyclists carried placards to create awareness on fire safety and COVID-19 precautions. On Wednesday, 50 personnel, including Mr. Sylendra Babu, took out a cycle rally for about 200 km as part of the event. The rally started at the Tamil Nadu Fire Service State Training Centre in Tambaram and headed towards Sriperumbudur, Kancheepuram and Mamallapuram, before coming back to the training centre. Every year, April 14 is observed as Martyrs’ Day by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The day is observed in remembrance of the 71 firemen who lost their lives fighting a fire that broke out on the freighter S.S. Fort Stikine at Victoria Dock in the then Bombay Port on April 14, 1944.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bicycle-rally-held-as-part-of-fire-services-week/article34354601.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corpn. to initiate action against actor||The Greater Chennai Corporation and the police have decided to initiate action against actor Mansoor Ali Khan for his remarks questioning the government for administering a COVID-19 vaccine to actor Vivekh, who died a day later. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said a case would be filed against the actor. Mr. Mansoor Ali Khan had demanded that the government stop imposing restrictions on the industry and questioned the decision of the government officials to administer the vaccine to Vivekh. Vivekh died one day after officials organised a vaccination awareness programme during which the actor was administered the COVID-19 vaccine in the presence of senior officials. Mr. Prakash said discussions were held with the police to prevent the dissemination of misleading and vexatious remarks against COVID-19 containment measures, which have a scientific basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-initiate-action-against-actor/article34354612.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modi must resign, says Thirumavalavan||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi take moral responsibility for the loss of several thousand lives to COVID-19 pandemic due to his ‘utterly inept handling of this public health crisis’ and resign immediately. In a statement, Mr. Thirumavalavan said that Mr. Modi continued to campaign in West Bengal drawing huge crowds despite a huge increase in COVID-19 infections across India. “The scale of devastation caused by this second wave greatly exceeds that of the first wave. In the interim period, vaccines have been discovered to fight the virus, and India leads the world in vaccine production. If vaccines made in India were administered to the people in a proper and timely manner, such a massive loss of lives could have been averted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-must-resign-says-thirumavalavan/article34354234.ece
19 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fatty liver becoming a significant health burden||Fatty liver was increasingly becoming more prevalent and people must adhere to proper diet and periodic health checks to prevent it, said T.S. Chandrasekar, chairman and chief gastroenterologist, MedIndia Hospitals, Chennai on Saturday. Delivering a talk as part of The Hindu Wellness Series webinar presented by Kauvery Hospital on the topic ‘Love your Liver’ ahead of the ‘Liver Day’ that fell on Monday, he stressed on the importance of liver as one of the most important organs of the body that was responsible for carrying out more than 500 functions. He said that proper balanced intake of food with low carbohydrates and staying away from alcohol, which could severely damage the organ, were crucial for a healthy liver. He said that obesity was also increasingly becoming a major cause for liver getting affected even at an young age. K. Elan Kumaran, senior consultant, Liver Transplantation and Hepatobiliary Surgery, and head, Liver Diseases and Transplantation Centre, Kauvery Hospital, Chennai, highlighted the importance of period health checks as liver was remarkably self-renewable and symptoms of damage may not be clearly visible in many cases until two-thirds of the organ’s functionalities were affected. Pointing out that fatty liver need not occur only to people those who were obese, he said regular health checks could help diagnose it at an early stage. “If detected early, it is possible in many cases to reverse the condition,” he said. Murali Jayaraman, consultant surgical gastroenterologist and advanced laparoscopic surgeon, Kauvery Hospital, Hosur, said that medical interventions, including advanced surgeries, were becoming more available in tier-2 and tier-3 cities as well. “With my practice in Hosur, I see alcohol being a major reason for liver damages,” he said. Dr. Elan Kumaran highlighted the need for increased awareness on liver transplantation as only a fraction of the people who are in need were getting transplants. The panelists also spoke on the impact of hepatitis viruses on the liver and the importance of vaccination against Hepatitis B virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fatty-liver-becoming-a-significant-health-burden/article34354257.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held under POCSO Act in Tiruvottiyur||The All-Women Police, Tiruvottiyur, arrested two persons for sexually assaulting two 17-year-old girls in two different incidents. According to the police, a 17-year-old girl, who lives with her parents in Tiruvottiyur, was lured by a youth, identified as Venkatesh, 20, from Krishnagiri, who befriended her on social media. He was in love with her and came to the city on April 11. He promised to marry her and took her to Krishnagiri. Her mother lodged a complaint with the police, who traced the accused and rescued the girl. Venkatesh was arrested on charges of sexual assault and kidnapping. He was booked under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and the IPC. 33-year-old arrested In the other case, the police said the victim’s mother was estranged from her husband and was in a relationship with a man, who was identified as Dhamodharan, 33, of Sathangadu. The girl told her grandmother that Dhamodharan sexually assaulted her when he visited her house. The police arrested him after booking a case under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-under-pocso-act-in-tiruvottiyur/article34354599.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for carrying marijuana||Personnel from the Thoraipakkam police station on Sunday apprehended two persons, including a juvenile, for carrying marijuana in an autorickshaw in Perungudi and seized 15 kg of the contraband from them. On receiving information, a special team mounted surveillance on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Perungudi, on Sunday morning and intercepted an autorickshaw. The two persons travelling in the vehicle gave evasive replies upon being questioned. On suspicion, the police caught the duo and identified one of them as Saikhemund, 19, from Malkangiri in Odisha. His accomplice was a 17-year-old juvenile. They smuggled the ganja from their native State for distribution and sale in the city, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-carrying-marijuana/article34354597.ece
19 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops to remain shut on Sundays||Tasmac shops across the State will remain shut on Sundays when a total lockdown will be in force. A source said shops would remain closed as per the government’s directive. Tasmac on average sells liquor worth Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shops-to-remain-shut-on-sundays/article34354220.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M): stop appropriation of Tamils’ lands in Lanka||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Sunday sought the Central government’s intervention to stop efforts of Sri Lankan government organisations from appropriating land, natural resources and places of worship of Sri Lankan Tamils. Reacting to The Hindu report “Our lands are under threat, says Tamils in Sri Lanka’s Eastern Province”, Mr. Balakrishnan said the task force for Archaeological Heritage Management, set up by Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, had no Tamils as members. There was apprehension among Tamils that their places of worship would be converted into Buddhist temples, he added. He said there had also been attempts to settle Sinhalese people in Tamil areas. “The Forest Department is planting border stones on agricultural lands of the Tamils, and this is nothing but an effort to evict Tamils,” he said. He said while there had been no progress in the distribution of power and autonomy among Tamils, the Sri Lankan government was depriving them of their livelihood and existing rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-stop-appropriation-of-tamils-lands-in-lanka/article34354228.ece
19 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Residents raise concern over Race Course model road work||Concerns of residents in and around Race Course and those using the green space for exercise have grown since the Coimbatore Corporation has taken up the model road work under the Smart Cities Mission. The Corporation is executing the work at Rs. 40.70 crore on the three km road. Right from the start the residents have had concern but this was about preserving the greenery and the possibility of allowing eateries. Now, the concerns had only grown because the Corporation had cut around 70 trees, started work at Thomas Park and demolished the traffic islands at the Race Course Road-East Club House Road junction, said residents. The corporation, without taking into confidence the residents, had almost destroyed the Thomas Park on the north eastern side of the Race Course. Their inquiries revealed the civic body’s plans to build an amphitheatre or badminton court or some such facility about which there was no clarity since the civic body took up the project, thanks to an intransigent approach, the residents said. The park was house to a variety of trees grown over the years and its destruction has had residents worried. Likewise, at the junction, the corporation had removed the traffic islands, the residents said. This was beside the removal of trees on the inner side of the Race Course walking track, said V. Jawahar of Maram Trust. In the name of Model Road work, the corporation was not just removing trees and plants but pouring concrete in those places. This was not what the residents had wished for, he added. The residents said their efforts to reach out to the civic body or the Coimbatore Smart City Limited officials had not yielded the desired results because they were not forthcoming on what exactly wa the civic body’s plans for Race Course. Civic activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the Corporation’s reluctance to share details went against the Central Government’s objective of implementing projects after taking into confidence the residents concerned. The Corporation should disclose who it had consulted before taking up the project. It should also show if it had taken the permission of the Revenue Department officer concerned before chopping off the trees. He further said that the way the corporation implemented the project only suggested it had taken up the model road project not for people’s sake but for spending money. Besides, the removal of traffic islands showed that the civic body had least concerns for road safety or rules framed by other government agencies. Corporation sources said the civic body would engage with the residents and take them into confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-raise-concern-over-race-course-model-road-work/article34354627.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district receives 1,000 Covaxin doses||Tiruppur district on Sunday received 1,000 Covaxin doses from the State government following reports of vaccine shortage in the district’s COVID-19 vaccination centres. Sources in the Health Department said that the doses were distributed among the 130 government-run vaccination centres, including government hospitals and primary health centres. Nearly all of the 160 vaccination centres (including 30 private centres) in the district ran out of vaccine by Saturday. However, the sources indicated that the government vaccination centres will be prioritised in getting the vaccine doses as most of the public in Tiruppur district prefer government hospitals and PHCs for vaccination against COVID-19. The fresh doses are likely to be exhausted by Monday and communication regarding supply of additional vaccine doses from the State government was being awaited by the authorities in the district, according to the sources. More than one lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district, so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-district-receives-1000-covaxin-doses/article34354631.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Garment exporters seek financial support||Garment exporters in Tiruppur have appealed to Union Finance Minister to announce measures that will provide financial support to the exporting units. In a memorandum to the Finance Minister, the Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) president Raja M. Shanmugham said that major European countries have gone into lockdown. In India, two month lockdown last year had resulted in hike in raw material prices. These factors have affected funds availability to Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the garment sector. Hence, the government should provide additional 20 % credit outstanding under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme to garment units as done to hospitality and tourism sectors. The labour-intensive garment sector is going through financial stress and hence, its needs additional credit support. The Interest Equalisation Scheme, which was extended till June 30, should be extended for two years as the interest rates are high now. Further, the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products scheme, which is a WTO compatible scheme, was announced with effect from January 1. But, the rates are yet to be announced and the units have not been reimbursed levies such as electricity tax, Mandi tax, GST on petroleum products, etc. “The non-disbursement of RODTEP is also causing liquidity crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-exporters-seek-financial-support/article34354250.ece
19 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Control brick prices, says union||The AITUC Construction Workers Union has sought measures to bring down prices of bricks. N. Selvaraj, State joint secretary of the union, said in a press release that prices of several raw materials used in the construction sector have gone up, threatening the livelihood of thousands of workers in the sector. In the recent days, prices of bricks made in Coimbatore have also shot up. The officials concerned had taken action against a few brick kilns for operating without mandatory permissions. Earlier, price of a load of bricks (4,500 numbers) used to be Rs. 35,000. After the closure of some units, the price has shot up to Rs. 58,000, he said. While the officials have taken action against the units in Thadagam area, brick kilns in Mettupalayam - Karamadai area have increased the prices. Though the prices of inputs have not gone up, the brick kilns have increased the prices citing the closure of some units. Several housing projects under the Government schemes are affected because of the high prices and those who are constructing small houses are also hit, he said. Hence, the State government and the district administration should take appropriate action immediately to control the prices, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-brick-prices-says-union/article34354628.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online training to workers in spinning mills||The Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) has launched its second tutorial video to train workers in spinning mills. With attrition level moving to more than 30 %, new worker training is regular in spinning mills, according to a press release. The 15-minute videos of worker job roles has experienced workers, along with guidance of an expert team, practically demonstrate how to perform a particular task. It includes the best practices and safety tips to be followed on the shop floor. The second tutorial video released by ITF is for the role of a Spinning Doffer. The video is released in English, Tamil and Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-training-to-workers-in-spinning-mills/article34354251.ece
19 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Makkal Katchi demands action against VCK, DK||Hindu Makkal Katchi has urged the State Government to act against Viduthualai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Dravidar Kazhagam for abusing and assaulting BJP and Hindu organisation leaders on Ambedkar Jayanthi. In a press meet held here on Sunday, the Katchi’s founder president Arjun Sampath said the VCK and DK cadre were in the habit of assaulting BJP and Hindu organisation leaders and the recent incidents were only the latest in what had been happening over the years. Mr. Sampath condemned the Left parties for the false propaganda that the demand for freeing temples of government control tantamount to privatisation. It was mischievous, he said and added that it was for devotees and trustees to manage temples and not government. As for the ensuing Chithirai festival, he said the State Government should allow the conduct of rituals associated with the festival while restricting the entry of devotees. He also sought action against those who attributed actor Vivekh’s deaths to the COVID-19 vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-makkal-katchi-demands-action-against-vck-dk/article34354633.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Electricity bill payment||Electricity consumers under Lakshmi Nagar and Thaneerpandal distribution areas should pay the consumption charges paid in February this year for April, too. The electricity consumption charges were not calculated for the consumers due to administrative reasons, according to a press release from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-bill-payment/article34354632.ece
19 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Engineering units’ plea to govt.||The engineering units here have appealed to the State government to permit functioning of the units from 10 p.m. to 4 a.m . The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu said that the government has permitted only continuous processing units to function at night from April 20. The general engineering units should also be permitted. The units can plan the shift timing accordingly. The manufacturing units have not reported major COVID-19 cases so far and are taking steps to control the spread, he said. Textile units have appealed to the government to allow operations without time restrictions. Further, movement of employees and workers should not be affected, said sources. Hoteliers here said that business was just reviving. The restrictions announced on Sunday will be challenging. The employees may want to return home fearing total lockdown and revival after that is an issue of concern, said a hotelier here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-units-plea-to-govt/article34354630.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man abducted, robbed||The Kuniamuthur police on Saturday arrested three men on charges of abducting a senior citizen and robbing gold jewellery from him.The police said that M. Kalimuthu (63) was sitting on his bike near his residence in Kovaipudur on Friday evening when a gang allegedly abducted him to a fuel station in Kuniamuthur and attacked him before stealing the jewellery. Having registered a case under Sections 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 392 (Punishment for robbery) of the Indian Penal Code, the police arrested Stanley, Sowkath Ali and Abbas and remanded them in judicial custody. Efforts are on to arrest the other accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-man-abducted-robbed/article34354621.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Temple administration should not be handed over to private players’||Puthiya Tamilagam president K. Krishnasamy said that while temples in the State must be “freed,” its administration cannot be handed over to private players. In a statement on Sunday, he said the State government must present a white paper after inspecting the total properties of the temples in the State. Dr. Krishnasamy claimed that over five lakh hectares of temple land were under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, out of which over half of the temple lands has allegedly been encroached upon. Claiming that the revenue from the temples and its associated properties must be at least Rs. 6,000 crore every year, he accused the State government of presenting a lower revenue. Dr. Krishnasamy further accused the State governments who were in power in the past half-a-century of converting the temples and its properties into “robbery tents.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-administration-should-not-be-handed-over-to-private-players/article34354623.ece
19 April 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Call to establish separate ministries for women||Thozhi Federation-Tamil Nadu, an alliance of women workers in unorganised sector, has stressed the need for establishing separate ministries for women, both by the Central and State governments, so that issues faced by working women could be solved. A survey was carried out among 300 women workers in spinning mills, dyeing factory, garment and textile industry, handloom and power loom industries, in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur and a report on, “Burning issues of Women Workers Reproductive Health”, was submitted by M. Nallaiyanpandi, coordinator, Thozhi-West Zone, to the Labour Department, Tamil Nadu, recently.  The survey found that most of the workers were facing various health issues and in the absence of ESI hospitals in the districts concerned, they had to depend on ESI dispensaries for medical care. While 51% of workers said that the Internal Complaints Committee was not formed in their establishments, 22% women said that they were unaware of the purpose of the committee. As many as 64.3% women said that their company was not contributing to their Employees Provident Fund, while 11% said that they were unaware of EPF. The federation wanted rest breaks for women workers increased, ensuring availability of napkins on the company premises, establishment of ESI hospitals, ensuring contributions by the companies regularly to ESI and EPF, welfare board identity cards, creating awareness on Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972 and implementing it effectively, periodical inspection by labour welfare officer in the companies, formation of ICC and ensuring minimum wages for the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-establish-separate-ministries-for-women/article34354264.ece
19 April 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Plea for expediting road work at Perundurai||Claiming that inordinate delay in re-laying the road from Perundurai Police Station to Old Bus Stand was causing traffic congestion and inconvenience to road users, Perundurai MLA Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam submitted a petition to the district administration urging the Collector to take steps to expedite the works. In a petition submitted on Saturday, Mr. Venkatachalam said that the State Highways Department had issued a work order to a construction company for re-laying the stretch at a cost of Rs. 4.35 crore. Foundation stone was laid on September 23, 2020 and work was scheduled to be completed by November 19, 2020. But only less than 10% works, including construction of drainage channels, were completed till now, he claimed. The busy stretch is part of the Erode – Coimbatore main road, which is used by over 1,000 vehicles every day. Since the area has lot of commercial establishments, vehicle movement is very frequent. “Damaged roads cause hardship to motorists and pedestrians,” he added. Considering the significance of the stretch, the district administration should ask the contractor to expedite the works, the petition said.  Damaged roads cause hardship to motorists and pedestrians Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam Perundurai MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-expediting-road-work-at-perundurai/article34354263.ece
19 April 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Three COVID Care Centres to come up in Karur||Three COVID Care Centres with a capacity to accommodate 1,000 patients are to get functional on Monday in the district. Reviewing the progress being made to check the spread of COVID-19 virus and the arrangements for treating the patients, District Collector Prashanth M. Wadnere said that there has been a surge in fresh cases over the last few days. The Government Medical College Hospital at Sanapiratti was equipped to treat the COVID-19 patients. As of Sunday, 47 patients, who tested positive for the virus, were under treatment at the medical college hospital. The 38 patients who were tested negative for the virus were also under treatment in the hospital. Since, fresh cases were on the rise, the district administration decided to increase the beds. They would come up at three different locations in the district. While 300 beds would be created at the old Government Hospital in the town, another 300 beds would come up at the Government Arts College at Thanthoni. The hostel of a private engineering college at Puliyur would be converted as a COVID Care Centre with 200 beds. In addition, the health and revenue officials have been asked to set up 200 beds in the city within Monday. Patients with mild symptoms and asymptomatic patients would be accommodated at the COVID Care Centres. Mr. Wadnere said that all basic facilities such as drinking water and toilets would be created at these centres. Arrangements would be in place to provide food to the patients to be admitted in the centres. Since March 2021, as many as 1,411 fever camps had been conducted in the district and 1,38,673 people were screened. About 48,000 swab samples were lifted for COVID-19 tests. The Collector said the district administration was looking for fullest cooperation from the people to check the spread of the virus. They should duly follow the Standard Operating Procedures. Action would be taken against those violating the guidelines, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-covid-care-centres-to-come-up-in-karur/article34354215.ece
19 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||House burgled, gold jewellery stolen||A house at Mukandapalli was burgled and gold and silver jewellery were found stolen. According to the police, Matheyan and his family went to Karimangalam on Friday. On Sunday, the maid, who came to work, found the door broken open and the valuables stolen. She alerted the house owner and the police. Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadhar visited the place and conducted investigations. According to the complainant, over 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery and over one kilo of silver jewellery were stolen. The Sipcot police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-burgled-gold-jewellery-stolen/article34354277.ece
19 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two die in road accident near Shoolagiri||Two farm labourers who were travelling to work in a pick-up van died here on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Asha (24) and Durairaj (16). According to police, eight workers from Marandhapalli were travelling to Karupala village in a pick-up van for farm work. While negotiating a curve near Shoolagiri, the driver reportedly lost control of the vehicle and it overturned, police said. The injured were initially shifted to Shoolagiri government hospital for treatment. The two died while they were being taken to Krishnagiri government hospital for better treatment, police said. Shoolagiri police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-road-accident-near-shoolagiri/article34354267.ece
19 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tension outside counting centre over ‘trespass’||Tension prevailed outside Madurai Medical College - one of the counting centres in the district- here on Sunday evening, as Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) candidates alleged trespassing of two unauthorised persons into the campus. Madurai Medical College is the counting centre for Madurai North, Madurai South, Madurai Central and Madurai West Assembly constituencies. DMK Madurai North candidate G. Thalapathi and MDMK Madurai South candidate M. Boominathan were present outside the strong room on Sunday evening. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Thalapathi alleged that two unauthorised persons, claiming to be electricians, entered the campus through the back gate at around 6 p.m. on Sunday. He questioned how the police personnel allowed them to enter the campus without proper authorisation. “We spoke to the Returning Officer and police officials, who assured that they will be more vigilant here onwards. But the Collector must take action,” Mr. Thalapathi said. Returning Officer of Madurai North Assembly constituency K. Premkumar said the two persons who entered the campus were electricians indeed and their activities have been recorded by CCTV cameras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-outside-counting-centre-over-trespass/article34354720.ece
19 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||A photo that Vivekh was in search of||An old photograph with a title, ‘Telephone Operator’s Training Class, Madurai,’ dating back to 1983 has been making the rounds across social media platforms since Saturday morning. It was this photograph that actor Vivekh was on the lookout for many years. The photograph was taken when Vivekh had completed the three-month-long training programme for the post of telephone operator in the Department of Postal and Telecommunications (now known as BSNL) at Tallakulam in Madurai. The photograph was shared among the BSNL employees since Saturday morning. Veteran journalist Jenraam, who was actor Vivekh’s classmate during the training programme, shared this photograph on his social media page on Saturday. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Jenraam said that he and Vivekh had shared a strong bond during their training period. While Mr. Jenraam stayed at a hostel near Tallakulam, Vivekh stayed with his family in Madurai. “Although I and Vivekh were benchmates, we didn’t speak much during the initial week. But later our bond started becoming stronger,” he said. The veteran journalist said he and Vivekh would have several debates due to their differences in tastes. “We would talk about the works of poet Vairamuthu and writer Sujatha, and the music composed by Ilayaraja and M. S. Viswanathan,” recalled Mr. Jenraam. Vivekh was a multi-faceted personality, which was evident even during those days, said Mr. Jenaraam. He was good at acting, mimicry and music. “Occasionally, he used to play ‘Alaipayuthey kanna’ song on harmonium, which remains one of my favourite versions of the song to date,” he added. While the duo parted ways after the end of the training programme, they met again in 2007 at a function. “Vivekh asked me if I still had the group photograph that was taken at the end of our training programme. At that time, I did not have the photograph with me,” he said. But the photograph again came to the light on Saturday morning after the demise of Vivekh. “The moment I saw the photograph on Saturday, I became emotional as it took me back to those good old days,” said Mr. Jenraam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vivekh-was-after-this-photograph/article34354718.ece
19 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal Collector inspects containment measures||District Collector K.Megraj on Sunday inspected the implementation of COVID-19 containment measures in various parts of the district. Mr. Megraj inspected a few TNSTC buses at the Costal Residency junction and advised auto drivers to follow all the guidelines issued by government while operating the vehicle. In a press release, Mr. Megraj said that hotels and eateries have been permitted to operate with 50% capacity till 11 p.m and businesses should check the temperature of customers and provide hand sanitisers without fail. He said that grocery stores should not serve customers without masks and advised officials to take stern action against businesses violating COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-collector-inspects-containment-measures/article34354274.ece
19 April 2021||P. A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Gag leaves light music troupes with no source of income||Under normal circumstances, light music orchestra groups used to perform in several temple festivals and other events from March to June. However, the restrictions imposed by the government, denying permission for temple festivals due to rising COVID-19 positive cases, have robbed the orchestra musicians of their livelihood this year and left many in penury. P. Ayyanar, district deputy president of Medai Mellisai Mattrum Thozilnutpa Kalaignargal Sangam, says that for the hundreds of orchestra musicians across the State, temple festivals and weddings are the main sources of income. The musicians earn a decent income from March to June and this money sees them through the rest of the year. However, for the last three years, the orchestras have not earned much during this peak season, says Mr. Ayyanar. In 2019, parliamentary elections were conducted and orchestras were denied permission to perform in public places. In 2020, the artistes were unable to perform due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “This year, the government has put in restrictions since April 10 and performing in temple festivals has been banned,” he says. The move has financially affected the musicians, says R. Palanikumar, a singer. “It was only in the last few months that we had few offers which helped us gradually recover from the losses of last year,” he says. Bookings cancelled Apart from temple festivals, the restriction on permitting only 100 participants in weddings, has also affected the orchestra groups, says J.B. Vijay, president of Tamil Nadu Medai Mellisai Kalaignargal Sangam. “Many clients who had paid money in advance to perform in weddings have cancelled their bookings,” he says. Mr. Ayyanar says that unlike other artistes, there is no dedicated welfare board for light music orchestra groups. “Despite repeated requests, the government has not even bothered to have a count of the number of orchestra musicians in the State,” he says. “The government should give us monetary assistance to help us tide over the present crisis,” Mr. Ayyanar says. The orchestra groups must be allowed to perform in public places by adhering to COVID-19 safety precautions, says Mr. Vijay.  What they want  A dedicated welfare board for light music orchestra groups  Monetary assistance to help them tide over the present crisis  Permission to perform with COVID-19 safety norms in place||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gag-leaves-light-music-troupes-with-no-source-of-income/article34354716.ece
19 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Localised lockdown measures in COVID-19 hotspots in U.T.||The administration has decided to introduce localised lockdown measures in COVID-19 hotspots in the Union Territory to cut down the transmission of coronavirus, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Sunday. After inspecting an intensified COVID-19 vaccination and testing drive at Goubert Market on Nehru Street, Ms. Soundararajan told the media that the micro containment measure of zoning coronavirus hotspots would prevent propagation of the virus through inward and outward movement of people at these spots. Fully-equipped mobile vaccination vans had been pressed into service to administer vaccines at workplace sites, employing more than 100 persons and crowded places to accelerate immunisation coverage, alongside early detection of positive cases and reduce spread. The Lt. Governor urged the public to let go of misplaced safety concerns over side effects of vaccination and utilise the free immunisation being provided by the administration. “We have put in place adequate arrangements, including beds, ventilators and oxygen beds at important hospitals, ESI hospital and private medical colleges,” she said. Services ramped up Additional lines are being opened on the 104 helpline for the benefit of the public and tele-counselling services ramped up to reduce outpatient visits. In reply to a question, she said restaurants have been asked to limit in-premises dining to 50% of capacity, ensure spacing between tables and recommended temporary glass frames in between sets of diners. Refuting the charge by former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy the other day that government officials were not on the ground, the Lt. Governor said, “What can I say but that while baseless criticism is unacceptable we welcome any suggestion to improve our functioning. Everyone is on the field as you all have been seeing all these days. Without even celebrating the Tamil New Year, doctors and nurses worked in 100 places from the field,” she said. The Lt. Governor also pointed out that she had remdesivir supplies from Telangana when there was a run on the drug. Besides, on the request of the Central Government, all the pharmaceutical companies have reduced the price of the drug remdesivir. The administration keeps in constant touch with officials also in the regions of Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam to act on feedback from the people, she said. A night curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., 50% attendance at theatres and restaurants, restrictions on attendance at religious and social functions and stipulation that all places of worship should be closed by 8 p.m. are among the measures taken. The administration had set up 100 sites for administering vaccines apart from the eight-day intensive ‘Tika Utsav’ campaign, the Lt. Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/localised-lockdown-measures-in-covid-19-hotspots-in-ut/article34354773.ece
19 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records three more deaths, 663 new cases||The Union Territory recorded three more COVID-19 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 708 even as 663 persons tested positive for coronavirus and the recovery rate slipped below 90% for the first time in several months on Sunday. All the three fatalities were reported in Puducherry. The region-wise death toll stands at 567 in Puducherry, 84 in Karaikal, 45 in Yanam and 12 in Mahe. Of the new cases, which were detected from 5,070 tests, 497 were in Puducherry, 80 in Karaikal, 51 in Mahe and 35 in Yanam. With this, the active caseload went past the 4,000-mark in the Union Territory. After the discharge of 282 patients in the last 24 hours, there were 4,468 active patients of which 796 were in hospitals and 3,672 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 13.07%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 89.16%. In Puducherry, the bed occupancy position was 274 at IGMCRI, 222 in JIPMER and 151 in Covid care centres. Of an estimated 7.28 lakh tests conducted so far, over 6.62% returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of the members of the public who have taken the COVID-19 vaccine has crossed the one lakh-mark. In the last 24 hours, 219 healthcare workers, 259 frontline personnel and 4,978 members of the public took their first shots in the Union Territory. With this, the total number of those immunised aggregated to 1,53,744 — 30,171 healthcare workers, 17,931 frontline personnel and 1,05,642 members of the public. Cuddalore district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 183 new cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 27,624.  Two deaths in Cuddalore  Two men, aged 67 and 70 years died of the disease, taking the toll to 302. The district saw 26,052 recoveries and 897 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 129 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 16,473. Kallakurichi district reported 61 positive cases, taking the overall count to 11,435.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-three-more-deaths-663-new-cases/article34354775.ece
19 April 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Laid to rest||The body of a fisherman Palanivel was laid to rest at Kannirajapuram near Sayalkudi here on Sunday. On April 11, 14 fishermen including seven from Ramanathapuram and Kanniyakumari and another seven from West Bengal and Assam ventured into the sea in a mechanised boat for deep sea fishing off Mangalore coast. Following a collision with a cargo ship from Singapore, the mechanised boat capsized in the sea. While Velmurugan of Kannirajapuram and another Sunil Das from West Bengal were saved by the staff in the cargo ship, whereabouts of the remaining fishermen were not known. The Indian Coast Guard personnel, who were on a search operation since then, had retrieved three bodies including two from Kanniyakumari district. On Saturday, they retrieved the body of Palanivel and after postmortem was conducted at the Mangalore Government Hospital, it was brought to the village here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-fishermans-body-retrieved/article34354239.ece
19 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Number of COVID-19 containment zones increases to 25 in Salem city||The number of COVID-19 containment zones in Salem Corporation limits have increased to 25 and officials are intensifying measures to contain the spread. According to Health Department officials, the containment zones had increased from 10 to 25 within a short time. However no clusters were reported so far. As on Sunday, there were over 600 active cases in the Corporation limits. Disinfectants were sprayed in containment zones and public places such as markets and bus stands. Residents in the containment zones were being provided kabasura kudineer and other immunity building medicines. Officials said that staff have been deployed in these zones to help residents procure essentials. The Corporation has also planned to improve sample collection and over 40 medical teams were involved in conducting fever camps. The Corporation has set up a sample collection centre at Anna Park and visitors to the park should undergo testing. The Corporation has two COVID-19 care centres at present and is planning to increase the bed strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-covid-19-containment-zones-increases-to-25-in-salem-city/article34354276.ece
19 April 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Traders worried over poor arrival of mangoes||Salem is synonymous with mangoes and though the mango season has begun, the market is yet to see huge arrival from farms. April-June is considered the major season for mangoes and produce from various parts of the Salem and neighbouring districts such as Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri are brought here for sales. According to traders, mangoes from Salem are sent to various parts of the country and also exported to countries such Sri Lanka, Singapore and Malaysia. Though there is good price for the fruit at the moment, there isn’t sufficient quantity at the market.  Varieties A. Jayapal, president of the Salem Mango and Fruits Merchants Association, said that only 200 kg of different varieties of mangoes reach market these days. “Only 200 kg of mangoes reach the market on a day now and it caters only to local sales. Varieties such Alphonso, Imam Pasand, Salem Bangalora reach market now and it is being brought from farms from places in and around Salem such as Omalur, Mettur, Sankari, Panamarathupatti, Nangavalli, Kamalapuram, Vazhapadi, Yercaud foothills and others.” Mr. Jayapal said that produce from other districts were yet to arrive here and it was expected in about 10-15 days. Traders are expecting better business this year, as they faced huge loss due to COVID-19 pandemic last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-worried-over-poor-arrival-of-mangoes/article34354273.ece
19 April 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Police warning against false child-lifting rumours||The police warned stern action against persons spreading fake news on child- lifting in Salem. Police said in a release that a fake news that 400 persons involved in child-lifting had camped here was being spread on social media platforms, creating panic among the public. Police advised the public not to believe such fake news. Investigation has been launched in this connection and warned that stern action would be taken against perpetrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-warning-against-false-child-lifting-rumours/article34354270.ece
19 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Hair stylists’ association petitions Collector||Alleging that hair stylists were portrayed in a “derogatory” manner in the movie Mandela , members of the Salem zone hair stylists’ association have demanded removal of a few scenes from the film. In a petition to District Collector, the association said that the movie that was recently broadcast in a channel had a few scenes in which the lead actor, who portrayed the role of hair stylist, was ill-treated. They said that the scenes had hurt the sentiments of the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hair-stylists-association-petitions-collector/article34354271.ece
19 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 awareness session for porters||The Salem Corporation, on Sunday, organised a COVID-19 awareness session for railway porters here. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran distributed k abasura kudineer and masks to porters. Mr. Ravichandran advised them to exercise caution while being in public places and to follow safety measures such as wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and ensuring hand sanitation. He also advised them to take vitamin tablets to boost immunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-awareness-session-for-porters/article34354278.ece
19 April 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Fallow lands being converted into productive area||The National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) has been extending funds and technical expertise to convert fallow lands into highly productive area. The experience of a few small and marginal farmers said on Sunday that they have got the infrastructural facilities such as watershed. Over the last three to four years, hamlets such as Kodangipatti, where they had been carrying out farm activity in a small portion, were able to use all the area. V Vairamani, who has six milch animals, says he was able to grow green fodder after getting guidance. Today, the fodder raised in his land helps milch animals and there is better yield of milk. From 22 litres, he had achieved 33 litres a day. He said that his earnings had increased with an additional income of Rs. 12,000 a month. T Pitchai in the same locality said that he could construct a trench-cum-field bund, which helped in retaining the rainwater. It has prevented soil erosion and improved groundwater recharge. His 35 feet open well, which had very low level of water at 25 feet, had copious water now. From cultivating a meagre 60 cents, he was able to cover the entire five acres of land to good use. The District Development Manager (NABARD) Arun Vijay said that over the last three to four years, the NABARD’s initiative had helped 2000 families. Around 4500 hectares of land, which were fallow, had been brought back to full use by small and marginal farmers. The villages include Kandani, Kayangulam, Uruli and surrounding pockets. Apart from the watershed project, climate proofing and sustainable development plan had given the much needed fillip to the ryots in the area. Collector P Madhusudan Reddy appreciated them for utilising the infrastructural facilities. A farmer who has been cultivating tuberose and vegetables on just 30 cents of land has started raising them on 80 cents of his land. The district is slowly but steadily enhancing its green cover with the active support from the district administration and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fallow-lands-being-converted-into-productive-area/article34354240.ece
19 April 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||College converted into COVID-19 care centre||The district administration should immediately take alternative steps for teaching and non-teaching staff at the Government Engineering College in Bodi, which had been converted into a COVID-19 care centre, as patients move around freely on the campus, CPI (M) district secretary T Venkatesan said here on Sunday. He told reporters that they have submitted a memorandum to the Collector. While about 30 to 40 teaching and non-teaching staff visit the college daily, the COVID-19 care centre has 110 in-patients. The staff are exposed to the virus as the entrance for the college and the COVID-19 care centre is the same. The canteen in the campus has been closed after the attendants of patients visited it for refreshments. The employees, fearing risk, locked it. The staff were put to hardship due to the closure. The patients use the toilets in the campus also. A faculty of the college said that they could be given the choice of work from home since the campus had been occupied by the COVID-19 19 patients. Some teachers said the government could postpone the entire academic curriculum by two months as the students were also under severe stress. He said that either the staff should be given alternative arrangements or declare holiday. The district administration should also enhance tight vigil on movement of patients. He urged the people, who were above 45 years, to get the vaccine shot at the nearest vaccine centre. They urged the parents to take extra care of their children as persons below 18 years of age were getting tested positive to the virus in many districts. An official from the health department said that they were taking measures after the staff had made a representation to them three days ago in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-converted-into-covid-19-care-centre/article34354242.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Consignment of 3,000 Covaxin doses reaches Tiruchi||Tiruchi district on Sunday received a consignment of 3,000 Covaxin doses that could considerably address the problem of shortage in the region. The office of the Deputy Director of Health Services has distributed 2,000 dosages for usage on Monday, while the remaining 1,000 has been reserved. As the Tiruchi regional vaccine storage unit had run out of Covaxin doses on Friday, authorities had been turning away patients who had come to receive the second dose and administering Covishield to all who had visited the vaccination centre to get the first shot. However, following intervention from the Directorate of Public Health, vaccines were restocked at many regions in the State where a shortage was reported. Of the 2,000 distributed doses, 1,000 was handed over to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, and 100 to the Manapparai Government Hospital. Of the remaining 900, as many as 800 dosages were distributed among urban primary healthcare centres and private hospitals in the district, while 100 was distributed in the rural parts. A consignment of Covishield too, is expected; the existing vaccine stock would last until midweek, the official added. Meanwhile, at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, additional arrangements are being made in view of the increase in the number of cases reported. “An additional ward, with extra bedding, and toilet facilities is being arranged. It will be ready to accommodate patients in the upcoming days,” a hospital source said.  A consignment of Covishield too, is expected; the existing vaccine stock would last until midweek Senior health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gets-covaxin-consignment/article34354205.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 echo: Railway workshop brings in changes in working pattern||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has brought in some changes in the working pattern of its staff as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. The changes would be in vogue till April 30. In addition to the existing general and night shifts which would continue, there would be a second shift which would be in operation from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. In a communication, the workshop authorities said the staff should be deployed in such a manner that the works were carried out duly following the COVID-19 protocol. The second shift would not be applicable to the yard shop as there was no concentration of staff involved in their work. Fifty per cent of staff in the administrative offices would work in the morning session and 50% of employees would work in the afternoon session. The communication further said COVID-19 protocols such as wearing of masks, washing hands, observance of social distancing and sanitising should be scrupulously followed at all times and at all places. All employees above 45 years of age have been asked to get themselves vaccinated. The workshop is involved in periodic overhaul of diesel locomotives and passenger coaches besides manufacturing wagons and overhauling steam locomotives operating in the Nilgiri Mountain Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-echo-railway-workshop-brings-in-changes-in-working-pattern/article34354815.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic halts fresh recruitment of teachers in private schools||There is neither attrition nor recruitment of teachers in private schools that usually happens at a frantic pace at this time of the year, due to the economic impact caused by COVID-19. Though this development is not entirely surprising, the managements of private schools say the slump in new admissions and difficulty in collecting fees are causes for deep concern. The private schools, by and large, are understood to be primarily concerned with conduct of classes for students of IX to XII, and the second wave of COVID-19 surge seems to have made matters worse for a large section of teachers. Leave alone fresh recruitment, according to a functionary of a trust running a private school in the region, only teachers who handle classes for higher levels are given at least sixty to seventy percent of their usual salary. “We are able to pay only one-third of the salary for the rest of the teachers since there is a dormancy in remittance of fees by the students,” he said. According to a principal of another private school who requested anonymity, some of the schools find themselves in an unenviable situation of taking bank loans for meeting the recurring expenditure on account of teachers' salaries. Most of the schools, however, pay in full to non-teaching staff who do not have the work from home option. Not all parents educating their wards in private schools are economically sound. “In any school for that matter, less than fifty percent of the students are wards of senior government officials or businessmen. The rest are from families in the lower-middle class group for whom educating children in English-medium schools symbolises pride. These parents are now struggling to pay the fee,” the school head said. In the current situation, the schools have no way of singling out students and reminding them of the fee balance as they run the risk of coming under adverse notice of the school education department. The teachers lament they have already been sounded by the management of further pay cuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-halts-fresh-recruitment-of-teachers-in-private-schools/article34354816.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts record 993 fresh cases and four deaths||The central region reported 993 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, the highest single-day spike recorded in the region. As many as 691 patients were from Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi, which recorded a marked increase in COVID-19 cases reported. Four deaths were reported in the region - two in Nagapattinam district and one each in Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts. An 82-year-old man who suffered from pulmonary tuberculosis and a 52-year-old man with a history of hypertension, and meningitis died in Nagapattinam. A 60-year-old man from Thanjavur with no pre-existing ailments and a 77-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease from Tiruchi also succumbed to the viral infection. Tiruchi reported the highest number of cases in the region on Sunday with 311 fresh cases. Officials in the district said that despite the spike in numbers, the cases were still scattered and there was no ground for creation of containment zones, even within corporation limits. Nagapattinam recorded 219 fresg cases, Thanjavur 171, and Tiruvarur, 119 cases on Sunday. A total of 80 patients tested positive in Karur, 57 in Pudukottai and 31 in Ariyalur. Perambalur district, however, continued to report a low number of cases. On Sunday, five patients tested positive.  In Tiruchi, the cases are still scattered and there is no ground for creation of containment zones, even within the Corporation limits Officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-record-993-fresh-cases-and-four-deaths/article34354216.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway gets tough on passengers travelling without masks||Amid surge in COVID-19 cases, the Tiruchi Railway Divisional authorities have begun imposing fines on those found not wearing masks on railway premises consequent to a directive from the Railway Board, New Delhi. The drive commenced from Saturday with the railway authorities slapping a fine amount of Rs. 500 each on 14 persons found without wearing masks in railway stations and on board trains across Tiruchi division to begin with. The fine was imposed under the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises), Rules 2012. The Travelling Ticket Examiners (TTEs) have been instructed to impose fines on those found not wearing masks in the railway station and on board trains, a senior railway official here said. The Tiruchi Railway Division had been insisting for quite some time on the need to wear masks at railway station premises and on board trains in the wake of the pandemic. Stickers and boards alerting public to wear masks and containing information about the fine amount for not wearing masks have been pasted in major stations falling under the limits of Tiruchi division including at Tiruchi junction, Villupuram junction, Mayiladuthurai junction, Tiruvarur junction and Puducherry. The drive against those not wearing masks would continue as per the Railway Board directive, the official said. The Railway Board in a communication to General Managers of all Zonal Railways issued on April 17 had directed railway officials to impose fine on persons found not wearing masks in railway premises including trains. The Board had asked the officials to take action with immediate effect for a period of six months till further instructions were issued in this regard. The communication further said Indian Railways was taking various measures to contain the spread of the resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Home Affairs from time to time. Another senior railway official said all coaches of express trains coming from different destinations and terminating at Tiruchi junction were being disinfected after arrival at the broad gauge coaching complex here for primary maintenance. The formation was being disinfected before it was moved to the platform for its journey again. The locomotive and the guard van were also being disinfected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-gets-tough-on-passengers-travelling-without-masks/article34354206.ece
19 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister dies||Former Minister and organising secretary of AIADMK A. Pappa Sundaram, 89, died in Tiruchi on Sunday due to lung complications. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Mr. Sundaram was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi on April 7 after he had a fall in the bathroom at his house at Valayapatti near Kulithalai. Later he was tested positive for COVID-19. Though the subsequent test turned out to be negative, CT chest test had depicted severe congestion in his lungs. A four-time MLA of Kulithalai constituency in Karur district, Mr. Sundaram had served as the Minister for Backward Classes between 2002 and 2003 in the Jayalalithaa Cabinet. He was among those elected to the State Assembly in 1989 when Jayalalithaa headed a faction following the split in the AIADMK after the demise of its founder M.G. Ramachandran. The AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, condoled the death of Papa Sundaram and pointed out that he had always remained loyal to the party leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-dies-in-tiruchi/article34354243.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four-time MLA of Kulithalai Pappa Sundaram dies||Former Minister and organising secretary of AIADMK A. Pappa Sundaram (89) died in Tiruchi on Sunday due to lung complications. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. He was admitted to a private hospital on April 7 after he had a fall in the bathroom at his house at Valayapatti near Kulithalai. He then tested positive for COVID-19. Though the subsequent test turned out to be COVID negative, CT chest test depicted severe congestion in his lung. A four-time MLA of Kulithalai constituency, Mr. Sundaram had served as the Minister for Backward Classes between 2002 and 2003 in the Jayalalithaa Cabinet. He was among those elected to the State Assembly in 1989 when Jayalalithaa headed a faction following the spilt in the AIADMK after the demise of M.G. Ramachandran. The AIADMK coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister, O. Panneerselvam, and co-coordinator-cum-Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, condoled the death of Mr Papa Sundaram and pointed out that he had always remained loyal to the leadership of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pappa-sundaram-dies-at-89/article34354208.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister passes away||Forrmer Minister and organising secretary of AIADMK A. Pappa Sundaram (89) died in Tiruchi on Sunday due to lung complications. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Mr. Sundaram was admitted to a private hospital here on April 7 after he had a fall in the bathroom at his house at Valayapatti near Kulithalai. He then tested positive for COVID-19. Though the subsequent test turned out to be negative, CT chest test had depicted severe congestion in his lung. A four-time MLA of Kulithalai constituency in Karur district, he had served as the Minister for Backward Classes between 2002 and 2003 in the Jayalalithaa cabinet. He was among those elected to the Assembly in 1989 when Jayalalithaa headed a faction following the spilt in the AIADMK after the demise of M.G. Ramachandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-minister-passes-away/article34354254.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.59 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 135 cusecs and the discharge was 1,107 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34354207.ece
19 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Armed gang murders temple priest at Sivalaperi||A temple priest identified as Chidambaram Durai, 45, of Sudalai Swami Temple at Sivalaperi near Palayamkottai was murdered by an armed gang on Sunday. Another person identified as Natraja Perumal, 53, who was with the priest, suffered multiple injuries and was admitted in Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. Police said that every year, on April 14, marking the Tamil New Year, vendors from far and near would come to the temple and put up temporary shops anticipating a large turnout of devotees. Due to COVID-19 curbs, there were some issues this year. Under such circumstances, an armed gang attacked the priest, who died on the spot. Sivalaperi police are on the lookout for the killers. The murder sent shock waves in the locality and police were deployed in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-gang-murders-priest/article34354813.ece
19 April 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Sudden showers bring down temperature in Tiruenelveli district||Sudden showers in parts of Tirunelveli, Melapalayam, Palayamkottai and a few interior areas brought down the mercury level in Tirunelveli district on Sunday evening. The showers, accompanied by strong winds, uprooted many palm trees. An old tree got uprooted near a private super market in Palayamkottai and fell on a car parked there. Similarly, a two-wheeler parked outside a residence at Thiagaraja Nagar in Palayamkottai got damaged after a branch from a tree fell on the vehicle. Fire and Rescue Services personnel removed the trees following which vehicular movement resumed in the areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudden-showers-bring-down-temperature-in-tiruenelveli-district/article34354828.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Officials rescue 19 Odisha women from garment unit in Tiruppur||Officials from the district administration and the City Police rescued 19 women from Odisha early on Sunday morning from a private garment factory at 15 Velampalayam. They were allegedly forced to work against their will at the company. Sources in the city police and Revenue Department said that the 19 women, all of whom aged 18 years and above, were from Rayagada district in Odisha. They arrived at the garment company in December 2020 for a three-month training programme. However, they were allegedly forced to stay back and work after the training period ended without adequate remuneration, the sources said. The women had called their parents in Rayagada district recently to inform them about their condition and their parents had petitioned the authorities in Odisha. Based on the inputs received by Tiruppur City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan from Odisha late on Saturday, officials from the Revenue Department, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health and Department of Social Welfare along with a team from Velampalayam police station visited the company past midnight on Sunday for inspection. The officials rescued the 19 women and provided accommodation for them at a wedding hall in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol. The women will board a train to Odisha from Tiruppur on Monday, according to the sources. Action will be initiated against the garment company after investigation, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-rescue-19-odisha-women-from-garment-unit-in-tiruppur/article34354637.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur officials rescue 19 Odisha women from garment company||Officials from Tiruppur district administration and Tiruppur City Police rescued 19 women from Odisha early on Sunday morning from a private garment factory at 15 Velampalayam. They were allegedly forced to work against their will at the private garment company. Sources in the city police and Revenue Department said that the 19 women, all of whom aged 18 years and above, were from Rayagada district in Odisha. They arrived at the garment company in December 2020 for a three-month training programme. However, they were allegedly forced to stay back and work after the training period ended without adequate remuneration, the sources said. The women had called their parents in Rayagada district recently to inform them about their condition and their parents had petitioned the authorities in Odisha. Based on the inputs received by Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan from Odisha late on Saturday, officials from Revenue Department, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health and Department of Social Welfare along with a team from Velampalayam police station visited the garment company past midnight on Sunday for inspection. The officials rescued the 19 women and provided accommodation for them at a wedding hall in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol on Sunday morning. The women will board a train to Odisha from Tiruppur on Monday, according to the sources. Action will be initiated against the garment company after due investigation, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-officials-rescue-19-odisha-women-from-garment-company/article34354253.ece
19 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vivekh’s death politicised: Murugan||The death of actor Vivekh is being politicised by linking it with COVID-19 vaccination, said BJP State president L. Murugan in Palladam on Sunday. He said Opposition leaders, such as VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan, had taken vaccines themselves. “Those in public life must instill courage among people,” he said. Following the announcement of Vivekh’s death, Mr. Thirumavalavan tweeted that the State government must clarify whether the actor “lost consciousness” after he received the jab. Mr. Murugan said people from all walks of life had been vaccinated and there was nothing threatening about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vivekhs-death-politicised-murugan/article34354225.ece
19 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sector hit in the Nilgiris||Tourism to the Nilgiris has reduced by almost 70% since January this year, due to the surge in COVID-19 cases across the country. According to data available on visitors to the popular tourist locations in the district, such as the Horticulture farm in Kallar, the Kattery Park, Doddabetta Tea Park, Government Botanical Garden, the Rose Garden, Sims Park and the Arboretum, the average number of visitors during the weekends has dropped to just a little over 2,000 visitors. It stood at around 15,000 prior to the surge in cases. Of the 2,000 visitors visiting the Nilgiris each day, it is estimated that at least a quarter are day-trippers from neighbouring districts. “There was an initial reduction in the number of visitors following an announcement in restrictions by the district administration in February, when the average number of visitors reduced by around 50 %. However, the recent surge in cases has put off many more from travelling to the Nilgiris, with less than 2,000 people visiting the Government Botanical Garden, the biggest tourist attraction in the Nilgiris, since Monday,” said an official from the tourism department. N. Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurant Owners’ Association, said that many hotels were reporting single-digit occupancy rates during the weekend. “Many businesses are struggling to stay afloat, and it seems likely that this season too will be a write-off due to the pandemic,” said Mr. Chandrashekar. The department of horticulture has imposed restrictions on visitors to the gardens and parks in the Nilgiris. Assistant Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris, M.Radhakrishnan, said the lawns in the garden are closed to the public, while visitors are only allowed to stay in the garden for one hour after entering. “Other restrictions include allowing only 15 people to enter the Glass House at a time,” he said. Many tourists said that such restrictions were discouraging them from visiting the parks and gardens. R. Narasiman, a tourist from Chennai, said that the main draw of the gardens were the lawns, which tourists used as spaces for recreation. “We understand the reasons for them closing the lawns, and for the restrictions. But it makes a lot of tourists reconsider visiting the district in general,” he said. Many hoteliers said that cancellations were increasing over the last week, especially from tourists from Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-sector-hit-in-the-nilgiris/article34354260.ece
19 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourists banned from entering the Nilgiris from tomorrow||All tourism spots in the Nilgiris will be closed for tourists from Tuesday. Officials said that all parks and gardens run by the horticulture department, tourism department and others will be closed. No tourists will be allowed to visit the Nilgiris from Tuesday onwards, officials confirmed. The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve will also not be open for tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-banned-from-entering-nilgiris-from-tomorrow/article34354252.ece
19 April 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in fire at cracker shop||Three persons, including two children, were killed in a fire that broke out at a cracker shop in Latheri, near Katpadi in Vellore district, on Sunday. The victims were identified as Mohan, 55, shopkeeper, and his grand children Thejas, 7, and Dhanush, 6. The shop, which sells crackers and groceries, is located near the Latheri bus stop. Fire broke out in the noon, and the cause of fire is not known immediately. Preliminary investigation revealed that the children were with their grandfather at the shop at the time of the incident. A thick ball of fire enveloped the shop and the three were caught inside. They were charred to death, and the building was also completely damaged. On receipt of information, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Katpadi and Gudiyatham fire stations rushed to the spot and put out fire. The charred bodies were retrieved and sent to the Government Hospital, Adukkamparai, Vellore, for post-mortem examination. Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram and Superintendent of Police S. Selvakumar visited the spot and held an enquiry. The District Collector issued instructions to Revenue, Police and Fire and Rescue Services Departments to ensure all firecracker shops should be closed on Sundays and all fire safety norms and license conditions are followed scrupulously. No children/unrelated/related persons shall be allowed inside the shop. No fresh purchase of crackers shall be permitted till the summer ends (June 30), by the licensee. Even with existing stocks, crackers which may inflict heavy damage should be disposed of immediately. Electric lines should be checked once again. Joint inspection of all cracker shops should be taken up from Monday, by teams consisting of officials from the Police, Revenue, Fire Services departments and TANGEDCO, and they should be conducted without any omission, the Collector’s order said. Possibility of relocating the shops to the outskirts of the city/village should be explored. Approach roads to cracker shops should be checked to ensure that sufficient width is available for the movement of ambulances and fire tenders. Collector Shanmuga Sundaram instructed Revenue Divisional Officers to submit an action taken report by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-fire-accident-at-cracker-shop-near-vellore-in-tamil-nadu/article34354213.ece
19 April 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fire Services Week observed||Over 20 Fire and Rescue Services personnel on Sunday took out a 200-km cycle rally from Villupuram to Tiruchi to mark the National Fire Services Week. The rally was organised by the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services Department (Central Zone) and it was flagged off from the Villupuram fire station by the Collector A. Annadurai. District Fire Officer Robin Castro said the rally was held to create awareness on fire safety. The National Fire Services Day is observed to pay homage to 66 firemen and officers of the Mumbai Fire brigade who lost their lives while fighting a major fire on the ship, Fort Stikine, in 1944. The ship was loaded with cotton bales, ammunition, oil drums, besides other materials. ‘Maintenance of fire safety equipment is key to mitigate fire hazards’ is this year’s theme. District Fire Officers M. Mano Prasanna (Thanjavur) and P. Loganathan (Cuddalore) participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-services-week-observed/article34354778.ece
19 April 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman who swapped ATM cards, withdrew Rs. 5.65 lakh nabbed||The District Crime Branch police on Saturday arrested a 43-year-old woman who used to swap ATM cards and withdraw money from the accounts of gullible people in the guise of helping them. The arrested was identified as R. Seethalakshmi of Koothur in Tiruchi district. Preliminary investigations by the police revealed that she was involved in several cases of theft in ATMs across the State. Police said her long run came to an end after the woman swapped the debit card of E. Vadamalai, 65, at an ATM in Kaanai, Villupuram district, on March 9. Seethalakshmi had swapped the ATM card under the pretext of helping the senior citizen and had withdrawn Rs. 5.65 lakh from his bank account in multiple transactions. On Saturday, the DCB police noticed Seethalakshmi roaming in a suspicious manner near an ATM in Villupuram town and detained her. Upon questioning, she confessed to her involvement in the crime, police said. Seethalakshmi had purchased 108 sovereigns of gold jewellery and a motorcycle with the cash, police said. The jewellery and motorcycle were recovered from her. She was produced before a local court and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-who-swapped-atm-cards-withdrew-rs-565-lakh-nabbed/article34354779.ece
19 April 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram MP wants PMGKP scheme extended||Villupuram Member of Parliament D. Ravikumar has urged the Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan to take immediate steps to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) Insurance scheme and pay the dues to the families of deceased health workers. In a letter addressed to Mr. Harsh Vardhan, the Villupuram MP said that it was shocking to learn that the government had stopped the PMGKP scheme at this critical time when the second wave of COVID-19 was hitting the country. The Union Government had introduced this scheme to provide a safety net to the health workers who are fighting COVID-19. According to information provided by Indian Medical Association (IMA), about 734 doctors had died due to COVID-19 till February 3. “The decision to stop the scheme from March 24 will disturb the morale of the health workers and will worsen the already deteriorating situation,” Mr. Ravikumar said. The government should take immediate steps to extend the scheme and pay the dues to the families of the deceased workers, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-mp-wants-pmgkp-scheme-extended/article34354776.ece
19 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No vaccine in many GHs||Most of the Government Hospitals in this district have run out of COVID-19 vaccine and people were being asked to turn up after Monday. While officials in the Health Department are doubtful about getting the replenishment by Tuesday, Collector R. Kannan said that fresh stocks of vaccines were expected by Monday. While Covishield vaccines had run out in many hospitals two days back, even the Covaxin doses have been exhausted. “Only those who had registered for the second dose of jab were given Covaxin,” said a senior health official of a Government Hospital. Meanwhile, private hospitals in many southern districts that have been authorized to take up COVID-19 treatment who have stocks of Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug. “We are getting calls from private hospitals from Virudhunagar, Madurai and Tirunelveli districts. However, we have asked the hospitals to send the patients to Government Hospitals if they were badly in need of Remdesivir injections,” a senior official said. The private hospitals were eagerly waiting for Remdesivir injections after paying money in advance. “A private hospital doctor said the pharmaceutical company representative had told them to wait for at least two more days for fresh stocks,” the senior medical officer said. Meanwhile, the Collector said that Remdesivir was being given to private hospitals only in case of emergencies. “Otherwise, we ask the private hospitals to shift the patients to Government Hospitals,” he said. The Centre has given instructions that only those COVID-19 patients who were in need of oxygen support should be given Remdesivir injection. Meanwhile, all the Government Hospitals in the district have been provided with adequate quantity of oxygen. A new oxygen plant with 6 KL capacity was commissioned at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-vaccine-in-many-ghs/article34354248.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 275 fresh cases||Salem district on Sunday reported 275 fresh COVID-19 cases. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 137 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 147 fresh cases. Twenty patients had returned from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Erode, Salem, Tiruchi. 226 cases in Erode Erode district reported 226 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 16,922. While 71 persons were discharged, 1,091 persons continue to be under treatment.  North Indian workers test positive Seventy-nine workers from north India who were working in a private feeds company at Nanjai Uthukuli in Modakkurichi block tested positive and were admitted to hospitals. All the shops that these workers had visited in the area were closed and the road was sealed. Police personnel have been posted to prevent outsiders from using the road. However, the local residents staged a road roko demanding closure of the feeds company. Police personnel held talks and pacified them here on Sunday. Krishnagiri reported 227 indigenous cases and Dharmapuri 115 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-275-fresh-cases/article34354266.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore, Tiruppur see record high in daily caseload||Coimbatore district saw its highest daily COVID-19 caseload since the beginning of the pandemic as 727 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 67,394 cases. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the death toll stood at 707. A total of 4,579 patients were active cases in the district. While 62,108 patients have recovered so far, 608 persons were discharged from various treatment centres on Sunday. The daily caseload of Tiruppur district crossed the 300-mark for the first time on Sunday as 307 fresh cases were reported, which took the district’s tally to 22,217. No new deaths were reported and the toll remained at 231. The number of active cases exceeded the 2,000-mark after 2,030 patients were reported active cases across the district. Out of the 19,956 patients who have recovered from COVID-19 in Tiruppur district, 131 were discharged on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 43 persons tested positive on Sunday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 9,203. The number of deaths in the district stood at 51, while 322 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-tiruppur-see-record-high-in-daily-caseload/article34354635.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Truck operators not to lift matches from April 21||The decision of the Lorry Transport Owners’ Association not to lift matches from April 21 may hit distribution across the country. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, association president Srinivasan said they lifted matchbox cartons from manufacturing units in and around Thoothukudi and other surrounding districts. The lorry freight included loading/unloading charges of workers. Lorry owners paid Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 for loading (per truck) and Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 for unloading. Now, the workers’ association demanded 30% hike in wages, he added. Asociation secretary Ganesh Kumar and treasurer Narayanasami said at a time when the lorry industry faced severe hardships due to rise in price of diesel and toll fee, among other issues, the wage hike demand would result in huge losses. Hence, the association had unanimously decided to leave the wage issue with match manufacturers and confine itself to collection of transport charges. Everyday, hundreds of lorries lifted consignments of match boxes from manufacturers here and transported them to Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. In the return direction, the trucks transported goods up to Madurai or Sivakasi. From April 21, lorry owners in the region would not lift matches, but continue to transport other consignments as usual, they said and urged the match manufacturers’ association to take a decision on the wage issue. Any delay might jeopardise the distribution network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/truck-operators-not-to-lift-matches-from-april-21/article34354236.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin writes to Modi for universal vaccination||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to swiftly take a policy decision for universal vaccination and help Tamil Nadu tide over the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter signed by DMK MPs as well, Mr. Stalin said it was equally important to allow State governments to independently procure drugs, vaccines and medical equipment as pandemic-affected States cannot wait for the Centre’s nod every time to save lives. “It is reasonable to expect that the Centre plays an active role in sharing international expertise and facilitating inter-State coordination, and leaves the States to deal with the pandemic independently. Hence, I request you to lift all the restrictions imposed on the States with regard to direct procurements and make all necessary efforts to strengthen the State Disaster Management Authority in the true spirit of cooperative federalism,” Mr. Stalin said. He said the Prime Minister should intervene immediately and direct the Ministries concerned to supply adequate doses of Covaxin and Covishield to Tamil Nadu in a way that is commensurate with the population of the State, besides sending 20 lakh doses of vaccines, as requisitioned by the State government. “Tamil Nadu will need more vaccines than what has been allotted to accomplish the task of effective vaccination, break the cycle of infection and flatten the curve. The State, on the one hand, is suffering from a shortage of vaccines, and on the other, is struggling to meet the requirements of the needy,” he said. The DMK leader said COVID-19 cases were rapidly increasing and, in the last seven days, the number of new cases and fatalities had almost doubled. “As per official data, Tamil Nadu recorded 61,593 active cases and 39 deaths on April 17. Though the bureaucrats are taking necessary measures, the situation is such that even the Advocate General of Tamil Nadu admitted before the High Court that it was going out of control,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-writes-to-modi-for-universal-vaccination/article34354219.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam closed from today||Kovai Courtallam and Baralikadu eco-tourism centre, which are popular tourist spots in Coimbatore district, will remain closed from Monday following the announcement of restrictions from the State government, according to sources in the Forest Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-courtallam-closed-from-today/article34354255.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani member arrested||The Selvapuram police on Sunday arrested a member of the Hindu Munnani on charges of damaging a police vehicle. Police sources said that over 20 members of Hindu Munnani staged a demonstration at Selvapuram against Coimbatore Corporation officials, who arrived at the spot to demolish a small temple allegedly built on an encroached land. The police removed the protesters and boarded them in a police vehicle. However, Karthik (24) allegedly destroyed the interior of the police vehicle, the sources said. Judicial custody  While the rest of the members were let off on Sunday evening, the police registered a case against Karthik under Sections 143 (Unlawful assembly) and 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections of the Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. He was later remanded in judicial custody, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-member-arrested/article34354624.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Maskless nonchalance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maskless-nonchalance/article34354823.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Following safety guidelines and taking up vaccination as per guidelines are the only ways to prevent COVID-19 infection. The notable aspects in the guidelines are that that two dosages of vaccination must be carried out in a gap of at least two months, and vaccine dosage must not be inter-changed. It is important for health authorities to leave out pregnant and lactating women, those with allergic reaction to the first dose, and those with acute illness must be left out from the vaccination drive. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi    After going through the first wave of COVID-19 by adhering to safety norms, people seem to have turned complacent thinking that the pandemic has faded away. It is not the case. Carelessness among people is what would cause severe consequences in the second wave of spread happening at present. The precautionary measures must now be followed more scrupulously. S. Raghavan Cantonment    Not all hair-dressing salons follow the safety precautions in right earnest. Firstly, masks must be worn by both customers and hairdressers unfailingly and social distancing norms must be followed. But many do not sanitise the scissors. The use of sanitising all materials in the salons is a must at the time of second wave of COVID-19 surge in the country. M. Raja Tiruchi    Though with a high population density, Thippirajapuram village along Mannargudi road lacks a Primary Health Centre (PHC). There is not even a mini clinic due to which people find themselves forced to go to Kumbakonam or Valangaiiman for their urgent health requirements. Now that the second wave of COVID-19 is spreading fast, it is imperative for the government to establish a PHC. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram    It was a sad day for sports lovers of Tiruchi when the iconic 120-year-old Union Club was demolished recently. The club had three beautiful tennis courts surrounded by huge trees including a mammoth banyan tree. The club had hosted many tournaments and festival matches in which players from India and abroad had participated. It is hard to understand why such extreme measure was taken by the authorities when the club had given three-fourth of the land it had taken on lease to the government for construction of the taluk office. Only the tennis courts and a building housing the office, billiards and table tennis and reading rooms were left. What would be the scope for aspiring sports persons in Tiruchi with three of the city’s famous clubs, including the Srirangam and City clubs, gone? T. S. Dhayanandhan Tiruchi    Vehicles moving from Ammamandapam towards the Tiruchi city get stranded often at Mambala Salai signal. Improper regulation of vehicles travelling from Tiruchi city to Thiruvanaikoil is the main cause. Unscheduled stoppage of town and mofusil buses close to the signal point is also an issue. The situation could be rectified if mofusil buses are made to take the by-pass road. S. Kannan Srirangam    The prohibitive cost of houses in the city, in many cases, is due to unethical practices followed by unqualified builders emboldened by the reluctance of civil engineers to handle the rigour of brick and mortar tasks. Like in the past, civil engineering graduates ought to be exposed to hands-on training in projects like dams, highways and public buildings. Apprenticeship programmes during and after studies must be made compulsory and entrepreneurship should be encouraged. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam    Though Puthanampatti was brought under the jurisdiction of Thuraiyur taluk a few years ago, the Aaadhar cards still bear the name of Musiri taluk of which the village was a part earlier. As the confusion persists, people face hassles in registering vehicles, obtaining driving licence, and renewing licence. Though several petitions were submitted to the district administration, there has not been any intervention. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    The government needs to be appreciated for changing the date of Plus Two examination by factoring in the counting of votes. The headmasters' association is a relieved lot over the change of date as it would have otherwise been quite bothersome for both students and teachers. S. Sethuraman Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34354214.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TH19-CITY-CINEMA||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA       SRI KANCHI KAMAKOTI KARNATAKA SANGEETHA MUMMURTHIGAL SEVA SAMITHI SATHGURU THYAGARAJA SWAMIGAL JAYANTHI  TOMORROW - 20.04.2021, 10.00 a.m. Pancharathina Keerthanais. Group singing. All musicians are requested to join and receive the blessings of SATHGURU. All are welcome @ Vasantha Mandapam, Sri Sundara Vinayahar Temple, Sheela Nagar, Madipakkam, Ch-91. Madipakkam Swaminathan & Dr. Thiruvarur Bakthavatchalam. 9841657654||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/th19-city-cinema/article34354605.ece
19 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Public celebrations banned in view of the rise in new cases||The State government has banned all village fairs, religious rituals, public ceremonies and other gatherings with the rise in COVID-19 cases. The number of new cases reached 2,676 across the 14 districts of North Karnataka on Sunday. The region witnessed 13 deaths. Kalaburagi recorded the highest number of cases with 671 cases. Bidar reported 469, Dharwad 265, Ballari 238, Vijayapura 200, Davangere and Raichur 133 each, Belagavi 129, Uttara Kannada and Bagalkot 104 each, Yadgir 74, Koppal 65, Gadag 48 and Haveri 43. The total number of patients discharged was 782, with the highest of 141 in Kalaburagi and the lowest of 10 in Haveri. The highest number of active cases [3,781] is in Kalaburagi and the lowest [293] in Haveri. On Saturday, Belagavi district registered the single-day highest spike of 188 in the first four months of 2021. A total of 1,276 cases have been reported since April 1. The Deputy Commissioners of these districts have banned ceremonies and clamped restrictions on the entry of visitors to public places such as monuments and temples. Archaeological Survey of India has banned the entry of people to historical monuments for a month. The Department of Religious Endowment has continued the ban on entry of devotees at Saundatti Yallamma and Chinchali Mayakka temples for a month. New guidelines have been issued to reducing the number of people attending public events to 200 from 500 earlier. For indoor ceremonies, the recommended strength is 100. For birthday and other similar celebrations, the number should not cross 50 for outdoor and 20 for indoor functions. For cremation and burial, 25 persons are allowed. Political rallies should not have more than 200 people. The Department of Railways has issued orders to collect a fine of Rs. 500 from those without masks. As per an order issued on Saturday, not wearing masks will be an offence under Railways Act. Even spitting and other behaviour that violates the SOP will attract fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-celebrations-banned-in-view-of-the-rise-in-new-cases/article34354287.ece
19 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP MLA in isolation||BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi has isolated himself at home for five days, as he had come in contact with, among others, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who has tested positive for COVID-19, during campaigning for the party candidate Mangala Angadi in Belagavi. He clarified that he has not tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-mla-in-isolation/article34354286.ece
19 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two killed in road accident||Two persons died and two others were injured in a road accident in Dharwad on Sunday. Muzammil Adoni and Mahaj Pathan, both from Dharwad, died on the spot while two of their family members were admitted to a hospital.  Their car lost control and took a somersault in the air, a police officer said. The rural police have booked a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-road-accident/article34354290.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students worried over lack of clarity on assessment||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education is yet to take a call on how students from classes one to nine will be assessed for the 2021-22 academic year. On April 5, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had said a decision would be taken in two days. However, even now there is no clarity on assessments, much to the dismay of not just parents and students, but also school managements. Many students who want to go back to their home towns are unable to do so as they are not sure if the government will announce an examination or another form of assessment for which their physical presence would be necessary. Kantharaj S., whose sons study in classes four and eight in a school that follows the State syllabus, said, “My wife and me work from home, and also have to do the domestic chores. We are unable to manage the children and want to send them to our home town, but we have no clarity on whether the school will conduct examinations.” Some students are revising portions and preparing for the possibility of year-end examinations. ‘Cannot enjoy break’ Surya S., parent of a six standard student, said, “Students had a tough time with online classes this year. It is a pity that they cannot enjoy the summer break as the government is yet to take a decision on their assessment.” Department officials are waiting for the Minister to take a call on the matter. Mr. Kumar’s office said he had been busy campaigning for by-elections, and monitoring the measures taken to contain the second wave of COVID-19 infections in Chamarajanagar where he is the district in-charge. “Students from classes one to five have not had adequate classes, and it is impossible to assess them. So we suggest that they be promoted without conducting any assessment,” a senior official in the department said, adding that a bridge course may be planned at the beginning of the next academic year to help them cope up with the portions of the next grade. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said the State government’s indecisiveness was proving to be costly for students and their academic future. He was against the idea of not conducting any form of assessment. “Without an assessment, we will not even know where students stand academically and cannot plan appropriate remedial action,” he said. Classes for students from six to nine were suspended on April 1 following a rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-worried-over-lack-of-clarity-on-assessment/article34354577.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officials claim 40-45% of scheduled bus services being operated||The bus strike by employees of Road Transport Corporations (RTCs) is set to enter its 13th day on Monday. Meanwhile, officials claim that more employees are reporting back to duty and 40 to 45% of scheduled services are being operated as of Sunday. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) Managing Director Shivyogi C. Kalasad told The Hindu that all the corporations are running 500 to 1,000 additional buses per day. On the first day of strike, RTCs had operated 236 buses. After a week (on April 13), operations touched 2,445, and on Sunday, more than 7,500 buses hit the road. “Running more and more buses is an indication that employees are reporting back to duty. On Sunday, the KSRTC managed to run 50% of scheduled services and all the four corporations managed to operate 40 to 45% of the services. On Monday, we may add 1,000 more buses,” he said. “Though we have a fleet size of 20,000 buses, all were not operational prior to the strike. A majority of the AC buses remained off road due to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Within a few days, we will manage to run buses which were operational prior to the strike,” he said. The official further added that that ridership for existing services remains low and corporations are meeting the diesel cost. Hunger strike Meanwhile, Kodihalli Chandrashekar, Honorary President, Karnataka State Road Transport Employees’ League, said that on Monday, employees will observe a hunger strike at the district level. “The State government has been adamant and is not us showing the minimum courtesy of holding talks with employees,” he said. Asked if the increasing number of services spells a setback for the ongoing strike, he alleged that the authorities are using depot managers and other staff to pressurise employees to report back to duty and running only 8 to 10% of the buses. He accused the RTCs of using private bus drivers to operate buses. The KSRTC MD dismissed these allegations . “After the Jamkhandi incident where a NWKRTC driver was killed while driving a bus, bus crew are driving buses in civil clothes to hide their identity. Drivers driving RTCs buses are our employees,” he maintained. From April 7 to 18, 176 FIRs were filed against 394 employees for damaging buses, obstructing and assaulting colleagues who reported back to duty and others. The police have arrested 88 employees. Till Sunday, miscreants have pelted stones at 105 buses on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-claim-40-45-of-scheduled-bus-services-being-operated/article34354587.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GAIL proposes wet waste-to-energy plant||Vegetable shavings, fruit peel and other kitchen waste may soon be converted into clean, green gas instead of ending up in a landfill. GAIL Gas Limited (GGL) is in talks with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to set up a Compressed Bio Gas (CBG) plant in north Bengaluru to utilise segregated organic wet waste. According to a letter from GGL, officials met BBMP Administrator Rakesh Singh and other senior officials after which they submitted a proposal on April 9. GGL will set up and operate the plant at its own cost. The plant will have a minimum capacity of processing 75 tonnes of wet waste per day (TPD). Apart from the plant, GGL will also set up and operate other infrastructure, like a CNG station and Cascades (storage system), for utilisation of the CBG. The proposal stated that the BBMP has to provide land free of cost for the plant and related infrastructure, with guarantee to supply minimum 75 tonnes of wet waste per day. GGL is willing to increase capacity to up to 300 TPD depending on the assurance they receive from BBMP about the availability of wet waste and land for the plant. GGL officials are waiting for an in-principle approval from BBMP to set up the plant. “The plant is expected to address two key environmental concerns: produce clean natural gas which is eco-friendly, and also help with safe disposal of wet waste,” said Vivek Wathodkar, Chief General Manager, GGL. BBMP Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan told The Hindu , “We were informed that GAIL wanted to set up a biomethanisation plant of around 50 tonnes per day capacity. The BBMP will identify land and provide the same to the company to establish the plant.” The location is yet to be decided. Officials from BBMP’s SWM Cell are expected to meet GGL representatives next week. GGL has earlier partnered with BBMP in 2020 to provide 18 CNG-powered four-wheel dry waste collection vehicles worth Rs. 1 crore under CSR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gail-proposes-wet-waste-to-energy-plant/article34354574.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||War room for facilitating medical oxygen in State||A war room has been created at the Office of the Drugs Controller to facilitate the availability of medical oxygen. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said, “There is no dearth of oxygen in the State. Zonal officers have been deployed to manage the issue. The Centre has given approval for 300 tonnes of oxygen in addition to 800 tonnes production capacity presently available in the State.” The Minister tweeted that the State has seven medical oxygen production plants with a capacity of 812 tonnes while medical oxygen utilised on Saturday was about 272 tonnes. On Saturday, he had said that 22 hospitals had requested Remdesivir, and 100 vials would be supplied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/war-room-for-facilitating-medical-oxygen-in-state/article34354585.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM stable, says hospital||Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa, who tested positive for COVID-19 for the second time, continues to be under medical observation at Manipal Hospital. “All his vital parameters are being monitored as per protocol and he’s receiving appropriate treatment. He is stable and cheerful,” a statement from the hospital said. Earlier, the CM had been treated for the virus in August 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-stable-says-hospital/article34354584.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Driver injured in stone pelting||A gang of three pelted stones at a moving BMTC bus as a result of which the driver sustained head injuries at Vigneshwaranagar bus stop in Kamakshipalya on Sunday evening. Tension gripped the area for a while following the incident and Hoysala patrolling police rushed to the spot and shifted the injured driver to the hospital. The injured has been identified as Nanjunde Gowda, 43, a resident of Jalahalli. A senior police officer said that around 4.15 p.m., the bus was heading towards Jalahalli and three men intercepted the bus and pelted stones. The front glass was damaged and the driver sustained severe injuries and was rushed to a nearby hospital. The incident was caught on CCTV cameras and the police have identified the accused. Efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driver-injured-in-stone-pelting/article34354588.ece
19 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CS calls on Governor||A team of top bureaucrats, led by Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar, met Governor Vajubhai R. Vala on Sunday to brief him on the COVID-19 situation in the State and measures taken to counter it. Sources said the officials met the Governor after the latter sought information. The Governors of all States were asked by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a recent meeting to be in the loop on COVID-19 measures, sources said. This is the second time that the Chief Secretary is briefing the Governor on the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cs-calls-on-governor/article34354299.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS: Congress will oppose lockdown||Slamming the State government for its failure to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday said the Congress would oppose any tough measure such as a lockdown that would hurt the livelihood of the poor. “The State government had one year’s time for preparation. The Ministers got whichever officer they wanted and there were changes in portfolios. How are you running the government without proper preparations. Though we exposed corruption in COVID-19-related purchases, we have cooperated with the government’s efforts so far,” he told presspersons here. He said adequate preparatory meetings had not been conducted to keep the infrastructure ready. Urging the government to stop all development works, he said the focus should be on protecting the lives of people by providing appropriate health facilities. “Provide free medical facilities to people till the end of the pandemic for which Rs. 300 crore should be set aside,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-congress-will-oppose-lockdown/article34354300.ece
19 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ex-JD(S) MLA joins Cong.||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former MLA for Ramanagaram K. Raju quit the party and joined the Congress on Sunday along with his supporters. He was admitted into the Congress by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar in the presence of his brother and MP for Bengaluru Rural D.K. Suresh. Mr. Raju has changed political loyalties ahead of the elections to the local city municipal council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-jds-mla-joins-cong/article34354301.ece
19 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Hassan sees 341 new cases, six deaths||The number of COVID-19 cases is on the rise in Hassan district. As many as 341 fresh cases were reported on Sunday. For the first time in recent months, the daily tally crossed 300. Six patients died on the day, increasing the total deaths to 499. So far, 31,936 people have been infected with the infection in the district. Among them, 29,729 have recovered. As on Sunday, 1,709 patients were under treatment and of them 24 are in the intensive care unit. Among the fresh cases reported 126 are from Hassan, 51 each from Arsikere and Channarayapatna, 35 from Holenarsipur, 27 from Belur, 21 from Sakaleshpur, 14 from Alur, 11 from Arakalgud, and five from other districts. The district administration has appealed to those aged above 45 to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-hassan-sees-341-new-cases-six-deaths/article34354405.ece
19 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Over 300 buses operated||More than 300 KSRTC buses of Hassan division operated till 5 p.m. on Sunday. Except on routes covering Bengaluru, Mysuru, Arsikere, and Tiptur, the number of passengers was low. With the increase in KSRTC buses on the road, private transport players have come down significantly. RajeshShetty, divisional controller of KSRTC, said, “We operated buses on almost all the routes. However, the number of passengers was low as travel was being avoided because of COVID-19.” More than 1,000 drivers and conductors returned to work in the division. Some miscreants threw stones at a bus in Holenarsipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-300-buses-operated/article34354412.ece
19 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||University stops taking admissions under distance edn. mode||Distance Education Courses being offered by Mangalore University will go into the annals of history as the university has stopped taking new admissions. The university has been forced to stop new admissions for first year courses after the State government issued a notification which offered the exclusive right of conducting Open and Distance Learning courses to Karnataka State Open University in Mysuru. The 40-year-old Mangalore University launched its Distance Education Courses in 2004. According to Director of Centre of Distance Education at the university Y. Sangappa, with new admissions being stopped, the centre has about 4,500 students, which included undergraduate, post-graduate and B.Ed students. They are second and third year undergraduate students and second year post-graduate students. When the present batch of B.Ed students will pass out this year, there will be no more B.Ed students. The university offered BA, B.Com and BBA courses and post-graduate courses in Economics, History, Political Science, Sociology, English, Kannada, Hindi, Commerce and Tourism Administration. Vice-Chancellor of the university P.S. Yadapadithaya told The Hindu that the university has now decided not to challenge the notification of the government in court. Earlier, it was exploring the option of moving court against the notification. Once the centre is closed, the university will suffer a financial loss of Rs. 6 crore per annum, he said. In-charge Registrar (administration) P.L. Dharma said that the government has made it clear to State universities offering Distance Education Courses that it cannot allow the same henceforth. The State government issued a Gazette notification granting the exclusive right of offering Open and Distance Learning courses to KSOU in December 2020 after amending the Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (second amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-stops-taking-admissions-under-distance-edn-mode/article34354724.ece
19 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Decision likely today on allowing certain religious events: Poojary||Minister for Muzrai, Backward Classes Welfare and in charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary said here on Sunday that the government was likely to take a decision on Monday on allowing certain religious events in the State. The Minister told The Hindu that after the government banned holding of any religious festivals and temple jatras he wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday night requesting him to allow certain events within the purview of COVID-19 guidelines. Mr. Poojary said that he appealed to the Chief Minister to allow holding Brahmakalasha, Nema, Kola, Bhootaradhane, ‘harake’, yakshagana bayalata, and certain puja rituals in temples, especially in the coastal belt by applying COVID-19 guidelines as they had religious significance. They should be allowed like how other activities have been allowed by restricting the number of participants. The Minister said he did not ask for allowing jatras and festivals. Following the letter, Mr. Poojary said Revenue Minister R. Ashok called him up on Sunday and he (Mr. Poojary) apprised him on the need to allow some events. Mr. Ashok told him that the matter would be discussed on Monday and a decision taken. Meanwhile, Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat on Saturday urged the government to allow holding religious events. The MLA said in a statement that the coastal belt was known for religious events, which were a source of livelihood for many families. Banning religious events not only hurts religious sentiments but also places a huge dent on the revenue earned by several families. The ban on religious events last year made life miserable for many families. “Do not drive people to despair this year too,” he said. A group of leaders, comprising representatives of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), temple management committees, and seers had met Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday and urged him to allow religious events, including temple jatras. They told him that the organisers would go ahead with them in Dakshina Kannada as they could not be stopped abruptly. The Minister’s letter followed this development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-likely-today-on-allowing-certain-religious-events-poojary/article34354305.ece
19 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Now, masks that grow into plants upon disposal||One-time face mask users now have the option of using cotton masks which grow into plants upon their disposal. A social entrepreneurship called Paper Seed, set up near Mangaluru, has come out with masks that contain seeds of tulsi and tomato. Paper Seed founder and artist NitinVas of Pakshikere told The Hindu that these masks have been made using cotton rags. “They are made from recycled rags and the inner linings are made with cotton cloth. They are thick enough to prevent infection,” he said. Mr. Vas added, “Masks reach the ocean, other waterbodies, and landfill sites, thus polluting the environment. Eco-friendly masks like the one having seeds will add to the growth of plants.” Paper Seed has made about 400 such masks now. The artist said that these masks cannot be reused after washing and are meant for one-time use. “We will add such seeds which can grow into trees while making the next batch of masks,” he said, adding that demands for these masks have been placed from people in Chennai, Bengaluru, Madikeri, and other places where he has contacts. There is a demand for mass production too. Earlier, Paper Seed had made eco-friendly rakhis having seeds of tomato, cucumber, capsicum, tulsi, and the like for Raksha Bandhan. Many products Paper Seed also makes eco-friendly jewellery, earrings, keychains, ladles, cups from coconut shells, driftwood sculptures, and baskets from locally available creepers and climbers. Some of the other products include seed pen, bamboo toothbrush, designed paper mache, seed paper notepad, paper straw, recycled paper cards, newspaper seed pencils, and organic agarbati. It has also made paper flags for Independence Day. The other latest products include toys made from paper mache or paper pulp. Mr. Vas has named them as Mangaluru toys on the lines of the Channapatna toys which are made of soft wood, to reflect the local culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-masks-that-grow-into-plants-upon-disposal/article34354733.ece
19 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLC tests positive||President of Daskhina Kannada Congress Committee K. Harish Kumar, MLC, has tested positive for COVID-19. He is being treated at a private hospital. Mr. Kumar told The Hindu that he developed diarrhoea during election campaigning in North Karnataka and got himself tested for COVID-19 in Bidar on April 12, which turned out to be negative. He took treatment for diarrhoea. After he returned to the city from campaigning, he felt exhausted and got himself admitted to AJ Hospital and Research Centre on April 16. The COVID-19 test in the hospital confirmed the infection, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlc-tests-positive/article34354731.ece
19 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable suspended||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has suspended head constable Srilata, who was among the 130 persons arrested by the Hassan police following a raid on a homestay near K. Hoskote in Alur taluk on April 10. A rave party was in progress at the homestay. Mr. Kumar said Ms. Srilata worked in the Economic and Narcotics Crime Police Station in Mangaluru. She has been accused of misusing her position to claim before the Hassan police that she was an ASI attached to Mangaluru’s Central Crime Branch. The Hassan police arrested and released her following bail given at the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constable-suspended/article34354730.ece
19 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Women police allowed to work from home||In continuation of steps to prevent police personnel and their families from getting infected with COVID-19, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has permitted 34 women personnel, who are pregnant and lactating mothers, to work from home till April 30. Mr. Kumar said that these 35 women personnel will be doing clerical job and online tasks such as updation of crime records and rowdy-sheets from their houses. With rising COVID-19 positive cases, Mr. Kumar said, these women police personnel requested for work from home option. There are personnel who are in advanced stages of pregnancy. There are staff who have children as young as one month old. “These personnel are exempted from coming to office or the police station till the end of this month,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-police-allowed-to-work-from-home/article34354727.ece
19 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Unscientific’ property tax hike opposed||The hike in property tax which was approved by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) will be questioned in court on legal and technical grounds as the tax escalation has been described as illegal and in violation of the law. This was stated in a public meeting convened by the Mysuru city and district Congress here on Sunday and attended by a large number of citizens, including MCC councillors. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M. Lakshman said MCC was coerced by the State government to escalate property tax by 15% with a rider that failure to do so would result in suspension of all grants due to the local body. This was also corroborated by former Mayor Ayub Khan who said that the MCC received such a circular and the cast-strapped corporation was forced to comply with the directives lest it would stand to lose funds to provide even basic amenities and services. Legal flaws Mr. Lakshman said this was nothing short of “extortion and daylight robbery” and comes at a time when people are struggling to survive in the times of pandemic. Hence, a multi-pronged struggle would be launched which entails writing to officials concerned highlighting both legal and technical flaws in the present hike, which was described as “unscientific”. In case the government does not respond and resolve the issue within a fortnight, the Congress would file a Public Interest Litigation plea in the High Court to bring a stay and eventually get the hike quashed, he added. The technical flaws related to the quantum of hike and though the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act 1976 has mandated 15% hike in property tax once in three years, what is being enforced is in excess of 200% in many cases, according to citizens participating in the meeting. Some of the tax paying citizens who spoke pointed out that the hike has been two to three fold and was in violation of the law. A tax paying citizen claimed that the property tax was calculated as Rs. 9,600 last year and it was enhanced to Rs. 25,600 this year. Mr. Khan said instead of the 2007 guidance value of the property for computing the property tax, the MCC was using the 2018 guidance value resulting in a steep hike.  Self-assessment scheme Mr. Lakshman said property tax under self-assessment scheme (SAS) entailed the tax payer to make the entries and compute the tax. But in the online system rolled out by the MCC, the property data has already been fed into the system and the software automatically calculates the amount based on the data fed into it. In the event of an anomaly, there was no scope for correction and hence, this was in violation of the very basis of the SAS, he added. It was also pointed out that though there were nearly 1.83 lakh to nearly 2 lakh registered properties within the MCC limits, only 50% of them were regularly paying the taxes while no property tax was levied on buildings housing government offices.  A tax paying citizen claimed that the property tax was calculated as Rs. 9,600 last year and it was enhanced to Rs. 25,600 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unscientific-property-tax-hike-opposed/article34354408.ece
19 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Online fundraiser for construction of library in Mysuru city comes to a halt||The online fundraiser for construction of a library at Rajiv Nagar in Mysuru, which was destroyed in a fire recently, has ended amid reservations expressed by a section in the social media over a proposal by government agencies to use the fund raised to finance the library project. The online initiative, started by Fathaheen Misbah, who works for an IT company, to help Syed Ishaq rebuild his library had garnered Rs. 28,98,260. The fundraiser, Ketto.org, said the campaigner for the fundraiser, Mr. Misbah, had requested to end the initiative. Some of the donors had taken to Twitter to oppose the government’s decision to construct the library through donor contribution. “Want my money back,” said Radhakrishnan Nair in a tweet. Mohammed Zubair, a co-founder of Alt News, tweeted, “This was public initiative. Why would govt want donation amount to build the library. Did they discuss, consultant [sic] or inform this to the donors. The decision about handing over the donation amount to the govt should be decided by the donors. Not govt.” Mr. Misbah has tweeted: “Update will be posted by @ketto on the link below seeking inputs from donors. Rest assured opinions will be respected”. In response to a query from The Hindu , Ketto said they would hold a discussion with the campaigner on Monday. “Ketto will be having a discussion with the campaigner and post the discussion, we will take the next steps and update our donors accordingly,” Ketto.org said in its reply. It may be mentioned here that the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) and the Department of Public Libraries had jointly agreed to rebuild the library established by Mr. Ishaq at the same spot by using not only the money donated directly to Mr. Ishaq by individuals and organisations, but also the amount raised through the online fundraiser. While MUDA had decided to allot about 5,000 sq. ft of land for construction of the library, the MCC had agreed to bear any shortfall of funds arising in the cost of construction of the library, which will be carried out under the supervision of Mysuru City Library Authority. Mr. Ishaq, meanwhile, had agreed to transfer the contribution that he had received from individuals and organisations to the SB account opened jointly by MUDA, the MCC, and the Deputy Director of Libraries, Mysuru. MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag, MUDA Commissioner D.B. Natesh and Deputy Director of Libraries, Mysuru, Manjunath are expected to discuss the issue on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-fundraiser-for-construction-of-library-in-mysuru-city-comes-to-a-halt/article34354296.ece
19 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pvt. bus operators complain as KSRTC resumes more services||Private bus operators, who had been roped in to provide alternative transport services to commuters in view of the KSRTC strike, withdrew their services on Sunday in protest against the KSRTC buses taking away their passengers. Though the Transport Department had permitted them to ferry passengers freely on various routes, including the Bengaluru, Hassan, Virajpet, Gundlupet, and Nanjangud ones for one month, KSRTC employees were bringing their own buses and transporting the passengers to different destinations, depriving the private operators an opportunity to fill up their buses, they said. Prithviraj, president of Mysuru District Private Bus Owners’ Association, said the private buses were unable to find more than four or five passengers in their buses, causing them heavy losses. “We are unable to recover our fuel cost,” he complained. Mr. Prithviraj claimed that about 300 private buses had been pressed into service to provide alternative transport in Mysuru during the KSRTC strike. The private bus operators, who parked their buses on the grounds in front of the Mysuru palace, threatened to stage a dharna if their demand to operate freely for one month, as was agreed upon initially, was not honoured. Meanwhile, the KSRTC’s Mysuru divisional controller, K.H. Srinivas, said the number of KSRTC employees returning for duty was increasing day by day. “While we were able to resume 50% of our services on Saturday, it was about 70% on Sunday,” he said. The KSRTC’s Mysuru Rural Division usually operates about 5,800 trips from 575 buses every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-bus-operators-complain-as-ksrtc-resumes-more-services/article34354410.ece
19 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tree-felling opposed||Members of Parisara Balaga staged ademonstration near Lalitha Mahal Palace on Sunday opposing the felling of nearly 150 trees to pave way for a helipad. The activists, around 50 of them drawn from different walks of life, included former Rangayana director Janardhan. Condemning the proposal for a helipad at the cost of the trees, the activists said the need of the hour was to increase the city’s green cover and not fell fully grown trees. They urged the State government to relocate the helipad, which is proposed as part of the heli-tourism project, elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tree-felling-opposed/article34354411.ece
19 April 2021||TIRUPATI,KARNATAKA||Demand for repoll in Tirupati grows||Political parties have raised their voice again on their demand for repoll in Tirupati Assembly, which forms part of the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency, alleging large-scale irregularities in the byelection conducted on Saturday. Accusing the YSRCP of having “imported outsiders to impersonate non-existent voters,” the BJP claimed most of the “fake voters” were from Chittoor, Punganur, Karvetinagaram, Piler, Chowdepalle, Chandragiri, and Cherlopalle areas, falling in the four adjoining constituencies. “We are going to approach the High Court for justice. We demand cancellation of the election and plead for repolling in the Tirupati Assembly segment,” says party’s State spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-repoll-in-tirupati-grows/article34354294.ece
19 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||EVMs taken to strongroom||Adequate security has been provided to the strongroom where electoral voting machines were taken to for safe-keeping late on Saturday evening. As many as 305 polling stations were established to enable voters to vote in the by-elections to Maski Assembly Constituency. After polling, election officers on duty brought the voting machines and kept them inside the strongroom at SRPS Degree College in Raichur and sealed the room. Along with the local police, armed Central Reserve Police Force are guarding the strong room and the entire college building as well. Raichur Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar and Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikam were present and supervised the process of storing the voting machines and sealing the strongroom. The constituency recorded 70.48 % of voting. Counting of votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/evms-taken-to-strongroom/article34354289.ece
19 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Coordinate to deal with health crisis: DC||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has stressed the need for coordination from all departments to curb the spread of COVID-19 in Yadgir district. Addressing a task force committee meeting in Yadgir on Saturday, Dr. Ragapriya said government departments and private hospitals should extend cooperation to beat the health crisis. The number of positive cases has been gradually going up every day and at present, there are 500 patients getting treatment at the new district hospital. Saying that private hospitals should provide proper treatment to patients, the Deputy Commissioner appealed to them to reserve 50% of the total beds for patients who have tested positive. The number of check-posts on the district borders should be increased and staff should work round the clock, he said. The check-post staff should strictly check passengers before allowing them to cross, she said. She also said that responsibility has been given to a committee of officials to trace primary and secondary contacts of affected patients. District hospital The new 300-bed district hospital located near Mudnal village on the outskirts of Yadgir city, which was inaugurated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in January this year, has now been converted into a facility for COVID-19 patients. The new hospital has been shifted back to the old hospital premises to provide treatment for non-COVID-19 patients, she said. “We will provide the necessary treatment to patients,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coordinate-to-deal-with-health-crisis-dc/article34354292.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Entrepreneurs step in to cater to patients in home quarantine||The sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in the city has meant a spike in the percentage of people in home quarantine. This has sparked off a new business – food catering for those in home quarantine. According to rough estimates, more than 88% of those who have tested positive for COVID-19 are in home quarantine. Entrepreneurs are offering to deliver fresh, home-cooked meals to such patients. Cooking was always a passion for Megha B.K., a resident of Basaveshwaranagar. Following the outbreak of the pandemic, her acquaintances, who live abroad, contacted her and requested her to send meals to their parents in the city. “I began providing breakfast and lunch. Word spread and today, I am packing fresh meals for 10 persons who are in home quarantine in various parts of the city,” she said. Vasanthi Sathyanarayanan, proprietor of Snackeaze, was also approached by her acquaintances. However, unlike Ms. Megha, she has been in the catering business for two years. “People hear of us mainly through word-of-mouth. We cater mainly to lunch and dinner. All meals are completely customised. Some COVID-19 patients have specific requirements,” she said and added that they have been delivering in a 8-10 km radius of H.S.R. Layout. Several caterers get calls from those in home quarantine for special meals. Karen Martin from House of Anglo told The Hindu that she recently had to send a special Easter Sunday hamper, including Easter eggs, to a family. “The couple had COVID-19. They wanted to celebrate their child’s birthday, which fell on Easter Sunday,” she said and added that with more cases being reported, many people have begun to seek her services. “There have been cases where people have ordered special meals only because they didn’t want to step outside their house,” she said. A few service providers are offering to send food free of cost, but for the delivery charge. Mission Chai, a group of 15 people across the city, offer home-cooked meals to COVID-19 patients, who only have to pay the delivery charge. Rakesh Nayyar, an assistant engineer with ISRO, is part of Mission Chai. Just like others in the team, he and his wife deliver meals that they cook at home. “For the past five months, we have been providing food to acquaintances who tested positive. But when the case load started increasing in the city, we thought of extending the service to anyone who is unable to cook for themselves,” he said.  People hear of us mainly through word-of-mouth. We cater mainly to lunch and dinner. All meals are completely customised. Some COVID-19 patients have specific requirements Vasanthi Sathyanarayanan, proprietor of Snackeaze   We have been providing food to acquaintances who tested positive. But when the case load started increasing in the city, we thought of extending the service to anyone who is unable to cook for themselves Rakesh Nayyar, volunteer in Mission Chai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entrepreneurs-step-in-to-cater-to-patients-in-home-quarantine/article34354578.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bed allocation: Notices issued to 5 private hospitals||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), on Sunday, slapped show cause notices on five private hospitals for failing to hand over 50% of the beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients under government quota. After visiting Vikram Hospital on Millers Road, Fortis Hospital on Cunningham Road, Baptist Hospital on Ballari Road, Columbia Asia Hospital at Hebbal, and Aster CMI Hospital at Hebbal, Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta directed health officials to immediately issue notices. These private hospitals have 24 hours to respond to the notices. The civic chief has warned private medical facilities to hand over 50% of the beds, else face action, including closure of the facility. According to information made available, 39 beds in Vikram Hospital and 30 in Fortis Hospital should have been earmarked for government quota. However, these hospitals had failed to do so and neither had they displayed the number of beds and details of the government quota in their premises. Similarly, only 63 beds instead of 124 at Baptist Hospital, 15 instead of 30 beds at Columbia Asia Hospital, and 45 instead of 112 beds at Aster CMI had been handed over under government quota. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said that he had directed the BBMP Chief Commissioner to raid hospitals that were not providing 50% of their beds for COVID-19 patients under government quota. He ccused many private hospitals of allocating only 15% of their beds under this quota. Mr. Gupta claimed that there was no shortage of beds, including ICU beds, or ventilators in the city. He told reporters that the number of ICU beds had increased. “We have also started operations at Charaka Hospital, which has 150 ICU beds,” he said. On complaints of bed blocking in private hospitals by influential persons, he said field-level teams would soon be operationalised to inspect hospitals to ensure that beds are made available to those in need. Police constables, marshals and home guards would be deputed in graveyards and electric crematoria to prevent overcrowding. A 60-bed capacity CCC is proposed to be set up at the Veterinary College. The BBMP officials have been directed to operationalise this facility as soon as possible. “More CCCs are being set up for those with mild symptoms and those who are asymptomatic. We have tied up with hotels’ association and private hospitals in this regard,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-allocation-notices-issued-to-5-private-hospitals/article34354579.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Government readies Bengaluru-specific guidelines||With COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru reaching almost 13,000 on Sunday, the State government is contemplating prescribing Bengaluru-specific guidelines to control the pandemic. Revenue Minister R. Ashok told mediapersons on Sunday that specific guidelines for Bengaluru will be announced after seeking permission from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “There will be no lockdown. The Chief Minister has also clarified on this. We will not allow the livelihood of the poor to be affected. We have to live with COVID-19,” Mr. Ashok said after meeting Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Sunday. His statement came ahead of a meeting on Monday of all elected representatives of Bengaluru to discuss measures to contain the pandemic in the State capital. “Next two months are crucial and people should cooperate with the government,” he added. On Sunday, following a direction of the Chief Minister, the three senior ministers discussed the shortage of oxygen, beds and vaccines besides the rush at crematoriums and burial grounds. “The rush is due to delayed formalities in the hospitals, which is leading to the pile-up at crematoriums and burial grounds in the afternoon. We have asked hospitals to release the body at the earliest, and start the formalities early in the morning,” the Revenue Minister said. He also said that measures are being taken to have four to five temporary burial grounds in the city, and increase capacity to cremate up to 200 bodies in crematoriums.  Next two months are crucial R. Ashok, Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-readies-bengaluru-specific-guidelines/article34354581.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tougher curbs expected to be announced in parts of State||Mr. Yediyurappa is likely to chair another meeting on Tuesday, in a virtual mode, after which tougher measures for the State is expected to be announced. “Though night curfew has been implemented in only eight urban centres, strict measures could be announced for the full State following Tuesday’s meeting,” the sources said. The State government also has to decide on the future of night curfew, which has been implemented in eight urban centres, including Bengaluru, since April 10 to Tuesday. The reasoning for the tough measures, the sources said, was weighing heavily as the numbers had more than doubled since the first measure of night curfew was announced by the Chief Minister on April 8. “The doubling rate has been higher now when compared to the first wave. For example, the numbers were around 7,500 across the State on April 8, which has more than doubled since, and is expected to breach the 20,000 mark in a day or two. It is also a psychological barrier that will weigh heavily on the decision-makers to decide on tough measures,” the sources said. Further, the sources added that the higher numbers was stretching the medical infrastructure, causing enormous stress on manpower and shortage of critical medicines and facilities. The sources, however, said that the cost of a lockdown was going to be disastrous for the economy, the reason for which the State was vacillating on tougher measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tougher-curbs-expected-to-be-announced-in-parts-of-state/article34354307.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PG students yet to get risk allowance||Medical students pursuing their post-graduation at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) have alleged that they are yet to get their COVID-19 risk allowance even though they have been working relentlessly since the pandemic began in March 2020. The Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) has alleged that 250 doctors have been tested positive for COVID-19, including post-graduates, interns and faculty posted at various State-run hospitals in Bengaluru and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs). Besides State-run hospitals and CCCs, post-graduates are posted in places where health screening is done, such as airports. They are given a monthly stipend of Rs. 40,000 (first year), Rs. 45,000 (second year) and Rs. 50,000 (third year). C.R. Jayanthi, dean of BMRCI, said that they had given a proposal to the Karnataka government to provide a monthly risk allowance of Rs. 20,000. “It is likely to be approved shortly,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pg-students-yet-to-get-risk-allowance/article34354583.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||24x7 helpline launched||The Hassan district administration has launched a 24x7 helpline to take calls regarding COVID-19 cases in Hassan district. The public can contact the District Health and Family Welfare Officer’s office on 08172-246575 for queries on the infection and treatment. K.M. Sathish Kumar, in a press communiqué on Sunday, said the staff would receive calls throughout the day. Senior officers of the district administration visited marriage halls on Saturday and Sunday to spread awareness on the necessity of following COVID-19 guidelines. A team of officers led by Assistant Commissioner B.A. Jagadish and tahsildar Shivashankarappa visited the halls. They also instructed owners of marriage halls to ensure social distancing, warning that any violation would attract penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24x7-helpline-launched/article34354406.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||2 held for stealing 70 phones||The V.V. Puram police, on Sunday, arrested two persons for stealing 70 mobile phones worth Rs. 8.2 lakh. The accused Imran Khan, 24, and Irfan Pasha, 19, from Goripalya, would sell readymade clothes on the footpath at Majestic by day. At night, they would go around on their bikes and steal mobile phones. The duo would sell the stolen mobiles to Raju Singh, 27, who runs a mobile phone repair shop in Gandhinagar. Raju Singh would take out the parts of the phones and put them in the phones that had come to his shop for repair. He was arrested and booked for receiving stolen property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-held-for-stealing-70-phones/article34354575.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pre-monsoon showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pre-monsoon-showers/article34354729.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian run over by bus in Holenarsipur town||A pedestrian died on the spot after he was run over by a KSRTC bus in Holenarsipur town on Saturday. The police are yet to know the identity of the deceased. He was hit by the bus while crossing Holenarsipur-Mysuru Road near Ambedkar statue in the town around 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedestrian-run-over-by-bus-in-holenarsipur-town/article34354404.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The Karnataka government seems to believe that Rakesh Singh, a 1989-batch IAS officer, is an extraordinary multitasker. He presently holds three key posts — Secretary, Urban Development Department; Administrator, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, and Managing Director, Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL). All three come with some heavy-duty responsibilities. However, this is not new to Mr. Singh. Under the previous government also he held three key posts demanding the full attention of any bureaucrat. He was Principal Secretary, Water Resources Department; Commissioner, Bangalore Development Authority; and Managing Director, Karnataka Milk Federation. Mr. Singh being given two concurrent charges amid a punishing second wave of the pandemic had come under severe criticism. However, as Ajay Seth, who was MD, BMRCL, went on Central deputation, the government turned to Mr. Singh to hold fort at the BMRCL as well.   The news about the former Minister S.A. Ramadas(in picture)testing positive for COVID-19 last Wednesday came as a surprise and shock to many in Mysuru who had seen the BJP MLA participate in B.R. Ambedkar Jayanti programmes barely hours earlier alongside several others. A few media outlets even suspected that the former Minister had experienced symptoms of COVID-19 days earlier and had given his sample for a medical examination, but had hidden his status and chose to attend public programmes. Mr. Ramadas was forced to issue a statement to clear the air. He claimed that he experienced headache and fever only after completing the public programmes held on Wednesday. For good measure, he shared a copy of the RT-PCR test, where his sample was collected at 11.29 a.m. and the result showing him positive was out by 2.20 p.m. the same afternoon. While it cleared the air, it also showed that results take days to come for the common folk, but it arrives within hours if you are a man with clout.    Whenever the ruling BJP faces a byelection, party’s senior leaders remember Hassan. Party workers in Hassan are known for “systematic” election campaigns. Earlier, MLA for Hassan Preetham Gowda and hundreds of workers campaigned in the byelection in K.R. Pet and the party won the seat. Similarly, the same team campaigned for Sira in Tumakuru, where the BJP had no base, and succeeded again. This time, hundreds of workers campaigned in Maski. Party workers are normally deputed to the constituencies where Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra is in charge of the campaign. A video purportedly showing BJP workers, said to have come from Hassan, distributing cash to voters in a village in Maski constituency went viral recently. Similar reports had emerged from Sira too. K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj Laiqh A. Khan Sathish G.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34354298.ece
19 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Just a 40-km cycle ride, to work and back||As the clock strikes six in the morning, Abdul Azeez, 66, pedals his bicycle out of his rented home at Kuravanthodu, near Punnapra, in Alappuzha. He rides around 20 kilometres enjoying scenic views of paddy fields, streams, and coconut lagoons before reaching his destination, the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Edathua in Kuttanad, around 7.30 a.m. He is a part-time sweeper at the CHC. For the past decade, he has been pedalling his 12-year-old bike to commute between home and workplace. “It is the best start to the day. I love riding the bicycle and always ride as much as I can,” says Mr. Azeez, who rides at least 40 km to and fro on most days. Staying healthy Using a bicycle for commuting, he says, helps him to stay healthy. “Earlier I relied on buses and other vehicles to travel to work. Now, on an average, I ride the bike for three to three-and-a-half hours every day. At 66, I am healthy and it helps me sleep well,” says Mr. Azeez, who wants to work till he turns 70. Setting an example Shaji Karukathra, a health inspector who worked at CHC until recently, says the sexagenarian has set an example for all. “He is never tired despite cycling all the way from Punnapra to Edathua. Be it hartal or transport strike, he reports for work. He was present at the health centre immediately after floods ravaged the region a couple of years ago. That shows his commitment towards work and his love for cycling,” says Mr. Karukathra, now a health inspector at the Family Health Centre, Ummannoor, Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/just-a-40-km-cycle-ride-to-work-and-back/article34354387.ece
19 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Pinarayi put people’s lives in danger’||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Sunday said that he criticised Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the latter put the lives of people in danger by violating COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Muraleedharan was speaking to media persons here. He earlier drew criticism for allegedly referring to the Chief Minister as ‘Covidiot.’ The Union Minister said considering the derogatory remarks made by Mr. Vijayan on previous occasions, his was a mild criticism. Mr. Muraleedharan also slammed former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram for lambasting him over the ‘Covidiot’ remark. On CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan's statement that the BJP should rein in the Union Minister, Mr. Muraleedharan said that he was a secretary rejected by his own party. “The CPI (M) wants to silence me. If the CM could speak against the Union Home Minister, I have the right to speak against the corruption and wrongdoings of the State government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-put-peoples-lives-in-danger/article34354374.ece
19 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Lokame Tharavadu’ launched in Alappuzha||‘Lokame Tharavadu’ (The world is one family), a contemporary art show featuring the works of 267 Malayali artists opened here on Sunday. It was inaugurated by a group of artists including curator Bose Krishnamachari through the lighting of a ceremonial lamp in a function held at New Model Society building here. Speaking at the event writer N.S. Madhavan, citing the example of Bilbao, a city in Spain that revived its prospects after the second world war through the Guggenheim Museum of modern and contemporary art, said art was always instrumental in rejuvenating cities. Five venues Being organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation, the nearly two-and-a-half-month-long event is held across five different heritage venues in Alappuzha – The Kerala State Coir Corporation, New Model Society Building, Port Museum, Eastern Produce Company Ltd and William Goodacre and Sons Pvt. Ltd. – and one in Ernakulam, The Durbar Hall Art Gallery. The show is open to the public from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the entry to the venues of ‘Lokame Tharavadu’ is restricted through colour tokens. In a day, only 75 tokens will be issued in each venue limiting the total number of visitors who can visit the exhibition to 325. Children below 10 years and those above 60 years are not allowed. Entry is free. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, CPI (M) Politburo member M.A. Baby, A.M. Ariff, MP, Alappuzha municipal chairperson Soumya Raj, Alappuzha District Panchayat president K.G. Rajeswari attended the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lokame-tharavadu-launched-in-alappuzha/article34354373.ece
19 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Youth’s murder: two more arrested||The police on Sunday arrested two more persons in the case of murder of 16-year-old Abhimanyu from Vallikunnam in Alappuzha. The arrested have been identified as Akash, alias Poppy, 20; and Pranav, alias Appu, 23. The police have so far arrested four persons in connection with the murder. Sajay Jith, 21, the prime suspect in the case, surrendered at the Palarivattom police station in Kochi on Friday. Another accused Jishnu Thambi, 26 was nabbed from Ernakulam. Their arrests were recorded on Saturday. Abhimanyu was stabbed to death on April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-murder-two-more-arrested/article34354388.ece
19 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ginger price in free fall, farmers in a spot||This is the season usually ginger farmers in Kerala and Karnataka get maximum price for their produce. Now, more than 50% of the farmers, especially those cultivating ginger rhizomes in Karnataka, are yet to harvest their crop owing to the sharp fall in the price of the produce. Uncertainties in the market triggered by the pandemic, over production, and diseases affecting the crop are the major reasons for the low price for the produce, trade sources said. No enquiries Moreover, there have been no enquiries for the produce from northern India after the outbreak of the pandemic, they say. The spot price of ginger in Wayanad on Saturday was Rs. 850 to Rs. 900 a bag (60 kg) as against Rs. 3,200 to Rs. 3,500 a bag during the corresponding period last year. The price had gone up to Rs. 8,000 a bag nearly three years back, which prompted many farmers to take up ginger cultivation. “The area under ginger cultivation had increased nearly threefold this season owing to good prices in the past two years. An average yield of ginger from an acre is 18 to 20 tonnes. But it declined to 10 to 12 tonnes this season owing to fungal diseases in many parts of Karnataka,” P.V. Eliyas, a farmer, says. K.K. George, a farmer from Meenangadi, says he had invested nearly Rs. 60 lakh on the crop on 10 acre of leased land at Sargur in Mysuru. But, he is not sure if he can recoup half the amount at the prevailing rate. The condition of other farmers is not different. Moreover, nobody can predict how the second wave of the pandemic will affect the price of the produce, he says. Around 25,000 farmers from Wayanad, Kannur, Kozhikode, and Palakkad have taken up ginger cultivation in around 1,0,000 ha of leased land in Karnataka this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ginger-price-in-free-fall-farmers-in-a-spot/article34354320.ece
19 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad sees surge in cases||Wayanad district is witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases. According to District Medical Officer R. Renuka, as many as 605 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of them, 599, including six health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. While five persons retuned from other States, one came back from Saudi Arabia, Dr. Renuka said. Meanwhile, district panchayat president Shamsad Marakkar urged the government to allot sufficient funds to local bodies to adopt preventive steps to contain the spread of the pandemic on a war footing. Local bodies are not in a position to allot funds for the purpose, Mr. Marakkar said. Moreover, the election model code of conduct also did not allow them to allot funds to meet unforeseen circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-sees-surge-in-cases/article34354330.ece
19 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Dog’s carcass triggers fear of leopard attack||Residents of Chappamalai near Kottiyoor in the district had a sleepless night after the carcass of a pet dog was found in a house. Though the villagers feared that the dog could have been killed by a leopard, which had ventured out from a nearby forest, Forest officials ruled it out. The half-eaten carcass of the dog was found in the house of one Sunil Kodaikkal on Friday night. The incident reportedly happened when Mr. Sunil and his family were away from home. Meanwhile, the villagers claimed that more than a dozen pet dogs had been killed in leopard attacks in the past one year. They also complained that the Forest Department had declined to register cases. When contacted, Divisional Forest Officer P. Karthick said leopard attacks were yet to be confirmed in the area, as pug marks had not been found. “We cannot say for sure that the dog was killed by a leopard. There are no traces of leopards in the area. However, vigil has been heightened,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dogs-carcass-triggers-fear-of-leopard-attack/article34354318.ece
19 April 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Room isolation must for those arriving in Kannur||In the wake of the severe outbreak of COVID-19, those coming to the district from abroad and other States should register on the e-Jagratha portal. The new guidelines were issued by District Collector T.V. Subhash. He said the instructions should be strictly followed. According to the guidelines, those who have or have not been vaccinated must have their RT-PCR checked 48 hours before or immediately after entering the district. The Collector said room isolation was mandatory for those arriving in the district without inspection. Those who test positive should contact the Health Department for treatment. Those whose test results are negative should strictly observe physical distancing in public places. If COVID symptoms appear later, treatment should be sought. Those who do not undergo RTPCR test should continue in room isolation for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/room-isolation-must-for-those-arriving-in-kannur/article34354329.ece
19 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Provide 3D glasses free of cost’||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has held that the owner or proprietor of cinemas cannot collect additional amount for providing 3D glasses for viewing 3D films. The commission, headed by Justice K. Surendra Mohan, observed that if 3D glasses were necessary for the better viewing of a 3D movie, it was imperative that they were supplied for free to the viewer. The commission made the ruling while disposing of an appeal from the proprietor of Remya Theatre in Thiruvananthapuram against the district forum’s order directing the proprietor to pay Rs. 10,000 as compensation to N.R. Ravi Krishnan, complainant, for collecting additional amount for 3D glasses. On October 28, 2013, the complainant had gone to the cinema to watch an English 3D movie Gravity . He was forced to pay an extra Rs. 30 for the 3D spectacles. He said the spectacles were kept in a plastic cover after use and were issued to the viewers of the next show without being sterilised. He also complained that no bill was given to him for payment of Rs. 30. The complainant alleged that charging of Rs. 30, more than half the ticket price, as rent for the spectacles amounted to restrictive trade practice. ‘Violation of rights’ Confirming the findings of the district forum, the commission held that that the action of the proprietor in charging a rent for the 3D glasses made available for viewing the 3D movie amounted to a serious violation of the rights of the consumer. “In the process, the opposite party(theatre proprietor) would have extracted a tidy sum of money, without providing any consequential benefit to the consumer who has availed the use thereof.” The commission added that collection of such amounts by individual theatre owners would give room for exploitation of the consumers. “We are, therefore, of the considered view that the amount of compensation and punitive damages granted by the district forum are justified and reasonable.” However, the commission vacated a directive of the district forum that charges for use of the 3D glasses could be collected from viewers who require the glasses after publishing a notice to the effect. The commission pointed out that “any such permission to extract additional charges” would not be in the interests of the rights of the consumers whose stakes in such matters were very low. Most consumers may not consider it worthwhile to litigate for small amounts like Rs. 30. The rent for the 3D spectacles was being recovered over and above the ticket charges, for which no entertainment tax had admittedly been paid, the commission noted. Proprietor’s stance The proprietor had contended that it was for the protection of the eyes that special spectacles were issued to viewers along with the tickets. It had to be returned after viewing. The proprietor did not compel anyone to take 3D glasses on rent. The 3D glasses, collected after each show, were reused only after sterilisation. Besides, it was not necessary to issue a bill for supplying 3D glasses on rent. No negligence or deficiency in service was committed by the opposite party.  The commission says collection of such amounts by individual theatre owners will give room for exploitation of the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cinemas-must-provide-free-3d-glasses-consumer-forum/article34354375.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vertical gardens to get new lease of life||Every sixth pillar in the Kochi Metro corridor will come alive with a tastefully done-up vertical garden, if everything works out as planned, sources in Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) said. The metro agency has been facing considerable flak for tardy upkeep of medians beneath the 25-km metro corridor and for not readying vertical gardens on 200 pillars, as had been promised. KMRL’s assurance on landscaping the medians and vertical gardens atop pillars dates back to 2017, when the metro’s 12-km-long Aluva-Palarivattom stretch was commissioned. But vertical gardens were largely limited to pillars near metro stations alone, while almost all pillars were handed over to an agency for placing illuminated advertisement boards, an initiative to garner revenue from non-ticketing sources. Most vertical gardens have withered for want of upkeep. The metro agency attributed this to inadequate funds for their installation and upkeep. Most other metro systems in India have substantial number of vertical gardens to enliven metro viaducts. Compost from waste It was estimated that the vertical gardens would need 3,000 tonnes of compost generated from municipal waste, each year. Much more quantity of compost can be scientifically used for landscaping medians on the 25-km-long Aluva-Pettah stretch and to nurture herbs and shrubs in the space. These horizontal and vertical greenery will in turn improve the aesthetics in the metro corridor, while also preventing dust emanating from within the medians. A contractor who had been entrusted with the installation and upkeep of vertical gardens gave up on it in 2019, citing high cost. The upkeep of existing ones and readying of new ones every sixth pillar might be handed over to the firm which places advertisement boards on the pillars, metro sources said. The entire system is being reworked, including by handing over the upkeep of individual medians to shops and other commercial establishments on either side of the metro corridor. This is working out well on M.G. Road and Banerjee Road, where they are permitted to erect boards mentioning the establishments’ names. The firm which had been entrusted with the landscaping of medians on M.G. Road using dry leaves and pruned branches of trees as the medium of compost has, in the meantime, sought allocation of more medians to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vertical-gardens-to-get-new-lease-of-life/article34354699.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cases on upward spiral in Ernakulam||For the second consecutive day, Ernakulam recorded over 2,000 new COVID-19 cases, with 2,835 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The active caseload has shot up to 14,472, a six-fold increase from April 1 when the figure was at 2,401. Thripunithura recorded the most number of new cases on Sunday with 88 people testing positive. This was followed by Thrikkakara with 74 cases and Maradu with 68. Three health workers were among those who were infected. While 355 people tested negative on Sunday, 30,496 people remain in quarantine. For testing, 14,446 samples were collected. The district’s test positivity rate (TPR) has been hovering at a little over 19% on Saturday and Sunday. On Sunday, the TPR in Ernakulam was 19.33%, well over the State average of 16.77% on the day. The number of people recovering at home has increased to 10,147. At first-line and second-line treatment centres, 367 people are recuperating, while 763 patients are admitted at private hospitals. At COVID treatment centres at government facilities, 308 patients are recovering. A total of 52 people are admitted at the naval hospital, INHS Sanjivani. Asymptomatic cases According to figures from the district surveillance unit, 60.7% of the active cases are asymptomatic, excluding people who tested positive on Sunday. “We are yet to receive all results from the mass testing drive. Once we do get more results on Monday, we are expecting the number of cases to increase further,” said Dr. N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. “The district surveillance unit will prepare a surge action plan based on a projection of cases for the next few weeks. Accordingly, more beds with oxygen supply will have to be readied, along with additional FLTCs and domiciliary care centres,” he said. The spread of the infection was currently seen across the district, though areas such as the Kochi Corporation were found to be more vulnerable due to the high population, he added. In Kochi Corporation limits, Fort Kochi registered 66 new cases, Palluruthy 54, Vyttila 35, Thoppumpady 31, and Elamakkara 30. Mattancherry and Palarivattom recorded 29 new cases each. Mayor M. Anilkumar said an FLTC at Palluruthy had begun functioning, while another was already functioning at Mattancherry. Two more FLTCs, including one at a hall in Kaloor, would begin functioning soon, he said. A meeting of representatives of merchants’ associations, trade unions, religious groups, and Corporation officials would be convened on Monday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the Corporation area, he added. Vaccination Since the existing stock of the two vaccines for COVID-19 has depleted, vaccines were administered only at four centres on Sunday. The district received 30,000 doses of Covishield on Sunday, and the doses will be distributed to vaccination centres on Monday. Considering the non-availability of stock at most centres, the pace of the vaccination drive would pick up only once more stock was received, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-on-upward-spiral-in-ernakulam/article34354706.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic puts brakes on operation of tourist vans||The lull in demand for tourist buses and vans due to the pandemic has led to around 60% of them remaining idle this year as well. Subsequently, most owners have preferred to submit G-form to the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) for the second year in a row, in order to avail exception from the mandatory tax that has to be paid every quarter. Many parking yards in the city have dust-covered vans and buses that have not operated service for a year due to low demand. Weekend trips A few buses and vans have resumed service although their trips are generally confined to the weekend. Over 50% of private buses that operated in Kochi had resumed service earlier this year, with the patronage for public transport slowly increasing from next to nil in much of 2020. Among van owners who have cancelled the G-form for their vehicles and intending to resume service is Vysakh Jayraj. “All four tyres of my van which operated tours and school trips had to be replaced since they suffered irreparable damage due to non-operation of service for about a year. I painted the vehicle myself, to renew the annual fitness certificate, to save on expenses,” he said. “Most van owners still operate as per the old tariff despite much higher price of diesel and other expenses. This is apart from mandatory payments like loan repayment, quarterly tax and insurance. In addition, a substantial sum has to be set apart for the overdue loan instalment and the interest that has accrued over the past year. “Many banks are sending legal notices too. Even worse, insurance premium has increased from Rs. 17,000 to Rs. 32,000. Another Rs. 8,000 had to be raised to install GPS, which is mandatory from this year,” he said. Faced with no income, many drivers had taken up selling vegetables and fish, added Mr. Jayaraj. The owner of Vyttila-based Princy Tours and Travels, Titus Etturuthil, said that he planned to extend the tenure of the G-form that was submitted for a bus. “The insurance I paid in 2020 went waste since the bus did not operate service for the past eight months. The tyres and batteries too have to be replaced. Likewise, the Rs. 40,000-worth work done a month before the lockdown for fitness test, was of no use,” he said.  Most van owners still operate as per the old tariff despite much higher price of diesel and other expenses Vysakh Jayraj Van owner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-puts-brakes-on-operation-of-tourist-vans/article34354703.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KMTA badly in need of funds, personnel||The Kerala Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), the first agency of its kind in India to have full-fledged legislative backing and was constituted in November 2020 to usher in qualitative and quantitative improvement in commuting in the Greater-Kochi area, has been hamstrung due to non-allocation of adequate personnel and funds by the Finance Department. The KMTA could not take up any activity, as it has not been provided manpower. It does not even have a full-fledged Chief Executive Officer (CEO), with the result that Jafar Malik, the CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), is holding additional charge of the agency. Even the meagre funds that were allotted by the State government could not be utilised due to treasury issues. The situation is such that personnel from the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) have to spare their time to ensure that the KMTA stays afloat. Supporting staff have not been provided, although demands were raised at multiple fora. The focus on Assembly elections too hit its operations, sources said. “Procedural delays in availing funds further affected its functioning. Officials of the Finance Department are mostly non-responsive to demand for personnel and funds. “They raise query after query for our demands, even though we go the extra mile in clearing their doubts. Subsequently, the KMTA remains just an announcement, a body vested with wide-ranging powers that remain on paper,” they added. At its maiden meeting in February, chaired by Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran, the KMTA had decided to opt for a fresh Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) for the Greater Kochi area, rationalise bus routes, hasten work on the walkway-cum-non-motorised road corridor linking Ernakulam North and South railway stations, and develop a common app to integrate different modes of public transport. Extending jurisdiction It was also decided to extend the KMTA’s jurisdiction to areas which fall under the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA), to form committees for public transport operators, to integrate traffic for integrated land use and town planning, urban freight movement, and also a city transport advisory committee. The KMTA was also expected to lay the groundwork to permit the entry of private buses from Vypeen into the city, to have tie-ups with all bodies that have been active in the field of traffic reforms, to finalise a parking policy, regulate parking and to install direction boards wherever required. Official sources said the KMTA was empowered to take decisions on operating mini buses as stage carriers from the metro corridor to the suburbs. This can be included in the route-rationalisation plan, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmta-badly-in-need-of-funds-personnel/article34354701.ece
19 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Use of square mesh cod-ends to benefit fishers, finds study||The deployment of square mesh cod-ends in trawling operations considerably reduces by-catch and improves sustainability of fishing operations, say studies conducted under the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) in cooperation with the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) in Mandapam, Tamil Nadu, and the All Kerala Fishing Boat Owners Association in Kollam. Scientists associated with the study said the implementation of the Kerala Marine Fishing Regulation Act, which prescribed the use of square mesh cod-ends in small and big trawlers, would go a long way in providing long-term benefits to fishers and help maintain a sustainable marine ecosystem. Field trials Field trials to demonstrate the utility of square mesh cod-ends in place of diamond cod-ends in trawl nets were carried out at Shakthikulangara fishing harbour, Kollam, where two trawlers with the same dimension and engine power but with different cod-ends were selected for demonstrations in February this year. No changes were made in the traditional fishing methods used by fishers in the region. Only the cod-end portion of the trawl net was changed for the studies. Chinnadurai S., scientist, and Nobi P.S. and Dhijudas P.H., technical officers from ICAR-CIFT, were present to manage the fishing operations and collect and quantify the catch. Fishers were actively involved in the study to gain first-hand knowledge of the process and experience the difference in catch and price obtained. The study results showed that the size of the shrimps caught in square mesh cod-ends had increased by 10% and revenue from the fishing expedition increased by 23.7%. The fishers were satisfied with the catch with lesser quantity of debris and juveniles when compared to to the traditional diamond mesh cod-ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/use-of-square-mesh-cod-ends-to-benefit-fishers-finds-study/article34354702.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||On a mission to protect Puthuvypeen beach||Gratis P. Aby, all of nine years old, is busy picking up plastic from the beach, while her friends, seven-year-old Jordan Antony and 13-year-old Shibin Solly, are helping her collect waste that has washed up on the Puthyvypeen beach in the early hours of Sunday. They are part of an army of young enthusiasts who have joined the monthly cleaning up of the beach, where they have found relaxation and entertainment amid COVID-19 restrictions. The Vypeen Beach Club, Puthuvypeen, comprising enthusiastic swimmers and environmental activists, launched its monthly beach clean-up and swimming training programme on Sunday as part of their summer activities. The training programme was part of efforts to create awareness about safety and care for the marine environment, said Shammi Chakrabarty, secretary of the beach club. He said after the COVID-19 breakout, there had been a considerable rise in the number of people taking to swimming as part of leisure activities. The beach club was instrumental in spreading awareness about physical activities to ensure a healthy future, he said, and added that people who had joined the club during the pandemic reported better health. Cyriac Thomas, a lawyer, said the number of people visiting the beach and seeking relaxation had been increasing. Pichappan, who is nearly 80 years old, said he was part of the club, which specialised in inculcating a love for the sea among youngsters. He said he had saved several people, both as a fisherman and as a swimmer who was often present on the beach. Officials from the Fire and Safety Department on Sunday distributed lifebuoys and life jackets to trainers and trainees on the beach as part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-a-mission-to-protect-puthuvypeen-beach/article34354710.ece
19 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,000 beds with oxygen supply to be readied||In the government sector, 1,000 beds with oxygen supply will be readied, and the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, will be converted entirely into a COVID treatment centre if cases surge further. These decisions were taken at a meeting of health officials in the district convened by Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. A COVID treatment centre with 100 ICU beds will be fully ready at the Aluva District Hospital by next week. The Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital will also be converted into a COVID care facility. If there is a surge in cases, the Government Medical College Hospital will once again be converted entirely into a COVID care facility. The super-speciality block at the Ernakulam General Hospital will be converted for use for COVID treatment within one week. In the government sector, 1,000 beds with oxygen supply will be readied. Necessary staff appointments will be made at these facilities. The District Collector would issue orders to private hospitals to set aside 10% of their beds for COVID patients, said a press release here. Within five days, local bodies will set up additional domiciliary care centres and first-line treatment centres. The meeting was attended by senior officials from the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-beds-with-oxygen-supply-to-be-readied/article34354707.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bus operators flay curbs on number of passengers||The All Kerala Bus Operators Organisation has denounced the State government’s decision banning standing travel in buses as impractical and not financially viable. Passengers occupy almost all seats in buses at bus stations. Curbs on standing travel will adversely affect passengers awaiting buses at bus stops. Avoiding students depending on buses to attend examinations and office-goers / workers will give rise to criticism and even conflict with passengers, said T. Gopinathan, general secretary of the organisation. He added that all private buses would have to pay quarterly tax from April. Twenty-five per cent of the tax is for passengers who stand and travel. In this circumstance, the government must take a relook at its stand that tax discounts are not possible since the model code of conduct for polls is in force. Bus operators in the State are in neck-deep in crisis owing to the skyrocketing fuel price. The fear over the second wave of COVID-19 has led to a drop in patronage. Around a dozen people stand and travel only during morning and evening peak hours. The government’s stand that it cannot be allowed will lead to a situation where buses will have to keep away from the road, he said. ‘Need for a relook’ The government must take a relook at its decision to continue permitting students to travel at as low as Rs. 1 concession. It must also waive tax on diesel purchased by private bus operators, the organisation said. Other bus operator bodies too have been airing similar demands, citing the government subsidising Kochi metro operations to the tune of around Rs. 1 crore a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-operators-denounce-ban-on-standing-travel/article34354712.ece
19 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Girl’s death: father arrested from Karnataka||The police on Sunday arrested businessman Sanu Mohan, who was reported missing under suspicious circumstances from his apartment at Thrikkakara here after his daughter was found dead in the Muttar river on March 23, from Karnataka. His disappearance and the discovery of the 13-year-old girl’s body in the river had made the police issue a lookout notice against him a week ago. Clueless The police were rather clueless about his whereabouts, although CCTV visuals of his crossing into Tamil Nadu through the Walayar check-post were obtained on March 21. A decisive breakthrough came on Saturday when the team probing the case identified from CCTV visuals a man who had stayed in a lodge at Mookambika for six days and left the place without paying rent. He also failed to honour his promise to make online payment of rent. Mohan was reportedly arrested from Karwar in Karnataka, where he reached by bus from Mookambika. Traces of liquor The examination of the visceral samples of the girl revealed traces of liquor. This shed light on the probability of she having been forced to consume liquor, following which she could have been pushed into the river. The police officers are expected to reveal the mystery behind Mohan’s disappearance and the discovery of the girl’s body from the river, on Monday. Relocation Reports said that he had relocated to Thrikkakara from Pune. He was reportedly in financial crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-girls-death-father-arrested-from-karnataka/article34354317.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Abduction case registered||The Nedumbassery police registered an attempted abduction case after an air passenger who was reportedly abducted was rescued from Perumbavoor on Sunday. The police said Taju, who hailed from Vadakkanchery, was abducted by a gang after he landed at the airport. He was rescued from Perumbavoor. A case has been registered, and a probe is on to unearth the reason behind the alleged abduction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abduction-case-registered/article34354708.ece
19 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||BPCL to give medical oxygen to govt. hospitals||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited will be supply medical oxygen from its Kochi Refinery for critical COVID-19 patients. The company will be supplying around 1.5 tonnes per day of oxygen to government hospitals, a communication here says. The company had supplied around 40 tonnes of medical oxygen when the average daily cases rose in October-November 2020. The build-own-operate unit of Kochi Refinery has a provision to produce and store liquid oxygen of 99.7% purity. Current storage Currently, the company has around 20 tonnes of storage of oxygen from which the government hospitals will be supplied. This supply shall be free of cost to government hospitals. With average daily cases of COVID-19 rising again since last one month, the demand for oxygen has significantly risen. In fact, in most parts of the country, the cases are hitting new peak, thereby disrupting the demand-supply scenario for medical oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-to-give-medical-oxygen-to-govt-hospitals/article34354400.ece
19 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||New cases surge to 1,703 in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases to be reported from Kottayam continued to rise on Sunday with 1,703 people testing positive for the disease. This was for the second consecutive day that the district reported over a 1,000 cases. Mass testing According to official sources, majority of the patients who tested positive during the day had given their samples during the mass testing drive held here on Friday and Saturday. As many as 15,631 samples including that of the election officials and party workers were collected during the testing drive. Of the fresh cases, 1,687 people contracted the disease through local transmission. Among the local bodies, Kottayam led the tally with 122 cases, followed by Arppookkara with 81 cases. Changanassery reported 60 cases. With 316 recoveries during the day, the total number of patients in Kottayam stood at 7,239 Meanwhile, the district on Sunday received 5,000 doses of the Covshield vaccine while it has a stock of 5,850 doses of Covaxin. Kollam The district reported a sharp spike in fresh COVID-19 cases with 802 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. While 796 people contracted the disease through contact, others include one NRI, three persons from another States and two health workers. The tally was 472 and 448 on Saturday and Friday respectively. Kollam district currently has 13,185 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 10,10,494. While 856 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 2,05,059 primary and 15,938 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The district also reported 256 recoveries on Saturday. The Health Department has arranged extra beds and ICU units in all hospitals in the district. If the cases go up, District Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, Paripally will be converted to COVID-19 hospitals. The patients placed in home care have been instructed to monitor their oxygen level and pulse rate using a pulse-oximeter. Any patient experiencing physical discomfort should seek medical help, said officials. Alappuzha The district logged 800 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Among the fresh cases, 793 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven other people remains unknown. Meanwhile, 387 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,975. Pathanamthitta Meanwhile in Pathanamthitta, 673 more people tested positive for the virus during the day. Of this, 639 were infected through local transmission while the infection source of 17 people were yet to be ascertained. With 42 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by the Pathanamthitta municipality with 27 cases. As many as 85 people recovered from the disease during the day. ( With contributions from bureaus in Kollam, Alappuzha Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-surge-to-1703-in-kottayam/article34354381.ece
19 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Amaljyothi College to give office space to alumni||As the mounting burnouts from ‘Work from Home’ have forced several tech workers to strike out on their own for secure workspaces, an educational institution in Kottayam has rolled out a project to support its alumni and the local community. Amaljyothi College of Engineering, Kanjirappally has decided to open workplace desks for its former graduates, who are employed with the software development companies but are currently working from home. The workplace, set up at the Start Ups Valley Technology Business Incubator that functions inside the college campus here, offers sanitized, remote working spaces for 150 people at a given point of time. Blurring lines According to the college authorities, the decision to open the space followed a realization that the blurring lines between work and private life coupled with connectivity issues have cast a shadow on the career prospects of several of its alumnus. “The problem has been particularly severe in the rural areas and it is in this backdrop, we have decided to extend the facility to the local community as well,” said Sherin Sam Jose, Chief Executive Officer of the Startups Valley and head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Automobile. Alongside the office space with unlimited internet, power supply and a full-fledged canteen, the facilities on offer also include the technology development labs meeting rooms and accommodation units, which have been established as part of the business incubator unit. Individuals or groups availing the facility will have to pay a facilitation charge of Rs. 150 per head for 24 hours while weekly and monthly packages too will be made available at much discounted rates. To mitigate the risk of data misuse, those availing the facility will have to register in a prescribed format and furnish proof of their employee contracts with the respective companies. The initiative, meanwhile, has drawn praise from several industry stakeholders, who expect the strategy of mixing remote work with home will help cover the challenges of office space downsizing . “Working from home is productive only with fewer interruptions and this remains a challenge even with the rise of secure digital technology that allows for everything from virtual video meetings to remote, real-time communications,” noted Robin Tomy, Head, Rapid Labs, TCS. The project, according to him, will help address the privacy issues and multiple disruptions, while also providing the all-important meeting space for brain-storming sessions. Other colleges Commenting on the initiative, a top official with the Kerala Technological University, said the varsity too has embarked on a plan to emulate the project in the various engineering colleges affiliated to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amaljyothi-to-give-office-space-to-alumni/article34354379.ece
19 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘Higher education poised for changes’||Higher education in India is poised for colossal changes with deleterious outcomes under ‘surveillance capitalism,’ G. Arunima, Director of Kerala Council for Historical Research (KCHR) has said. She was delivering the third Scholars of Eminence Web-Lectures, organised by the Inter University Centre for Social Science Research and Extension (IUCSSRE), Mahatma Gandhi University on Sunday. Surveillance capitalism According to Ms.Arunima, ‘surveillance capitalism’ and its engagements with big data will eventually lead to people giving up their privacy and their personal information. The data collected covertly by big tech giants could be potential sources for predicting and influencing human behaviour which has consequences for freedom and political choices. “Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven comprehensive, totalising behavioural changes will have long-term implications for public university in India,” she noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/higher-education-poised-for-changes/article34354380.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police to track down erring bus operators||The police, on the instructions of the District Disaster Management Authority, have intensified on-road enforcement in Kozhikode to track down private bus operators violating the COVID-19 protocol and facilitating entry of passengers beyond the permissible limit. More flying squads are likely to be deployed for intercepting such vehicles. Drivers, conductors, and bus owners will be held accountable for violations during surprise inspections. Repeating the offence will lead to suspension of permit, besides slapping of hefty fines on operators along with other legal proceedings. For safety reasons, footboard travel in buses will not be permitted even as bus operators have opposed it citing poor revenue. Since COVID-19 cases are on the rise, checking is in full swing covering bus stations and boarding points. Facilitating the entry of passengers who do not wear masks will also be treated as protocol violation. Besides, the bus crew will be responsible for disinfecting the vehicle after each trip. Considering the heightened vigil, incident commanders appointed by the district administration have called upon passengers to ensure personal safety by strictly complying with the health protocol. They have also insisted that passengers should flag buses which are not operated in violation of safety rules. Meanwhile, private bus operators are sore about the way things have turned out. According to them, stringent enforcement measures will only result in keeping buses off the road. Many bus owners are going through acute financial crisis which will worsen with the “inconsiderate” enforcement, they argued. On the other hand, the police have made it clear that they are not targeting any particular segment, as there will be similar action against taxi drivers who violate norms. Only four persons are allowed in five-seater vehicles and six persons in seven-seater vehicles. There is also a directive to strictly maintain a partition screen between the front and back seats for safety, which will have to be implemented for better protection, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-track-down-erring-bus-operators/article34354315.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees lockdown-like situation||Kozhikode district had a lockdown-like air around it on Sunday when the restrictions imposed by the administration to contain COVID-19 pandemic came into force. The curbs are likely to continue on Sundays in the coming weeks until the situation improves. Police personnel were seen blocking vehicles on the roads to check the purpose of travellers. Those not wearing face masks were asked to cough up fines. In Kozhikode city, public places such as the Kozhikode beach and S.M. Street, which normally see a large number of visitors and shoppers, respectively, on Sundays wore almost a deserted look. People who were roaming around aimlessly or on vehicles were asked to go home. However, there were no reports of imposition of force. Public transport functioned as usual, but there was hardly any rush. It looked like the people themselves did not venture out on their own. The Health Department expects more cases to be reported in the coming days in the aftermath of the 40,000-odd tests held over a period of two days from Friday. Steps are being taken to handle the surge and those who are tested positive and their contacts will be isolated and quarantined to contain the spread. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao held an online meeting of oxygen cylinder manufacturers and suppliers to discuss the availability. Enough stock Both of them claimed that the district had enough stock. The private and government hospitals in the district are bringing cylinders from manufacturing units in Malappuram and Kannur and there are two filling units in Kozhikode as well. Mr. Rao promised them round-the-clock power supply for the functioning of these units. Ward number 24 in Koyilandy Municipality, ward number 12 in Kattippara grama panchayat, and ward number 13 in Kadalundi grama panchayat have been declared critical containment zones where people are not supposed to venture out for non-essential needs. Gathering of people is not allowed and shops selling essential goods can remain open till 7 p.m. Meanwhile, officials said that 22 wards within the Kozhikode Corporation had been declared as containment zones so far. As many as 2,920 people attended the mega vaccination camps held at seven venues across the city. Kozhikode Corporation is meeting on Monday to discuss the pandemic scenario in the city. Vaccination drives will be held at 121 places in the city on Monday.  Public transport functioned as usual, but there was hardly any rush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-like-situation-in-kozhikode-as-curbs-come-into-force/article34354335.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic scare forgotten amid scramble for firecrackers||Firecracker shops in the district emerged as the most vulnerable spots where COVID-19 protocol was thrown to the wind by shoppers and vendors on the eve of Vishu. Those who cashed in on the brisk trade with makeshift arrangements doubled the risk, where buyers thronged in large numbers flouting physical-distancing norms. “No checking mechanism was in place as all were seemingly in a hurry to get the stock. There were no squads or the police to enforce safety rules and control the rush,” said a senior citizen from Varakkal who returned home after seeing the unhealthy rush at a shop near West Hill. He said the situation was almost the same everywhere when he sought the help of friends outside the city to safely purchase crackers. Though police patrol vehicles were found covering many such crowded locations in the city, no shop owner was asked to stop the business for violating health protocol. Along with licensed traders, there were many locals who cashed in on the opportunity with the stock they secured from Tamil Nadu. In many locations, late-night trade was entertained without any restriction. Many of such shops located along national and State highways were found attracting large numbers of passers-by and creating a festival-like ambiance. In Koyilandy, Balussery and Vadakara areas, the police were found enforcing rules for general traders and giving a free hand to traders of consumer fireworks. Doubling the risk, no shops tried to keep a record of people who purchased products from them. It would be a difficult task to track the primary contacts of patients in case of a mass spread. Though some of the shops reportedly kept manual registers, only very few used it properly. Sources with the Health Department said the alleged laxity had already been reported to the attention of the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-scare-forgotten-amid-scramble-for-firecrackers/article34354332.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hospitals readied to face surge||Things are back to square one at the two government hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment in Kozhikode district – the Government Medical College Hospital and the Government General Hospital – as they are being readied to handle the ongoing surge in new COVID-19 infections. The district administration has directed private hospitals also to set aside beds even as over 2,000 fresh cases were reported on Sunday. After fresh cases started declining in the district some time ago, non-COVID treatment had been slowly resumed at the general hospitals and the medical college hospital. Now, with more number of people getting infected following the COVID-19 second wave, the focus is again on pandemic control. Medical college Superintendent M.P. Sreejayan said in a note that there would be total restriction of visitors to the hospital from Monday morning. Only one bystander will be allowed with one patient, he added. An order issued by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao on Sunday said that the intensive care unit (ICU) at the general hospital would exclusively treat infected persons. Experts from Meitra Hospital would be roped in to launch an online facility here. Mr. Rao said that beds and oxygen cylinders were made available at the district hospital, taluk hospitals and other important healthcare institutions in the district to meet emergency situations. Almost 15% of beds should be utilised for COVID treatment. A total of 25% of beds and ICUs in private hospitals too should be kept aside for the purpose. All the hospitals have been asked to include these details in the dash board available in the COVID Jagrata portal at 8 a.m., 12 p.m., 4 p.m., and 8 p.m. Also, the hospitals need to launch a help desk, and a mobile phone number should be publicised for immediate contact. All the local bodies have been asked to set up first-line treatment centres with at least 50 to 100 beds. Two floors in the building constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana at the medical college hospital is being converted into a COVID treatment facility. More wards in the general medicine department too are being used for the purpose, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitals-readied-to-face-surge/article34354337.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID second wave dashes hopes of tourism entrepreneurs||A quite unexpected second wave of COVID-19 has dashed the hopes of several homestay and local tourism entrepreneurs who are now back to square one with no options left out to overcome their business woes. Many bookings have already been cancelled with the increasing restrictions on travel and containment zone regulations. There are also entrepreneurs who even renovated their homestay facilities investing huge amounts, and refurbished houseboats expecting some extra income. “The saddest thing is that we will miss this season as well amid the pandemic spread. Last year also the situation was almost the same. Those who made additional investment to recoup the loss are the worst-affected now,” says T. Saleesh, a rural tourism entrepreneur from Koorachundu. He adds that many small entrepreneurs who faced huge loss following the pandemic outbreak will not be able to make up for the loss in the current situation. Romeo Thomas, a young homestay entrepreneur from Karikandanpara, says the whole business is going through an unprecedented crisis at an unexpected time. Mr. Thomas, who recently renovated his homestay with many novel additions, adds that there has been a huge drop in the number of visitors and he struggles a lot to find maintenance expenses with the limited number of bookings. Those who earned a living by selling homemade food to domestic and international tourists near tourism facilities are also heading to a crisis with the continuing pandemic scare. Many of them have already shut their ventures with the sudden fall in the number of visitors. The situation is also likely to hit many self-help groups of women associated with food-based ventures in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-second-wave-dashes-hopes-of-tourism-entrepreneurs/article34354328.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic gifts another dismal vacation for kids||With more COVID-related restrictions in place, little children in the State have been deprived of their long-awaited summer vacation. Many of them had made plans for the vacation in the beginning of the summer. Summer camps, the usual stress buster for urban children, have, however, been caught up in restrictions. Pathasala, an organisation based at Arangottukara in Thrissur, has been holding nature/theatre/art and craft camps for children for the past sixteen years. In 2020, they redesigned the camps to suit the online format, but this year they decided to organise the usual camp. “Children are fed up with spending so much time online. They want to run around and do something with their hands. It would be too cruel to put them in an online summer camp once again,” said Sreeja. K.V, one of the coordinators of the camp. Pathasala’s camp held earlier this month had a very limited number of participants. “We wanted to hold another camp after the SSLC examinations. But it may not happen considering the present situation,” she added. Red Youngs in Kozhikode has been organising theatre camps for children for the past one decade. But the camp, Manjadikkuru, did not take place last year due to the lockdown. This year, the organisation’s request to host the camp was denied by the district administration as theatre requires a lot of interaction and could be dangerous for participants. “It is a great loss for kids. They are in a state of lockdown,” said Baiju Merikkunnu, coordinator of Manjadikkuru camp. Even football camps that began a week ago were cancelled a couple of days before after the restrictions were strengthened, he said. Kerala Museum in Ernakulam has found a way around the restrictions, hoping that it would succeed. It had planned a month-long art and craft summer camp earlier. But later split it into separate three-to-four-days-long sessions that are not restricted to children alone. The age limit is 10 to 55. “Participants can choose which session to be part of,” said Sujo Joy, Executive Officer of Kerala Museum. Besides, the camp will be held on its outdoor campus. All of them were vocal about restrictions on little children going out. “It is a farce. What is the use of keeping children locked down when everyone else is going out?” Sreeja asked. “It is high time the authorities rethink their decision considering the mental health of children.”  Summer camps, the usual stress buster for urban children, have, however, been caught up in restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-presents-another-dismal-vacation-for-kids/article34354326.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh cases at an all-time high, TPR at 22.63%||After over 40,000 people attended a COVID-19 testing camp held over two days in Kozhikode district, an all-time high number of fresh cases was reported on Sunday when 2,560 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. The district is just behind Ernakulam in the State in terms of the number of new infections. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 2,513 locally acquired infections and the source of 43 others was not known. Two each had returned from abroad and from other States. The results of 11,712 samples were made available and the daily test positivity rate is 22.63%. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 654 cases, Koyilandy 121, Kuruvattoor 81, Vadakara 68, and Chakkittappara 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-cases-at-an-all-time-high-tpr-at-2263/article34354338.ece
19 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Virtual summer camp for differently-abled children||An exclusive online summer camp for differently-abled children will begin in the district on April 19. The 25-day camp, Sum-U-Rays, organised by Mohammed Abdurahiman Memorial Orphanage College in association with Prajaahita Foundation, will focus on activity-based learning and infotainment. According to project coordinators, the virtual sessions will also facilitate children’s activity-based interactions along with their parents. It is open for those between the ages of 10 and 15. Experts will handle sessions at the camp that will draw to a close on May 21, they said. For details, visitwww.prajaahita.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-summer-camp-for-differently-abled-children/article34354316.ece
19 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||No end to woes of marooned tribespeople of Nilambur forest||The woes of dozens of tribal families living in Vaniyampuzha, Iruttukuthi, Tharippapotti and Kumbalappara hamlets in the Nilambur forest near Munderi seed farm in Pothukal panchayat continue to be dreadful. Since the floods of 2019, they have been marooned and living in constant fear. The authorities are yet to build a bridge across the Chaliyar to re-establish connectivity with the tribespeople living in the hamlets after the floods washed away two concrete bridges at Munderi. Families No proper house has been constructed for the three dozen families of Vaniyampuzha since the floods destroyed their homes over two years ago. They had escaped the fury of the floods by running into the jungle. Since then, they have been living in makeshift tents made of tarpaulin inside the forest. Moreover, the area is infested with wild elephants. Several incidents of elephant attacks were reported from near those the tribal hamlets in the past two years. Two tribesmen sustained injuries in a tusker attack at Vaniyampuzha a few weeks ago. One of them had a narrow escape by hanging on to the tusk of the attacking elephant. “We have been living in constant fear. Our families sleep on tree tops at night to escape from sudden raids by elephants and other wild animals,” said S. Girish, a youngster from Vaniyampuzha. Children’s presence  During the day, children are not allowed to play freely, as the area is not safe. “We have to keep guard for our kids,” said Sudha V.K., a tribal representative. “What safety do we have under these tarpaulin sheets?” she asked, pointing to the tarpaulin houses that wobbled in winds. Ms. Sudha and others did not risk going back to their flood-ravaged houses. “I don’t have the courage to go back there. Some of our houses disappeared, and some others were filled with mud. Going back is riskier than living under these tarpaulin tents in the jungle,” she said. To scare away elephants, tribespeople revived a traditional equipment using bamboo. “Our forefathers used this wooden equipment. Now that we are forced to live in a totally unsafe environment in the jungle, we found no other way but to fall back on our traditional knowledge to parry elephants,” said Mr. Gireesh. Kumaran, a seasoned tribal man, said tribespeople were not keen on scaring off elephants. “Driving the elephants away is not on our agenda. But we use this bamboo instrument that makes a loud sound to alert elephants about our presence in the area,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-end-to-woes-of-marooned-tribespeople-of-nilambur-forest/article34354325.ece
19 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||30,000 vaccine doses to reach Malappuram||The Malappuram district administration has geared up to bring 30,000 additional Covishield vaccines as part of stepping up the fight against COVID-19. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said increasing the number of daily vaccinations was a key strategy in the fight against the pandemic. She added that 30,000 more vaccines would be brought to the district from the Regional Vaccine Store in Kozhikode soon. Over 4.38 lakh people were vaccinated in the district until Sunday. While 3.98 lakh took the first dose, 39,632 took the second dose. As many as 1,825 people received the vaccine on Sunday. Fresh infections Meanwhile, the district registered 1,677 positive cases on Sunday. Health officials said 1,597 cases were through local transmission. There were 41 cases without an identifiable source of infection. While 37 cases came from other States, there were two cases that came from abroad. The number of COVID-19 patients under treatment in Malappuram rose to 7,782, with 233 in COVID hospitals, 166 in first-line treatment centres, and 157 in second-line treatment centres. More than 23,000 people have been quarantined across the district. As many as 247 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. According to district officials, 625 people have succumbed to the infection in Malappuram so far. 2 tetanus cases Even as the COVID-19 situation remained grim in the district, two tetanus cases were confirmed from Tirur. Two children aged three and six tested positive for tetanus on Sunday. Both have been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Main reasons Dr. Sakeena said the failure of expectant mothers in accepting two doses of TT and refusal of parents in giving vaccination to children were found to be the main reasons for tetanus cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30000-vaccine-doses-to-reach-malappuram/article34354323.ece
19 April 2021||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||Plea to start day train on Nilambur route||The Nilambur-Mysore Railway Action Council has demanded resumption of train services between Nilambur and Shoranur during the day. Action council leaders blame Railways for ignoring the Nilambur sector even as several trains are restored in sectors such as Guruvayur and Punalur. Although Railways had stopped all seven pairs of trains in the Nilambur sector during the lockdown last year, only the Rajyarani Express train has been reinstated in recent months. Rajyarani is a night train and the people in the Nilambur route have no train during the day. Railway officials say only express trains have been reintroduced in the post-COVID-19 period. However, action council president C. Mohmmedali and secretary Biju Ninan say the Kottayam-Nilambur train is not resumed in spite of it having been converted to an express. Sources say the Palakkad Railway Division has recommended resumption of the Kottayam-Nilambur Express (16325/6) in January this year. However, the higher-ups in Railways are yet to take a decision about it. “A large number of people who used to depend on Railways on a daily basis are disappointed by the non-availability of trains on the Nilambur route during the day. Railways should not close a blind eye on their demand,” say Dr. Ninan and Mr. Mohammedali. They say Railways should resume the operation of at least two or three trains to ease the difficulties being suffered by the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-start-day-train-on-nilambur-route/article34354764.ece
19 April 2021||MANGALURU,KERALA||M.A. Hegde passes away||M.A. Hegde, chairman of the Karnataka Yakshagana Academy and a scholar, passed away in Bengaluru on Sunday. He was 73. He is survived by his wife, a son, and a daughter. Reports reaching here said Mr. Hegde breathed his last while being shifted to a hospital in Yelahanka after he had difficulty in breathing while at home. Minister for Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali tweeted that Mr. Hegde was a victim of COVID-19. He was a native of Mandikoppa, near Siddapur in Uttara Kannada, and retired as principal of a college in Siddapur. Mr. Hegde, who was also a Talamaddale Arthadari and Yakshagana artist, had written at least 15 yakshagana prasangas (scripts), including Dharma Durantha, Sita Viyoga, Chakragrahana, Jagruti, Trishanku Charitre, Shikhandi Vivaha, Vajra Kireeta, Prachanda Chanakya, and Sabarimale Ayyappan. He was a Sanskrit scholar and had edited yakshagana prasanga Aadi Parva. In addition, Mr. Hegde had written other works such as Alankara Tatva, Bhagavad Bhakti Rasayanam, and Bharatiya Tatvashastra. Mr. Hegde had performed many a role in the more than 80-year-old Idagunji Mahaganapathi Yakshagana Mandali, near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada. Mr. Hegde participated in a workshop on ‘Yakshagana: rethinking in the light of present’ organised by St. Aloysius College in Mangaluru on April 10. He watched yakshagana ballet Macbeth on the college premises later. That was the last public programme which he attended.  CM mourns In his condolence message, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said as the chairman of the academy, Mr. Hegde had strived for the welfare of artists and to popularise the art form. His works were a great contribution to yakshagana, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ma-hegde-passes-away-at-73/article34354303.ece
19 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||1,077 more cases added to Palakkad tally||The district witnessed a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases when 1,077 people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. When 512 of them had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be identified in 542 cases. Health workers When 21 cases came from across the border, there were two health workers among the new cases. District officials said that 172 people recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Sunday. The number of active cases currently under treatment in Palakkad rose to 5,382. Besides them, 180 persons from the district were being treated for COVID-19 in other districts. Sixty-one of them were in Thrissur and 55 in Malappuram. As many as 6,217 people underwent COVID-19 tests in the last six days in the district, and 324 of them were found tobe COVID-19 positive. Checking District Collector Mrunmai Joshi said that there would be a tight checking at the State borders from Monday onwards. Those who had not registered in the Arogya Jagratha portal would not be allowed entry into the State, the District Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1077-more-cases-added-to-palakkad-tally/article34354765.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Depleting stock may throw vaccination drive out of gear||The district continued to struggle to keep its COVID-19 vaccination drive on course with only 10,000 Covishield doses left in its vaccine store. The depleting stock has compelled the district health authorities to restrict its vaccine supply to major public health institutions on Monday. While 2,000 doses will be allotted for the ongoing drive at the Jimmy George indoor stadium, the remaining is expected to be distributed among the Government Medical College Hospital here, Women and Children’s Hospital at Thycaud, Peroorkada District Model Hospital and other institutions up to the level of taluk hospitals at Chirayinkeezhu, Varkala, Attingal, Nedumangad, Neyyattinkara, Parassala and Vithura. Fort Taluk Hospital will continue to administer Covaxin. While primary and community health-care centres are unlikely to receive more stock, inoculation drives are expected to be disrupted at most places. While some primary health centres suspended the vaccination during the intensive COVID-19 testing drive in the past few days, health authorities hoped they possessed sufficient stock to last the day. According to Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) G.K. Suresh Kumar, the paucity of vaccine doses put paid to the district administration’s efforts to expedite the vaccination drive. He pointed out that various organisations, including the traders’ bodies, residents’ associations, public offices and other institutions, had geared up to become part of the mass inoculation campaign. He pointed out that the district would require a daily stock of nearly 35,000 doses to ensure the programme went ahead in full swing in around 140 vaccination sites. 8,474 vaccinated On Sunday, 8,474 people were administered the vaccine. Among them, 7,316 people received Covishield. Jimmy George Indoor Stadium witnessed a huge rush as around 1,800 people were administered the vaccine. Around 500 people, who were sent back the previous day owing to lack of stock, were provided priority during the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/depleting-stock-may-throw-vaccination-drive-out-of-gear/article34354800.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA speeds up work on Jagathy-Kootanvila scheme||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has speeded up work on the long-delayed Jagathy-Kootanvila sewerage scheme, but indications are that the capital city may have to wait a bit longer to see this project commissioned as the KWA faces a number of hurdles. Although the KWA launched the Jagathy-Kootanvila scheme in 1996, the commissioning has been delayed due to problems in acquiring land and the financial constraints of the KWA. The KWA is now taking steps to quicken the pace of work and commission the scheme. Pending works include drawing the pipeline across the Killiyar. Land acquisition is required on both banks of the river for laying the pipes. Once this work is completed, the scheme can be partially commissioned, KWA officials said. Rs. 2.3 crore for land “This work is being taken up first. The KWA has remitted Rs. 2.3 crore for the land acquisition, and we expect the land to be handed over shortly so that tenders can be floated for the work,” a KWA official said. The KWA needs to fill two more ‘gaps’ in the route. The pipeline has to be laid across the Pangode-Edappazhanji road between Vivekananda Nagar and Chitra Nagar. Land needs to be acquired at Njaramoodu where the pipeline has to be laid over a short distance. Meant to benefit 5,000 households and establishments in the Jagathy, Poojappura and Pangode wards of the Thiruvananthapuiram Corporation, the scheme involves laying a main sewer line from Jagathy junction to Kootanvila, and branch pipes totalling a length of roughly 20,000 metres. The deciding factor The sewage would be pumped from the pump house at Kuriathi to the 107 mld sewage treatment plant at Muttathara. “How quickly we can complete and commission the scheme depends on how fast the land acquisition progresses. The project has been delayed all these years due to glitches in acquiring land,” a KWA official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-speeds-up-work-on-jagathy-kootanvila-scheme/article34354792.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation to open three more treatment centres||The city Corporation has decided to open three more COVID-19 treatment centres, out of which two will be COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and one a secondary care centre. The first-line treatment centres will be at the Government ESI hospital, Peroorkada, and the Government Ayurveda Hospital, Poojappura. The secondary care centre will be set up at the Panchakarma Ayurvedic Hospital at Poojappura. All these facilities will have hundred beds each. The centres would start functioning from Monday, Corporation Secretary Binu Francis told The Hindu . The civic body had mulled the setting up of one more FLTC at Iranimuttom, but due to the lack of space for more than 20 beds, the officials looked for other options. At the five existing FLTCs, there are a total of 374 beds, out of which close to 90% are currently filled. 674 beds With the addition of three more facilities, the number of beds would go up to 674. The Corporation’s existing FLTCs are located at the Institute of Management in Governance near PMG, shooting range at Vattiyurkavu and a centre at Manvila. The secondary care centres are at the Homoeo Hospital at Iranimuttom and Railway Hospital, Pettah. The Corporation will be continuing with its massive vaccination campaign, with camps to be held at 11 locations on Monday. On Sunday, 2528 persons were vaccinated at camps held at various wards. Vaccination camps Over the past few days, the civic body has been organising such camps in different wards, with 200 to 1,000 persons getting vaccinated in each place. The Corporation has also decided to step up disinfection activities, with teams that were employed last year for the purpose being activated again. Another team has been formed for enforcement of all COVID-19 protocols, including physical distancing, wearing of masks and prevention of crowding. Public announcements will also be made in wards on the importance of following all the protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-open-three-more-treatment-centres/article34354805.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC second phase exams held||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) on Sunday organised the second phase of examinations for posts with higher secondary as the minimum qualification. Across the State, more than 2.25 lakh aspirants appeared for the examination in around 1,100 examination centres. All the districts, except Kasaragod, had centres for Sunday’s examination. This first phase of the examination was held last week. Those who could not appear for last week’s first phase examination due to various factors including COVID-19, clashing of dates with the Reserve Bank of India’s examination or due to other unavoidable circumstances, were also allowed to appear for Sunday’s examination. One more examination will be held soon to provide an opportunity for those who could not appear on Sunday. The dates of this examination will be announced later. With the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in Kerala over the past few days, many universities have been postponing their exams. The PSC has not taken a call on postponing any of its upcoming examinations. According to PSC officials, the matter could come up for discussion in the Commission's meeting to be held on Monday. “All the upcoming examinations in the near future are smaller examinations with less number of applicants. The next big examination will be the one for graduate-level posts to be held in the latter half of next month,” said an official. The PSC had two days back officially conveyed that all examinations for various posts scheduled to be held from April 18 to 30 will be held as per schedule. However, the departmental-level examinations scheduled till April 22 have been postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-second-phase-exams-held/article34354395.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||990 new cases take active tally to 6,104||The district’s active COVID-19 caseload rose to 6,104 on Sunday after 990 fresh cases were recorded. As many as 651 people recovered from the viral infection on the day. Five deaths that occurred on April 16 have been attributed to the disease, taking the death toll in the district to 921. The deceased included four men, aged 66, 65, 53 and 50, and a 63-year-old woman. The district administration placed 2,792 people under quarantine, taking the total number of people who were being monitored for various symptoms to 26,705. A total of 779 people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation. Booked The City police, which intensified vigil during the past few days, booked 940 people for various COVID-19 protocol violations. Among them, 338 people were charged under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, while 602 others were cumulatively fined Rs. 3.01 lakh for not wearing masks outdoor. As many as 1,171 people were reprimanded for failing to adopt precautions.  651 persons recover, five more succumb to disease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/990-new-cases-take-active-tally-to-6104/article34354795.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Oppn.: clarify protocol for hospital admission||Drawing attention to the grim COVID-19 situation in the State, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has urged the State government to clearly define hospital admission protocols, commandeer ICUs and ventilators to a common pool and ensure adequate medicine stocks. Mr. Chennithala underlined the need to regulate COVID-19 treatment costs in private hospitals and ensure free treatment for BPL families. The suggestions are part of a set which Mr. Chennithala has submitted to the State government for aiding the preparation of an action plan. Fourteen in all, they cover treatment, prevention, research and crisis management and were compiled after discussions with public health experts, professional bodies and other stakeholders, Mr. Chennithala said in a letter to Chief Secretary V.P. Joy. For the indigent In other States, the influential and rich with mild symptoms are getting admitted in hospitals, which denies hospitalisation to poor patients requiring critical care. “There is a need to define admission protocols, including a chain of referral systems, and institute a monitoring mechanism for effective implementation. All hospitals, including private ones, should follow the admission protocols issued by the government,” Mr. Chennithala said. The government should anticipate a shortage of ICUs and ventilators in the near future and should take over all such facilities forming a common pool. Admissions should be made on defined protocols, which can be monitored by District Level Medical Boards, he said. Bed shortage The government should take steps to address staff and bed shortage in healthcare institutions and regulate COVID-19 treatment costs in private hospitals. “No one should be denied admission because of financial reasons. The government has to chip in and ensure that even BPL families are given free treatment in private hospitals,” he said. Mr. Chennithala has recommended maximising vaccine coverage and testing and stepping up awareness campaigns on COVID-19 guidelines. For tackling the crisis, local bodies should be adequately equipped and funded. Coordination among government departments should be effective, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oppn-clarify-protocol-for-hospital-admission/article34354397.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stop seeing us as foes, traders tell Corpn.||The district committee of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi has accused the private agency employed by the city Corporation to collect the extra fee on display boards in shops of using strong-arm tactics. In a press release, the samithi said that the Corporation should stop seeing the traders as enemies. The Corporation began collecting the extra fee on display boards based on a Kerala High Court order to control the number of flex boards and advertisement hoardings along public roads, which obstruct free movement. The traders’ organisations claim that this extra fee is a huge burden on the traders who are paying building tax at a higher rate for commercial establishments. The samithi said that this extra burden was unacceptable. The samithi also raised the issue of building numbers for those who had constructed new shops along the Karamana-Pravachambalam road, after giving up land for road expansion. ‘Directive flouted’ Local Self Governments Minister A.C. Moideen had issued an order saying that building numbers be allocated to these 58 buildings, which housed 102 shops. However, the numbers had not been issued till now, the samithi alleged. The owners could not get licences, carry out registration for Goods and Services Tax or apply for bank loan as there was no building number. The samithi accused some officials of having vested interests in delaying the process. The traders’ organisation also pointed fingers at the burgeoning numbers of wayside shops, which had been eating into the revenue of the shops having proper registration. The forum threatened a stir if the issues raised by them were not addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stop-seeing-us-as-foes-traders-tell-corpn/article34354802.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50 sectoral magistrates posted in capital city||Fifty sectoral magistrates have been posted in the city to ensure compliance with COVID-19 protocols and prevent violation of laws in the wake of an increase in COVID-19 cases. District Collector Navjot Khosa said one sectoral magistrate had been posted for two city Corporation wards. They would conduct stringent inspections in each region. The number of COVID-19 patients was on the rise in Manacaud, Vattiyurkavu, Peroorkada, Karamana, Nemom, and Kowdiar. Checks would be intensified in these areas and other parts of the city. Strict action would be taken in case of violation of COVID-19 protocols. Guidelines issued by the government for COVID-19 prevention would be implemented strictly. The services of ward councillors and public organisations would help in the functioning of sectoral magistrates. Review meeting Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty reviewed the functioning of the sectoral magistrates at a meeting at the Collectorate on Sunday. Besides checking violation of laws and taking strict action, the sectoral magistrates should also pay attention to creating awareness of COVID-19 prevention activities among the public, she said. The public could bring any protocol violation to the attention of the sectoral magistrates, she said, calling for their cooperation. Sectoral magistrates have been posted in all panchayats and municipalities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-sectoral-magistrates-posted-in-capital-city/article34354793.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vitamin A ensured: DMO||The District Medical Officer (DMO) has informed the Kerala State Human Rights Commission that availability of Vitamin A for administering to children has been ensured in all health care institutions in the district. Acting on a complaint from activist Ragam Rahim, commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the DMO to ensure that the Vitamin A paediatric oral solution is distributed without any disruptions. The DMO said following an order on May 8, 2019, 8,000 bottles of the medicine were distributed to health care institutions, but later, the distribution was halted. Following directions received on June 18, 2020, the use of the medicine was resumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vitamin-a-ensured-dmo/article34354791.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fish death: officials visit Karamana river||Officials of the Fisheries Department and Pollution Control Board on Sunday visited the areas near the Karamana river, where dead fish were noticed in large numbers. Mayor Arya Rajendran, who had visited these areas on Saturday, had written to various departments concerned to carry out necessary tests on water samples to ascertain the reasons. Reduction in pH level As per the preliminary assessments of the Fisheries Department, the reduction in pH levels of the water could be one of the reasons for the fishes turning up dead. The Corporation authorities have also written to the Chief Examiner of the Chemical Examiners’ Laboratory and the Public Health Laboratory Director to carry out the necessary tests to allay the concerns of the city residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-death-officials-visit-karamana-river/article34354804.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 5 crore to be allotted to each district||The government has decided to release Rs. 5 crore each to all districts to carry out ‘all curative, control and preventive activities’ in connection with COVID-19 second wave. COVID-19 has already been declared as a ‘State Specific Disaster’. The fund is being made available from the current year’s Budget and has to be utilised as per the norms of the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), according to an order issued by Revenue Principal Secretary A. Jayathilak on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-5-crore-to-be-allotted-to-each-district/article34354393.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases against 4,858 persons||Cases have been registered against 4,858 persons in the State for violation of COVID-19 protocols. A total of 1,234 persons have been arrested and 25 vehicles seized. There were 18,249 instances of people not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-against-4858-persons/article34354396.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One arrested||The Kovalam police on Sunday arrested Sakeer, alias Jeeva, 36, of Panangode in Venganoor on the charge of attempting to rape a woman and blackmail her using her photos. He allegedly befriended the victim through Facebook and lured her to a hotel in Kovalam where he made her have liquor and attempted to rape her. On being alerted, the Kovalam police tracked down the accused and recorded his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested/article34354797.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teachers express concern over conduct of practical exams||The Federation of Higher Secondary Teachers Associations has expressed concern over the conduct of the Plus Two practical examinations from April 28 against the backdrop of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the State. A statement here on Saturday said that in a year in which practical classes could not be conducted in schools effectively and all students could not come to school, the practical examinations were irrelevant. Moreover, these would possibly require exchange of equipment between students. The federation called for a meeting of teachers’ organisations in the State to discuss the possibility of modifying the practical exams to internal examinations. Safety measures The All Kerala School Teachers’ Union has demanded that the government make more arrangements for the safety of students appearing for the SSLC and Plus Two examinations and the teachers in the wake of the rapid spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-conduct-of-practical-exams/article34354372.ece
19 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain to continue till Thursday||Most districts can expect light to moderate rainfall till Thursday, a weather forecast from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. One or two places in the State can expect thunderstorms during this period. In the week from April 23 to 29, normal summer rains have been forecast for the State and Mahe. So far this summer, the State has received excess rainfall with Ernakulam, Kasaragod, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta recording a 'large excess,' indicating a percentage departure above 60%, according to the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-to-continue-till-thursday/article34354398.ece
19 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID-19 sparks fireworks ahead of Pooram||The surge in cases in the second wave of COVID-19 has cast a shadow over Thrissur Pooram. The test positivity rate in Thrissur has been increasing rapidly. The current rate has crossed 20% and 1,780 cases reported on a single day on Sunday. The rate, which had gone above 22% in October and November last year, was brought to 1.7% by the end of March this year. “The rate has been increasing very fast in the district. Violation of COVID-19 protocols during the election campaign contributed to the spike. Unlike during the first wave, this time, many of the COVID-19 patients developed breathlessness and had to be admitted in the ICU or put under ventilator support,” said DMO K.J Reena. She urged the public to maintain COVID-19 protocols and get vaccinated as early as possible. The authorities are worried about controlling the huge crowd expected for the Thrissur Pooram. With its quality percussion ensemble, caparisoned elephant parades, colourful processions, and eye-catching fireworks, the Pooram invites teeming crowds. Meeting today Considering the gravity of the situation, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy will convene a meeting to decide on safe conduct of Pooram on Monday. Though COVID-negative certificates or proof of getting vaccinated twice have been made compulsory for entering Pooram venues, many are unsure about the ways to verify the certificates of all those entering the venue. Ensuring adherence to COVID-19 protocols by the crowd will be an uphill task for the police. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged the authorities to consider postponing festival and ceremonies. The Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP), in its request to the government, has called for avoiding crowds. Gross violation of COVID-19 protocol, especially during the election campaign, had invited the strong second wave. The mutation of the virus too was contributing to the fast spread, it said. Meanwhile Paramekkavu Devaswom, a main organiser of the Pooram, has come up with allegations against the DMO and the Collector. Paramekkavu Devaswom secretary G. Rajesh alleged a plot to sabotage the celebrations. ‘Creating panic’ “The DMO is deliberately creating panic by highlighting an exaggerated positivity rate. Many parts of the district have been declared containment zones. It is an attempt to stop people from coming to the Pooram. If this goes on, the entire district will be a containment zone before Pooram,” he said. The Paramekkavu Devaswom demanded constitution of a medical team, including members of its choice, to decide crowd-control measures. The Devaswoms protested against the decision to make RT-PCR tests mandatory for mahouts. They also objected to the government move to make vaccine-taken certificates compulsory for attendees. The Pooram was conducted with only a few rituals last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-sparks-fireworks-ahead-of-pooram/article34354391.ece
19 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||An appeal for postponement||In a memorandum, a group of socio-cultural leaders have urged the government and the Thrissur Pooram organisers to postpone the Pooram celebrations in the wake of spurt in COVID-19 cases. “Since the test positivity rate in the district has reached around 20, Pooram celebrations do not make sense. Gathering of people from various places makes each celebration meaningful. But we live in a situation when such gatherings have become disastrous. With the pandemic raging, we may face shortage of medicines and oxygen,” said the memorandum signed by more than 30 cultural leaders. Conducting Pooram by maintaining COVID-19 protocols and safe distance was not practical. It would lead to police excesses.  Signatories Among the signatories were K.G. Sankara Pillai, Vaisakhan, Kalpatta Narayanan, K. Venu, K. Aravindakshan, Ashtamoorthy, I. Shanmukhadas, and P.N. Gopikrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-appeal-for-postponement/article34354392.ece
19 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Cases rise in Thrissur as 1,780 more test positive||A total of 1,780 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday while 428 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 6,858 active cases in the district and 90 people from the district are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. Recovery So far, 1,13,401 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,05,895 people have recovered from the disease till now. According to the official statistics, 1,747 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 205 people are above the age of 60 and 89 children are below the age of 10. Home care In all, 3,963 people are under home care in the district. So far 4,95,658 people have taken the first dose of the vaccine in the district whereas 59,461 people have taken the second dose of the vaccine.  Of the total new patients, 205 people are above the age of 60 and 89 children are below the age of 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-rise-in-thrissur-as-1780-more-test-positive/article34354762.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mass testing raises tally over 18,000 mark||The State’s active case pool has swelled to 93,686 cases, just 4,000-odd cases short of the maximum number of patients the State had during the first peak in October last. Among this, 11,353 are admitted in hospitals. Ernakulam district has the maximum number of active cases, with 14,472 patients, while Kozhikode has 13,389 patients. The active case pool is on the rise in Kannur with 8,642, Malappuram 7,790, Kottayam 7,478 and Thrissur 7,122. However, the proportion of critically ill patients requiring ICU care has already reached the levels that were prevalent during the first peak. On Sunday, the State had 841 patients requiring critical care in ICUs, with the number of patients requiring ventilator assistance rising to 236. 4,565 recoveries The number of recoveries reported on Sunday was 4,565. The cumulative recoveries is 11,40,486. The mortality is also on the rise, with 25 new deaths. The State’s death toll till date has risen to 4,929. Thrissur reported six deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Kozhikode and Kannur three each, Kollam, Kottayam and Malappuram two each, while one death each was reported from Alappuzha and Kasaragod. New hospital admissions rose to 1,916. Total hospital admissions at present is 11,353. Another 26,839 persons were newly added to the pool of people on home or institutional quarantine. A total of 2,25,683 persons are currently on home or institutional quarantine. Most in Ernakulam Among districts, the case graph of Ernakulam is spiralling up, reporting 2,835 cases on Sunday. Kozhikode follows with 2,560, Thrissur 1,780, Kottayam 1,703, Malappuram 1,677, Kannur 1,451, Palakkad 1,077, Thiruvananthapuram 990, Kollam 802, Alappuzha 800, Idukki 682, Pathanamthitta 673, Kasaragod 622 and Wayanad 605.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mass-testing-raises-tally-over-18000-mark/article34354399.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Faster connectivity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/faster-connectivity/article34354385.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pandemic blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-blues/article34354322.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finishing touches||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finishing-touches/article34354809.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cleaning up after the show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleaning-up-after-the-show/article34354811.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-times/article34354767.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Defence against disease||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/defence-against-disease/article34354807.ece
19 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Volunteer system realised dream of Gandhi’||Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of ‘Grama Swarajya’ has been realised by the volunteers’ system implemented by the State government at the grassroots level, said A.P. School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission CEO Aluru Sambasiva Reddy. Participating in the awards function for volunteers in Singanamala (SC) Assembly constituency, he said: “The award is just a recognition of their untiring work done to the society.” A volunteer had gone even to a hospital and handed over pension to a old woman, despite facing the threat of contracting COVID, he pointed out. The volunteers have been the torch-bearers of development and welfare being implemented in the State and work with the spirit of defence forces, said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu appreciating their untiring service to the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteer-system-realised-dream-of-gandhi/article34354147.ece
19 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested for possession of Remdesivir||Three persons were held in Bengaluru for hoarding Remdesivir, used to treat critically ill COVID-19 patients, and selling it at Rs. 10,500, which is much higher than the MRP. They were arrested by the Central Crime Branch officials during a special drive. Eleven injection bottles were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-for-possession-of-remdesivir/article34354104.ece
19 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nodal officer to regulate oxygen supply||Principal Secretary (Revenue) V. Usha Rani visited the Government General Hospital, Guntur and inspected the facilities available there to meet the rising number of COVID-19 cases, here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Usha Rani said that the State government is fully prepared to handle the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Ms. Usha Rani, appointed as special officer to Guntur district, visited the wards at GGH along with Joint Collector P. Prasanthi and Superintendent Prabhavati. Wearing a PPE kit and a face shield, Ms. Usha Rani enquired about the treatment given to COVID-19 patients. “We have 600 beds at the GGH and all of them are equipped with oxygen support. Besides, we have approved 6,000 beds at both government, private and Aarogyasri network hospitals. In view of the forthcoming festivals of Ramzan and Sri Ram Navami, we urge devotees to follow all social distancing norms and also urge hoteliers and restaurateurs to follow all precautions while serving food,” Ms. Usha Rani said. She also said that oxygen supply is being regulated by the State government and a nodal officer would be appointed at the Collector’s office to handle requests by hospitals. She also warned those hoarding and black-marketing essential drugs and said that criminal action would be taken against them. District Medical and Health Officer J. Yasmin was present. ‘6,000 beds ready’ Meanwhile, the district administration has readied 6,000 beds in 53 hospitals, including government teaching hospitals, to treat COVID-19 patients, said District Collector Vivek Yadav. Out of the total, 526 are ICU beds, 2,500 non-ICU beds, 2,000 beds without oxygen and 2,500 beds with oxygen support, 232 with ventilators are available. Review meeting Mr. Vivek Yadav, after reviewing the situation with the Medical and Health department, revenue officers, said that permission has been granted to 24 Aarogyasri network hospitals, 21 non-Aarogyasri network hospitals to admit patients. The GGH in Guntur, Government Hospital in Tenali, Area Hospital in Narasaraopet, AIIMS in Mangalagiri, NRI Medical College and Hospital, Manipal Hospital in Tadepalli and Katuri Medical College have been identified as COVID designated hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nodal-officer-to-regulate-oxygen-supply/article34354830.ece
19 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘6,000 beds available in 53 hospitals in Guntur’||The district administration has readied 6,000 beds in 53 hospitals, including government teaching hospitals, to treat COVID patients, said District Collector Vivek Yadav. Out of the total, 526 are ICU beds, 2,500 non-ICU beds, 2,000 beds without oxygen and 2,500 beds with oxygen support, 232 with ventilators are available. Mr. Vivek Yadav, after reviewing the situation with the Medical and Health department, revenue officers, said that permission has been granted to 24 Aarogyasri network hospitals, 21 non-Aarogyasri network hospitals to admit patients. The GGH in Guntur, Government Hospital in Tenali, Area Hospital in Narasaraopet, AIIMS in Mangalagiri, NRI Medical College and Hospital, Manipal Hospital in Tadepalli and Katuri Medical College have been identified as COVID designated hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6000-beds-available-in-53-hospitals-in-guntur/article34354149.ece
19 April 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents seek closure of schools||With the steady increase in the COVID-19 cases in the district, parents are in a grip of fear and seek closure of schools. After almost a span of 10 months, the educational institutions started functioning in February following instructions from the State government. Though the attendance was good in the first few weeks, it is said to be gradually declining in many schools due to the increasing number of infections in the second wave. A number of students and teachers have already tested positive at Gopalapatnam, Anakapalle, Atchutapuuram, Anandapuram and a few other areas in the last one month. In the last 18 days, the district has reported more than 6,000 new infections and 23 persons died. The active cases were just 24 on March 1, but on Sunday, they were 4,062. Parents allege that it is high time the government take a decision and close the schools. They also say that social distancing is being completely ignored in the educational institutions. A few parents said that sending their children in city buses and auto-rickshaws during this second wave would be dangerous. “Initially students used to maintain social distancing and used sanitisers. But as days gone by, the rules are being ignored completely. Students are made to sit three in a bench. While going to school and coming, there are high chances of children contracting virus,” said J. Kranthi Kumar, a parent from Madhurawada area. This is the case even with the higher education students. Recent incident of over 100 students of Andhra University testing positive has left a major impact. Even attendance in many colleges has started to dip, it is learnt. Students in hostels are leaving for homes and taking the option of online classes. According to a senior official from the Education Department, they cannot initiate any action until there is an order from the higher official. “Whenever any student or faculty tests positive, we are taking all measures like sanitising schools, tracing contacts and testing them immediately. Students are randomly tested at many schools,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-seek-closure-of-schools/article34354841.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inoculation comes to a halt in Telangana||The 2.7 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses expected to reach Telangana on Saturday night have been delayed and Health Minister Eatala Rajender hopes that the emergency consignment will reach by Sunday night. The immunisation programme was not conducted at government centres on Sunday following the shortage. Mr. Rajender said he has requested the Centre to address the shortage at the earliest. Though the State has the capacity to vaccinate 10 lakh people a day, the immunisation drive came to a grinding halt due to the unavailability of the vaccines. People have been complaining that they are not able to get first and second dose despite registering for it. The Health Minister said he and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao have spoken to vaccine manufacturers, requesting them to resolve the shortage. A request was also placed with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to allow vaccination for people above 25 years. However, Mr. Rajender said he has not received any response yet. “Steps are being taken to ensure there is no dearth of oxygen by coordinating with Central government officials. Oxygen supply comes under Centre. A State government cannot produce on its own. There is no shortage of it as of now. Around 250 tonnes is needed in a day. As cases increase, the requirement might go up to 300 tonnes a day,” Mr. Rajender said. Special drive in A.P. Following the steep rise in the number of infections and in conformity with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions, the State government is going to conduct a special drive from Monday to vaccinate all the frontline and healthcare workers in the next few days, according to nodal officer A. Srikanth. The State received 2 lakh Covishield doses on Sunday, in addition to the 6 lakh doses on Saturday. In a release, Mr. Srikanth said the government was all set to launch the special drive to ensure that the remaining frontline and healthcare workers were administered the vaccine. Of the 10 lakh workers, 5 lakh had so far been vaccinated, he said. “An application that monitors and captures individual vaccination data has been developed to ensure all the beneficiaries are vaccinated in the State,” Mr. Srikanth said. “The application will be used from Monday. All the medical officers will use it to enter the details of the vaccinated workers. It contains the list of all the frontline and healthcare workers,” he said. Sample collection and vaccination centres were not opened on Sunday. Slow pace in Kerala Kerala received 3 lakh doses of Covishield on Sunday, which were equally distributed in Ernakulam and Kozhikode regions. Vaccination went at a slow pace in the State on Sunday and as per the CoWin statistics, 35,510 doses were administered in the State. As on Sunday, 51,89,639 persons have been covered with at least one dose and another 6,80,409 with two doses. The State has close to 7 lakh doses as stock now. Vaccination would be conducted in a restricted manner , maintaining only a few essential sites on Monday, in the southern districts, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inoculation-comes-to-a-halt-in-telangana/article34354103.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motkupalli’s condition serious||Former Minister and BJP leader Motkupalli Narasimhulu, who was admitted to a private corporate hospital a few days ago following coronavirus infection, is said to be in a critical condition on Sunday. A few other leaders who participated in the intense campaign for the Nagarjunagasar byelection in Telangana too have tested positive. Some of them are said to be in home quarantine while a few others have been admitted to various hospitals, party sources informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-minister-condition-serious/article34354669.ece
19 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Minimise gatherings’||All religious groups have been urged to avoid large gatherings of people at religious places to prevent spread of COVID-19 in East Godavari district. Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha and SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi have appealed to the religious groups in this regard. The upcoming festivals such as Ramzan would be celebrated without any mass gathering at religious places in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minimise-gatherings/article34354780.ece
19 April 2021||KALABURAGI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient goes with oxygen in search of ICU||A woman with an oxygen cylinder attached to her body roamed Kalaburagi city in an autorickshaw for nearly five hours searching for an ICU bed on Sunday. The 55-year old woman, from Basava Nagar locality, was rushed to a private hospital after she complained of cough and respiratory complications. Since there was no ICU bed available at the time, the hospital authorities provided her with an oxygen cylinder as emergency care. The relatives of the woman then took her in an autorickshaw to many hospitals, including Dhanwantari Hospital, Vaatsalya Hospital, Crystal Hospital, and ESIC Hospital (a government establishment), searching for an ICU bed in vain. When they did not get an ICU bed anywhere, they finallycame to the district government hospital attached to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). Since there was no ICU bed available at the GIMS hospital also, the woman was treated inside the autorickshaw itself for about three hours. Realising the gravity of the patient’s condition, the GIMS authorities, somehow, managed to accommodate the patient in the ICU by adopting an additional oxygen flow meter to a machine that was already serving a patient. Whether or not the woman was a COVID-19 patient was not known when she was admitted to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patient-roams-with-oxygen-in-search-of-icu/article34354106.ece
19 April 2021||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGBV closed as 101 cases surface||Schoolchildren are the worst affected in the second wave of COVID-19 in Kurnool and Anantapur districts. Case in point is the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya at Sankar Nagar in Adoni, where 93 students and eight teachers (101 in all) tested positive for the pandemic, prompting the closure of the school for a week. On Sunday, Kurnool registered 729 COVID-19 positive cases and Anantapur 305. Kurnool district tested 3,500 samples and Anantapur tested 4,318 samples. State Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas held a teleconference on Sunday with the District Medical and Health Officer ascertaining the steps taken to isolate the affected students and teachers. District Medical and Health Officer Rama Giddaiah said that when 18 students had tested positive initially in the tests done on April 14, RTPCR tests were done for all the students and staff on April 15 and 101 of them tested positive. Deputy DMHO Ranga Naik was overseeing the testing of students and teachers at Adoni. All the students were sent home under special travel arrangements where they would remain in isolation. Kurnool Joint Collector Revenue and Development S. Ramsundar Reddy had instructed closure of the school for a week where 300 students attend classes regularly. Testing was being done for all the suspected primary and secondary contacts. Kurnool district has kept 11 hospitals ready for patients needing hospitalisation. Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that treatment at RDT Bathalapalli Hospital will start on Monday in addition to the six government hospitals and the KIMS Saveera private hospital in Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kgbv-closed-as-101-cases-surface/article34354148.ece
19 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepared for long-drawn struggle: farmers’ union||The ongoing struggle against the three farm laws will be intensified by roping in more sections of people to force the NDA government to repeal the corporate-friendly pieces of legislation, said All India Kisan Mazdoor Sangh national general secretary Ashok Ghayale. “We are prepared for a protracted struggle as the Narendra Modi government has not been conceding the just demands of farmers,” he said on the eve of the ‘Mahapanchayat’ here on Monday. Going forward, the protesting farmers would lay a siege to the houses of BJP MPs with a view to build pressure on the Central government to scrap the farm laws, which, he feared would alienate further the small, marginal and tenant farmers. “We are determined to carry on the struggle peacefully,” he said. The three laws were nothing but part of a larger design to curry favours with the domestic and foreign companies at a time when the farmers were increasingly finding it difficult to stay afloat in the wake of the onslaught by the market forces, he said along with AIKMS State General Secretary Chittipati Venkateswarlu. The violence that erupted at Red Fort was a ‘conspiracy’ allegedly by the Hindutva forces to tarnish the image of the farmers in the eyes of the common people, he said. “The stir is no longer confined to Delhi. It is spreading thick and fast across the nation and also drawing support from more sections of people including the toiling masses,” he observed. Other sections, including industrial workers, had also made a common cause with the farmers, following the Centre’s PSU privatisation spree. The Hamalis, who had largely depended on the organised agriculture produce market committees(AMCs), had sensed a threat to their livelihood and they were also part of the struggle now, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepared-for-long-drawn-struggle-farmers/article34354153.ece
19 April 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases touch 5,990 in South Coastal A.P.||Four more persons succumbed to the dreaded disease in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours while the number of new cases touched 911 in the two districts of Nellore and Prakasam. SPSR Nellore district registered 597 new cases, while Prakasam district saw 314. With this, the overall coronovirus cases tally increased to 1,33,585 in the region and active cases shot up to 5,990. SPSR Nellore district accounted for 67,600 cases and Prakasam district for 65,985 cases of the total cases. With four deaths, all in SPSR Nellore district, the death toll rose to 538. With zero deaths, the toll remained unchanged at 592 in Prakasam, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Sunday night. As many as 241 patients recovered from the illness in SPSR Nellore district and another 90 patients in Prakasam district during the period. Those who wanted to get vaccinated had to wait for one more day as the health officials got replenishment of vaccine doses from the Centre only on Sunday. The vaccination drive is all set to resume on Monday, health officials said. “We have received 35,000 doses of vaccine and the same has been sent to the public health centres,” Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P.Ratnavalli said after overseeing the arrangements for the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-touch-5990-in-south-coastal-ap/article34354151.ece
19 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana to restrict inter-State movement||With the second wave of coronavirus spreading fast, the district administration has started implementing tough measures to check the movement of people from neighbouring Karnataka. However, checkposts were not yet erected on highway as there are no instructions from the State government. Residents have taken up the task of controlling the inter-State traffic. Village roads that connect to Karnataka have been closed, and in some areas, roads are dug up so that vehicles cannot come from the other side. Roads have been closed at Satwar, Buchinelly and Buripad in Zaheerabad mandal, Gausabad thanda, Jadimalkapur, Gudipally, Auranganagar, Dhanasiri and Madgi villages. More cases of COVID-19 are being reported from Peerla thanda near Narayanakhed where the total population is about 1,000. “People from neighbouring villages of Maharashtra had arrived here a few weeks back to participate in an event resulting in the spread of the virus. There are about 100 active cases here. The problem is many of the residents from this thanda are not ready to accept that they can get COVID. Unfortunately, most of them are asymptomatic. We had conducted a health camp for two days in the thanda,” medical officer of Turkapally PHC D. Rajeswar said on Sunday. In Sangareddy, 232 positive cases are reported till Sunday, and all of them are in isolation. Over 305 samples have been collected for testing and a total 2,663 test results are pending. In a related development, Siddipet Additional Collector Muzamil Khan has directed officials to impose Rs. 1,000 fine on those not wearing masks while coming to file their nominations for municipal elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-to-restrict-inter-state-movement/article34354110.ece
19 April 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases see steep rise in Srikakulam||Srikakulam district witnessed a steep rise in COVID-19 infections, with 912 positive cases being reported on Sunday alone. The total number of cases reported in the past ten days stands at 4,389. Of these, 393 persons have been kept at COVID Care Centres while 223 are being treated at hospitals, and the remaining 3,774 persons are in home isolation. The remaining were discharged from hospitals and COVID-19 centres. As part of preventive steps by the district administration, Potti Sriramulu market vendors have been directed to shift their business activity to the 80 Feet Road to ensure social distancing among the customers. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas directed customers, farmers and traders to mandatorily wear masks. Srikakulam District Revenue Officer B. Dayanidhi called upon the Muslim community to maintain social distancing in mosques during the Ramzan prayers. The district administration appointed special officers to handle the COVID-19 situation in the district. Joint Collector Sumit Kumar will oversee functioning of COVID designated hospitals. Srikakulam District Forest Officer Sandeep Kripakar, ITDA Project Officer Ch. Sridhar, Additional DMHO B. Jagannadhara Rao and other officials were given various responsibilities for better coordination in controlling the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-see-steep-rise-in-srikakulam/article34354159.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala revises norms for domestic travellers||The Health Department has revised the guidelines for travellers coming into Kerala. All domestic travellers will have to register in the e-jagratha portal and undergo RT-PCR tests either within 48 hours prior to entering the State or immediately after entering the State, irrespective of their vaccination status. Those who undertake RT-PCR tests on arrival will have to remain in room isolation at their respective places of stay, till the RT-PCR results are available. They will stick to universal masking, hand hygiene, and physical distancing protocols. The person should seek medical care if the test is positive. If at all they develop any symptoms – fever, cough, sore throat, breathlessness, muscle pain, fatigue, anosmia, or diarrhoea – during their stay in Kerala, they should seek immediate medical care. International travellers Those who do not undergo RT-PCR testing will have to go on room isolation for 14 days from their date of entry to Kerala. They must monitor themselves for any symptoms and seek medical care if necessary. The present protocol for international travellers will continue. At Walayar The new guidelines could lead to crowding at the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border at Walayar. The Tamil Nadu government has been insisting on e-portal registration for entry to the State. People had to get off buses at Walayar and board Tamil Nadu State’s buses to go to Coimbatore and other places. The passengers showed their e-portal registration on mobile phones at the Tamil Nadu government’s check points. Hundreds of people from Palakkad and nearby regions shuttle to and from Coimbatore every day. While the majority are employees in government and private establishments, many are traders. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi said the district administration would impose the new regulations from Monday. Barricades removed Meanwhile, the Kanyakumari district administration opened three of the 12 inter-State border roads that were closed on Saturday. Barricades were removed from Cheriya Kolla, Panachamoodu, and Kunambana roads much to the relief of the residents of the border areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari districts. The decision comes in the wake of Chief Secretary V.P. Joy conveying to his Tamil Nadu counterpart Rajeev Ranjan the immense hardship caused to the public by the restrictions. Kerala had argued that restrictions violated the Centre’s guidelines that barred curbs on inter-State movement of people and goods.  (With inputs from Palakkad bureau)   Those who do not undergo RT-PCR testing will have to go on room isolation for 14 days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-revises-norms-for-domestic-travellers/article34354112.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mass testing raises Kerala tally by over 18,000 cases||Kerala was set to create a new record as the second wave of COVID-19 swept the State. With results of the augmented mass testing drive beginning to come in on Sunday, of 1,08,898 samples tested in a 24-hour period, 18,257 persons were positive, the highest figure so far. But the test positivity rate (TPR) was a notch below Saturday’s 16.77%. Samples from 3,00,971 people were collected during the testing drive on Friday and Saturday. Ernakulam district had the maximum active cases at 14,472 and Kozhikode 13,389. The proportion of critically ill patients requiring ICU care reached the levels of the first peak. On Sunday, the State had 841 patients in ICUs, and 236 on ventilator. Mortality rose with 25 new deaths. Thrissur reported six deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Kozhikode and Kannur three each, Kollam, Kottayam and Malappuram two each, while one death each was reported from Alappuzha and Kasaragod. Karnataka reported 19,067 new cases in a fresh high. Of these, 12,793 were in Bengaluru Urban. The Health department put the TPR on Sunday at 13.09%. The authorities reported 81 deaths on Sunday. On Sunday, 63,150 people were vaccinated, taking total vaccinations in the State to 70.28 lakh. Telangana also hit another high with 5,093 cases on Saturday. For the State, which has been crossing one grim milestone after another during the second wave of the pandemic, this is the first time that the 5,000-mark has been breached since the outbreak.At 15 fatalities, the State recorded the highest number of deaths in a day. Of the 33 districts in the State, 17 recorded over 100 cases. The highest cases were 743 from Greater Hyderabad, 488 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 407 in Rangareddy district. In Tamil Nadu too, for the first time, fresh cases surged past the 10,000-mark on Sunday as 10,723 persons contracted the infection, and 42 succumbed to it. The record surge in daily infections took the State’s tally to 9,91,451. Chennai recorded another new high with 3,304 cases. The city accounted for 16 of the 42 fatalities. With 5,925 persons being discharged after treatment, the total figure rose to 9,07,047. The surge in cases pushed the active caseload to 70,391, of which Chennai accounted for 25,011 persons. Thirty-seven of the 42 deceased had co-morbidities.The fatalities took the State’s toll to 13,113. Of these, Chennai accounts for 4,400 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (866) and Coimbatore (707). As cases surged across the State, Chengalpattu recorded 954 cases and Coimbatore 727. There were 503 cases in Tiruvallur. Four districts recorded 300-plus cases — Kancheepuram (332), Tirunelveli (309), Tiruppur (307) and Tiruchi (311). A total of seven districts had 200-plus cases. These included Madurai (276), Salem (275), Thoothukudi (252) and Vellore (229).   (With inputs from Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mass-testing-raises-kerala-tally-by-over-18000-cases/article34354114.ece
19 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Universities postpone examinations||The worsening COVID-19 situation has prompted all universities in the State to defer their ongoing examinations. Kerala University, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University, Mahatma Gandhi University, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kerala University of Health Sciences, Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, Calicut University, Kannur University and Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University have all postponed their examinations scheduled to be held from Monday. The revised schedule will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/universities-postpone-examinations/article34354108.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP succeeded in rigging Tirupati byelection: Veerraju||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju on Sunday demanded that the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency conducted on Saturday be cancelled and a repoll held alleging that bogus votes were cast on a large scale. Addressing the media here, Mr. Veerraju alleged that the Ministers and YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders had violated the Model Code of Conduct right under the nose of the officials of the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the security forces. Mr. Veerraju also alleged that the police had remained mute spectators to the “massive irregularities” and that the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were not seen around. “Several Ministers, MLAs and chairpersons of various corporations camped in the temple town to manipulate the election, and they succeeded in it to a major extent as the police kept quiet. The election observer, Dinesh Patel, too seemed to have not bothered much,” Mr. Veerraju alleged. Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy addressed the media even as the election was under way, the BJP leader alleged. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy’s claim that the bogus voters, who were first exposed by the BJP and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) later, were on a pilgrimage to the abode of Lord Venkateswara turned out to be lies as the ‘sarva darshan’ had been suspended by the TTD a few days ago, Mr. Veerraju alleged. The BJP leader alleged the borders of Tirupati constituency had not been sealed and those who dared to question the irregularities were implicated in false cases. The BJP had lodged complaints in all the Assembly segments in the parliamentary constituency and would take the irregularities to the ECI’s notice, he said. Congress joins chorus The Congress party’s State working president N. Thulasi Reddy on Sunday said the YSRCP had reduced the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat to a farce. “It was a broad daylight murder of democracy with the ruling party leaders unleashing total anarchy,” he said in a statement. Mr. Thulasi Reddy alleged that thousands of “fake voters” were brought in buses and other vehicles, who resorted to gross violation of the poll code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-succeeded-in-rigging-tirupati-byelection-veerraju/article34354757.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 COVID deaths in State; Chittoor’s tally crosses 1-lakh mark||The State has reported 22 deaths due to COVID-19, the highest daily toll since October 21, in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. During the same period, 6,582 new infections were reported and Chittoor’s cumulative tally crossed the one-lakh mark, the second district to do so in the State after East Godavari. The cumulative tally of the State increased to 9,62,037 and the toll reached 7,410. Even as 2,343 patients have recovered in the past day the number of active cases increased to 44,686. The recovery rate further dropped to 94.58% and the number of recoveries stands at 9,09,941. Only 35,922 samples were tested in the past day and their positivity rate was 18.32% while the overall positivity rate of the 1.567 crore samples was 6.14%. Chittoor district reported five deaths, Krishna and Nellore four each, Kurnool three, Anantapur and Guntur two each and Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram one death in the past day. Chittoor also reported the highest single-day tally of 1,171 infections. Next to it was Srikakulam with 912 infections. It was followed by Guntur (804), Kurnool (729), Nellore (597), Visakhapatnam (551), Krishna (465), Vizianagaram (349), Prakasam (314), Anantapur (305), Kadapa (203), East Godavari (100) and West Godavari (82). District-wise total cases are: E. Godavari (1,29,312), Chittoor (1,00,254), W. Godavari (95,139), Guntur (86,570), Anantapur (71,453), Visakhapatnam (67,935), Nellore (67,600), Kurnool (66,125), Prakasam (65,985), Kadapa (58,313), Krishna (55,131), Srikakulam (51,788) and Vizianagaram (43,537).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-covid-deaths-in-state-chittoors-tally-crosses-1-lakh-mark/article34354751.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ex-Intelligence chief tried to book CM’s kin sans proof’||Official spokesperson of the Andhra Pradesh Police and DIG (Technical Services) G. Palaraju on Sunday alleged that the former Director General (Intelligence), A.B. Venkateswara Rao, had mounted pressure on the police officers to arrest Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s family members and relatives without proper evidence in the Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy’s murder case. Addressing the media at the DGP office, Mr. Palaraju accused the former Intelligence chief of making the investigation report on the sensational case public and criticising the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which was probing the murder of the former Member of Parliament. Mr. Venkateswara Rao should clarify why he had not shared the details of the investigation to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that had probed the case for about nine months before handing it over to the CBI, Mr. Palaraju said. Stating that Mr. Venkateswara Rao had been suspended for “leaking confidential information and documents pertaining to the Intelligence Department and on charges of corruption,” Mr. Palaraju alleged that the former Intelligence chief had made maximum efforts to book the family members of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the case. “When the IPS officer had vital information, why did he not share it with the investigation agencies? He can be booked under Indian Penal Code Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) for dereliction of duty,” Mr. Palaraju said. The former Intelligence DG should also clarify why he had kept the investigation report with him for two years instead of submitting it to the CBI in a sealed cover as per procedure, Mr. Palaraju said. IPS Officers’ Association member R.N. Ammireddy was among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-intelligence-chief-tried-to-book-cms-kin-sans-proof/article34354761.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action plan soon on promotion of e-mobility||The State government is set to come up with an action plan for implementation of e-mobility in tune with the Central government’s target to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions by 33-35% by 2030. The State government had already released its electric vehicle policy of incentivising the stakeholders on demand-supply side, Energy Secretary N. Srikant said in a press statement. On the supply side, the government is allocating 500 acres to 1,000 acres of land for developing EV parks with plug-and-play infrastructure, common facilities and necessary external infrastructure. Also, the government is providing financial assistance of 50% of fixed capital investment to developers of auto clusters. Financial incentives are given for private charging stations and hydrogen generation and refuelling infrastructure. On the demand side, the State government has created a separate sub-category for electric vehicles and fixed the tariff at Rs. 6.70 per unit without any demand charges to promote their usage. Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) has set up 80 charging stations in the State and supplied 300 e-cars to various government departments. EESL will set up 400 charging stations in 73 locations across A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/action-plan-soon-on-promotion-of-e-mobility/article34354755.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM should respond on bogus votes: Yanamala||The TDP has demanded that a repoll be conducted for the Tirupati Assembly segment of the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, where a byelection was conducted recently. TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, in a statement on Sunday, alleged that the YSRCP had resorted to bogus voting in the byelection. A large number of fake votes had been cast, he alleged. The YSRCP workers from other regions had come to Tirupati to rig the election, he alleged. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should respond to the allegation that his party leaders were involved in bogus voting, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. The Collectors and Superintendents of Police of Nellore and Chittoor districts had not acted despite senior TDP leader K. Srinivasulu alerting them on the bogus votes, Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-should-respond-on-bogus-votes-yanamala/article34354754.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chemists told to play role in sustainable development||“We need to think about sustainable development and chemists have a major role to play in this,” said M. Lakshmi Kantam, a professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering in the Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai. Delivering a lecture on ‘Design and Development of Homogeneous/Heterogeneous Catalysts for Sustainable Chemical Industry’, organised by the SRM-AP University, Prof. Kantam said catalysis is a technology in high demand for sustainable society and it drives innovation in other fields too. “Achieving high catalytic selectivity is the aim in the 21st century,” she said. She said catalysis of organic reactions by homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts remains a diversified field of scientific inquiry and it attracts a large group of scientists with specialities spanning synthetic organic chemistry, inorganic chemistry, surface science, material science, reaction engineering and computational modelling. University's Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao, and Vice-Chancellor V.S. Rao, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chemists-told-to-play-role-in-sustainable-development/article34354156.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm unions join movement against VSP sale||The national emblem of India, the Lion Pillar of Ashoka, signifies the message ‘Satyameva Jayate’ (truth alone triumphs), which is known to every citizen in the country. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is uttering falsehoods day in and day out, national leaders of farmers and workers unions alleged. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national president Ashok Dhawale, All India Kisan Sangarsh State Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) State convener Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao, Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham national president B. Venkat were among those who came down to the city to participate in the ‘Rythu Karmika Sankharavam’, organised on Beach Road on Sunday, to oppose the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Speaking to reporters, Mr. Dhawale said they are extending full support to the agitation by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee to save VSP from privatisation. He commended all parties in the State, except the BJP, for their united stand against the proposal to privatise the steel plant. The agitation for VSP was gaining support all over the country, he said. Mr. Dhawale underlined the need to protect the livelihood of VSP workers and the farmers, who had given their lands for the establishment of the plant. He alleged that other public sector units (PSUs) in the country would also meet the same fate if VSP was allowed to be privatised. In the last seven years, the Union government was busy privatising telecom, education, medical and health, ports and airports. These ‘anti-people and pro-corporate’ policies have helped 140 top corporate groups to make a profit of $ 596 billion, despite the pandemic situation. The policies of the Union government were being opposed by the people of all States in the country, Mr. Dhawale said. Mr. Rakesh Tikait said that lakhs of farmers, who were waging struggles in the national capital seeking legalisation of Minimum Support Price (MSP), were all supporting the movement against privatisation of PSUs. Describing the VSP as the ‘property of the local people’ as it was established on the land given by the local farmers, he said that the people of India have understood that the Union government was only interested in the welfare of a few corporate groups. AIKS leader Balkaran Singh, from Punjab, alleged that the target of the Union government was to privatise land, air and water. He drew a parallel between the East India Company, which had plundered the wealth of the nation in the name of trade, and the Centre, which was out to hand over public assets to corporate groups. Mr. Sobhanadreeswara Rao, AP Rythu Sangham general secretary M. Suryanarayana, AP Koula Rythulua Sangham general secretary P. Jamalayya and AIKS vice president Ravula Venkayya spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-unions-join-movement-against-vsp-sale/article34354759.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum welcomes CM’s initiative on Neradi project||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has welcomed the initiative of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in writing a letter to his Odisha counterpart on the Neradi project on Vamsadhara river. In a letter to Mr. Jagan on Sunday, FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma described Vamsadhara as the lifeline of Srikakulam district. According to the agreement made with Odisha in 1962, Andhra Pradesh has to get 57.5 tmc ft, i.e. half of the total of 115 tmc ft. The Gotta Barrage, completed in 1977, could provide irrigation facilities to 1,48,230 acres. But, Andhra Pradesh was using only 17,841 tmc ft, while the remaining water was flowing into the sea. The Neradi project was conceived at an estimated cost of Rs. 933 crore in 2002, to provide an additional storage of 16,685 tmc ft. The construction could not be taken up so far due to the objections raised by Odisha. The Vamsadhara Tribunal had permitted construction of the project but the previous government had neglected it. The past governments had even neglected construction of three side canals, an an alternative to three reservoirs, ignoring the advice of engineers. This negligence of the past governments had resulted in drought conditions and migration of people though Srikakulam district has plenty of irrigation water, he said. Mr. Sarma appealed to the Chief Minister to also take up with the Odisha Chief Minister on the Jhanjavathi project, which can provide 10 tmc ft of water to Vizianagaram district. The project, which was started in 1976, could not be completed so far, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forum-welcomes-cms-initiative-on-neradi-project/article34354783.ece
19 April 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why not revive plant, questions AIKS chief||The Union government is working against the common man and its sole goal is to benefit the corporate houses, especially those belonging to the Ambanis and Adanis, alleged All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) president Ashok Dhawale. Mr. Dhawale was in the city along with other leaders who are leading the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi, to participate in a meeting held on Sunday against the 100% strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Speaking to The Hindu , the AIKS president alleged that privatisation of the steel plant was also a part of that agenda to hand over public property to corporate firms. However, the agitation is now no longer limited to being merely a struggle of the workers of the plant, but has become a struggle for the people of India and a political struggle, Mr. Dhawale said. “VSP has a unique history, as its establishment comes wrapped in sacrifice of many people and it is not just a plant, but a symbol of people’s struggle. When things can be revived with some minor changes, why think of selling it to a private player for a song?” Mr. Dhawale questioned. “We shall not let it happen and the VSP’s struggle will become the nerve centre in the future for all struggles against privatisation,” he said. Three farm laws Speaking about the agitation against the three farm laws, he said that the agitation will be completing 150 days on April 25 and it has been the longest and biggest protest by the farmers in the entire world. It has been secular and peaceful and about 350 have lost their lives so far, but the farmers will not budge from their demands, said Mr. Dhawale. The AIKS president pointed out that the agitation was no longer a farmers protest, but has now turned into a protest against the ‘unholy’ government-corporate nexus. The basic idea is to do away with the MSP (minimum support price) system and government procurement of food grains, Mr. Dhawale alleged. “If the government does not procure food grains and store them in the godowns of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), how will it run the public distribution system, which is the lifeline for 81.3 crore people?” Mr. Dhawale questioned. The basic idea is to disband the PDS and hand over distribution to the corporates. But the government does not realise that it will affect the lives of crores who are dependant on the PDS, said Mr. Dhawale.  We shall not let it happen and the VSP’s struggle will become the nerve centre in the future for all struggles against privatisation Ashok Dhawale AIKS president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-not-revive-plant-asks-aiks-chief/article34354295.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders resolve to raise issue at all meetings with Centre||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national president Ashok Dhawale have announced that they will raise the issue of continuation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) in the public sector at all their meetings with the Centre along with the farmers issues. The two national leaders along with All India Kisan Sangarsh State Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) State convener Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao, Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham national president B. Venkat and others participated in the Rythu Karmika Sankharavam on Beach Road here on Sunday evening. The leaders said that the Centre had failed to give captive mines to the VSP, which was resulting in high production cost. The investment of the Centre in the VSP was only Rs. 5,000 crore but it had contributed several times of that amount to the Centre and State in the form of duties and taxes. They demanded that the Centre come out with an answer on why it had written off Rs. 6 lakh crore owed by private companies. Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao, D. Adinarayana, Mantri Rajasekhar and J. Ayodhya Ram participated in the meeting. Earlier, a huge rally was taken out from the Park Hotel Junction to the venue of the meeting on Beach Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-union-leaders-to-raise-steel-plant-issue-with-centre/article34354682.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Healthy diet, physical activity promote liver health, says specialist||Liver, the largest organ in the body, performs diverse functions like digestion, glucose and fat metabolism, detoxification and protein synthesis. Liver is affected by various diseases like fatty liver, hepatitis, cirrhosis and cancer. The prime causes for liver damage being excessive consumption of alcohol, hepatitis virus infections, fatty liver, diabetes mellitus, obesity and drugs. After years of continuous alcohol consumption, liver disease passes through phases of fatty liver, hepatitis and ultimately into irreversible cirrhosis. People suffer from jaundice, abdominal swelling and other distressing symptoms. Diabetes mellitus, obesity, physical inactivity and unhealthy eating habits change the internal metabolism thereby promoting insulin resistance and thus cause fatty liver. Strict sugar control, weight reduction, healthy eating habits, avoiding simple carbohydrates and junk food and regular physical activity helps in combating fatty liver, says Chalapathi Rao Achanta, consultant medical gastroenterologist, KIMS ICON Hospital, in a statement on the eve of World Liver Day. Infections due to hepatitis virus cause problems like jaundice, fatigue, fever, malaise and weight loss. Except those due to type B and C virus, rest of the infections (i.e., hepatitis A and E) are self-limiting. Hepatitis B and C viruses affect approximately 325 million people globally. They frequently cause chronic liver injury and if unrecognised and untreated, they can lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer in certain cases. Vaccination against hepatitis B and C viruses help in combating this global problem. Cancers, either primary or secondary, are recognised as deadly diseases with poor outcomes. Getting a tissue sample by biopsy test would confirm the diagnosis and appropriate treatment should be followed as guided by the specialist, Dr. Chalapathi Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/healthy-diet-physical-activity-promote-liver-health-says-specialist/article34354837.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister appreciates services of volunteers||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the State government is felicitating volunteers in recognition of their outstanding services. The Minister was speaking at a programme organised to felicitate volunteers at Pendurthi on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the government has provided employment to four lakh persons in the State. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the volunteers were playing a key role in identification of the beneficiaries and taking the welfare schemes to their doorstep. ‘Seva Vajra’ was given to five volunteers, ‘Seva Ratna’ to 17 and ‘Seva Mitra’ was given to 1,568 volunteers in Pendurthi constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-appreciates-services-of-volunteers/article34354838.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm union leaders visit hunger strike camp||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has called upon all sections to oppose the ‘anti-worker’ and ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the Centre. Mr. Tikait along with All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national president Ashok Dhawale and Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham national president B. Venkat visited the relay hunger strike camp, being organised by the Public Sector Parirakshana Vedika, at the Gandhi statue, near GVMC, on Sunday. They said they came all the way from Delhi to extend support to the striking VSP workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-union-leaders-visit-hunger-strike-camp/article34354836.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 551 new COVID cases, one death||The Visakhapatnam district recorded as many as 551 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 68,447, as on Sunday morning. For the first time, the day tally has crossed the 500-mark in the district this year. This is also the highest single-day tally the district has reported in the last seven months. The district also saw one more death taking the toll to 569. With the new cases, the total number of cases and deaths reported in this month are 6,149 and 23 respectively. Recovery rate As many as 300 persons have been recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin. The total number of recoveries has increased to 63,816. Active cases The number of active cases crossed the 4,000-mark in the district and stands at 4,062 on Sunday morning. The last 1,000 active cases have been reported in five days. On March 1, the number of active cases was 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-dist-sees-551-new-cases-one-death/article34354157.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP to supply oxygen through railways||The Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) is gearing up to supply liquid medical oxygen to different parts of the country through the railways. Railway sources said that the liquid oxygen has to be prepared after the rakes carrying the empty oxygen tanks arrive from Maharashtra. The empty tanks are expected to arrive at the VSP by Monday evening. A ramp is being fabricated at the VSP to receive the empty tanks. The liquid oxygen has to be prepared after the arrival of the rake as once it is manufactured, it has to be transferred immediately into the container, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-to-supply-oxygen-through-railways/article34354839.ece
19 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charred body found||A completely charred body of a person was found near Sapparla Ghat Road under Sileru police station limits in the district on Sunday morning. Police are yet to ascertain the identity of the victim. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/charred-body-found/article34354842.ece
19 April 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram DSP succumbs to COVID after week of illness||Vizianagaram Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Papa Rao succumbed to COVID-19 here in the early hours of Sunday. Mr. Papa Rao (58) was suffering from fever for the past one week and was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. The police officer subsequently tested positive for COVID-19, which he had in all likelihood contracted in the line of duty. He hailed from Sivarampuram village of Saravakota mandal in Srikakulam district and is survived by his wife and two children, who are also undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari condoled Papa Rao’s death and hailed his tireless services to the department. Ms. Rajakumari also urged police officials to take all possible precautions while discharging duties. Family members, colleagues and Central Crime Station officials were in a state of shock at the untimely demise of the senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-dsp-succumbs-to-covid-after-week-of-illness/article34354753.ece
19 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activists urge people to donate to charity||Lifting Hands Association founder Kandi Gowri Sankar urged people to extend their helping hand to orphans and destitutes who were deprived of food due to the closure of orphanages in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Along with members of the association, Mr. Gowri Sankar organised Annadanam at Pyditalli Ammavari temple and distributed meal packets to orphans. Association vice-president S. Atchireddy urged the government to establish temporary care centres for the needy as they would not have shelter due to the closure of orphanages run by temples and charitable organisations. Organisation members R. Sankar Reddy, Durga Prasad, and Janni Sivannarayana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-urge-people-to-donate-to-charity/article34354782.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 94% of ICU beds occupied in Bengaluru||As the number of cases being reported daily continues to rise, 94.72% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds in hospitals in Bengaluru that were reserved for COVID-19 positive patients have been filled, as on Sunday evening. Data provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare as of 6 p.m. stated that 323 of the 341 ICU beds in the city were occupied. Of the total 6,102 beds available in hospitals in the city, 4,475 were occupied. This means that 73.34% of the beds reserved for COVID-19 patients are occupied. This included beds from government medical colleges, government hospitals, private medical colleges and private hospitals. As many as 96.22% of the ICU beds with ventilators and 83.2% of the High Dependency Unit beds in the city are occupied, while the percentage of general beds occupied is 59.08%. The highest occupancy of beds – 92.12 % – is in government medical colleges in the city, while the least occupancy is in private medical colleges, where 68.08% of the beds are occupied. Several family members and friends of patients who tested positive for COVID 19 were desperately posting pleas on social media asking if anyone could help them secure hospital beds. ‘Response is not good’ Speaking after inspecting SAKRA hospitals, K. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister, said, “We will ramp up beds based on the prevailing situation. Private hospitals must join hands with the government in this fight against thepandemic.” He also pointed out that the response of private hospitals for reserving 50% beds for COVID-19 patients has not been satisfactory and government may have to initiate legal action against those failed to comply with the orders. The Minister said that Manipal Hospitals have not provided 50% of the beds for COVID-19 patients and strict instructions have been issued to the hospital. He also said that an increase in beds and other temporary arrangements in hotels are being made. According to the department’s database, there are currently two government COVID-19 care centres, and 83.56% of the 578 beds were full in these centres. Health experts point out that there is a need to ensure that persons who test positive for COVID-19 and are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms should not be admitted to hospitals. Noted epidemiologist and member of State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee Giridhar R. Babu said, “Governments need to issue strict orders banning admission of asymptomatic or persons with mild symptoms in all hospitals. This is preventing the admission of people who need oxygenated beds.” ‘Can’t tell patients to go’ H.M. Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said that they could not ask patients to vacate beds. “The Minister needs to understand that there is shortage of beds. We are not denying treatment. The government, instead of solving the problem and appointing Arogya Mitras in each hospital, is blaming us,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar said that if private hospitals did not provide 50% of beds under government quota, their licences would be revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-94-of-icu-beds-occupied-in-bengaluru/article34354105.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID casts shadow on festivities in Rama temples||A rapid spread of a second wave of COVID-19 cases has cast a shadow on all forms of festivities slated to be held this week in Sri Rama temples across the TTD circuit. The Brahmotsavams slated to be observed from April 21 to 29 at the Sri Kodandaramalayam in Vontimitta of Kadapa district will be performed in private (Ekantham), in view of the pandemic. The annual festival, which coincides with ‘Sri Rama Navami’ every year, used to be conducted amid much fanfare and religious fervour. All the ‘Vahanams’ will be observed inside the temple, where devotees will not be allowed. Sita Rama Kalyanam, the divine wedding observed as a State function at this temple ever since bifurcation, will also be a private affair. Similarly, the Sri Rama Navami event will be performed in the absence of devotees at Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple in Tirupati. On April 21, Tirumanjanam (celestial bath) will be performed to the presiding deity inside the sanctum sanctorum, followed by Asthanam and Hanumantha Vahanam in the evening. Srirama Pattabhishekam will be a simple closed-door event this year on April 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-casts-shadow-on-festivities-in-rama-temples/article34354155.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh action against suspended IPS officer||According to Government Order Rt No.767, issued by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das on Sunday, an enquiry will be held only in respect of those articles of charge which are not admitted, if it is considered necessary. Mr. Rao has to admit or deny each one of those charges. The rule Action will be taken against him based on the material available on record on the ground that he has no explanation to offer, if Mr. Rao fails to give a written statement of defence in the specified time or does not appear in person before the competent authority or fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of Rule 8 of All India Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules 1969 or the orders or directions issued in pursuance of the said rule. Mr. Rao’s attention has been drawn to Rule 18 of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 which says no member of the Service should bring or attempt to bring any political or outside influence to bear upon any superior authority to further his / her interests in respect of the matter pertaining to his / her service under the government. If any representation is received on his behalf from another person in respect of any matter dealt with in these proceedings, it will be presumed that Mr. Rao is aware of such a representation and that it has been made at his instance and action will be taken against him for violation of Rule 18, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-action-against-suspended-ips-officer/article34354749.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Field day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/field-day/article34354162.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Having a field day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/having-a-field-day/article34354843.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lake makeover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lake-makeover/article34354116.ece
19 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Temple cancels pujas and sevas||As part of precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the authorities of Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam have decided to cancel all pujas and sevas held inside the shrine from April 19 to 30. Only free and Sheegra darshan will be allowed in strict adherence to COVID safety regulations during this period. The temple administration has already decided not to allow devotees to Sri Rama Navami Brahmotsavams and conduct the annual religious fete in a simple manner in the presence of the essential temple staff inside the temple complex. All darshans, pujas, sevas and Annadanam seva will be completely suspended for two days during the annual Sri Sita Rama Tiru Kalyana Mahotsavam and Pattabhisheka Mahotsavam on April 21 and 22. The same norms will be implemented at Parnashala in Dummugudem mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/temple-cancels-pujas-and-sevas/article34354696.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Budget cuts and ad hoc policies add to Golconda Fort’s ruin||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), according to legal filings, has brought 153 instances of encroachments inside the medieval Golconda Fort to the notice of the State government in a 10-year period between 2010 and now. “Our staff is scared to even inspect some locations and we seek police help. We send notices. And the encroachers tear up the notices,” an ASI official told this reporter earlier when asked about the runaway encroachments inside the Golconda Fort. The result? Satellite imagery shows that the scattered patchwork of houses in 2003 surrounding the inner Golconda Fort look like a dense quilt in 2020. An August 5, 1985, notification of the Department of Culture spells out the Golconda Fort area to include: “Golconda fort comprising citadel, outer fortification walls, gateways and other ancient structures including Naya Qila and Qutab Shahi Mahal together with government land lying between the inner citadel and outer fortification wall”. It also included all private land within the fort. But in the absence of detailed revenue maps, ASI officials say they are helpless. Strong political backing has made the encroachers fearless. Even the first Qutb Shahi masjid build by Sultan Quli has not been spared and parts of it have disappeared over the last three years. Even the new entrance plaza built after 2018 has been hobbled by encroachments near the so-called Murda Darwaza. The saddest commentary about the ASI’s control over the monument is the staff quarters which have been turned into rubbish heaps by the residents of the surrounding area. While encroachments have bedevilled the Golconda Fort for a long time, the upkeep of the inner fort has been hampered by fund crunch and ad hoc policies. “There is no work. No strategy, no plans, no expertise all ad hoc,” says a conservation architect unwilling to go on record. Visitors entering through the Mecca Darwaza have to look towards the Bala Hissar (high citadel) to notice two portions where the wall has collapsed. The fortified walls collapsed as the loosened lime mortar and mud gave way under the impact of the monsoon of 2020. The Majnu Burj collapsed in the rain as the rock under it was chiselled tilting the massive brass cannon on the bastion. While the ASI has restored large portions of the Golconda Fort giving shape using the rock debris the sprawling complex. The Mulla Khayali Mosque, Darbar Hall, Mosque, Akkanna Madanna Record Office, Naubatkhana and other structures now have a shape that was missing sometime back. The funding for ASI was trimmed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Culture’s budget was cut by 15% from Rs. 3,149.86 crore allocation in 20-21 to Rs. 2211.85 crore actuals. The ASI’s budget has seen a dip from Rs. 1,247 crore allocation in 20-21 to Rs. 1,042 crore in 21-22 — a decline of 16%. These budgetary cuts have had a direct impact on the conservation work of ASI as the other expenses of the department like salary, pensions and overhead costs remain constant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/budget-cuts-add-to-golconda-forts-ruin/article34354679.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Vaccinate priority groups first’||Study shows that at least 70% population need to be vaccinated if the ‘herd immunity’ for COVID-19 is to be achieved to break the transmission chain with efficacious vaccines that prevent infection. Given the level of vaccine hesitancy, this is a daunting task for the country. Therefore, at the moment, preventing death and severe COVID by vaccinating the priority groups should be the target, asserts Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad (IIPH), Director G.V.S. Murthy on Sunday. While the government had permitted Russian ‘Sputnik’ vaccine for emergency use, he expects more permissions in the offing and certainly bats for clearing the path for “effective proven vaccines that have undergone Phase 3 clinical trials in other countries and have validated efficacy”. This has to be considered for India due to sheer population size, rapid transmission of COVID and the need to stockpile vaccines, he says. In this second part of an exclusive interaction conducted recently (First part: “Virus surges will continue”), the Director of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) founded institute, also stated that the ‘Behavioural’ or ‘Social’ vaccine of face masks, social distancing and hand or personal hygiene was still our “best bet” and this needs to be marketed effectively, “at least for the next few years”. If all elderly people and people with co-morbidities, irrespective of age, are to be vaccinated, 200 million people would need 400 million doses within the next 8-10 weeks. If the entire population of Telangana, above the age of 20 years, were to be vaccinated, nearly 8 million doses will be required. “Looking at the logistics and rationale of vaccination, we have to target the important priority groups at the moment,” says Dr. Murthy. Essential healthcare workers form the first category while the second is those who might experience severe harm from COVID-19 that necessitates admission to hospital, critical care and death like populations above 65 years, those with high risk health conditions and those in close contact with people at high risk of poor outcomes. Even those of 55 years and above could be considered for our country. “Rest of the population is only the third priority, this is a globally accepted norm and India is no exception. Additional priority groups are like people with any chronic condition like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac conditions, renal conditions, irrespective of their age. The other group could be people with disabilities and their care givers,” he observed. School teachers could be considered as the next priority since schooling is important for child development. He also cautions that the currently available COVID vaccinations only “reduce the risk of severe disease and death”. “All studies unequivocally show that the risk of severe disease and death is significantly higher among the older population and those with co-morbidities, compared to the other population groups. Therefore, the current phase of the vaccine should target these outcomes. Since available vaccines do not reduce transmission, these would not be very effective in control of COVID through a mass immunization drive,” he maintains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccinate-priority-groups-first/article34354684.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aren’t COVID protocols applicable to parties?||“Don’t step out unless it is absolutely essential. Don’t crowd and attend large gatherings”, senior Health officials have been trying to drill this precaution into the minds of people. However, the decision to hold elections in five municipalities and two municipal corporations in the State goes completely against these instructions. Elections are scheduled to be held for wards in Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation and Khammam Municipal Corporation, and in Atchampet, Nakrekal, Siddipet, Jadcherla and Kothur municipalities. The polls will be held on April 30. At a press conference held on Saturday, Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that cases were set to increase in the coming days. He also urged people to postpone marriages or other functions if possible, and to celebrate with close family members and friends if holding the function was inevitable. But, the Nagarjunasagar byelection was held on Saturday, and heavy campaigning was taken up in the run up to it. When asked whether these appeals or precautions do not apply on political parties, Dr. Srinivasa Rao said that the COVID protocols apply on parties too, and politicians should ensure these were followed at public meetings. “Everybody has to take social responsibility. This is a pandemic. We should not aim to treat it, but prevent it. All departments and systems in government have to come together. Till the time the virus is under control we should not move. Restrict to your homes,” he said. However, as seen during campaigning for earlier municipal elections, precautions go for a toss at mass campaigning programmes. The turnout for the Nagarjunasagar Assembly bypoll was 82.6%, which is the highest compared to the last 13 terms of the constituency. Prior to it, political parties held campaigning programmes. All this happened when the cases were surging. The Health department has intensified surveillance in the constituency like increasing the number of tests to see if there is any surge in cases. Such surveillance measures would also be taken up at other places where elections will be held. Till Saturday afternoon, the Health officials did not identify any surge in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arent-covid-protocols-applicable-to-parties/article34354688.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dry hot days ahead in State||After a brief respite due to cloudy skies and small showers, brace up for hot weather ahead with the forecast for the next few days being dry weather with maximum temperature likely to climb up by 2 to 3 degee Celsius in isolated places across Telangana, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday. It will be partly cloudy sky and day temperature is likely to be 38 degree C and night temperature 25 degree C on Monday with the temperatures being 37 degree C and 25 degree C, respectively on Sunday. Adilabad recorded the highest temperature during the day at 41 degree C. Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) has informed in a bulletin that the highest rainfall was 16.5mm in Lingapur, Kumram Bheem district. Lowest minimum temperature has been 20.2 C recorded at Chukkapur (Rangareddy). Weather is expected to be dry for next three days with maximum temperatures expected to be in the range of 39-42 degree C and minimum temperatures expected to be in the range of 23-25 degree C over many districts. Within the GHMC, the highest temperature recorded was 38.1 degree C at Maruthinagar, Medchal-Malkajgiri district and lowest minimum temperature was 21.9 degree C recorded at Rajendranagar. Maximum temperatures are expected to be in the range of 37-39 degree C while the minimum temperatures are expected to be in the range 23-24 degree C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dry-hot-days-ahead-in-state/article34354671.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Staring at losses this Ramzan too||Businesses took a hit last Ramzan on account of the COVID-19 lockdown. With the restrictions being eased in the past few months, the trading community was hopeful of a resurgence in business activity, and was also looking forward to making up for the losses. But with the second wave hitting hard, the prospects now seem grim. Those part of the business community said that in the last 15 days of Ramzan, business, especially for those in the retail segment, picks up. While the first week of Ramzan generally doesn’t yield much in terms of footfall, eventually translating into sales, it is the last fortnight, especially last daha (10 days), which is crucial. “After the lockdown last year, the market had picked up really well till late February this year. But as soon as March came about, and an increase in COVID-19 cases was noticed, there was a drastic slowdown. There is an unbelievable drop in revenues by up to 70%,” says Esa Mohammed, who runs a chain of popular clothing stores, and has interests in real estate as well. Mr Mohammed says his company analysed the revenue generated through sales this year with data of the corresponding period over the past three years. What they found was that the revenues were far lesser. “Overall, even if we do well in the last 10 days of the holy month, there can be an overall drop in revenue by 30% to 40%. The only way to beat this is by being careful, and wearing a mask all the time,” he says. With the rumour mills of another lockdown or a night curfew on an overdrive, the business community says this has done little to instil a sense of equanimity. Instead, it has sparked confusion. “The case is the same with all businesses, big or small. It is in the last 10 days of Ramzan that they seek to make headway. A substantial number of businesses depend on this. That another lockdown will be economically devastating is the prevailing sentiment among all traders,” says Ibrahim Bukhari, who heads the chain of ethnic wear stores, Jahanpanah. While the brick-and-mortar stores are still open, the uncertainty has forced Mr Bukhari to take proactive steps. This entails moving his inventory online, so that those who do want to step out can shop on the website. “In such circumstances, it is important to think of such business models. There is no other option but to keep up with exigencies created by such situations,” Mr Bukhari opines. Another trader who did not wish to be identified said that clothing is usually procured from cities such as Kolkata, New Delhi and Mumbai. With COVID-19 restrictions in force in Maharashtra, procurement activity, too, has taken a beating. Wholesalers who have limited stocks are unwilling to deliver goods on credit. “The uncertainty is so much that only those retailers who have a near-excellent track record are being given credit facility. Otherwise, it is cash-and-carry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/businesses-staring-at-losses-this-ramzan-too/article34354663.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘FTCCI, TS dept. can set up skill development centre’||The Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education Navin Mittal on Friday said the Department of Collegiate and Technical Education and the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) can collaborate to set up a skill development centre. Addressing a webinar on ‘Understanding the benefits of apprenticeship for employers’ organised by FTCCI, he said the Department and the Federation can enter into an MoU for such a facility. The official also traced the concept of apprenticeship, the role it played in industrialisation globally and the relevant legislations in India. The country, he said, made amendments in 2019 to the Apprenticeship Act to improve the employability of engineering graduates. The National Skill Development Corporation mandated industrial training since it provides hands-on job experience. A release from FTCCI on the meeting said in association with the Board of Apprentice Training, the Federation will conduct an Apprentices Fair in June. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani said industry can play a key role in improving the employability of students by offering apprenticeships in their organisations. Chair (HR and IR Committee) of FTCCI R. Ravi Kumar said employers were increasingly worried about scouting and holding on to quality, skilled workers even as economists warn of widening skill gap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ftcci-ts-dept-can-set-up-skill-development-centre/article34354664.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NITI Aayog member advocates higher water use efficiency in Telangana||NITI Aayog member Ramesh Chand has advocated adoption of water-saving and improved irrigation practices and technology to increase water use efficiency in Telangana as the State government has been investing heavily in irrigation sector. “The potential created must be optimally utilised with the benefit reaching as many farmers as possible. At present, the cropping intensity in irrigated areas is only 158% and the agricultural university has a larger role to play here to develop crop sequences and package of technology to raise the cropping intensity to beyond 180%,” Mr. Chand said at the virtual fifth convocation of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University on Saturday. “Some pockets in TS have made remarkable progress through diversification and new enterprises like seed production. However, fruits and vegetables are being cultivated on less than 5% of the cultivable land,” he observed. Diversification towards high-value crops and sustainable intensification need special attention as they were promising pathways for the future of agriculture in the State, he said in his convocation address. Despite several initiatives and direct intervention in nutrition, overall level of nutrition remains poor. Health outcomes show mixed results across States, and the country was shown in a poor light by international agencies in indicators such as child mortality, stunting, nutrition and health status of women despite surplus production of staple foods. He stated that experts blame this on imbalance in diet and in food production. Special emphasis was being placed on increasing intake of millets, pulses and leafy vegetables. Bio-fortification of crops was also being suggested as another route to improve nutrition. Researchers at PJTSAU should address these dimensions to attract farmers to raise area under nutri-cereals, vegetables, and bio-fortified varieties of food crops, he suggested. Stating that the challenge in future was more daunting, he said: “We are aware of climate change, rising stress on water sources, prevalence of under nutrition and malnutrition and food safety issues. India is producing 10% more rice than what is needed. On the other hand, over 60% of the domestic demand for edible oil is being met from imports. We are also suffering from chronic deficiency in pulses”. However, it would not happen without significant breakthrough in productivity of oilseeds and pulses and strong policy support with shift in focus of research towards oilseeds, pulses and millets, Mr. Chand said. Governor and university Chancellor Tamilisai Soundararajan complimented the State government for ushering in reforms in all sectors and implementing a wide range of welfare schemes. PJTSAU Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao presented a report on the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/niti-aayog-member-advocates-higher-water-use-efficiency-in-telangana/article34354666.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to raise Rs. 1,500 crore through sale of securities||The State government has decided to raise Rs. 1,500 crore open market borrowings through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to meet its immediate financial commitments. The government has accordingly decided to sell securities worth Rs. 1,500 in the auction to be conducted by the RBI on Monday. The RBI will auction securities pertaining to Arunachal Pradesh (Rs. 400 crore), Nagaland (Rs. 350 crore) and Rajasthan (Rs. 1,000 crore) in addition to Telangana during the auction. The auction would be conducted on the Reserve Bank of India Core Banking Solution (E-Kuber) system and payment by successful bidders would be made during banking hours on Tuesday at RBI head office in Mumbai and its regional offices. Though the calendar released by the RBI mentioned that the government had confirmed participation for raising market borrowings to the tune of Rs. 1,000 crore, the amount had been increased by Rs. 500 crore subsequently. The development reportedly follows the State government’s decision to implement fitment of 30% to all categories of employees from this month. The government is expected to incur additional expenditure in excess of Rs. 900 crore a month on account of the implementation of pay revision. In addition, the government had to credit Rs. 5,000 an acre each into the accounts of over 60 lakh farmers starting next month as Rythu Bandhu instalment for Vaanakaalam (kharif) season. It was therefore decided to raise resources from available sources to ensure that there was no shortfall of funds in fulfilling the commitment given to employees and farmers. Raising financial resources through RBI’s open market borrowings on Monday will be the first such development in the current financial year. The government had kept open option for borrowings over Rs. 47,000 crore during the current fiscal. Meanwhile, the stage is being set for issuance of government orders on the implementation of the new pay scales for employees even as modalities are said to be worked out for fixing the quantum of enhancement to contract, outsourcing and other categories of staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-raise-rs-1500-cr-through-securities-sale/article34354690.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fighting virus threat with sanitation drive||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) launched a special sanitation drive in different parts of the city on Sunday to meet the COVID-19 threat. Its teams took up fogging in more than 16,000 areas with small sized fogging machines. The special drive follows instructions of Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao for taking up sanitation programmes over four days by mobilising additional vehicles and spending more time on operations. GHMC teams fanned out into different areas and took up activities like cleaning of garbage.  Emergency teams  At the same time, 453 teams headed by entomologists sprayed sodium hypochlorate with the help of sprayers, fogging machines and spray jets in 636 localities in the GHMC limits. Spraying operations were also taken up at urban health centres, ‘basti’ dispensaries, religious places, markets and other thickly populated areas. Emergency teams had been constituted at zonal and circle levels on the instructions of Mr. Rama Rao. Mayor G. Vijayalakshmi conducted surprise visits in some places in Khairatabad and Charminar zones to supervise the operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fighting-threat-with-sanitation/article34354676.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Remdesivir not for all patients’||Social media platforms are flooded with requests for Remdesivir, considered an important drug in the treatment of COVID-19 and which is in short supply across the country. However, doctors who have been attending and monitoring thousands of critical COVID-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital have flagged the dangers of irrational use of Remdesivir and other anti-viral drugs. M. Raja Rao, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital, which has once again been turned into an exclusive COVID Care Centre, said that Remdesivir should be given only in the first week, along with convalescent plasma, to moderate and severe COVID patients. The senior doctor who has been attending coronavirus cases said that it should not be given to asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients. “Anti-viral drugs are useful when the virus is in blood,” he said at a press conference held at State Health Campus, Koti, on Saturday. Senior officials of the Health department said that they have received information that patients in home isolation and those with mild symptoms were also being prescribed the medicine. Apart from side-effects, irrational use leads to shortage for critical patients who really need the drug. In the past few days, friends and families of COVID-positive persons have been requesting for Remdesivir and are even ready to cough up extra money. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that they held an orientation programme for doctors of private hospitals where guidelines on using Remdesivir were explained. He said that the Drugs Control Administration is streamlining supply of the anti-viral drug as well as oxygen. A list of 1,300 hospitals identified for COVID treatment was sent to DCA officials, who in turn send it to the two companies in the State which manufacture the drug. The injection vials are supplied based on patients’ need. Limited supply Currently, it is not being supplied to medical shops or wholesale distributors. So, it cannot be bought over the counter. Supply to hospitals is limited. Dr Raja Rao spoke about judicious use of Tocilizumab too. A few patients admitted at the government hospitals judged quality of treatment based on whether Remdesivir and other drugs were given to them. People were informed that the drugs were administered to patients whose medical conditions required the medication, and after their health condition and complications were thoroughly assessed. For instance, Remdesivir is not given to those with liver or kidney problems. Doctors consider multiple factors before prescribing a drug, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/remdesivir-not-for-all-patients/article34354655.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Actor Naresh accuses realtor of cheating him of Rs. 10 crore||Senior Tollywood actor Naresh recently approached Hyderabad Central Crime Station accusing a realtor of cheating his family to the tune of Rs. 10 crore. Mr. Naresh, who is the son of late actor-director Vijayanirmala, informed the police that Lingam Srinivas of Key Stone Infra Private Limited took a hand loan of Rs. 7.5 crore from him and his family members, including maternal uncle Raghunath, around six years ago and failed to return the sum. “Lingam Srinivas was the signing authority for Phoenix Group and through my uncle Raghunath, he took the hand loan and since then he is harassing us by not repaying the amount. We are supposed to get Rs. 10 crore from him,” Mr. Naresh said in a video here on Sunday. When contacted, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said that based on the complaint lodged by the actor, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/actor-naresh-accuses-realtor-of-cheating-him-of-rs-10-crore/article34354673.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Putting healthcare workers in harm’s way||People with clear symptoms of COVID-19 are posing a threat to doctors at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) by not declaring their health status and skipping coronavirus tests before a medical procedure at the hospital. Fear of delay Quite a few patients chose not to undergo testing as they feared a positive result or isolation would delay their treatment, revealed OGH doctors. “A few patients claimed the symptoms were unrelated to COVID-19 and demanded to be treated for their other ailments. Some later tested positive and the infection spread to some of my colleagues. Putting doctors and other healthcare workers in harm’s way in these times would mean less medical professionals to attend patients,” said a doctor of OGH. Other medical professionals also pointed out the risk of patients transmitting the infection to doctors by not undergoing COVID tests. COVID-positive persons needing to undergo medical procedures such as surgeries can head to Gandhi Hospital, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-suspects-putting-hcws-in-harms-way/article34354658.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. to SEC: Postpone civic elections||Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir has urged the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) to postpone the elections to 7 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), including Greater Warangal and Khammam Municipal corporations, in view of the worsening COVID pandemic situation. In a letter to EC C. Parathasarathi, he reminded that the State government has cancelled the SSC exams and promoted Intermediate First Year students while postponing the second year exams. COVID guidelines have also been revised to make them more stringent so as to prevent further spread of the virus. So why is the government in a hurry to conduct these elections, he asked. He also reminded that many national events, including Kumbh mela, have been wound up 13 days before schedule. “Since elections will involve intense electioneering by all political parties and candidates by way of public meetings, rallies and other gatherings common people will face the risk of infection,” he said demanding the postponement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-to-sec-postpone-civic-elections/article34354692.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||One killed as truck crashes into culvert||A youth died and three others suffered severe injuries after the container truck they were travelling in crashed into the railing of a culvert on the Nehru Outer Ring Road at Narsingi late on Saturday night. The victim, Rakesh (23), was a truck cleaner hailing from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. He along with driver Mukesh Yadav and friends Dharmender and Mukhalal were on their way to Hyderabad with a load of bearing plates of fans when the accident took place around 1.40 a.m. Police said Mukesh dozed off and lost control of the wheels, crashing the vehicle into the culvert railings. The impact of the accident was such that the bearings crashed into the driver’s cabin and Rakesh got crushed between the heavy metal objects. He died on the spot. The other three suffered critical injuries and were rushed to the nearest hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-killed-3-injured-as-truck-crashes-into-culvert/article34354674.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bharat Ka Amrut Mahotsav programmes postponed||The State government has postponed all programmes in connection with “Bharat ka Amrut Mahotsav” to commemorate 75 years of Indian Independence in view of the spread of coronavirus in the State. The programmes were inaugurated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Public Gardens on March 12. Since then, a freedom run was conducted on March 23, a poetic meet (kavi sammelan) was held at Ravindra Bharati on April 3 and a photo exhibition on freedom struggle at State Art Gallery from April 9 to 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharat-ka-amrut-mahotsav-programmes-postponed/article34354685.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefs/ Protest for quota in law-making bodies||National Backward Classes Welfare Association president R. Krishnaiah has alleged that political parties have been using the backward classes purely as a vote bank and denying them their due share in power. Speaking at the executive meeting of the BC Yuvajana Sangham here on Sunday, he said that democracy in the country was being influenced by money power. After getting elected with money power, the influential persons were using their power only for earning more and denying people even basic needs. They were planning a protest at Parliament soon with a demand for 50% reservation to BC communities in law-making bodies, Mr. Krishnaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefs-protest-for-quota-in-law-making-bodies/article34354686.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP leaders condole Bhawarlal Verma death (briefly)||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar and other leaders paid homage to former corporator and senior party leader Bhawarlal Verma on Friday. They recalled his service to the society and the party as a loyal soldier and expressed their condolences to the family of the departed leader. Mr. Reddy and others visited his home to console the family, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-condole-bhawarlal-verma-death-briefly/article34354689.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||War Room for oxygen supply||Former MLC and Telangana BJP core committee member P. Sudhakar Reddy has appealed to the State government to immediately establish a ‘War Room’ to facilitate medical oxygen to stakeholders as has been done in Karnataka, and increase the number of paramedical staff and doctors at Gandhi and other hospitals for rising COVID-19 patients. This was necessary to “control the loot by private hospitals, in corona-related treatments. The government should also take up awareness campaign to make people wear masks in public”, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/war-room-for-oxygen-supply/article34354667.ece
19 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hussainsagar turns greenish||The placid waters of Hussainsagar in the heart of the city have turned greenish over the last few days with rise in temperatures and the consequent execution of a bacterial technology — bioremediation — to remove the powder form of green topping the water. Lake authorities said this was a regular feature in summer and will last a fortnight till thebioremediation effect was felt. The technology to increase oxygen in water and improve aerobic bacteria was under way for a week. It will continue for another week when the original colour of the water will berestored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bioremediation-renders-hussainsagar-greenish-to-last-one-more-week/article34354662.ece
19 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Etigaddakishtapur oustees vacate village||In a great relief to district administration, oustees of Etigaddakishtapur have agreed to leave the village and shift to the R&R Colony at Mutrajpally near Gajwel. The oustees from Brahmana Banjerpally have also decided to leave the village. Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy held discussions at Mulugu forest office guesthouse with farmers and promised them of clearing all the remaining payments at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-vacate-village/article34354695.ece
19 April 2021||SIDDIPET/Khammam,TELANGANA||Rush on final day of filing nominations||On the last day of filing nominations, Siddipet municipality witnessed a huge rush with candidates from different political parties and Independents filing nominations for different wards. There are more Independents than candidates from political parties. According to official sources, a total of 566 nominations were filed till the last day. Candidates from all the three major parties, TRS, Congress and BJP, filed their nominations for all wards. However, names of candidates were not officially announced so far. This may change depending on last minute political equations. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao had already announced candidates for 12 wards and for the remaining wards, names would be announced in a day or two. The scrutiny will be held on Monday, and the final list would be known after that. 377 nominations A whopping 377 nominations were filed for 60 wards in the poll-bound Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Sunday, the last day for filing of nominations for the civic body election to the KMC, slated for April 30. The total number of nominations filed for the 60 wards of KMC has reached 522 after the end of the nomination filing process on Sunday evening. The party-wise break up of nominations is as follows: TRS (163) Congress (125) BJP (84) CPI (M) (35), TDP (16) and CPI (7). A total of 76 nominations were filed by independent candidates comprising several disgruntled ticket aspirants of the main political parties, sources said. Sources said that the ruling TRS and the CPI district committees reportedly struck an electoral alliance for the KMC polls. The CPI district leadership is keen on contesting from as many as seven wards as part of the alliance leaving the remaining 53 for the TRS. The TRS is making all out efforts to emerge victorious at the hustings and retain the coveted Mayor post, reserved for women under the General category. The BJP and the Jana Sena have reportedly decided to go to the KMC polls together. The district leaders of both the parties held parleys here on Sunday night to finalise the modalities of the pre-poll alliance. The main Opposition Congress has kept all options open for the CPI (M) and the TDP to stitch an electoral alliance to put up a joint fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rush-on-last-day-of-nominations/article34354694.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Desperate times, desperate measures||In spite of the innumerable instances of the coronavirus pandemic heaping social discrimination (ostracism) on the society both during the first wave last year and the ongoing second wave now, there are umpteen examples of some individuals exhibiting human values in abundance. In Jammikunta town of Karimnagar district, a landlord did not allow his tenant (a woman) enter the premises as she was tested COVID positive. In another instance at Tandur, a COVID positive patient eking out a living by running a roadside eatery was ostracised socially by neighbours in the locality. Unable to withstand the ‘trauma’, the person took the extreme step to end his life by jumping in front of a moving train. However, a Sub-Inspector of Police at Kamanpur in Peddapalli district came to the rescue of a migrant family from Jharkhand involved in construction activity after they were not allowed to enter their rented house by the landlord as a couple of them tested positive. Unable to convince the landlord to allow them to stay in the rented portion, the SI provided shelter to the family in a government school after restoring power supply and arranging medicines and food. Such examples provide a silver lining in pandemic times.   The decision of the government to convert Gandhi Hospital into an exclusive COVID institution from Saturday has led to huge problems for patients, particularly those from outside the city, who are already undergoing treatment. The hospital authorities started discharging patients from various non-emergency wards from Friday night and shifted accident victims and others with surgeries in emergency wards to other hospitals. This landed poor patients who needed more treatment to get admitted to private hospitals because other government hospitals like Osmania were also crowded with in-patients.   As the surge in COVID cases continues, focus has now shifted again to whether government employees should be allowed to work from home or physical attendance would be mandatory. Employees in the Secretariat and offices of the heads of departments and commissionerates are a worried lot these days given the rapid rise in positive cases. COVID cases are being reported regularly from different floors of the BRKR Bhavan and the same is the case with other major government offices. This prompted a debate on whether employees should work from home or whether there should be rotation system allowing only a section of employees to attend office on a given day.  (B. Chandrashekhar, N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/desperate-times-desperate-measures/article34354691.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Violators come up with absurd excuses||The Delhi police came across unreasonable excuses from weekend curfew violators despite repeated appeal made by the government, apart from the police requesting people to stay indoors and avoid venturing out for no valid reason. The South East district took action against such violators. Out to buy liquor In one such case, a man said he was going to buy liquor when the police stopped him in Jamia Nagar. He was stopped and booked for violating the lockdown orders. In another case, a man was booked after he claimed he was out to distribute wedding cards for his sister’s wedding. A senior police officer said they have instructed policemen on ground to be strict with violators and gentle towards people with genuine causes. In another case, a couple was booked for violating rules after they created a scene in Daryaganj when their car was stopped by the police for roaming without a valid pass. They were also not wearing masks. The woman tried to escape, but was brought to Daryaganj police station. The couple claimed there was no pandemic and they would continue to roam. The police set up checkpoints at various locations to ensure movement of only those who have been exempted by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police PRO, said all District Deputy Commissioners were on the ground to ensure the implementation of weekend curfew. Over 2,000 fined From 8 p.m. on Saturday to 5 p.m. on Sunday, the Delhi police registered 569 FIRs and arrested 323 people for violating the curfew. Over 2,300 were fined for not wearing masks and 6,661 were fined under the Delhi Police Act for violating COVID-19 norms. The DDMA order for night curfew will be in force till April 30. People engaged in certain professions have been exempted from the curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/violators-come-up-with-absurd-excuses/article34354424.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||List out facilities providing schizophrenia treatment: HC||The Delhi High Court has asked the city government and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to give a list of facilities in and around the Capital which provide care and treatment to patients suffering from schizophrenia. Justice Prathiba M. Singh asked the Delhi government and AIIMS to give a list of such facilities before the next date of hearing on April 27. The High Court also directed the lawyer appearing for a woman who has sought various reliefs, including assistance from the government and the AIIMS in treating her 32-year-old son, in view of his mental condition and his resultant aggressive behaviour. Violent nature “In the meantime, the petitioner [woman] would be free to contact the SHO [Station House Officer] of the area concerned, if there is any threat to her and her husband in any manner due to the alleged violent and aggressive nature of her son,” the High Court ordered. As per a report submitted to the court, a senior resident in psychiatry at AIIMS had examined the woman’s son and diagnosed him with ‘schizophrenia’. The woman’s son was to be admitted in the psychiatry ward of AIIMS, after being tested for COVID-19, as per protocols, during which period, he escaped from the hospital premises.  The High Court also directed the local SHO to immediately attend to the concerns of the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/list-out-facilities-providing-schizophrenia-treatment-hc/article34354419.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Explain basis for approving policies, HC asks insurance body||The Delhi High Court has asked the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) to explain on what basis it was approving insurance policies that excluded mental conditions from full coverage, noting that “a large number of insured persons would be affected by such an insurance policy”. Justice Prathiba M. Singh said that a perusal of the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017, makes its clear that “there can be no discrimination between mental illnesses and physical illnesses and the insurance provided in respect thereof”. “This matter requires consideration, in as much as the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India ought to place on record the basis on which approval has been granted for such insurance policies,” the judge ordered. The court’s direction came on a petition by one Subhash Khandelwal, who has an insurance policy from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited. Mr. Khandelwal’s case is that he has regularly been paying the insurance premium for the sum assured of Rs. 35 lakh. Recently, when he raised a claim with the insurance company in respect of his mental illness, he realised that there is a clause in the policy restricting the sum assured to Rs. 50,000, with a few conditions, in case of mental illnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/explain-basis-for-approving-policies-hc-asks-insurance-body/article34354421.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Key member of fake note syndicate held||A 29-year-old man, alleged to be a key member of a Malda-based fake currency syndicate was arrested near Anand Vihar railway station here, the police said on Sunday. The accused, Abdul Rahim, a resident of West Bengal’s Malda has been smuggling fake Indian currency note (FICN) from Bangladesh for a long time, the police said. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said that they had been receiving information about Malda-based syndicates involved in smuggling of fake currencies via the Indo-Bangladesh border to Delhi and adjoining States. “Based on inputs, a trap was laid and our team nabbed Abdul Rahim from near Anand Vihar railway station on April 16, where he waiting to deliver a huge consignment to his Delhi-based contact. Fake notes worth Rs. 8 lakh in the denomination of Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 500 were seized from his possession,” the officer said. It was revealed that in 2018, while working as a mason at a person named Nasruddin’s house, he was offered to deliver fake notes to make easy money. “Nasruddin used to collect fake notes from suppliers near the Indo-Bangladesh border who smuggled fake currencies from Bangladesh through cross-border smugglers. Later, Rahim also accompanied Nasruddin. They both collected many consignments and supplied to their accomplices in different parts of India during the past three years,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/key-member-of-fake-note-syndicate-held/article34354426.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Over 1.6 lakh challans issued for illegal parking||More than 1.63 lakh vehicles were prosecuted for unauthorised parking and 15,926 vehicles were towed away in the posh areas of south Delhi in the first three months of 2021, the Delhi Traffic Police said on Sunday. South Delhi cases As many as 61,832 e-challans for improper parking were issued on the spot, while 1,02,127 notices were issued via the VOCA (violation on camera application) through mobile application to the registered owners of the vehicles found parked improperly, an official said. A total of 15,926 vehicles were towed away by traffic cranes due to unauthorised parking from January 1 to March 31 from the traffic police’s southern range. Traffic police data showed that 2,976 vehicles were towed from Greater Kailash, followed by 1,872 vehicles from Saket, 1,861 from R K Puram and 1,633 vehicles from Hauz Khas. “Maximum prosecutions are done in Greater Kailash because of crowded markets of M Block and N Block,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-16-lakh-challans-issued-for-illegal-parking/article34354425.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC decides to hear urgent matters only||The Delhi High Court on Sunday announced that it will only take up “extremely urgent matters” from April 19 onwards, in view of the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases in the Capital. The order issued by High Court’s Registrar General Manoj Jain said that other pending routine or non-urgent matters and those cases filed or listed before the court between March 22, 2020 and December 31, 2020, shall not be taken up for now and would be adjourned. “In case of any extreme urgency, the request in the pending matters may be made on the already notified designated link,” the office order said. On April 8, the court had decided that it will take up proceedings through virtual mode from April 9 to April 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-decides-to-hear-urgent-matters-only/article34354422.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||A wave of anxiety||A five-year-old infected  girl, who is a cancer patient, clutching her mother’s fingers outside a hospital building, ambulances filing in and out of Lok Nayak Hospital every three to four minutes, and distress calls by patients for hospital beds and medicine. These are some of the images that linger from last week, when another wave of the pandemic swept across the city, a wave so strong that cases and deaths surged to an all-time high on Sunday. To handle the spike in cases, the Delhi government linked hospitals, banquet halls and other buildings to increase the beds for COVID-19 treatment. The government also imposed a weekend curfew, besides invoking strict restrictions like closing  malls, spas and  banning dining facilities at restaurants. On Sunday, Delhi reported 25,462 new cases, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. The spike in cases is sharper this year and Sunday’s cases are 812.6% higher than the number of new cases on April 1. Unpredictable pattern “We can’t predict a peak at this point. Some models have said that Maharashtra will peak in the first week of May, which means it will take a little more time for Delhi to peak. But we can’t completely rely  on any model,” said Giridhara R Babu, Professor at Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru. Experts said that the government should do more genome sequencing. “Genome sequencing has to be done with epidemiological investigations to understand the virus better. This is what the US and the UK have been doing,” he added. When asked about symptomatic patients testing negative in RT-PCR, he observed: “The sensitivity of the RT-PCR kits is about 70%. That means it will miss 30% of positive cases, even without variants. But at this point  we don’t have enough data to prove whether the variants or mutations are responsible for it.” More children infected Doctors said that more children are getting infected compared to last year. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that 65% of the new cases in the past 10-15 days were below 45 years of age. Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said that the government should focus on providing healthcare facilities more than controlling the spread of the virus. “The COVID-19 virus has spread everywhere now. The focus should be to reduce the deaths,” Dr. Kishore added. Both experts said that there is not  enough data or proof to establish the exact reasons for the current surge. “One is that clinically, we think that the virus has become more infectious, but we don’t have data to establish this. Also, it is because of changes in the virus. If 15-20% of the samples are double mutant strains of the virus in Maharashtra, the same mutation has to be there in Delhi as people keep travelling between the States ," said Dr. Kishore, when asked aboutthe surge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-wave-of-anxiety/article34354367.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID cases in Delhi continue to rise, positivity rate at nearly 30%||The city on Sunday reported 25,462 fresh COVID cases with 161 deaths, read the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The bulletin also stated that 85,620 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 29.74%, which was a jump from Saturday’s 24.56 %. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the increase in the positivity rate to nearly 30% was a major cause for concern. The total number of active cases in the city now stands at 74,941 out of which 34,938 are under home isolation. Number of vacant beds The COVID-19 patient management system shows that out of the 17,514 available beds for COVID-19 patients, 3,527 beds are vacant. At dedicated COVID Care Centres, out of the 5,525 available beds, 4,867 are vacant. The Delhi Corona app shows that out of the available 1,340 ICU beds with ventilator for COVID-19 patients, 38 are vacant. There are 58 vacant ICU beds without ventilator out of the 2,778 available. The health bulletin added that 67,448 beneficiaries had been vaccinated 24 hours of which 54,306 were given their first dose. The cumulative beneficiaries of the vaccination in the Capital now stand at 25,65,918, out which 4,51,487 have received their second dose. ‘Restore oxygen supply’ To deal with the shortage in oxygen supply to patients in Delhi, Mr. Kejriwal wrote to Union Commerce and Industries Minister Piyush Goyal, urging him to ensure an uninterrupted supply of 700MT of oxygen daily. He also asked him to restore 140MT oxygen supply by INOX — one of the major suppliers. The output of INOXhas been diverted to others States, which has started causing a critical shortage in Delhi hospitals, Mr. Kejriwal alleged in a tweet. He and his deputy Manish Sisodia also inspected various hospitals and COVID care centres across the Capital. “Visited Commonwealth Games Village, Yamuna sports complex and government school at Rouse Avenue. A total of 1,500 oxygen beds will become functional between tomorrow and the day after in these three places,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted after announcing the move to add 6,000 beds. The government also passed orders to further augment the bed capacity for COVID patients at all nursing homes and private hospitals. It ordered private hospitals —providing COVID-related treatment — to reserve at least 80% of ICU bed capacity and 80% of ward bed capacity for virus patients. It also told them to display the revised bed capacity on the COVID-19 data management portal immediately.  Chandni Chowk closed  Meanwhile, the Chandni Chowk market association decided to down shop shutters till next Sunday in view of the ongoing COVID surge in the city. Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal president Sanjay Bhargava said the association would review its decision after assessing the condition on April 25 till which time shops would remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-cases-in-delhi-continue-to-rise-positivity-rate-at-nearly-30/article34354363.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues guidelines for gated societies to set up COVID facilities||The Delhi government on Sunday issued guidelines for gated residential complexes to set up COVID facilities to deal with the rising cases in the city. It said the COVID care facility could be set up using the resources of the RWAs/residential societies/NGOs and would be a dedicated health facility for management of suspected, asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic or very mild cases residing in that particular residential area. Who all barred? It said this is not meant for elderly people, children below 10 years, pregnant/lactating women, patients with co-morbidities. The guidelines said intermixing of suspected and confirmed cases shall be allowed and a doctor residing within the gated complex or one provided by the NGO will facilitate daily examination. “The community living in gated complexes may like to create small COVID facility within the residential complex...this will help reduce the burden on existing facilities...,” the guidelines said. The facility can be set up in a community hall, centre, common utility area within the premises of residential complexes or empty flats that are isolated location-wise from the rest of the occupied dwelling. The guidelines include a separate entry/exit and a separate toilet for suspected and confirmed cases with proper cleaning and supplies. It added that beds shall be placed with spatial separation of at least 1 metre from one another and that adequate natural room ventilation shall be ensured. For cleaning, the guidelines said that used linen, pillow covers, towels could be kept in disposable bags for 72 hours and then washed at the patient’s home. The guidelines include a list of dos and don’ts for the patients or suspected patients and the caregivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-issues-guidelines-for-gated-societies-to-set-up-covid-facilities/article34354358.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. orders action against two hospitals for denying admission||The Delhi government on Sunday ordered action against two hospitals in the city that denied admission, citing “no beds available” despite the Corona app indicating beds in their facilities were lying vacant. “After receiving a complaint against a south Delhi hospital that denied admission saying no bed was available despite the Delhi corona app indicating 239 beds were vacant, the government ordered action against the said hospital. Similar action has been taken against another hospital in Janakpuri. While the app noted 93 vacant beds, they denied admission, claiming that they do not have any vacant beds,” the government said. The police have registered FIRs against both the hospitals for providing wrong information related to the availability of beds on the app. An officer said that FIRs have been registered under Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Epidemic Act and relevant sections of IPCs in Tigri and Janakpuri police stations after getting complaints on the matter. “Action will be taken against such hospitals for not following government orders,” the officer said. The move comes after CM Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday issued orders saying that every hospital should ensure correct information on bed availability on the app. Action against airlines The government has also sought action against four airlines for carrying passengers from Maharashtra without valid RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-orders-action-against-two-hospitals-for-denying-admission/article34354360.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police come to rescue as hospital in city runs out of oxygen cylinders||Delhi Police arranged for 20 oxygen cylinders at a hospital in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar after it approached them for help as 35 COVID-19 patients requiring oxygen support were in crisis, officials said on Sunday. The staffer at Nihal Vihar police station received a call around 1.30 p.m. from the director of Mansa Ram Hospital on Nangloi Nazafgarh road. He informed that their oxygen supply is depleting, and the available oxygen supply will not last for more than an hour. The police said the hospital had contacted all the officials concerned but could not get any response due to oxygen shortage. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Sudhanshu Dhama directed two teams to immediately rush to Mundka and Bawana to arrange for oxygen cylinders. “The supplier at Bawana facility stated there was a scarcity of cylinders. However, due to emergency at Mansa Ram Hospital, 10 oxygen cylinders were arranged immediately and 10 more after half and hour,” said Mr. Dhama. The police team from Nihal Vihar then escorted the vehicle carrying 20 oxygen cylinders to Mansa Ram Hospital, he said. In another instance, SHO of Bharat Nagar Mohar Singh arranged five vials of Remidisvir injection and immediately got it airlifted to Bhopal for a 67-year-old COVID patient admitted in ICU.   In another instance, SHO Bharat Nagar arranged five vials of Remidisvir injection and immediately got it airlifted to Bhopal for a COVID patient||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-come-to-rescue-as-hospital-in-city-runs-out-of-oxygen-cylinders/article34354365.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||AAP and BJP spar over bed availability||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP engaged in a war of words on Sunday over the availability of beds for COVID-19 patients in hospitals run by the civic bodies in Delhi. The AAP alleged that the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have around 3,127 hospital beds in the Capital but they have not provided a single bed for COVID-19 patients, a charge rejected by the saffron party which claimed that the Kejriwal government was not giving the municipal corporations the required permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-and-bjp-spar-over-bed-availability/article34354355.ece
19 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Doctor at GTB attacked by patient’s kin||A doctor on emergency duty at COVID ward i n GTB Hospital was allegedly attacked by a patient’s kin after they had an argument over entry into the ward, the police said on Sunday. According to the complaint, the woman doctor was allegedly slapped by the wife of a COVID-19 patient, who has been admitted at the GTB Hospital, on Saturday. The accused also tested positive but had not been admitted to the hospital. In the complaint, the doctor alleged that the accused was requested to not be with her husband in the COVID ward as only admitted patients were allowed. But she opposed this, and an argument took place during which she allegedly assaulted the doctor. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered under Sections of IPC and Medicare Service Personnel and Medicare Service Institution Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property Act, 2008. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahadra) R. Sathiyasundaram said, “We have registered an FIR. The matter is under investigation during which the allegations will be looked into.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/doctor-at-gtb-attacked-by-patients-kin/article34354364.ece
19 April 2021||New Delhi,||Mandatory quarantine for those returning from Kumbh||Delhi residents — who have visited the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar or are planning to do so — will have to undergo compulsory 14-day home quarantine on their return and upload their details on an official website, said Delhi Disaster Management Authority in an order. The ongoing Kumbh Mela has been at the centre of controversy amid fears that it could be a superspreader event with lakhs of devotees attending the event as the second wave of the coronavirus surges uncontrollably. The order issued on Saturday said those who visited Kumbh from 4 April onwards or those who plan to do so till end of the religious congregation at Haridwar on April 30 will have to upload their personal details, ID proof and dates of departure and arrival back to Delhi at the website www.delhi.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mandatory-quarantine-for-those-returning-from-kumbh/article34354356.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP focusing more on election than COVID management, alleges AAP leader||Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday alleged that the BJP was putting more focus on election management than COVID-19 management. Chadha to PM Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Chadha said: “Looking at the deteriorating COVID situation in the country, I want Mr. Modi to leave election management and start COVID management.” Mr. Chadha said the pace at which people are contracting the virus is directly proportional to the speed at which these rallies by the BJP are increasing. “While India has breached the 2 lakh mark in COVID cases, the BJP is focussing on conducting gigantic rallies with huge crowds in West Bengal. Winning elections and collecting votes is their sole motive, and the BJP has nothing to do with the people of India and their lives,” Mr. Chadha said. The AAP leader said elections will be won and lost, political parties may come and go, but the lives of people will not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-focusing-more-on-election-than-covid-management-alleges-aap-leader/article34354357.ece
19 April 2021||Seoul,||U.S., China agree to cooperate with urgency on climate crisis||The U.S. and China, the world’s two biggest carbon polluters, agreed to cooperate to curb climate change with urgency, just days before President Joe Biden hosts a virtual summit of world leaders to discuss the issue. The agreement was reached by U.S. special envoy for climate John Kerry and his Chinese counterpart Xie Zhenhua during two days of talks in Shanghai last week, according to a joint statement. The two countries “are committed to cooperating with each other and with other countries to tackle the climate crisis, which must be addressed with the seriousness and urgency that it demands,” said the statement. Mr. Kerry said the language in the statement is “strong” and that the two countries agreed on “critical elements on where we have to go.” But the former Secretary of state said, “I learned in diplomacy that you don’t put your back on the words, you put on actions. We all need to see what happens.” Biggest polluters China is the world’s biggest carbon emitter, followed by the U.S. The two countries pump out nearly half of the fossil fuel fumes that are warming the planet’s atmosphere. Their cooperation is key to the success of global efforts to curb climate change. Noting that China is the world’s biggest coal user, Mr. Kerry said he and Chinese officials had a lot of discussions on how to accelerate a global energy transition. Mr. Biden has invited 40 world leaders, including Chinese President Xi Jinping, to the April 22-23 summit. The U.S. and other countries are expected to announce more ambitious national targets for cutting carbon emissions ahead of or at the meeting, along with pledging financial help for climate efforts by less wealthy nations. While Mr. Kerry was still in Shanghai, Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng signalled on Friday that China is unlikely to make any new pledges at next week’s summit. “For a big country with 1.4 billion people, these goals are not easily delivered,” Mr. Le said in Beijing. “Some countries are asking China to achieve the goals earlier. I am afraid this is not very realistic.” ‘Not a geopolitical chip’ During a video meeting with German and French leaders on Friday, Mr. Xi said that climate change “should not become a geopolitical chip, a target for attacking other countries or an excuse for trade barriers,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported. On whether Mr. Xi would join the summit, Mr. Le said “the Chinese side is actively studying the matter.” The joint statement said the two countries “look forward to” next week’s summit. Mr. Kerry said on Sunday that “we very much hope that (Xi) will take part” in the summit but it’s up to China to make that decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-agree-to-cooperate-with-urgency-on-climate-crisis/article34354056.ece
19 April 2021||Indianapolis,||Sikhs call for gun reforms in U.S.||Members of Indianapolis’ tight-knit Sikh community joined with city officials to call for gun reforms on Saturday as they mourned the deaths of four Sikhs who were among the eight people killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx warehouse. At a vigil attended by more than 200 at an Indianapolis park on Saturday evening, Aasees Kaur, who represented the Sikh Coalition, spoke out alongside the city’s Mayor and other elected officials to demand action that would prevent such attacks from happening again. “We must support one another, not just in grief, but in calling our policymakers and elected officials to make meaningful change,” Ms. Kaur said. “The time to act is not later, but now. We are far too many tragedies, too late, in doing so.” The attack was another blow to the Asian American community a month after authorities said six people of Asian descent were killed by a gunman in the Atlanta area and amid ongoing attacks against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic. About 90% of the workers at the FedEx warehouse near the Indianapolis International Airport are members of the local Sikh community, police said on Friday. Kiran Deol, who attended the vigil in support of family members affected by the shooting, said loopholes in the law that make it easier for individuals to buy guns “need to be closed now,” and emphasised that anyone who tries to buy a firearm should be required to have their background checked. One of the victims of Thursday night’s shooting was Amarjit Sekhon, a 48-year-old Sikh mother of two sons who was the breadwinner of her family. The coalition says about 5,00,000 Sikhs live in the U.S. Many practicing Sikhs are visually distinguishable by their articles of faith, which include the unshorn hair and turban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sikhs-calls-for-gun-reforms-in-us/article34354053.ece
19 April 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar shadow govt. wants invite for ASEAN crisis talks||Myanmar’s shadow government on Sunday urged Southeast Asian leaders to give it a seat at the table during crisis talks next week, and not to recognise the military regime that seized power in a February coup. Junta leader Min Aung Hlaing is expected to join a special ASEAN summit on Myanmar on Saturday in Jakarta — his first official overseas trip since the putsch that ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The Army has moved to quell mass protests against its rule, killing at least 730 people according to a local monitoring group. The military chief’s invitation to the meeting of the 10-country Association of Southeast Asian Nations has drawn scorn from activists and former lawmakers who have urged foreign leaders not to formally recognise the junta. Moe Zaw Oo, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for the parallel “national unity government” — formed on Friday by ousted lawmakers mostly from Ms. Suu Kyi’s party, as well as ethnic-minority politicians — said ASEAN had not reached out to them. “If ASEAN wants to help solve the Myanmar situation, they are not going to achieve anything without consulting and negotiating with the NUG, which is supported by the people and has full legitimacy,” he told Voice of America ’s Burmese service. “It’s important that this military council is not recognised. This needs to be handled carefully.” Unrest continued across the country on Sunday, with protesters rallying in Mandalay, Meiktila, Magway and Myingyan, showing support for the national unity government. At Palaw in the country’s south, demonstrators brandished banners that read: “Military dictators should not be allowed to rule. The dictatorship will be uprooted. Support the national unity government.” Young demonstrators also staged motorbike rallies while carrying flags in Hpakant and Sagaing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-shadow-govt-wants-invite-for-asean-crisis-talks/article34354046.ece
19 April 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel relaxes mask mandate||Israel has lifted a public mask mandate and fully reopened its education system in the latest easing of coronavirus restrictions following its mass vaccination drive. Masks are still required indoors and in large gatherings. Schools reopen All primary and secondary school grades returned to classrooms on Sunday, and health officials ended a year-long requirement to wear a mask in public spaces. Israel has speedily inoculated a majority of its population against the coronavirus. It has lifted most of its restrictions and announced last week that it would be reopening the country to vaccinated foreign tourists starting in May. Israel’s coronavirus czar, Nachman Ash, told Israeli public radio on Sunday that removing the mask requirement outdoors and reinitiating in-class studies was a “calculated risk.” Israel has recorded over 8,36,000 cases of the coronavirus and at least 6,331 deaths, according to the Health Ministry. Over 53% of its 9.3 million citizens has received two shots of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. In the months since Israel launched its vaccination campaign in December, serious cases and deaths have fallen precipitously and allowed the economy to fully reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-relaxes-mask-mandate/article34354054.ece
19 April 2021||Moscow,||Call for protests amid Navalny’s ‘failing health’||Activists for imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny on Sunday called for massive protests in the heart of Moscow and St. Petersburg as Mr. Navalny’s health reportedly is deteriorating severely while on hunger strike. On Saturday, a doctor said test results that he received from Mr. Navalny’s family showed sharply elevated levels of potassium, which could lead to cardiac arrest, and signs of kidney failure. “Our patient could die at any moment,” said the doctor, Yaroslav Ashikhmin. Leonid Volkov, a top strategist for Mr. Navalny, said the demonstrations were called on short notice for Wednesday because “his life hangs in the balance.” The 44-year-old Navalny, President Vladimir Putin's most visible and persistent critic, started a hunger strike more than three weeks ago to protest prison authorities’ refusal to allow him to be seen by a private doctor for diagnosis of severe back pain and loss of feeling in his legs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/call-for-protests-amid-navalnys-failing-health/article34354048.ece
19 April 2021||Prague,||Czechs to discuss ‘Russian link’ to 2014 blast with EU||The Czech Republic is informing its NATO and European Union allies about suspected Russian involvement in a 2014 ammunition depot explosion and will discuss the matter at an EU Foreign Ministers’ meeting on Monday, acting Foreign Minister Jan Hamacek said on Twitter on Sunday. The central European country expelled 18 Russian Embassy staff on Saturday and said that investigations linked Russian intelligence to the explosion, which killed two people. The expulsions and allegations by Prague have triggered its biggest dispute with Russia. The Interfax news agency cited Vladimir Dzhabarov, first deputy head of the Russian upper house’s international affairs committee, on Saturday as saying Prague’s claims were absurd and Russia’s response should be proportionate. Separately, Czech police said on Saturday they were searching for two men in connection with serious criminal activity carrying Russian passports in the names of Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov, and that the men were in the country in days leading up to the blast. Those were the aliases used by two Russian military intelligence officers, whom British prosecutors charged with the attempted poisoning of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury in 2018. Moscow denied involvement in that incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/czechs-to-discuss-russian-link-to-2014-blast-with-eu/article34354044.ece
19 April 2021||Lahore,||Protesters take seven officials hostage in Pak.||At least seven Pakistan police officers and Special Rangers were taken hostage on Sunday by supporters of a radical Islamist party, officials said, after days of violent protests. Rioting has rocked the country since Monday, when the leader of the now-banned Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) was detained in Lahore after calling for the expulsion of the French Ambassador. The protests have paralysed cities and led to the deaths of six policemen, prompting the French Embassy to recommend all its nationals temporarily leave the country. “The TLP members are holding five police officers and two rangers hostage,” said Rana Arif, a police spokesman in Lahore. Meanwhile, Firdous Ashiq Awan, a spokeswoman for the Punjab government, said 12 policemen had been abducted and taken to a TLP mosque in Lahore, where hundreds of supporters were gathered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protesters-take-seven-officials-hostage-in-pak/article34354051.ece
19 April 2021||Jalalabad,||Eight family members killed in Afghanistan mosque shooting||Eight members of the same family were gunned down in an attack on a mosque in eastern Afghanistan, officials said on Sunday. The shooting happened on Saturday night in the city of Jalalabad in Nangarhar province, and was believed to be over a land dispute, Governor Zaiulhaq Amarkhil said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eight-family-members-killed-in-afghanistan-mosque-shooting/article34354045.ece
19 April 2021||Cairo,||Nearly 100 hurt in Egypt train accident: health ministry||Ninety-seven people were injured on Sunday when four train carriages derailed in Egypt’s Qalioubia province, the Health Ministry said. Media reported that several people had been killed in the accident, but there was no official confirmation.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nearly-100-hurt-in-egypt-train-accident-health-ministry/article34354050.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The ECI cannot be a super government||Elections bring the Election Commission of India (ECI) into sharp focus as this constitutional body superintends, directs and controls the conduct of elections. It is the constitutional duty of the ECI to ensure that the elections held are free and fair. It is an interesting aspect of the ECI’s history that before T.N. Seshan came on the scene as the Chief Election Commissioner, no one in the country ever knew or felt that the ECI had any powers. Seshan discovered the ECI’s powers hidden in Article 324 of the Constitution which was then used to discipline recalcitrant political parties which had till then believed that it was their birth right to rig elections. Thus there was a very high level of confidence in the minds of Indian citizens about the ECI’s role restoring the purity of the elected legislative bodies in the country. It became rather easier for Seshan to locate the powers of the ECI after the Supreme Court held in Mohinder Singh Gill vs Chief Election Commissioner (AIR 1978 SC 851) that Article 324 contains plenary powers to ensure free and fair elections and these are vested in the ECI which can take all necessary steps to achieve this constitutional object. All subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court reaffirmed Gill’s decision and thus the ECI was fortified by these court decisions in taking tough measures. The model code The model code of conduct issued by the ECI is a set of guidelines meant for political parties, candidates and governments to adhere to during an election. This code is based on consensus among political parties. Its origin can be traced to a code of conduct for political parties prepared by the Kerala government in 1960 for the Assembly elections. It was adopted and refined and enlarged by the ECI in later years, and was enforced strictly from 1991 onwards. There is absolutely no doubt that elections need to be properly and effectively regulated. The Constitution has clothed the ECI with enough powers to do that. Thus, the code has been issued in exercise of its powers under Article 324. Besides the code, the ECI issues from time to time directions, instructions and clarifications on a host of issues which crop up in the course of an election. The model code is observed by all stakeholders for fear of action by the ECI. However, there exists a considerable amount of confusion about the extent and nature of the powers which are available to the ECI in enforcing the code as well as its other decisions in relation to an election. Since it is a code of conduct framed on the basis of a consensus among political parties, it has not been given any legal backing. Although a committee of Parliament recommended that the code should be made a part of the Representation of the People Act 1951, the ECI did not agree to it on the ground that once it becomes a part of law, all matters connected with the enforcement of the code will be taken to court, which would delay elections. Unresolved question The position taken by the ECI is sound from a practical point of view. But then the question about the enforceability of the code remains unresolved. Paragraph 16A of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 (https://bit.ly/3ttbbUl) says that the commission may suspend or withdraw recognition of a recognised political party if it refuses to observe the model code of conduct. But it is doubtful whether this provision is legally sustainable. The reason is that withdrawal of the recognition of a party recognised under these orders seriously effects the functioning of political parties. When the code is legally not enforceable, how can the ECI resort to a punitive action such as withdrawal of recognition? There are two crucial issues which need to be examined in the context of the model code and the exercise of powers by the ECI under Article 324. Transfer of officials One issue relates to the abrupt transfer of senior officials working under State governments by an order of the commission. It may be that the observers of the ECI report to it about the conduct of certain officials of the States where elections are to be held. The ECI apparently acts on such reports and orders the transfer on the assumption that the presence of those officials will adversely affect the free and fair election in that State. Transfer of an official is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the government. It is actually not clear whether the ECI can transfer a State government official in exercise of the general powers under Article 324 or under the model code. The code does not say what the ECI can do; it contains only guidelines for the candidates, political parties and the governments. Further, Article 324 does not confer untrammelled powers on the ECI to do anything in connection with the elections. If transfer of officials is a power which the ECI can exercise without the concurrence of the State governments, the whole State administration could come to a grinding halt. The ECI may transfer even the Chief Secretary or the head of the police force in the State abruptly. In Mohinder Singh Gill’s case ( supra ), the Court had made it abundantly clear that the ECI can draw power from Article 324 only when no law exists which governs a particular matter. It means that the ECI is bound to act in accordance with the law in force. Transfer of officials, etc is governed by rules made under Article 309 of the Constitution which cannot be bypassed by the ECI under the purported exercise of power conferred by Article 324. Further, to assume that a police officer or a civil servant will be able to swing the election in favour of the ruling party is extremely unrealistic and naive. It reflects in a way the ECI’s lack of confidence in the efficacy of politicians’ campaigns. Administrative moves Another issue relates to the ECI’s intervention in the administrative decisions of a State government or even the union government. According to the model code, Ministers cannot announce any financial grants in any form, make any promise of construction of roads, provision of drinking water facilities, etc or make any ad hoc appointments in the government. departments or public undertakings. These are the core guidelines relating to the government. But in reality, no government is allowed by the ECI to take any action, administrative or otherwise, if the ECI believes that such actions or decisions will affect free and fair elections. A recent decision of the ECI to stop the Government of Kerala from continuing to supply kits containing rice, pulses, cooking oil, etc is a case in point. The State government has been distributing such free kits for nearly a year to meet the situation arising out of the pandemic, which has helped many a household. The decision to stop the kit distribution was reportedly on a complaint from the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. The question is whether the ECI could have taken such a decision either under the model code or Article 324. The model code does not provide any clue. As regards the use of Article 324, the issue boils down to whether distribution of food items to those in need in a pandemic will affect free and fair elections. The Supreme Court had in S. Subramaniam Balaji vs Govt. of T. Nadu & Ors (2013) held that the distribution of colour TVs, computers, cycles, goats, cows, etc, done or promised by the government is in the nature of welfare measures and is in accordance with the directive principles of state policy, and therefore it is permissible during an election. If colour TVs, computers, etc can be promised or distributed during an election and it does not influence the free choice of the people, how can the distribution of essential food articles which are used to stave off starvation be an electoral malpractice? Further, Section 123 (2)(b) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 says that declaration of a public policy or the exercise of a legal right will not be regarded as interfering with the free exercise of the electoral right. Insightful words There is no doubt that the ECI, through the conduct of free and fair elections in an extremely complex country, has restored the purity of the legislative bodies. However, no constitutional body is vested with unguided and absolute powers. Neither citizens nor the ECI is permitted to assume that the ECI has unlimited and arbitrary powers. It would be useful to remember the insightful words of Justice S.M. Fazalali, in A.C. Jose vs Sivan Pillai (1984): “if the [Election] Commission is armed with such unlimited and arbitrary powers and if it ever happens that the persons manning the commission shares or is wedded to a particular ideology, he could by giving odd directions cause a political havoc or bring about a constitutional crisis, setting at naught the integrity and independence of the electoral process so important and indispensable to the democratic system.” P.D.T. Achary is Former Secretary General, Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-eci-cannot-be-a-super-government/article34354030.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||An obituary for the IP Appellate Board||The demise of the Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB), India’s specialist tribunal for determining disputes relating to intellectual property (IP) rights, is symbolic of its tenuous life. For an organisation that was created in haste and managed in haste, the end came about, unsurprisingly, in haste. The patent system is notorious for its bipolar nature. Ever since its inception, public opinion has been divided about the usefulness of the system. There have been regular calls for its abolition. The lack of unanimity about the system here was seen in the way Indian parliamentarians deliberated on patent bills in the past.  Most of the significant amendments to the Patents Act since 1970 came through, not by way of an Act passed by Parliament, but through an ordinance. Just as we pushed through amendments to the Patents Act through ordinances in 1994 and 2005, we have now accorded the IPAB a similar burial. On April 4, the President of India signed the Tribunal Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, shutting down the IPAB and many other tribunals for good. Troubled life Ever since its creation, the IPAB has been treated like an unwanted child. Perennially understaffed and underfunded, it always looked like a jugaad fix for the problems in the innovation system. Established under the Trade Marks Act of 1999, its jurisdiction was later extended to hear patent cases after the Patents (Amendment) Act of 2002. Historically, appeals from the Intellectual Property Office (IPO), rectification and revocation applications were heard by the various High Courts. However, the Patents (Amendment) Act of 2002 divested these powers from the High Courts and extended it to the IPAB. Though the patents side of the IPAB existed in theory since 2002,  the Central government notified its functioning only in April 2007 after a rebuke from the Madras High Court. The court was then hearing an appeal from the IPO regarding Novartis’ Glivec patent application which ought to have been heard by the IPAB. After the notification, the High Court transferred Novartis’ petition and subsequently all other pending patent cases to the IPAB. Since its inception, the institution has been involved in controversies. Even though the IPAB has not been performing its adjudicatory function on the patent side regularly due to administrative reasons, it certainly has been the subject matter of judicial review before the various High Courts. These cases include a challenge to the constitutionality of the IPAB, petitions seeking filling up of vacancies before the High Court in Delhi and Chennai, and even a petition to the Supreme Court for extension of the term of the chairperson. After remaining headless for almost two years, in January 2018, the IPAB was given a head. The then chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal for Forfeited Property was given additional charge. However, there was a substantial delay in the start of hearing of patent cases due to a technical reason. The appointment of the technical member for patents, with whom the chairperson sits while deciding cases on patents, who brings the much-needed technical expertise that patent cases usually demand, was delayed. The appointment of the technical member finally came last year after the government was sued by the Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association. IPAB’s end was foreseen by the leaders who ran it. One of the former chairpersons had publicly raised concerns regarding the judicial and institutional independence of the IPAB, and called for closing it. Not only was the IPAB understaffed, with its administrative staff often being on deputation, it was also underpowered, at times quite literally. The tribunal had to bear the brunt of the summer power cuts in Chennai. Imagine the highest authority on protecting technology and innovation working through the scorching Chennai summer during power cuts without any viable backup. One lasting memory of the IPAB will be the image of a dimly lit court hall with the presiding judges poring over patent specifications covering high technology using two emergency lights and the counsel arguing the case using the flashlight on his phone. For those who had the misfortune of walking into the tribunal in Guna Complex in Chennai, where the IPAB was housed during those punishing power cuts, this image would have been a teaser of what was to follow. The IPAB’s jurisdiction of cases was split between trademarks, patents, copyright, and geographical indication, where the predominant business pertained to trademarks. Thus, the workload of the IPAB was typically split between trademarks and patents with the former consuming much of the time. Not only did the IPAB juggle its time with the different forms of IP, but it also had sittings in five different cities, with just one chairperson who had to fly between them at times. The chairperson had to summon parties and papers to all these cities, which came at a substantial cost to the public.  The patents bench of the IPAB would have probably taken longer to constitute had it not been for the limelight brought by the Novartis case. In any case, the disposal rate for patents at the IPAB did not justify its continuance. Patent disputes owing to their technological complexity were the IPAB’s predominant time-consuming business after trademarks. In our study of the first decade of operation of the patents bench, we saw a paltry disposal rate of about 20 patent cases a year. Nearly 70% of the patent cases filed were either pending at some stage or yet to be taken up for hearing. After the IPAB was set up, not more than 15 cases were transferred from all the High Courts to the IPAB. Going by this disposal rate, it would have taken another decade to dispose of the pending applications, leave alone the new ones. The irony was that tribunals were established with the primary aim of speedy disposal of cases by specialised experts. The functioning of the IPAB is critical for the innovation ecosystem. Every patent granted by the Patent Office is a potential subject matter in appeal before the IPAB. An unjustified patent grant at the Patent Office, by error or oversight, can only be corrected in appeal. While we know the number of cases filed and disposed, we will never know the number of unjustified patents that went unquestioned for lack of an effective appellate mechanism. Missed opportunity India stands as a shining example for what it has done legislatively in patent law. Be it the retraction of product patents for pharmaceuticals and chemicals between 1970 and 2005, the anti-evergreening provisions or the robust compulsory licensing regime, it has offered the world a host of TRIPS-compliant flexibilities in its statute. But when it came to developing a jurisprudence around these provisions – case laws from the highest courts on how these provisions will be worked – it has failed. Barring a few bright spots, there has been a reluctance to extend the flexibilities in the Patents Act through judicial interpretation that expands the law. The tenure of the IPAB will be remembered as a missed opportunity to develop the home-grown jurisprudence on patent law that is much lacking in India. Feroz Ali is a visiting professor at the National Law School of India University, Bangalore and Roshan John is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-obituary-for-the-ip-appellate-board/article34354039.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Election watch from across the Bengal border||As the high-profile contest in India’s State elections in West Bengal is under way, Bangladeshis are curious onlookers not only because of the geographic proximity and strong socio-cultural ties between the two Bengals but also on account of the ramifications the electoral outcome may have on India-Bangladesh relations.  Historical bonds During Bangladesh’s liberation war in 1971, West Bengal played an important role by sheltering most of the 10 million refugees. Political leaders were also accommodated with the provincial government of Bangladesh setting up headquarters in Kolkata. On June 15, 1971, the late Pranab Mukherjee suggested in the Rajya Sabha that India should recognise the Bangladesh government in exile. In 2013, Bangladesh conferred the Liberation War Honour on Pranab Mukherjee who endearingly called himself a “son-in-law” of Bangladesh. The late West Bengal Chief Minister Jyoti Basu also played a pivotal role in forging the Ganges water treaty between the two countries in 1996. Given the shared history, language, culture and cuisine between the Bengals, there is interest on both sides to foster good relations through increased trade, improved connectivity, and cultural exchanges. For Bangladeshis, West Bengal is a popular destination for medical treatment and shopping.  Water sharing The relationship between the Bengals is not without its challenges, one of the main factors being the failure to sign the Teesta water-sharing treaty. More than two crore Bangladeshis are dependent on the river for their livelihood. In the dry seasons, West Bengal diverts water for irrigation in the north which causes a severe water shortage in Bangladesh. During the monsoon, large volumes of water are released from the Teesta Barrage causing large-scale flooding and riverbank erosion in Bangladesh. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s flip-flop on this vital issue has had an impact on the relationship between the two Bengals and also at the India-Bangladesh state level. The closest the two countries came to signing a water-sharing treaty for Teesta was in 2011 during the visit of then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to Bangladesh. Ms. Banerjee was set to be a part of the entourage to sign the water-sharing treaty but her last minute withdrawal led to a stalemate in signing it. Such moves could prove costly to India and even push Bangladesh to China which has agreed to fund the nearly $1billion “Teesta River Comprehensive Management and Restoration project”. CAA and the NRC In contrast, Ms. Banerjee’s stance regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) have been largely appreciated in Bangladesh. In an interview in 2020, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said that though the CAA is India’s “internal matter”, she added, “We don’t understand why [the Indian government] did it. It was not necessary.” Though India has assured Dhaka that the NRC and the CAA are domestic issues not affecting Bangladesh, Dhaka’s concern is natural as Bangladesh is at the heart of the foreign nationals’ issue spreading across India from Assam to West Bengal. Certain remarks by India’s Home Minister, Amit Shah, about immigrants from Bangladesh, referring to them as “termites”, have added to these concerns. Vote politics across border The enactment of the CAA and the NRC has widespread support from Matua community leaders in West Bengal who have been demanding citizenship for Matua refugees from Bangladesh. The community, organised under the umbrella of the Matua Mahasangha, is an influential group with a significant voter base spread across several districts in West Bengal. The support from the Matua community yielded large dividends for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Historically, the Matua community was not a vote bank in the West Bengal elections. In the run-up to the Trinamool Congress’s campaigns in the 2000s, Ms. Banerjee reached out to the community to challenge the clout of the Left in Bengal. Now, the BJP is emulating the TMC’s success with the Matua community. During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Bangladesh, he visited the community’s sacred temple at Orakandi and referred to the elected representative of the community Shantunu Thakur’s demand to implement the CAA in West Bengal. Many interpreted it as influencing Matua community voters in West Bengal, with even an allegation by Ms. Banerjee of violating the election code of conduct by involving a foreign country in India’s internal matters. India’s Home Minister’s recent comments about poor Bangladeshis going to India have also drawn sharp reactions from Dhaka. Bangladesh Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen remarked; “There are many wise people in this world [like Amit Shah] who don’t want to see even after looking, they don’t want to understand even after knowing about it.” In the Global Hunger Index 2020, India ranks 94 and Bangladesh 75. In 2019, the population below the poverty line in Bangladesh was 9.2% compared to India’s 10.7%. During the pandemic, Bangladesh maintained a GDP growth of 3.8% in 2020 while India had a negative GDP growth. So, do Bangladeshis have a stake in what happens? Ms. Banerjee’s claims of having close ties with Bangladesh do not carry much weight given her political whims and opportunism. On the other hand, being a moderate, progressive Muslim majority country, the concern on this side of the border is whether a BJP win will divert the course of history and dilute West Bengal’s core identity as an inclusive, tolerant, and progressive society. Whatever may be the election’s outcome, there is no apparent reason to feel either euphoric or optimistic on this side of the border. Syed Munir Khasru is Chairman of the international think tank, The Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance (IPAG). E-mail: munir.khasru@ipag.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/election-watch-from-across-the-bengal-border/article34354033.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||An inclusive public sphere||Unlike India, the United States has an empirical approach to measure the decline in trust in the media. A recent study by the Media Insight Project, a collaboration of the American Press Institute and The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, shows two phases of decline. The slide started in the pre-Internet decades between 1972 and 2000. It seems rather ironic as this period was dominated by some of the finest investigative reports such as the Watergate investigations by The Washington Post and the Pentagon Papers by The New York Times . The impact of these journalistic endeavours went beyond the shores of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. The second phase of an accelerated decline happened between 2000 and 2020. The confidence in the media fell by 11 percentage points, from 51% to 40%. Key findings The interesting element here is that the decline in trust is high among those who support the march of the political right but there is a surge in trust among the liberals. The study reveals that among the Republicans, the decline is steep from 47% to 10% and it pulled down the national average despite a surge in trust among the Democrats from 53% to 73%. The study provides new insights that help us understand trust in the media and raises many fundamental questions about the core values of journalism. Though it is a stretch to do a direct comparative analysis between the behaviour of Americans and Indians, the study does provide more than a clue to the challenges facing Indian journalism. In India, too, we are witnessing the decline in trust in the news media among the privileged right. The key finding is the disjunction created by partisan considerations where people do not even endorse key journalistic values. The study focuses on five key journalistic values and sought citizens’ response to each one of them. The five core values, which themselves were distilled from the idea of peaceful coexistence in a pluralistic society, are oversight, transparency, factualism, giving voice to the less powerful, and social criticism. The study reveals that while journalists consider all the five values to be universal, non-journalists do not share that world view. It reveals that only 11% of the public supports all five of the core journalism values unreservedly. While the majority endorse factualism (67%), values such as oversight, transparency and social criticism do not get a resounding endorsement. When I became a journalist in 1985, my editors were almost unequivocal in their faith in social criticism. They were convinced that shining a spotlight on problems is the best way for society to solve them. But the study reveals that most people do not endorse this idea; only 29 % of Americans support it. A fundamental problem Though I do not have the empirical richness of the American Press Institute, I do have the advantage of reading feedback from readers on specific issues. When this newspaper flagged issues regarding the shortcoming in the management of COVID-19 that led to the present second wave, there were voices that did not endorse the newspaper’s position to shine light on the failures. This poses a fundamental problem, and it is not limited to the U.S., where the study was conducted, or to India, where I am a witness to cynicism about the act of scrutiny. The study argues that rather than tying distrust towards the media only to the perception of partisan bias, it is possible that at the heart of the media trust crisis may be scepticism about the underlying purpose and mission that journalists are trying to fulfill in the first place. It succinctly points out the existential irony that is governing journalism today: “When journalists say they are just doing their jobs, the problem is many people harbour doubts about what the job should be.” Herein lies the conundrum. Why are people not accepting the arguments put forth by journalists? At what point did the core values of journalism lose their universal appeal and get reduced to a mere professional creed? When did the dialogue between journalists and citizens become a concurrent monologue? Why do people look at journalists’ averments that they are doing their jobs as proof of dishonesty? The acrimonious social media space is not encouraging dialogue but is instead generating new forms of silos. We need imaginative silo-breakers to create an inclusive public sphere. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-inclusive-public-sphere/article34354041.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Implementing green contracts||The increasing concerns about climate change once again point to the need for enhanced efforts towards achieving sustainable growth goals in India. While the massive levels of production, consumption and disposal of goods and services have their own set of benefits in a post-industrial society, they have also slowed down the replenishment cycle of limited resources. As both consumers and corporations reap the benefits of large-scale manufacturing and services, they must equally share the responsibilities relating to the loss of resources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. While much has been discussed on the operational ways of cutting down carbon emissions, this article focuses on how Indian corporations can be a major character in the country’s story of sustainable growth. Some corporations contribute a fair share to building a clean and sustainable future. But here we discuss how they can contribute to cutting down emissions through the process of green contracting. What are green contracts? ‘Green contracts’ refer to commercial contracts which mandate that contracting parties cut down greenhouse gas emissions at different stages of delivery of goods/services, including design, manufacturing, transportation, operations and waste disposal, as applicable to the industry. The process of implementing a green contract may commence at the bidding stage itself, when various interested companies participate in the tender process. In such a scenario, a ‘green tender’ may prescribe necessary ‘green qualifications’, which can be considered when awarding the contract to a bidder. These green qualifications can range from using a pre-defined percentage of ‘green energy’ in service delivery to adequate on-site waste management, reducing carbon emissions by a certain level over period of time, etc. Once such a bidder is chosen, the contracting agreement between the parties can prescribe the ‘green obligations’ in detail, thus making the obligations binding and enforceable in the eyes of the law. It is this obligatory nature of green contracts which sets the tone for the parties to cut down emissions. This can be achieved by contractual clauses providing for the use of good quality and energy-efficient infrastructure for production of goods/services, efforts in day-to-day operations such as reducing noise, air and water pollution and ensuring eco-friendly means of transportation like bicycles on site, establishing and maintaining a sustainable waste management system, and so on. Meeting obligations One effective way to make sure that the service providers adhere to these contractual obligations would be to provide for measurement criteria and audit of the performance of the contractor with regard to these obligations. An organisation may also choose to contractually highlight non-performance of such obligations as a ground of contractual breach, with penalty prescriptions. Another way to make sure that these obligations under the green contracts resonate far is to make sure that they flow down to all levels of the supply chain engaged in the delivery of goods and services. Naturally, the degree of effecting a green contract will depend on the type of contract and the industry to which it relates. However, in the absence of any mandatory rules in this respect, it is the confidence and consideration of India Inc. towards green contracting which can aid the attainment of sustainable growth goals. The service recipients can also themselves undertake thorough assessments on their current standing on greenhouse gas emissions, and initiate relevant processes to contribute their share in India’s green sustainable future. Having said that, it is but natural to bear in mind the economic efficiency in awarding and executing green contracts. The economic cost of executing green contracts may be greater than a normal brown contract, but global entities operating in a changing environment need to take into consideration the greater environment costs at stake. Aradhana is an In-House Counsel at an IT multinational corporation. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/implementing-green-contracts/article34354042.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Cuba after the Castros||The retirement of Raul Castro as the first secretary of Cuba’s ruling Communist Party brings to an end the six-decade-long rule of the “historic generation”, who, under the leadership of Fidel Castro, captured power in 1959 through an armed revolution. Fidel remained at the helm of affairs in the island, in the face of growing hostility from the U.S. until he fell sick in 2006. Two years later, he handed the party to his younger brother, who had fought alongside him in the guerrilla war against the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista in the 1950s. Under the younger Castro, Cuba started taking baby steps towards opening up the state-controlled economy. He had also overseen rapid improvement in relations with the U.S., when Barack Obama eased some restrictions on the Cuban economy, travelled to Havana and opened an American Embassy. In 2018, Mr. Raul stepped down as President, handing government responsibilities to his hand-picked next generation leader, Miguel Díaz-Canel. Now when the 89-year-old leader retires, leaving “a foot in a stirrup ready to defend socialism”, Mr. Díaz-Canel, 60, is expected to succeed him as the new party chief. The Castros built a closed, socialist economy that worked for many for decades. Cuba’s achievements in the fields of education and health care are inimitable. But many critics of the Cuban model feel that the historic generation was slow to open up the economy, generate growth and create more opportunities — something that China, another communist party-ruled country, did. Mr. Raul took small steps and Mr. Díaz-Canel is continuing them, with a long-promised currency reform having been implemented in January. But the transition comes at a painful time. When Soviet assistance ceased in the early 1990s, Fidel asked Cubans to tighten their belts for a “special period”. Eventually, Cuba came out of those hardships, and the pink tide in Latin America that propelled leftist leaders to power, from Venezuela to Ecuador, helped Havana both politically and economically. But now, the pink tide is in reverse. Venezuela, which offered cheap oil to Cuba, is itself in an economic and political mess. The Obama-era concessions were unmade by Mr. Trump. The coronavirus pandemic practically shut down Cuba’s vital tourism sector, causing an 11% economic contraction last year. The crisis has triggered food shortages, bringing back memories of the early 1990s. There are also calls for more political freedoms. Unlike in the past when the flow of information was controlled, the expansion of the Internet and social networks is allowing critics of the government, including U.S.-based dissidents, to amplify their voices. Mr. Raul’s successor cannot stay away from addressing these challenges as the revolution ages. The party always bets on continuity. But the contradiction it faces is that continuity is intrinsically linked to reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cuba-after-the-castros/article34354025.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Normal is good||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a ‘normal’ monsoon for this year. In the agency’s parlance, normal implies that the country will get 96% to 104% of the 88 cm that it gets from June-September. This quantity, called the Long Period Average (LPA), is a mean of monsoon rainfall from 1961-2010. The IMD, for over 20 years now, follows a two-stage monsoon forecast system. After the prognosis in April, it gives an updated estimate in late May or early June. This includes an estimate of how much rain is likely in: northwest India, northeast India, central India and southern peninsula. Numbers are also given for July and August, which see two-thirds of the monsoon rains and are the most important months for sowing. This year, there will be forecasts for June and September too, to be given in May and August, respectively. Historically, predicting rain for June and September is challenging as it corresponds to the monsoon’s entry and exit. There will also be forecasts for what is called the monsoon core zone, which represents most of the rainfed agriculture region in the country. All of these updates are an extension of the IMD’s increasing reliance on dynamical monsoon models. Unlike the traditional statistical models, which are based on a fixed set of meteorological variables that have historically been correlated with variations in monsoon rainfall, the dynamical models generate forecasts based on evolving weather patterns. The IMD has been testing such models for many years but it is only in the last few years that it is finding use for practical weather forecasts. A ‘normal’ monsoon forecast this year is primarily predicated on ‘neutral’ surface temperatures in the Central Equatorial Pacific. In 2019 and 2020, the IMD forecast normal rains but India ended up with 110% and 109% of the LPA. This year, a warming El Niño is unlikely, and another ocean parameter closer home, the Indian Ocean Dipole, too is expected to be unfavourable for excess rains and so the IMD seems more confident that its calculations are not going to be as wrong. However, the models already show a good chance of ‘above normal’ rain in central and southern India. While forecasts are a critical aspect of India’s disaster preparedness, there should also be more focus on incorporating these forecasts down to municipal and block-level planning. The monsoon forecasts were primarily evolved to assist with agriculture and it is only now getting more urban-focused because of the natural disasters that accompany even ‘normal’ monsoons. Several business and service sector industries need weather products and in terms of science and infrastructure, few have the resources the IMD has. The IMD must continue to aid on all these fronts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/normal-is-good/article34354026.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Science and Crime||Whether science helped the detection of crime more than it promoted the criminal’s end was the subject of an interesting discussion before a large gathering of experts connected with the investigation of crime at a meeting of the Society of Arts in mail week. Mr. Ainsworth Mitchell, who opened the discussion with reading a paper, showed how the development of science and its many branches had narrowed down the criminal’s chances of escape, since the early days of last century, when anyone who committed a secret crime had an even chance of evading capture. Mistakes of identity, he suggested, had been a more fruitful source of miscarriages of justice than all other causes put together. The world contained some 4,00,000,000 of people, and notwithstanding the infinite variety of human features, there was hardly anybody alive today who could not be mistaken for somebody else. Mr. Mitchell then dealt with the finger print and poison test methods and pleaded for co-ordination among scientific workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/science-and-crime/article34354034.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Air India’s first Jumbo Jet welcomed||Air-India’s first Jumbo jet “Emperor Ashoka” touched down at the Santa Cruz airport at 8-23 this morning [Bombay, April 18]. More than half a lakh people who gathered in and around the airport clapped and cheered as the jetliner swung to a perfect landing, slowed down and shut off its engines as it came near the shamiana. Earlier three Indian Air Force M.I.Gs rendezvoused with the Jumbo, 50 kms. south of Bombay and escorted it to Santa Cruz. The “Emperor” flew over the city to enable the citizens to have a look at Air-India’s new acquisition. The 346-seater Boeing 747 which was piloted by Capt. D. Bose covered the distance of 11,002 statute miles from Seattle to Bombay via New York, London and Rome in about 20 hours and 50 minutes. Also in the plane were 25 other crew including 12 air-hostesses and 120 special invitees. Mr. J.R.D. Tata, Air-India Chairman, and the Governor of Maharashtra, Nawab Ali Yavar Jung, were present at Santa Cruz to receive the Jumbo jet. A priest performed “Ganesh” pooja and the oldest employee of Air-India, Mr. Fernandez, broke a coconut in the traditional way. The Governor congratulated Air-India on maintaining its efficiency and wished it all success in the years to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/air-indias-first-jumbo-jet-welcomed/article34354035.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Is compensation received for land acquired by govt. taxable?||Q.Our land was acquired by a central government agency in the year 1962 (actually 1954). The agency paid a small amount after so many years of legal battle. After accepting the amount amid protest, we filed a case again and a lower court gave its verdict. After that, the government agency went to the high court questioning the verdict and the court asked the government to deposit 50% of the amount in the court. Meanwhile, on account of COVID-19, the hearing is in a standstill. My question is whether the amount received as compensation is taxable? For, we have not sold the land. The amount received includes the market price, penalty for not paying in time, and solatium.     Roy George A.Compulsory acquisition of land by a government agency is construed as a transfer under Income Tax Act, and requisite Capital Gains Tax is attracted, which is to be computed as per the provisions laid. As the acquisition of your lands were done in 1954, ‘ The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013’, shortly known as RFCTLARR Act, which came into effect from January 1, 2014, will not apply in your case. Section 96 of the RFCTLARR Act states that ‘No Income Tax’ or ‘Stamp Duty’ shall be levied on any award or agreement made under RFCTLARR Act when lands are being acquired by appropriate government (including government companies and trusts/AOPs/societies controlled by government), except under Section 46, wherein Section 46 deals with land purchase by non-government/private parties through RFCTLARR Act. Enhanced compensation as awarded by courts is taxable under the head ‘Capital Gains’. Interest on compensation as awarded by the courts will be taxable in your hands in the year of receipt of such enhanced compensation under the head ‘Income from Other Sources’.  Q.I am a senior citizen aged 83 years and a state government pensioner. I have been contributing a sum of Rs. 12,500 every month through my bank account towards my paternal grand daughter’s Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Scheme (SSA) account since my son is unable to contribute the said sum. I have been contributing to this scheme for the past two years. Please enlighten me whether I am eligible for the tax deduction of Rs. 1,50,000 that is one year contribution, under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act.  K. Ramamoorthy A.Under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, deduction towards contribution to Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY) can be claimed only by parents of the girl child or her legal guardian. You cannot avail the deduction if you are not the legal guardian.  Q.I am currently working as an online tutor, the company has provided Form 16A for Q2 (2020) for TDS. I don’t know when they will provide for Q3. What I want to know is that will I be able to file ITR for Q3 without paying fine as and when they provide me the form 16A? And my annual income is also non-taxable.  Deepak Chhetri A.TDS deducted by your client is different from your tax liability. TDS is a mechanism wherein certain portion of your payments are withheld and remitted to the government subject to rules regarding applicability, rate of deduction, time of deduction, issuance of deduction certificates among others. You may check your Form 26AS if you have not received the relevant Form 16A from your client and follow up with them accordingly. You may calculate your tax liability in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act and claim the refund of the TDS if your income is below basic exemption limit or within the rebate limits. There will be no incidence of late fee if the ITR is filed by you within the due date.  Q.I received an intimation u/s 143(1) saying I have an I-T refund of Rs. 20,640 for AY 2020-21.Even after six weeks of getting the message I have not received the refund. On tracking the refund I get the message ‘No records. Your assessing officer has not sent this refund to the refund banker. Please contact your Assessing Officer.’ How do I proceed from here to get the refund without any further delay?  Rathi Menon A.You may post a grievance regarding this matter by logging onto your I-T e-filing profile and by clicking ‘e-Nivaran’. Under e-Nivaran, click ‘Submit Grievance’ and fill in the details by addressing the grievance to ‘Assessing Officer (ITO/ACIT) or Supervisory Hierarchy’. Under that, choose ‘Refund not received’. It will automatically select your assessing officer on populating the above details. Further, select the relevant assessment year, attach relevant documents and describe the issue in sufficient length. On submission of the form, you will receive an acknowledgement number which is to be used to track your grievance. You can also track the status of your grievance by logging onto your I-T e-filing profile any time. You will be receiving the appropriate response to your registered e-mail address. Q.I want to know whether the annual insurance premium of Rs. 12 and Rs. 330 which we pay for the benefit for the death claim by accident (under the central govt. scheme ) is eligible for I-T benefit under Sec. 80 C or under any other section? In personal income tax, whether the old regime is valid for financial year ending March 31, 2022?    Ravindra Kumar A.Under Section 80C(2) of the I-T Act, any insurance premium paid to keep a life insurance policy in force from an insurer approved by IRDAI. Subject to premium payment being 10% of the sum assured for policies taken post April 1, 2012 and 20% for those policies taken prior to March 31, 2012. Kindly check if the aforementioned conditions apply to your policy and accordingly claim the deduction. You may choose to opt for new or old tax slab regime, whichever is beneficial to you, for FY20-21, and so forth until notified otherwise by the government. Further, you carry out this exercise every year. However, if you are having any business income and you choose new tax regime in any year, you cannot fall back to old regime in the forthcoming years. Q.I am a senior citizen aged 80 years and covered up to Rs. 90,000 by insurance under OPD treatment. Can I claim expenses exceeding Rs. 90,000, up to Rs. 50,000, under Section 80D of I-T Act during AY2020/21? Please advise.    R.S. Agrawal A.Under Section 80D of the I-T Act, if no amount is being paid to keep in force a medical insurance with respect to a senior citizen, then medical expenditure incurred is eligible for deduction for an amount up to Rs. 50,000 for such senior citizen. In your case, as you are already covered by a medical insurance policy, you cannot further claim medical expenses incurred under Section 80D.  (N. Sree Kanth is Partner, GSS Associates, Charted A ccountants , Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/is-compensation-received-for-land-acquired-by-govt-taxable/article34354022.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Are you an investor doing fundamental analysis?||Many individuals we talk to seem to consider themselves as investors and insist that they do fundamental analysis for stock picking. So, we decided to address these two topics in this column. Specifically, we discuss the difference between traders and investors and also show why most individuals may not be actually doing fundamental analysis. Trader vs investor It is generally argued that a trader has a short-term outlook whereas an investor has a long-term outlook. But how relevant is long term? Suppose your investments are down 20%. Of what use is an argument that equity generates good returns over the long-term if you need the money to fund your child’s college education three years hence? Whether you invest to achieve a life goal or to capture short-term movements in the market, your primary source of returns from equity is capital appreciation. That means you are exposed to market risk. Therefore, you are a trader, not an investor. So, who then is an investor? An investor is one who depends primarily on dividend income for returns. It is highly unlikely that you invest for dividends. Why? One, dividends are now taxable at your marginal tax rate, making it unattractive as primary source of returns. And two, given the current level of stock prices, dividend yields are low, unless, of course, your equity holdings have a low-cost basis because you bought these shares long ago. Of course, many individuals may not appreciate being referred to as traders because they believe such individuals only do day trading. The above discussion, however, shows that traders can have a time horizon ranging from intraday to many years. Fundamentals vs technicals Direct investing in stocks is appropriate for the trading portfolio as it is set up to capture short-term movement in stock markets. The optimal way to capture short-term trends is to judiciously combine news with stock trends (read technical analysis). This poses an issue for many individuals. It takes little effort to read chart patterns after you learn technical analysis. But for most, buying a stock based on five minutes or less of pattern reading is no analysis. That drives these individuals to delve into fundamental analysis. Now, fundamental analysis is not about reading news and then coming to an intuitive judgment about a company’s business prospects. Nor is it an analysis of past financial performance. If that were the case, equity research analysts may have no role to play in investment management. But analysts do add significant value. That is because fundamental analysis is about forecasting company’s cash flows based on public information and non-material, non-public information and then using a valuation model to price the stock. Individuals cannot engage in this process for two reasons. One, they may lack the time to do such in-depth analysis. And two, it requires good understanding of the industry and the company’s business to forecast cash flows and use an appropriate valuation model to price the stock. The above arguments are based on the premise that individuals will have two portfolios. One, a goal-based portfolio with equity funds and bank deposits. And two, a trading portfolio with direct stock investments. You do not have to do fundamental analysis for your goal-based portfolios; that is the job of analysts at asset management firms and with sell-side research firms. Also, remember that you are a trader, whether you are investing for your goal-based portfolio or for trading portfolio.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals for managing their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/are-you-an-investor-doing-fundamental-analysis/article34354023.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34354020.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Maxwell and AB decimate KKR||A clinical Royal Challengers Bangalore made it three wins out of three and moved back to the top of the table with a 38-run victory over Kolkata Knight Riders at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai on Sunday. Amassing 204 for four after electing to bat — the rejuvenated Glenn Maxwell scored a responsible 49-ball 78 and the gifted AB de Villiers made an electrifying unbeaten 34-ball 76 — the RCB bowlers, operating with precision, cut all escape routes for KKR. In the death overs, the impressive Kyle Jamieson castled Shakib Al Hasan and found the edge of Pat Cummins’ bat. The contest was effectively over when an inspired Mohammed Siraj conceded just one run to Andre Russell in the 19th over. With KKR needing a near-impossible 43 off the final over, Harshal Patel cleaned up Russell. For KKR, starts were frittered away under scoreboard pressure. The pitch at the Chepauk, for the day game, was better for strokeplay. The ball, not holding up, was travelling quicker to the bat. Earlier, the transformed Maxwell, balanced and employing his feet, both forward and back, held centre-stage. He has added solidity to flair and flamboyance. But then, RCB’s massive total – after the side lost Virat Kohli and Rajat Patidar in the game’s second over bowled by Varun Chakravarthy – also required a brutal onslaught from the rampant de Villiers. The explosive South African picked the length quickly, got into positions early, and with nifty footwork, hit boundaries and sixes for fun. de Villiers has unique gifts as a batsman, and when in form, the quality of bowling does not matter. Gaps are pierced with a surgeon’s precision; boundaries are cleared with ease and fielders are chasing leather. Before de Villiers’ onslaught, it was Maxwell who held the innings together. Technically improved, Maxwell is getting on to the front foot and driving with his left elbow leading the way and he also travelled back for cuts and pulls. Of course, he hasn’t compromised on his extraordinary shots such as the tennis ball-like slash off Cummins to the cover fence and the switch hit six off Varun over deep-point. After Kohli perished to a spectacular catch from Rahul Tripathi, running with his back to the ball from cover, and Patidar was done in by a googly, Maxwell resurrected the innings with responsibility and enterprise. It was a maximum display by Maxwell and RCB.  Mark [Boucher] talked about it last year. He asked me if I would be interested and I said absolutely de Villiers about playing for SA in the World T20 in India later this year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maxwell-and-ab-decimate-kkr/article34354124.ece
19 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Technical adjustments lift Mirabai||From fluffing three clean and jerk attempts in the 2016 Rio Olympics to rewriting its world record in the Tashkent Asian championships, it has been along road for Mirabai Chanu and has given the ace weightlifter a much-needed dose of self-belief ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. Former World champion Mirabai — who set a new record of 119kg and improved her personal best by two more kg to do 205kg to clinch the women’s 49kg bronze medal — is now more confident as she comes within range of an Olympic medal.  “I was doing up to 120kg in training in clean and jerk and went for the world record from the beginning. It is a big achievement. Rewriting a world record is never easy. A lot of hard work goes into it. It will give me more confidence,” Mirabai told The Hindu on Sunday. “It is a huge source of satisfaction as I worked on my technique and strength after my failure in Rio.” Mirabai admitted that her ‘Vizag moment’ in Tashkent — where she failed in her first two snatch attempts in the 2019 National championships at Visakhapatnam — made her nervous before she could manage 86kg in her last effort. “I was nervous… now I have to improve my snatch performance. The effort will be not to fail in any of the attempts.” Treatment helped Mirabai said her treatment for a long-standing lower back issue in the USA helped her. “I did the exercises prescribed in the USA and maintained those. The treatment was beneficial,” she said. Chief coach Vijay Sharma said a technical adjustment after the Rio Games lifted Mirabai’s clean and jerk performance. “Like clean and jerk, we need to iron out a technical issue in snatch also. I am sure she can improve her overall total up to 209kg. The world record has made me confident about Mira’s capability,” said Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/technical-adjustments-lift-mirabai/article34354173.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Dazzling Dhawan floors Punjab||Shikhar Dhawan’s sensational knock spoiled K.L. Rahul’s birthday party as Delhi Capitals chased down a target of 196 in a high-scoring game at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on Sunday. Dhawan’s 92 (49b, 13x4, 2x6) — dominated by his ability to score at will on the on-side — meant that a tally of 195 for four wasn’t enough for Punjab Kings. Dew factor With the strip at the Wankhede being a belter and the dew factor working against the bowlers right through the second innings, the Punjab attack — including debutant off-spinner Jalaj Saxena — couldn’t make an impact. Dhawan produced yet another exhilarating display as Capitals timed its chase to perfection. Strong on the leg-side Besides his ability to manoeuvre the leg-side field — 64 of his 92 runs came on the leg-side — Dhawan ensured that that the pressure of the scoreboard never got to Capitals by hitting a boundary virtually every over. By the time Dhawan missed a sweep off fast bowler Jhye Richardson, the target was down to 44 off 31. Captain Rishabh Pant took the team to the cusp before Marcus Stoinis helped Capitals cross the finish line. The night will be remembered for the performances of the opening batsmen on both sides. Agarwal on song With Mayank Agarwal firing for the first time this season, Punjab had a sizzling PowerPlay after being invited to bat. While Mayank drove with panache, Rahul took time to get going. While Agarwal cleared the field on a consistent basis, Rahul — who enjoyed two reprieves — continued to play within himself, the way he did last season. Agarwal was severe on left-arm seamer Lukman Meriwala, who was handed a debut by Capitals after it chose to not rush Anrich Nortje back to the park. Meriwala conceded 20 in his opening over. Just before Agarwal perished, he tonked back-to-back sixes off Kagiso Rabada in the 11th over. Despite three of the four openers batting big, the stroke of the day came from the willow of Prithvi Shaw, the only opener who missed out on converting a quickfire start into a fifty. Continuing his silken touch, Shaw came out all guns blazing and his lofted shot off Mohammed Shami which sailed over the bowler’s head and into the sightscreen was breathtaking. Just before the PowerPlay got over, Shaw’s cameo ended as he top-edged a slower one from left-arm seamer Arshdeep Singh. However, his partner Dhawan ensured that Capitals didn’t lose the tempo and two points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-dazzles-as-dc-beats-pbks/article34354121.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||CSK, RR keen to kick on after first wins||Given the right conditions, the Chennai Super Kings’ bowling can be incisive. Deepak Chahar and company can inflict some serious damage. Like the other night at the Wankhede. There was some seam movement and Chahar, his fingers behind the seam and wrist position exemplary, scalped four in a vicious opening burst against Punjab Kings. Chahar will once again be a threat when CSK takes on Rajasthan Royals on what could be a lively Wankhede pitch on Monday. The Chennai franchise also has the left-arm swing of the versatile Sam Curran. Rajasthan Royals too are coming off a win, clinching a humdinger against a strong Delhi Capitals. That was a game when the batting heroics of South African all-rounder Chris Morris settled the issue. The victory over Punjab Kings notwithstanding, CSK needs to iron out chinks. There are lessons to be learnt from wins too. Ruturaj Gaikwad made a fine impression last season with his cultured strokeplay. This time around, the opener, rather loose outside off, is being taken out early. M.S. Dhoni, though, believes in giving his players a run. Suresh Raina will be keenly watched. The southpaw appeared vulnerable when Punjab Kings pacemen probed him with short-pitched deliveries. Raina eventually perished to a lifter. Raina has a stupendous record in the IPL but is bound to be targeted with short-pitched bowling from the Royals. On the positive side, Moeen Ali has been stroking beautifully, and bowling his off-spinners efficiently. RR will be without two key players. Jofra Archer is injured and Ben Stokes is out of the IPL. But then, skipper Sanju Samson, who appears to be settling into his role well, is in roaring form. The side, however, seeks runs from the game-changing Jos Buttler. Then there is the Morris factor. This could be a mouth-watering clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-and-royals-keen-to-kick-on-after-first-wins/article34354119.ece
19 April 2021||Madrid,||Atletico back on track in LaLiga title race||Atletico Madrid put its LaLiga title challenge back on track by thrashing Eibar 5-0 on Sunday to go four points clear at the top of the table.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 1 (Nketiah 90+7) drew with Fulham 1 (Maja 59-pen); Manchester United 3 (Greenwood 48, 84, Cavani 90) bt Burnley 1 (Tarkowski 50).   Serie A: AC Milan 2 (Rebic 13, Scamacca 68-og) bt Genoa 1 (Destro 37); Lazio 5 (Depaoli 10-og, Immobile 20, 90+6, Correa 37-pen, Montipo 48-og) bt Benevento 3 (Sau 45, Viola 63-pen, Glik 85); Atalanta 1 (Malinovskiy 87) bt Juventus 0; Bologna 4 (Orsolini 12-pen, Barrow 18, Svanberg 54, 60) bt Spezia 1 (Ismajli 34); Torino 3 (Sanabria 57, Zaza 71, Rincon 90+2) bt Roma 1 (Mayoral 4).   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 1 (Fernandez Luna 5) lost to Sevilla 2 (Fernando 22, En-Nesyri 24); Osasuna 2 (Barja 38, Gonzalez Polanco 68-og) bt Elche 0; Alaves 1 (Battaglia 85) bt Huesca 0; Atletico Madrid 5 (Correa 42, 44, Carrasco 49, Llorente 53, 68) bt Eibar 0; Cadiz 0 drew with Celta Vigo 0; Real Betis 2 (Fekir 12, Canales 42) drew with Valencia 2 (Guedes 22, Soler 61-pen).   Bundesliga : Borussia Dortmund 4 (Reyna 29, Haland 34-pen, 38, Hummels 87) bt Werder Bremen 1 (Rashica 14).   Saturday: Premier League: Wolves 1 (Willian Jose 59) bt Sheffield United 0.   Serie A: Sassuolo 3 (Berardi 59-pen, 62-pen, Lopez 75) bt Fiorentina 1 (Bonaventura 31); Cagliari 4 (Pavoletti 39, Marin 66, Pereiro 90+1, Cerri 90+4) bt Parma 3 (Pezzella 5, Kucka 31, Man 59).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atalanta-jumps-past-juventus-into-third/article34354129.ece
19 April 2021||MONACO,||Tsitsipas claims maiden Masters||Stefanos Tsitsipas crushed Andrey Rublev 6-3, 6-3 on Sunday in a one-sided final in the Monte Carlo Masters for his first Masters 1000 title. The 22-year-old Greek, ranked World No. 5, took one hour and 11 minutes to beat the Russian, ranked eighth, for the best victory in his career, after his triumph in the year-end Masters in 2019. By the time the 23-year-old Rublev got going in the first set, the damage was done. Tsitsipas calmly held his service games to win the first set in 32 minutes. The second followed the same pattern as Tsitsipas broke serve in the third game. He broke again to end the match. Rublev, who was playing in his first Masters 1000 final after eliminating Rafael Nadal in the quarterfinals, did not have a break point in the match. “I’m overwhelmed with emotion,” said Tsitsipas. “It’s the best win of my life so far.” “It is the best thing winning my first Masters 1000 and it is even more special doing it here on home soil in Monte Carlo and doing it on clay, which is my favourite surface.” “I knew that he was going to be a very difficult opponent to face. There were a lot of nerves coming into that match,” he added, noting that he and Rublev were old foes who “always want to bring the best out of each other.”  The result: Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Andrey Rublev 6-3, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tsitsipas-claims-maiden-masters/article34354127.ece
19 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Compound archers disappointed||Rajat Chauhan, who won the individual compound silver in the 2015 archery World Cup, says he is mentally disturbed and clueless about the future after the Indian compound team was pulled out of the World Cup Stage I, to be held in Guatemala from April 19 to 25. “It is terribly disappointing. We were on our way from Sonepat and an hour away from boarding the flight on Thursday night when we were told that the compound team will not be going because our coach Gaurav Sharma tested ‘false positive,” Rajat told The Hindu from Jaipur on Sunday. Pramod Chandurkar, Archery Association of India secretary general, is on record stating that they didn’t want to risk exposing the recurve team, which has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, to the compound team as its members were in direct contact with coach Gaurav. “But why were the tests not conducted 72 hours before our scheduled departure?” asked Rajat. “That would have helped us avoid this major embarrassment,” he added.  “Ironically, everyone of the compound team tested negative after the decision to pull out. Why should the archers suffer after all the efforts to train for what could have been the biggest event after the pandemic broke out last year. We were sure of not returning empty-handed,” the 27-year-old said. “I don’t understand the logic behind the decision to pull out. They could have easily conducted the RT PCR tests at the airport also,” he said. “It is disappointing that just because the compound bow category is not an Olympic event, we should be treated this way,” he said.   V. Jyothi Surekha, winner of seven World Cup medals who returned to her hometown Vijayawada, said they were helpless even while being disappointed with the way things have gone wrong. Helpless “We were told that the tests were done on April 15 because the previous day was a holiday. So, we had to accept what happened,” Surekha said. “It would have been great if we were to compete in what is obviously the biggest event for all of us after the pandemic broke out last year,” she added. With the national camp for compound archery team discontinued till April 30, the members of the team say they are staring at an uncertain future even though two more World Cups are scheduled later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/composund-archers-a-disappointed-lot/article34354416.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Sathiyan to train with Anirban||In what could possibly be his final chance to prepare for the Tokyo Olympics, G. Sathiyan, India’s second highest-ranked paddler in the world (38), will train with 22-year-old Anirban Ghosh from April 23 to July 11 at the Raman High Performance TT Centre here. All the expenses for the training, including Anirabn’s travel, food, and accommodation, will be taken care of by Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS). Anirban, who was part of Chennai Lions in the Ultimate Table Tennis (UTT) League in 2019, said Sathiyan, “is a sincere and all-round player. He is talented, young and can play with me for long hours.” Since he has no international commitments till the Olympics, Sathiyan will be based here as he considers his city a lucky charm because he has always done well in tournaments abroad when he has flown out from Chennai. “I feel this is the right preparation before Olympics. I’ve always played well when I went out of Chennai [for tournaments]. Be it the World Cup (2019), senior Nationals & Olympic Qualifiers (both 2021),” said Sathiyan. He added that with his coach S. Raman guiding him, and backed by home food, he is in the right frame of mind to perform well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-to-train-with-anirban/article34354196.ece
19 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Jhilli grabs gold medal||Jhilli Dalabehera emerged champion in a depleted women's 45kg field at the Asian weightlifting championships in Tashkent on Sunday. Jhilli, a former World junior bronze medallist, totalled 157kg (snatch 69kg, clean and jerk 88kg) to take the gold medal. Mary Flor Diaz (60kg, 75kg, 135kg) of the Philippines took the silver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhilli-grabs-gold-medal/article34354190.ece
19 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Deepak wins 86kg silver||World championships silver medallist Deepak Punia lost to Iranian superstar and World and Olympic champion Hassan Yazdani in the 86kg freestyle summit clash at the Asian wrestling championships in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on Sunday. In his long-awaited meeting with Yazdani, Deepak lost 10-0 in two minutes, 53 seconds of the first period. The two were set to meet in the World championships final in Nur-Sultan in 2019, but a left-ankle injury forced the Indian to pull out and take the second spot. Twenty-one-year-old Deepak — also a World junior champion in 2019 — beat Uzbek Isa Shapier 9-2 and Bokhodur Kodirov of Tajikistan 4-3 to book a place in the semifinals. The Indian then managed a narrow 2-0 victory over Korean Gwanuk Kim to make it to the final. Sanjeet (92kg) secured a medal, a bronze, on the concluding day. India finished with an overall tally of five gold, three silver and six bronze medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-wins-86kg-silver/article34354199.ece
19 April 2021||KIELCE (POLAND),||Poonam, Alfiya in semis||Poonam (57kg) and Alfiya Pathan (+81kg) posted easy wins to reach the semifinals of the World youth boxing championships on Sunday.  The results:   Men: Pre-quarterfinals: 60kg: Akash Gorkha bt Jadier Herrera (Cub) 4-1; 64kg: Ankit Narwal bt Oliwier Zamojski (Pol) 4-1; 75kg: Manish bt Abdallah Alaarag (Jor) 5-0; 91kg: Vishal Gupta bt Borna Loncaric (Cro) 5-0.   Women: Quarterfinals: 57kg: Poonam bt Nazerke Serik (Kaz) 5-0; +81kg: Alfiya Pathan bt Reka Hoffman (Hun) 5-0; Pre-quarterfinals : 64kg: Nisha Gurjar lost to Beatrise Rozentale (Lat) 4-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poonam-alfiya-in-semis/article34354171.ece
19 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Player-turned-umpire Anupama passes away||Former Karnataka State hockey player and international umpire Anupama Puchimanda passed away on Sunday. She was 40. Anupama had tested positive for COVID-19 around 10 days ago and was self-quarantined at home, the Karnataka State Hockey Association (KSCA) stated in a press release. She showed signs of recovery, but her condition suddenly worsened and she passed away. Anupama made her debut for Karnataka in 1995 at the sub-junior National championship. She also represented the senior State team, before making a mark as an accomplished umpire. Anupama became the first woman hockey umpire from Karnataka in 2004.  In 2006, she became the first woman umpire from India to officiate at the Commonwealth Games. She was also among the two Asians who officiated at the 2006 Central American and Caribbean Games. She went on to officiate over 90 international matches, apart from over 100 National and State-level matches on the domestic circuit. Anupama was also an Executive Council Member of KSHA. The KSHA condoled her demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/player-turned-umpire-anupama-passes-away/article34354176.ece
19 April 2021||Mumbai,||Alphonso passes away||John Rosario Alphonso, a prominent footballer-turned-coach, passed away on Saturday evening after contracting COVID-19. Alphonso, 71, is survived by wife, a son and daughter. After representing India’s junior team against West Germany and Russia in 1974, the striker played for Maharashtra in the Santosh Trophy till 1979. Alphonso was a sensation on the local circuit, representing top teams including Goans Sports Association, Indian Cultural League, Orkay Mills, Mahindra & Mahindra, Mafatlal Sports Club and Tata Sports Club. After hanging up his boots, Alphonso groomed young talent, taking charge of various lower division clubs, college and school teams, including his alma mater St. Francis D’Assisi school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alphonso-passes-away/article34354736.ece
19 April 2021||Belgrade,||Serbia Open back after nine-year hiatus||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic will relaunch the Serbia Open tournament in Belgrade on Monday, less than a year after a charity event he organised in the city ended in fiasco. Djokovic was among several players to test positive after last year's event, which was held in front of thousands of fans with no social distancing. Organisers insist that the forthcoming ATP clay court event scheduled for April 19-25 will be very different — no fans will be allowed and COVID protocols will apply. The Novak Tennis Centre in Belgrade will also stage a second clay court event from May 24 on the eve of Roland Garros. Apart from Djokovic, other top players in Belgrade this week event will include Italy's Matteo Berrettini as well as Russian sensation Aslan Karatsev. The tournament is organised by the 33-year-old's family with his younger brother Djordje acting as director, and will be played in his "Novak" facility. The Serbian capital stepped in, relaunching the Serbia Open after a nine-year hiatus, after Budapest withdrew from organising a tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serbia-open-back-after-nine-year-hiatus/article34354371.ece
19 April 2021||KOLKATA,||CAB penalises Victoria SC||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) has slapped a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on Victoria SC and suspended a player for violating rules regarding registration of outstation players in one of its second division tournaments. “The association has a zero tolerance policy when it comes to corrupt practices. Accordingly, the association, after hearing the parties, decided to impose a two-year ban on Rounak Singh from participating in CAB tournaments. The association also imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on Victoria Sporting Club and reversed the result of its semifinal match," said president Avishek Dalmiya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cab-penalises-victoria-sc/article34354417.ece
19 April 2021||London,||Chelsea spoils Man City’s quadruple bid||Manchester City’s quadruple dream has been extinguished by Chelsea. Even more concerning could be the injury to Kevin De Bruyne for the ongoing pursuit of a treble. Chelsea will be back at Wembley Stadium next month for the FA Cup final after a 1-0 victory over City was clinched by Hakim Ziyech on Saturday. Pep Guardiola will return even sooner next Sunday with City for the League Cup final but with doubts over whether De Bruyne will be fit to face Tottenham. He hobbled off with an apparent ankle injury. A 11-point Premier League lead makes collecting that trophy a near-certainty but there is also a first Champions League semifinal with City for Guardiola against PSG in what remains the priority title for the club.  The result, semifinal: Chelsea 1 (Ziyech 55) bt Manchester City 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-spoils-man-citys-quadruple-bid/article34354200.ece
19 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Muralitharan admitted to hospital||Sri Lankan spin legend Muttiah Muralitharan has been admitted to a private hospital here for cardiac treatment. The off-spinner is in India as part of the coaching staff of Sunrisers Hyderabad, which is currently based in the city for IPL-14. Muralitharan is expected to be rejoin the team after completing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muralitharan-admitted-to-hospital/article34354565.ece
19 April 2021||Coimbatore:,||Janarthanan, Vijay and Mari Muthu star in EAP’s win||S. Janarthanan (146, 118b, 10x4, 7x6) and S. Vijay (118, 122b, 10x4) did the bulk of the scoring as EAP CA hammered Suryabala CA by 235 runs in the CDCA third division league here recently. R. Mari Muthu (5/50) also played his part for the team. Earlier, in the second division, S. Dhilesh (5/19) bowled Rainbow 1972 MMCC to a five-wicket win over Red Diamond.  The scores:   I div.: SNR Sons Trust SC 108 in 26.4 overs (T. Veeramani 3/17) lost to Kovai Knights 109/2 in 27.5 overs (R. Sri Niranjan 35).   II div.: Red Diamond 82 in 33.1 overs (S. Dhilesh 5/19) lost to Rainbow 1972 MMCC 83/5 in 16.5 overs.   III div.: EAP CA 366/3 in 50 overs (A.V. Abilash 74, S. Vijay 118, S. Janarthanan 146) bt Suryabala CA 131 in 38 overs (V. Geethinathan 45, R. Mari Muthu 5/50).   VI div.: (Play-off): Warriors X1 242/8 in 50 overs (K. Manoj 31, Y. Ashraf 93, R. Poomagan 30, K. Bala Senthil 4/55) bt Raindrops 181 in 40.4 overs (S. Ramu 38, S. Sivakumar 34, D. Gobinath 3/42) .    B. Gopi’s six-wicket haul went in vain as St. Peter's CC lost to NPR CC by 25 runs in a super-league fixture of the DDCA first division on Sunday.  The scores: Jahir 148 in 42.2 overs (P. Vijaya Raj 46, P. Elayaraja 41, P.N. Baskaran 3/27, K. Aashiq 3/36) bt Vignesh SC 101 in 25.4 overs (K. Aashiq 41, P. Elayaraja 4/38).   NPR 194/9 in 42 overs (M. Vijay Prakash 72, S. Salman Khan 57, B. Gopi 6/28) bt St. Peter's 169 in 36.4 overs (M. Mohammed 75, M. Kavinraj 4/38, K. Deepak Kanna 3/27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/janarthanan-vijay-and-mari-muthu-star-in-eaps-win/article34354182.ece
19 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Venkata Ramana passes away||Sudha Cricket Club scored a two-wicket win over Veteran Warriors in the KDCA B-Division T20 league at Mangalagiri on Sunday. Monday is rest day.  The scores: Veteran Warriors 126/9 in 20 overs (Ch. Madhu Babu 33, Anil Kumar 4/14) lost to Sudha 127/8 in 19.4 overs (R. Prasad 33, R. Srinivas 4/17).   Young India 123/9 in 20 overs (K. Prem Raju 52, D. Raja Shekar 3/11) bt Bezawada Warriors 121/7 in 20 overs (D. Raja Shekar 35, Lakshmi Narayana 3/20).  Ch. Venkata Ramana, who represented Andhra Pradesh in the Santosh Trophy National football championship, passed away on Sunday aged 66. Ramana was also the treasurer of Andhra Pradesh Football Association (APFA), besides working as a school head master in Srikakulam. He was the secretary of Srikakulam District Football Association and also an Executive Committee member of the united APFA earlier. The VDFA senior knock-out tournament matches scheduled for Sunday were postponed. APFA president K. Gopala Krishna and other office-bearers expressed condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkata-ramana-passes-away/article34354649.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Rabindranath's all-round effort goes in vain||R. Rabindranath’s all-round effort (58 and 6/46) went in vain as Mani Memorial CC lost by 38 runs to Gurunanak Combines in the KDCA second division match held recently.  The scores: I div.: Brindavan 179/8 in 30 overs (K.S. Vijayaragahavan 79, M. Ganesh 30, R. Aashish Kumar 4/48) lost to Adambakkam 180/3 in 27.4 overs (Santhosh Shiv 65, Vignesh S. Iyer 72, Affan Khader 30).   II div.: Asiatic CA 206/7 in 30 overs (Sylvastaler Jayan 71, P. Sudharsan 47) bt GE (T&D) RC 185 in 30 overs (N.S. Sheshamani 46, M.V. Jey Mari 31, R. Kavi Arasu 33, S. Sachin Sharma 4/40, S. Senthil Kumar 4/26).   Avengers Penetron 177/5 in 30 overs (J. Vimal Raj 51, Bazaleel Paul 38 n.o.) tied with Springs Field 177 in 30 overs (S. Rohan 36, J.S. Chandra Gandhan 50, M. Surya 3/44).   Seshadri Memorial 173 in 29.5 overs (Vignesh 37, S. Ashwin 56, R. Francis Frankfort 35, Senthil Kumar 3/34) drew with Vijay 168/5 in 27.2 overs (T. Manimaran 64, Vijaya Kumar 68 n.o.). (No result due to rain).   Gurunanak Combines 188 in 27.4 overs (G. Akash Kumar 37, S. Dinesh 39, M. Pannerselvam 49 n.o., R. Rabindranath 6/46) bt Mani Memorial 150/9 in 30 overs (R. Rabindranath 58, Raghuram 6/31, S. Dinesh 3/25).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rabindranaths-all-round-effort-goes-in-vain/article34354593.ece
19 April 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Celtics ride on Tatum’s fine form||Jayson Tatum scored 44 points and Boston Celtics withstood Stephen Curry’s 47-point show on Saturday to beat Golden State Warriors 119-114 in the NBA.  The results: Lakers 127 bt Jazz 115; Wizards 121 bt Pistons 100; Bulls 106 bt Cavaliers 96; Celtics 119 bt Warriors 114; Bucks 115 lost to Gizzlies 128; Suns 85 lost to Spurs 111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/celtics-ride-on-tatums-fine-form/article34354191.ece
19 April 2021||PARIS,||Federer to play at Roland Garros||Roger Federer confirmed on Sunday that he will play the French Open at Roland Garros this year having skipped the 2020 edition to recover from knee surgery. “Hi everyone! Happy to let you know that I will play Geneva and Paris. Until then I will use the time to train. Can’t wait to play in Switzerland again,” he said on Twitter.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-to-play-at-roland-garros/article34354193.ece
19 April 2021||BRISBANE,||Labuschagne heroics help Queensland seal Shield title||Queensland thrashed New South Wales by an innings and 33 runs to win the Sheffield Shield final on Sunday on the back of Marnus Labuschagne's high-class 192. It was its ninth Shield title.  The scores: New South Wales 143 (Michael Neser 5/27, Jack Wildermuth 4/21) & 213 lost to Queensland 389 (Marnus Labuschagne 192, Sean Abbott 4/71).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/labuschagne-heroics-help-queensland-seal-shield-title/article34354175.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 07:44 IST,||Sudoku — April 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-19-2021/article34354850.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The forever connection with Mom||During the pandemic lockdown, when Bollywood actor Divya Dutta began to record her book, Me and Ma , she could not go beyond two days. “I had to take a break and resume. I was reliving my childhood memories and the intensely dynamic relationship I shared with my mother through the phases of my life,” she says.  Holding the dream  The 43-year-old talks of the bond between mothers and children as “the first ever and the most beautiful relationship in life.” Her book is about the journey with her mother, who raised her as a single parent in small town Sahnewal near Ludhiana and led her to Mumbai as a successful actor. “Ours is a family of doctors and acting as a profession was never even a topic for discussion,” says Divya. Her father passed away at 36 when she was six years old. From then on it was her mother’s struggles to help mould her into the woman she is today. Her father’s demise made their life daunting. “It was left to my mother to applaud my interests and build my confidence; she was alone in going against the wishes of the two families,” says Divya on a telephone call from Mumbai after the launch of her audio book that first appeared in print four years ago after the death of her mother, Dr. Nalini Dutta, in 2016. “I went into depression. I would return to my vanity van from shooting and howl. After finishing work, I would drive around the city crying for ma and begging her to come back to me,” she recalls. Divya credits her mother for helping build strong sibling love between her and her brother. It is that relationship that holds her today, along with a close network of loving friends. Divya’s brother is a hypnotherapist and she lives with his family now, doting on her five-year-old niece. “I see a reflection of my mother in me, when I am with with her,” she says. She says her mother was her BFF, her partner in crime, travel mate and twin soul. “We shopped, read, danced, dined and roamed the world together. Though we had different temperaments, we accepted each other for who we were.”  Reliving the past  Divya says the health clinic her parents ran jointly was very popular in their town and both her parents kept busy schedules. She remembers the stillness of domesticity when her ophthalmologist father and gynaecologist mother unwound from days filled with work and responsibility. Yet, they had time for her and her younger brother. The turning point in her life was when her mother secretly brought her to Mumbai from Punjab for the Stardust Talent Hunt in 1994. She also wrote a mono-act for her that she performed in front of Bollywood biggies including Yash Chopra and Shekhar Kapur. “When she left me at the auditorium she kissed me and said ‘give your dreams your best’. My grandmother was angry when I had once told her I wanted to join the film industry. She told me with my short height I would never make it, but my mother had innate confidence in me,” says Divya. The call from Stardust training academy came two months later. Just then her uncles got a prospective marriage alliance for her from an US-based doctor and there was pressure on her to accept. Yet again her mother stood up for her saying she was too young for marriage. “After I shifted to Mumbai, I would call her 20 times a day seeking her advise on everything from my auditions, roles to dresses. No matter how busy she was in her clinic, she would always take the call and reassure me. Later, she sent my brother to study Medicine in Mumbai so that we could be together,” says Divya. Writing the book was a catharsis for Divya. It was also the time when Deepika Padukone spoke out about her depression. “I took to yoga and writing and in the process I felt the incredible bond that I had forged with my mother would help me see through my difficulties more than anything else,” she says. During lockdown Divya did audio books for other authors and it struck her she could do hers as well. “The most difficult chapters to record were my last days with my mother as I could not control my tears. I relived my life and realised my mother never judged me; only gave me unconditional support and believed in my dreams,” says Divya. When love, understanding, patience and communication remain at the core of the child-parent bond, life is less complicated and dreams take wings.  Me and Mais published by Penguin Random House||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-forever-connection-with-mom/article34354348.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The L word||Sadly that’s not a reference to the LGBTQ series, but to lockdowns and loneliness that we have talked about much but can’t seem to find solutions to. To stay focussed and engaged, UK YouTuber Calfreezy, with 3.7 million subscribers, has started a 30-day fitness challenge. His five rules: take a cold shower every morning, do 45 minutes of exercise five days a week, follow a healthy diet to suit your needs, read 15 pages of a book, and drink 2.5 litres of water. The aim: to get healthy. You can print out a sheet to tick off the five daily. He “went away into a dark room” to think this up. Lockdown fatigue? Just in case you’re forced to travel and can afford it despite a paycut or a job loss (lucky you), the Kempinski group has launched Fit Rooms powered by Technogym, which does gym equipment for the home. Available in Berlin, Munich, Dubai, Shanghai, the rooms come equipped with a bike and a case, literally a bag (with foam roller, massage ball, mat, bands), and gives guests access to online training. Fitness follows you everywhere. More accessible to everyone, on Twitter, #SOSIYC seems to be working. Meanwhile, people are reaching out to Indian National Congress for different kinds of medical emergencies using the hashtag, and they’re responding. Ignore the political pegging in between. Sesame has been acknowledged as the ninth major food allergen, by the US House of Representatives, with the passing of the Food Allergy Safety, Treatment, Education and Research (FASTER) Act. Now, food manufacturers will have to list it as an ingredient. The other allergens are milk, eggs, fish, shell fish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, soybeans. Those who have been training and not sitting on the couch ruminating about real or threatened lockdowns, the PowerDot, TM-ed a smart muscle trainer, has been bought over by Therabody that has a bunch of muscle recovery solutions. Imagine pain relief and accelerated recovery from injuries. All with a couple of red dots. It doesn’t ship to India sadly. But one takeaway from the PowerDot website: a short video telling us there’s no new normal anymore. It’s just normal. So let’s get this fitness thing back on the road. Too many messages pointing to the same thing. Finally, there are a few things to learn from PwC’s Global Crisis 2021, even though the report talks about companies. It talks about being able to mobilise quickly in order to stabilise business ops in a crisis, break down silos, and build organisational resilience to survive. Maybe we need this at the family and individual level too. A weekly round-up of health news that teaches us lessons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-l-word/article34354340.ece
19 April 2021||Pune,||BJP, MVA govt. squabble over Remdesivir supply||As Maharashtra sinks into a medical abyss amid unprecedented cases surges, its politicians refuse to desist from slanging matches over the alleged shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen supply. On Saturday night, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leaders of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar went to Mumbai’s Vile Parle police station after the police questioned a director of a Daman-based pharmaceutical company for allegedly hoarding a large consignment of Remdesivir for export. The Mumbai Police said that the executive of the firm, Bruck Pharma, had been called in for questioning regarding allegations that a consignment of the antiviral drug was due to be sent abroad, despite the Centre banning its export owing to its shortage within the country. “Even as we are all fighting COVID-19 in such trying times, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, in an extremely shameful act, suddenly detained officials of Bruck Pharma who were supposed to supply Remdesivir to Maharashtra,” Mr. Fadnavis said. He said that as per Bruck Pharma officials, the firm could produce the drug but could not supply it without the government’s permission. “I then spoke to Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and arranged for the required permission,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Mr. Darekar said that the BJP had wanted to distribute the drug through the Maharashtra government and that as a noble gesture, the party had decided to foot the entire cost of Rs. 4.75 crore. The Mumbai Police denied allegations that the Bruck Pharma official was ‘arrested’, and said that he was only summoned for an inquiry in the wake of black-marketing incidents of the drug. The detention of the Bruck Pharma director and the high drama at Vile Parle police station came after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, lashing out at the Centre’s ‘step-motherly treatment’ of the State, claimed in a series of tweets that 16 export companies for Remdesivir had allegedly told the MVA government that they had been instructed by Central government authorities not to supply the medicine to Maharashtra. On Sunday, Congressman and State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat hit out at Mr. Fadnavis, saying it would have been better for Maharashtra had the BJP leader gone to the Centre instead and procured supplies of Remdesivir and oxygen for the State. Congress leader Sachin Sawant said that it was “absolutely astonishing” to see Mr. Fadnavis and Mr. Darekar put pressure on the police for a businessman. “What is the fault of [the] police?” he asked. “They had intelligence that a large stock of 60,000 vials of remdesivir is hiding with exporters of Brook Laboratories which is not reported.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-mva-govt-squabble-over-remdesivir-supply/article34354342.ece
19 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt. has failed to handle COVID crisis: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government of Haryana of failing to effectively deal with the situation emerging out of the spread of COVID-19 and creating a grave crisis for the people of the State. Issuing a press statement, Ms. Selja said the reports of collapse of health services emanating from different parts of the State were shocking. “Had the government strengthened the health system in the past one year, people would not have been scrambling for hospitals, beds, ventilators, oxygen, and medicines,” said Ms. Selja. The situation had reached a dangerous level due to COVID-19 infection in the State, said the former Union Cabinet Minister, adding that patients were not getting beds and ventilators. ‘Lack of medicines’ “There is also a lack of oxygen and essential medicines. The State of affairs can be gauged from the fact that a woman infected by corona died due to lack of treatment in Agroha. Despite this, the government is not paying any attention towards strengthening the health infrastructure,” she added. Ms. Selja said a large number of cases were being reported daily in the State and the havoc caused by COVID-19 had exposed the tall claims of the government. “The improper implementation of Testing, Tracking and Tracing formula has further worsened the situation. The death toll is also moving towards a new peak,” she said. Vaccination age limit Ms. Selja demanded that the State government made quick preparations to deal with the situation at hand and the Central government reconsidered its priority for vaccination and reduce the vaccination age limit to 25 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-govt-has-failed-to-handle-covid-crisis-selja/article34354170.ece
19 April 2021||Agartala,||Engineer, trolley driver fatally hit by moving train in Tripura||In a tragic mishap, a railway track maintenance engineer and an employee were killed after their maintenance trolley was hit by a moving train in Tripura on Sunday. Two railway employees were critically injured in the incident, which occurred at Lakhai Bazar in Teliamura, 45 km east to Agartala. The police said engineer Akhil Yadav (53) and trolley driver Rajesh Sinha (55) died at the scene. Yadav hailed from Uttar Pradesh and Sinha was a resident of Badarpur in Assam. Uttam Sarkar (30) and Biplab Mandal (32), both from West Bengal, were critically hurt and have been admitted in the hospital. The victims were engaged in repairing a damaged portion of a railway track. The train hit the trolley from behind causing the casualties. Train services to and from Agartala were disrupted for several hours due to the accident. The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has constituted a panel of experts to probe the incident. Sources in the NFR said there could have been serious communication lapse in the whole episode and added that the exact reason would be known after the enquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/engineer-trolley-driver-fatally-hit-by-moving-train-in-tripura/article34354647.ece
19 April 2021||Pune,||Pune rural authorities innovate to attract trained doctors||With district authorities scrambling to find trained healthcare staff amid the second wave of COVID-19 in Maharashtra, the Pune Rural administration has come up with an innovative solution to attract the best doctors across the country. Pune, the worst-hit district in India with over one lakh active cases and 11,000 deaths, has been reporting daily spikes of more than 10,000 cases and 100 fatalities. While private hospitals and cash-rich civic bodies like the Pune Municipal Corporation have raised doctors’ wages to compensate for their toils and hazards, rural administrations lack the authority and the means to raise their doctors’ salaries and attract trained healthcare personnel at this critical moment. To overcome this, around 16,000 personnel from the 70-odd cadres of the Pune Zilla Parishad that include teachers, anganwadi workers, engineers and other staff involved in combating the pandemic have come forward and given up a day’s salary to incentivise those of soon-to-be-recruited doctors. “The rural region has been witnessing surges of 1,600-1,800 cases. Compounding the challenge is that we are not able to attract good doctors. While salaries for doctors serving in government hospitals are fixed by the Union and State governments, local authorities do not have the power to increase salaries of their doctors,” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said. To this end, the zilla parishad has advertised 130 positions — 100 M.B.B.S. and 30 M.D. medicine/paediatrics — with salaries of Rs. 90,000 and Rs. 1,50,000 respectively for a three-month tenure. These salaries would be jointly paid by funds from the National Health Mission (NHM) as well as the contributory amount given by the zilla parishad’s frontline warriors. Wipro, too, has come forward to contribute to the salaries of two M.D. recruits. “The aim is to attract best minds in the medical field. All these frontline workers have contributed a single day’s salary to raise Rs. 1.97 crore,” Mahadev Ghule, deputy CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pune-rural-authorities-innovate-to-attract-trained-doctors/article34354344.ece
19 April 2021||New Tehri,||20 patients escape from COVID care centre in Uttarakhand||Hoodwinking the authorities, 20 patients escaped from a COVID care centre at Narendra Nagar here, officials said here on Sunday. The matter came to light when doctors visited the wards at the centres on Saturday night for a regular check-up, Chief Medical Superintendent Niraj Rai said. A total of 38 people were being treated there and 20 were found missing, said Chief Medical Officer Suman Arya. Two of those who escaped belonged to Uttarakhand, while the rest were from outside the State, she said. Seven of them were from Rajasthan, four each from Uttar Pradesh and Odisha and three from Haryana, she said. A case has been registered against the missing patients under the Disaster Management and Epidemic Diseases Acts and a search has been launched for them, Narendra Nagar SHO Shanti Prasad Dimri said. Adequate police personnel have been deployed at the COVID care centre following the incident.  A case has been filed against them under the Disaster Management and the Epidemic Diseases Acts Shanti Prasad Dimri Narendra Nagar SHO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/20-patients-escape-from-covid-care-centre-in-uttarakhand/article34354167.ece
19 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha logs 3,664 new COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths||Odisha’s COVID-19 caseload mounted to 3,68,258 on Sunday after 3,664 more people tested positive for the infection. Also, two fresh fatalities pushed the coastal State’s toll to 1,944, a senior Health Department official here said. Of the 3,664 new cases, 2,127 were registered in quarantine centres and the rest detected during contact-tracing, the official said. At least 10 districts recorded more than 100 new cases each, he stated. Khurda district – which State capital Bhubaneswar is a part of – reported the highest number of fresh cases at 704, followed by Sundargarh at 340, Kalahandi at 324, Nuapada at 221, Bargarh at 210, Sambalpur at 199, Cuttack at 198, Jharsuguda at 183, Puri at 143 and Mayurbhanj at 119. Malkangiri district recorded the least number of new cases at four. Taking to twitter, the Health and Family Welfare Department said, “Regret to inform about the demise of two Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals.” Both of them were women – one from Bargarh district and aged 75, and the other from Sundergarh and aged 32 – the Health Department official said. Odisha currently has 21,436 active cases, while as many as 3,44,825 patients have so far recovered from the highly infectious disease. Fifty-three other COVID-19 patients have died due to comorbidities. Positivity rate The positivity rate now stands at 3.84%. Over 95.99 lakh samples have been tested for COVID-19 thus far, including 34,450 on Saturday.  Of the 3,664 new cases reported, 2,127 were registered in quarantine centres and the rest detected during contact-tracing Senior Health Department official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-logs-3664-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/article34354165.ece
19 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Lingaraj Temple closed for public in Bhubaneswar||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has restricted public entry into the 11th century Lingaraj Temple after four sevayat s (priests) tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “In view of detection of substantial number of COVID-19 positive cases among the sevayats of Lord Shree Lingaraj Temple and in larger public interest and with a view to contain the further spread of virus, the public entry to the Shree Lingaraj Temple is restricted inside the temple until further order,” the corporation said. The temple administration will ensure that rituals are conducted by the sevayat s only. The Ashokastami car festival will be conducted without the mass participation of devotees. Lingaraj Temple is the second-most visited temple by devotees in Odisha after Shree Jagannath Temple, Puri. The Jagannath Temple will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, while no decision has been taken on the total closure of the temple. The capital city of Bhubaneswar has been reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases for the past one week now. On Sunday, 338 new cases were detected. The total number of active cases in Bhubaneswar stood at 2,527, which is more than 10% of the active cases in the State. On average, 2,000 tests are conducted in Bhubaneswar every day. Since April 14, the daily spike in cases has been found to be well above 300. The test positivity rate hovers around 15% in Bhubaneswar. On Saturday, 451 persons had tested positive in Bhubaneswar. Odisha’s COVID-19 tally increased to 3,68,258 following 3,662 positive cases reported on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lingaraj-temple-closed-for-public-in-bhubaneswar/article34354645.ece
19 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Teacher at Nerul school booked for defamation||A teacher at St. Xavier School in Nerul was on Saturday booked on the charges of defamation and atrocity based on a parent’s complaint. According to the complainant, his elder daughter studies at Class IX in the school. From the time she was in Class I, he had been paying the fees in right time, but in view of COVID-19, he could not pay the fees for academic year 2019-2020, he claimed. One of the teachers, the complaint said, made a PDF file claiming that his daughter was a defaulter and circulated it to students on WhatsApp in March. The complainant claimed that instead of personally sending a message to him, the teacher concerned sent it to the girl’s friends from whom she later learnt about the PDF file. His daughter who felt insulted by the incident went into depression, he said. The complainant further claimed that once he had had an argument with the management that they should have Savitribai Phule’s photo in the entrance. “Keeping a grudge, the school had purposefully planned to insult him,” the complaint said. Shyam Shinde, senior police inspector, Nerul police station, said, “We have registered a case and are investigating.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teacher-at-nerul-school-booked-for-defamation/article34354341.ece
19 April 2021||Lucknow,||Voting for phase two of U.P. panchayat polls today||Voting for the second phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls will be held on Monday with more than 3.48 lakh candidates in the fray for over 2.23 lakh posts in 20 districts. Voting will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 pm with over 3.23 crore voters eligible to exercise their franchise. The second phase assumes significance as State capital Lucknow and Varanasi will go to polls in this round. Apart from Lucknow and Varanasi, polling will be held in Amroha, Azamgarh, Etawah, Etah, Kannauj, Gonda, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Budaun, Baghpat, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Mainpuri, Maharajganj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Lalitpur and Sultanpur districts. For the 787 posts of members of zila panchayats, there are 11,483 candidates. For the 19,653 seats of kshetra panchayats, as many as 85,232 candidates are in the fray. As far as the gram panchayats are concerned, there are 1,21,906 candidates for 14,897 posts. For the gram panchayat wards, there are as many as 1,30,305 candidates for 1,87,781 posts. The candidates will contest on “free symbols” given by the Election Commission. More than 2.31 lakh poll officials have been deployed by the State Election Commission (SEC) for a smooth conduct of the panchayat polls. In the first phase of the polls, which was held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The 2015 panchayat polls had registered a polling percentage of 72.11, according to the SEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/voting-for-phase-two-of-up-panchayat-polls-today/article34354168.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Back where they began||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/back-where-they-began/article34354646.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Kanpur spends Sunday at home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kanpur-spends-sunday-at-home/article34354164.ece
19 April 2021||Indore,||BJP, Cong. spar over worship of oxygen tanker in M.P.||The ruling BJP and Congress on Sunday lashed out at each other after a video went viral of a State Minister and his supporters breaking coconuts and a priest chanting prayers in front of a tanker transporting oxygen from neighbouring Gujarat. A sharp spike in COVID-19 cases across M.P. has given rise to a reported shortage of medical oxygen. In videos being circulated on the social media, M.P. PWD Minister Tulsiram Silawat and his supporters can be seen offering prayers in front of the tanker in Indore, and posing in front of the vehicle for media photographs. “When the tanker, which started from Gujarat’s Jamnagar, reached Chandan Nagar Chowk on Saturday, it was stopped for an hour by Silawat for puja paath, to get media coverage. They repeated it when the vehicle reached filling station,” M.P. Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla alleged. ‘Drama’ “They did this drama  when there is an acute shortage of oxygen in hospitals and serious patients are gasping for breath,” he added. Hitting back, Indore BJP chief Gaurav Randive said the tanker was not stopped “even for five minutes” at Chandan Nagar Chowk and was sent immediately to a filling station. “The video of us offering prayers was of the time when the tanker was being emptied at the filling station,” he claimed. Indore’s tally rose to 89,317 on Sunday with 1,692 new cases, while the death toll increased by seven to reach 1,047.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-cong-spar-over-worship-of-oxygen-tanker-in-mp/article34354166.ece
19 April 2021||April 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Silence of the street||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/silence-of-the-street/article34354714.ece
