30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Win for DMK in T.N., Left Front in Kerala, NDA in Assam: exit polls||While the exit polls were unanimous in predicting a clean sweep for the DMK in Tamil Nadu, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, and the BJP-led alliances in Assam and Puducherry, the pollsters were divided on West Bengal, predicting a close race between the Trinamool Congress and the BJP. The Axis-My India poll predicted that the Trinamool could get 130-156 seats and the BJP 134-160 seats, while the Left-Congress alliance could draw a blank or in the best case scenario win two seats. People’s Pulse that did the polls for India TV predicted a clearer victory for the BJP with 173-192 seats, with the Trinamool trailing at 64-88 seats. The third poll to predict a similar trend was Jan Ki Baat, which gave the BJP 162-185 seats and the Trinamool 104-121 seats. The BJP won only three seats in the 2016 election in the State. The Republic TV-CNX poll also predicted a tight finish, with the BJP winning 138-148 seats and the Trinamool 128-138 seats. While the other exit polls gave an edge to Trinamool, they all uniformly predicted that the BJP would hold on to the gains it made during the 2019 Lok Sabha election, when it won 18 seats in the State. C-Voter predicted 152-164 seats for the Trinamool, with the BJP at 109-121 seats. P Marq said the Trinamool could win 152-172 seats, with the BJP trailing at 112-132. In Tamil Nadu, all exit polls pointed at one direction — an emphatic comeback for the DMK, with M.K. Stalin as Chief Minister. The Axis-My India poll predicted that the DMK could win 175-195 seats, with the AIADMK trailing far behind with 58-68 seats. C-Voter put the DMK at 160-172 seats, while the AIADMK could win 58-70 seats, and the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, 0-4 seats. The CNX poll gave 160-170 seats to the DMK, 58-68 seats to the AIADMK and 4-6 seats to the AMMK. Only two polls gave gave any shot to Kamal Hassan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam. P Marq said MNM could win 1-3 seats, while Axis-My India gave it 0-2 seats. In Puducherry, C-voter predicted that the AINRC-BJP alliance could win 19-23 seats. The Congress will get only 6-10. The others they said would get 1-2 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/win-for-dmk-in-tn-left-front-in-kerala-nda-in-assam-exit-polls/article34445409.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccinated or not? Erroneous records leave people confused||Gangadhar N. got his parents vaccinated with the first dose at a private hospital in central Bengaluru in the early days of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. Though they didn’t receive any updates on their phones, they were given printouts with the vaccination details. When it was time for the second dose, confusion reigned. “With cases increasing, we found a primary health centre very close to our house and decided to go there instead of travelling all the way to the Central Business District. When the staff checked the database, there was no record of the first dose. We thankfully had the printout, which we reproduced, and the second dose was administered. But now when we are trying to get the final vaccination certificate, it is still showing as ‘first dose’,” he said, wondering how he would get the certificates. “We don’t know what we will need them for in the future, but it is definitely necessary to have it.” This is not a one-off case. Similar stories are being heard from people who are partially or fully vaccinated. And with the mega drive for vaccination of those aged 18-44 set to begin in the near future, there is anxiety about whether these glitches will be addressed. For instance, a 64-year-old woman got her first dose as a walk-in beneficiary at a government hospital along with three other family members, all senior citizens. They did not get any physical acknowledgement or SMS. Two from the family eventually received messages. But the woman, and the remaining member of the family, never did. When the woman went for her second dose, again as a walk-in beneficiary, she was just asked to verbally tell which dose and vaccine. Again, there was no acknowledgement. When she finally logged into the CoWIN portal, she managed to get her final vaccination certificate, but the information was not updated on her daughter’s number through which she had originally registered before deciding to opt for a walk-in appointment.  When asked about the anomalies in data, the medical superintendent of a government hospital said the problem was rarely with the hospital’s records. “Perhaps, because of the large numbers, there are some gaps in data entry. But the hospital records will have details,” he said. ‘Not many instances’ R. Ravindra, former president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said he had not heard of too many such complaints. “There have been a couple of instances when people have taken the first dose in one hospital and the second one in another. Or sometimes they forget which phone number they used to register. But I doubt this problem is widespread,” he said. For private hospitals, the billing aspect tied with the vaccination process appears to have worked to an extent. Vaccination at government centres is free. “Since we are charging, billing is happening. For old patients, there is no problem. New patients have to be registered on our system. Then they move to billing in another counter. Aadhaar is not important for billing, but for verification it is. The details are entered into the COVID-19 portal. Once that is done, the vaccine is administered and they are made to sit for half an hour. Then we print a certificate and give it to them,” said Dr. Ravindra.  When the PHC staff checked the database, there was no record of the first dose. We thankfully had the printout, which we reproduced, and the second dose was administered. But now when we are trying to get the final vaccination certificate, it is still showing as ‘first dose’ Gangadhar N.,a Bengaluru resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinated-or-not-erroneous-records-leave-people-confused/article34445534.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Dedicated oxygen war rooms soon||The State government is setting up dedicated oxygen war rooms at the district and State level and a committee under the Home Secretary will monitor the oxygen availability and utilisation in the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that an oxygen module would be prepared and uploaded on the COVID Jagratha portal so that the oxygen utilisation can be handled in a rational and efficient manner. Oxygen position District Collectors have been asked to collect the oxygen position reports from districts on a daily basis. The police will ensure that oxygen transportation in the State is smooth. The Home Secretary will work with the Industries Secretary and ensure the availability of adequate oxygen supplies in the State, Mr. Vijayan, said.  Steps are being taken to manage the shortage of oxygen cylinders and these are being collected from the industries sector. The Chief Minister reiterated that patients on home isolation should contact the district medical office before going to hospitals so as to avoid crowding at hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dedicated-oxygen-war-rooms-soon/article34445553.ece
30 April 2021||Pune,||State extends restrictions till May 15||With Maharashtra reporting an average of 60,000 new COVID-19 cases and 500 deaths each day, the State government on Thursday decided to extend till May 15 the lockdown-like restrictions in force under the ‘Break the Chain’ campaign. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte issued an order, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, extending all curbs imposed under the orders of April 13 and 21 “till 7 a.m. on May 15”. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a review meeting to take stock of the pandemic situation with all Divisional Commissioners and District Collectors across the State. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the State Cabinet had unanimously recommended extending restrictions for a minimum of 15 days after May 1. A week after it had imposed lockdown-like curbs, the government placed additional restrictions by curtailing the timings of shops selling essential food items like groceries, vegetables and poultry. Movement within cities and gatherings were further restricted by the order of April 21, which curtailed timings of all essential shops to four hours only. Since then, all groceries, vegetable and fruit shops, dairies, bakeries, confectioneries, as well as all other types of food shops (including chicken, mutton, fish and eggs)” are kept open only between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. The government also prohibited inter-district and inter-State travel and re-started the e-pass system for those in the non-essential services category who may be compelled to travel in case of emergencies. Exempted categories As per police regulations, doctors, nurses, police personnel, government employees, food delivery agents need not apply for the e-pass and can pass checkpoints by showing their identity cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-extends-restrictions-till-may-15/article34446054.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Severe restrictions from May 4 to 9||The government will further tighten the screws on civic activity from May 4 to May 9 to bridle the surge in COVID-19 infections. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the public could expect intense lockdown-like restraints on daily life and movement during these days. “The checks will be akin to those now observed in the weekend. The 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew will continue,” Mr. Vijayan said. Shops selling food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk, dairy products and meat and fish stalls could open. So could hotels. However, the State has banned indoor dining. The emphasis was on home delivery and takeaway. Markets could open for business. However, market committees should ensure that vendors maintain a physical distance of at least 2 meter from each other. They should wear masks and gloves mandatorily. Cinema and television serial companies should wind up production for now. Banks should close at 2 p.m. Bank authorities should not transfer employees, task them to canvass customers or set business targets for workers till the pandemic abated. ‘Put off celebrations’ The State aimed to do without activities that would necessitate people to gather. Mr. Vijayan urged the public to postpone celebratory events, suspend non-essential travel and wear two masks in public. People should remain indoors on vote counting day on May 2. The government has banned public jubilation. The epidemic situation in Kerala had worsened. “Citizens should go into self lockdown. They should sequester themselves indoors and venture out only for emergencies,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said mutant strains of COVID-19 had accelerated the transmission of the disease. Some variants could linger in the air for a relatively extended period. They could also infiltrate human cells rapidly. The State police would raise a neighbourhood volunteer force to help them. They would train neighbourhood watch, Jana Maithri, members and give them identification armbands. Norms for travellers Travellers required COVID-19 negative certificates to enter Kerala from Karnataka via road. The police would pilot vehicles carrying essential medical supplies and supplemental oxygen for rapid delivery to critical care centres. The District Magistrate should ensure the free vaccination and welfare of guest workers.  People can expect intense lockdown-like restraints on daily life and movement during these days. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/severe-restrictions-from-may-4-to-9/article34445548.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19 deaths continue to increase in Telangana||iTelangana recorded 7,994 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The number of people who died of the infectious disease continued to increase. While 56 people died on Tuesday, 58 people died on Wednesday. One of the reasons for comparatively less cases could be drop in the number of total tests. From April 8, anywhere between 1 lakh to 1.3 lakh samples were tested. The highest of 10,122 people tested positive on April 26 when 99,638 samples were put to test. And on April 27 and 28, the samples examined were 82,270 and 80,181, leading to detection of 8,061 and 7,994 cases respectively. However, senior officials from the State Health department claimed that compared to other States, a high number of tests are being conducted in Telangana. The highest of 1,630 cases were detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 615 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 558 in Rangareddy, 424 in Nalgonda, 301 in Nizamabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-deaths-continue-to-increase-in-telangana/article34445974.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19 case graph hits yet another high in State||The State’s COVID-19 graph hit yet another high on Thursday, with 38,607 new cases, including 110 health workers, being reported when 1,57,548 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The average test positivity rate now is 24.5%. The active case pool has 2,84,086 patients. New admissions up The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State is 24,009, with 4,423 persons newly admitted on Thursday. At present, a total of 5,69,831 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation. On Thursday, 21,116 people were declared to have recovered and let off from hospitals, a reflection of the State’s new discharge policy. The total recoveries till date is 12,44,301. The rise in ICU admissions is the true indicator of the severity of the pandemic and on Thursday, 1,652 critically ill patients were moved to ICUs, while those requiring ventilator assistance has risen to 577. The cumulative case burden now stands at 15,33,984 cases. On Thursday, the State added 48 new deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 5,259. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 5,369 cases, Kozhikode 4,990, Thrissur 3,954, Thiruvananthapuram 3,940, Malappuram 3,857, Kottayam 3,616, Palakkad 2,411, Kollam 2,058, Alappuzha 2,043, Kannur 1,999, Pathanamthitta 1,245, Idukki 1,153, Kasaragod 1,063 and Wayanad 909. In Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram, 28,698 and 23,000 people respectively are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-case-graph-hits-yet-another-high-in-state/article34445555.ece
30 April 2021||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),||100 Remdesivir vials seized from bus, two doctors among three booked||In yet another case of black marketing of Remdesivir, the Chillakallu police have booked two doctors and a hospital employee, and seized 100 vials that are being illegally transported from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh. The accused have been identified as Dr. Garikapati Subba Rao, his daughter Bhavya, a gynaecologist, and Muttavarapu Ajay Kumar, a hospital employee. “A team led by Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy and Chillakallu SI V. Venkateswara Rao intercepted a TSRTC bus proceeding from Hyderabad to Guntur, at the Garikapadu checkpost. During the check, Remdesivir vials were found in the luggage of Ajay Kumar,” Special Enforcement Bureau ASP Vakul Jindal told the media here on Thursday. Ajay Kumar reportedly confessed that he was smuggling the vials to Bhushaiah Memorial Nursing Home at Yedlapadu in Guntur district. The nursing home is being run by Dr. Subba Rao. The vials were reportedly packed at Landmark Hospital in Hyderabad being operated by Dr. Bhavya, said Jaggaiahpet CI P. Chandrashekar. “Cashing in on the huge demand for Remdesivir, the doctors were transporting the vials allegedly to market them at high prices. Dr. Bhavya will be taken into custody,” said Mr. Jindal. The Chillakallu SI said that during investigation, it was revealed that patients were being treated at Bhushaiah Memorial Nursing Home without permission, and action would be taken against the hospital management. Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, while appreciating the team, said that the injections were being transported without any bills and indents, and warned that stern action would be taken against those who try to black market the life-saving drug. “The police will visit Landmark and Bhushaiah Hospitals in the two States, verify the drug stock and seized them. Investigation officers will also ascertain whether the accused had brought the injections earlier,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Five arrested Sleuths of the Police Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) in Vijayawada arrested five persons for their alleged involvement in sale of Remdesivir. The accused were working in different hospitals, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. On a tip-off, the team led by CTF Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas laid a trap and apprehended the accused. The arrested included Allari Supriya (pharmacist), Y. Vamshi (ward boy), Chitturi Mokshit and K. Kalyan. Another accused, Albert, who is working as sample collection boy, is absconding. The accused were caught while they were allegedly trying to sell each injection at Rs. 45,000 each, said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/100-remdesivir-vials-seized-from-bus-two-doctors-among-three-booked/article34445394.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Covaxin exhausted, fresh stock coming in a week||While there is no stock of Covaxin in Dakshina Kannada, the available Covishield vaccine is being given to people at vaccination sites in the district. District Nodal Officer for Vaccines B.V. Rajesh said that a fresh stock of Covaxin is expected in a week’s time. The district has 8,000 doses of Covishield and it is expecting 12,000 more doses of the vaccine to be delivered by Friday. “As instructed by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, preference is being given to those coming for their second dose of the vaccine,” he said. Those coming for their second dose can directly walk in at vaccination centres and there is no need for registration, he added. Those who required their second dose of Covaxin will have to wait till it is supplied to the district, he said and added that one can wait up to three months after receiving their first dose. Dr. Rajesh said that private hospitals have been asked to complete vaccination at their sites and return stocks to the government on Friday. From May 1, private hospitals have to administer vaccine from the stock they purchase directly from the manufacturer, Dr. Rajesh said. With Thursday being routine immunisation day for children, many primary health centres in urban and rural areas did not carry out COVID-19 vaccination. As per information available on CoWin portal, a total of 2,448 persons received vaccine on Thursday in Dakshina Kannada. The highest of 258 people received the vaccine at two sites of Government Wenlock Hospital. Among those who received the vaccine included a group of people who approached the District Congress helpline after they were denied their first dose of vaccine. While 10 received Covaxin does, the others were given Covishield at Wenlock Hospital, Dr. Rajesh said. Among the other government hospitals, 245 persons received the vaccine at the Puttur Taluk Hospital, followed by 64 and 56 at the Belthangady and Sullia taluk hospitals, respectively. Among the primary health centres (PHCs), 161 persons received the vaccine at Aranthodu, 114 at Nellyadi, 112 in Kurnad, 99 in Kadaba, 79 in Eshwarmangala, 73 at Mani, 66 at Punajalkatte and 59 persons recieved it at Kollamogaru PHC. As many as 60 persons received the vaccine at Surathkal Urban PHC (UPHC), 59 at Bantwal UPHC and 72 persons at Vitla Community Health Centre. Among the private hospitals, 46 persons received the vaccine at K.S. Hegde Hospital, 30 each at Kanachur and Omega hospitals, 27 at Srinivas Hospital, 26 at Adarsha Hospital, 22 at Vijaya Nursing Home and 40 persons on Infosys campus. A total of 3.37 lakh persons have received the vaccine in Dakshina Kannada so far. Of these, 2.72 lakh are those who have received the first dose and 64,841 persons who have received the second dose. While 3,00,045 have received Covishield, 37,172 have been given Covaxin, according to CoWin portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-exhausted-fresh-stock-coming-in-a-week/article34446032.ece
30 April 2021||Patna,||As bodies mount, Patna to get more crematoriums||The Patna Municipal Corporation has decided to build new cremation grounds to ease the long lines of people waiting to cremate their relatives. The unprecedented rise in the number of deaths due to COVID-19 has led to a long wait for families to conduct the last rites at the three crematoriums here. With three cremation grounds in the city at Bans ghat, Gulabi ghat and Khajekalan ghat, the last one week has seen long lines of bodies outside all three grounds. “A nine to ten hour wait for bodies to be consigned to the flame is quite normal,” Munna, a shop owner selling kafans (shrouds) and clothes with Ram naami (name of Ram) written on it outside the Bans ghat crematorium, told The Hindu.  “I’ve not seen such a rush of bodies here in my 15 years of business at the ghat. It is unprecedented,” he added. On normal days, a maximum of 30 to 40 bodies came to the ground. But today the stream has been constant”, he said. A similar situation played out at Gulabi ghat, only four km away from Bans ghat. “Bier and ambulances with bodies have been coming here round the clock. But the incinerator has the capacity to take only one body every one hour. Hence, 24 bodies can be cremated in 24 hours. Space to build a pyre with wooden logs at the ghat is also limited. So, there is a long wait to cremate bodies here,” Vinod Kumar, a wood-seller at Gulabi ghat said. Bereaved family members have to wait for hours to consign bodies to the flame at Khajekalan ghat, the third cremation ground, as well. With the situation aggravating, the State government has decided to open new cremation grounds in the city to ease the situation. “The Patna Municipal Corporation [PMC] has registered two new crematoriums at Digha ghat and Nand Gola ghat to ease the long wait of bereaved families,” PMC Commissioner Himanshu Sharma said. The government had also decided to fix the charges for the cremations. But bereaved family members alleged that they were forced to pay extra by touts operating the ghats. “Nobody wants to touch the body of a COVID-19 patient. No one comes forward to help. So, they demand extra money for the service and we have no option but to pay,” a relative of a COVID-19 victim told a private news channel. “What the government has been claiming in newspaper advertisements is just hogwash. Nobody comes to the crematoriums or to the hospitals to see what is happening on the ground,” said Sanjay Kumar, whose 46-year-old wife died on Tuesday. Meanwhile, contradictions have been increasing in the figures of the daily deaths recorded by the State government, social workers said. “If approx 100 bodies are bought to the three cremation grounds in Patna, one can only imagine the numbers in all of Bihar,”said Rajesh Kumar, a social worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-bodies-mount-patna-to-get-more-crematoriums/article34445579.ece
30 April 2021||Pune,||Recoveries outweigh cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported 68,537 recoveries on Thursday as opposed to 66,159 new COVID-19 cases as the State’s active case tally dipped to 6,70,301. A spike of 771 deaths pushed the total death toll to 67,985. Of these, 383 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 165 during the last week. A further 223 were from an earlier period, said the State Health Department. The total cases reached 45,39,553, while cumulative recoveries rose to 37,30,729, with the recovery rate at 83.69%. The case fatality rate has incrementally declined to 1.5%. “Of 2,68,16,075 laboratory samples tested, 45,39,553 (with the average case positivity rising to 16.93%) have returned positive, with over 2.89 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district reported nearly 12,000 new cases to take its case tally to 8,33,243, while 146 deaths (of which more than 105 were from an earlier period) pushed the toll to 9,438. As per district authorities, the active case tally dipped to 94,000, while the toll crossed 12,800. Cases dip in Mumbai Mumbai reported just 4,174 new cases, taking its tally to 6,44,583, of whom 67,255 are active, while 82 deaths took the total toll to 13,036. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported nearly 7,900 cases as its case tally reached 4,13,981, of whom 80,028 are active, while 65 more deaths pushed the toll to 5,090. Satara in western Maharashtra reported 32 deaths and 2,175 cases, taking its total death toll to 2,253 and its total case tally to 1,00,245, of whom 17,459 are active. Aurangabad recorded 27 deaths and more than 1,400 new cases. Its total death toll climbed to 1,945 and its total case tally reached 1,23,533, of whom 14,649 are active. Ahmednagar reported 38 deaths and more than 2,800 cases, taking its toll to 1,950 and its total cases to 1,67,199, of whom 23,124 are active. Nashik reported 4,200 new cases, taking its total case tally to 3,08,118.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recoveries-outweigh-cases-in-maharashtra/article34446055.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination rollout unlikely before mid-May in State||Although the Centre has announced that vaccination for people in the 18-45 years category will be rolled out from May 1 and has also opened up registrations on the CoWIN portal, it is not likely to begin before mid-May in Karnataka. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that the fourth phase of the vaccination drive would be taken up “in stages” in the State. Not spelling out the rollout date, he said in a statement that the State government was procuring one crore doses of vaccine. “Work order has been placed to procure one crore additional doses of vaccine. The fourth phase of vaccination will be taken up in stages as and when the State gets supply,” the statement said. Pointing out that pharmaceutical companies were enhancing their production capacity to meet the increased demand, the Chief Minister’s statement said a third vaccine (apart from Covishield and Covaxin) was also being introduced in the country. “Under these circumstances, the drive will continue based on the availability of vaccine. The drive will be planned to ensure systematic, disciplined, and smooth implementation,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa also said that while the State had managed to overcome the first wave with minimal losses, the second wave was “testing our capacity”. Official sources said that vaccine manufacturers had made it clear that they could negotiate future orders only after meeting their prior vaccine commitment to the Union government. So far, the Centre has supplied 99.4 lakh doses of vaccine to the State, and 93.5 lakh doses have been administered. “The State as of now has a stock of 5.9 lakh vaccine doses, which is required to administer the second dose. There is no stock to start the fourth phase on May 1. The manufacturers have made it clear that they cannot deliver the State’s new order before mid-May,” a senior health official said. However, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the date of rollout would be announced on Friday. “We are working out the modalities of rolling out the fourth phase and plan to start it as early as possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-rollout-unlikely-before-mid-may-in-state/article34445526.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Increase number of beds in COVID hospitals: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to increase the number of beds in COVID hospitals and arrange 3,000 beds, including 1,000 oxygen beds, at COVID Care Centres in every district and to set up the required oxygen manufacturing plants and oxygen tanks at hospitals. Speaking at a review meeting on COVID at his camp office on Thursday, the Chief Minister said the rates paid to empanelled private hospitals for COVID treatment could be increased and the same could be made applicable to Aarogyasri hospitals. He said it should be ensured that no hospital denied treatment to COVID patients and added that the salaries of both male and female nurses in COVID hospitals could be increased. The Chief Minister directed the officials to set up 42 pressure swing absorption plants to produce enough oxygen for COVID hospitals and to procure oxygen tanks of 10 kilolitres (KL) capacity for teaching hospitals and 1 KL tanks for other hospitals. Officials informed the Chief Minister that there were 35,644 beds in 422 COVID hospitals (public and private), of which 21,590 were occupied. About 79,000 patients were in home isolation and another 6,348 were in Covid Care Centers. A total of 14,862 patients are being treated on oxygen beds. ‘Vaccination only remedy’ Mr Jagan said vaccine shortage is likely to be a problem till February 2022 due to the huge mismatch between the population size and the production capacities, which just started to be ramped up. “Vaccination seems to be the only remedy for COVID. But, since the entire gap cannot be immediately bridged, people should be extremely careful,” he advised. Mr. Jagan said 52 crore vaccines were required to give two doses to 26 crore people aged above 45 in a span of four weeks. The population in the 18-45 age group was 60 crore. The existing monthly vaccine production capacity stood at seven crore (six crore Covishield and the rest Covaxin). The first dose was so far given to only 12 crore people in the country and the second to 2.60 crore. Put together, the number of doses administered was nearly 15 crore. The Chief Minister said while the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech were producing six crore and one crore vaccines respectively, companies like Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories were poised to bring out their products soon. Even as the governments grapple with the mammoth task of vaccination, people should give priority to sanitation and keeping themselves fit and healthy, he exhorted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/increase-number-of-beds-in-covid-hospitals-jagan/article34445396.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Save lives, alleviate pain, says Sonia||Noting that India now needs an absolute one-point programme to save lives and alleviate the pain of millions of citizens, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in an interview to The Hindu on Thursday, called for a gigantic collective endeavour cutting across party lines. “We need to work together and mobilise all assistance and help for the millions in dire need, and we need to ensure that vaccination coverage expands as fast as possible,” she said. “Increasing vaccine supply and rate of vaccination is the most urgent task that requires a national effort.” Ms. Gandhi said that in every State, the Congress had shunned a blame game, and prioritised saving lives over fixing accountability. “We are extending help in whatever way we can,” she said. Ms. Gandhi, however, said that a “political consensus” during a national crisis required the “ability to listen” and not an attitude that “you know everything”. She said the Union government declared a premature victory over the novel coronavirus some months ago and started celebrating. Recommendations made by the Parliamentary Standing Committee to be in a state of preparedness were ignored. By early February, public health experts in India and abroad were issuing warnings on what might happen given the situation prevailing elsewhere. “But we were caught in a web of hubris and complacency. Super-spreader events were allowed with no thought or care about their potential impact,” she said. She accused the Prime Minister of “ruthlessly politicising” the vaccine policy. Asked if COVID-19 was being manipulated to hide the real picture, Ms. Gandhi said the Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government were those whoi were resorting to it the most. She said while international help that had come to the aid of India was welcome, but it was “pathetic” to see that such help was being “spun” around to hail the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/save-lives-alleviate-pain-says-sonia/article34445405.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Not enough vaccines to inoculate those above 18 years’||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that Delhi does not have enough vaccines as of now to inoculate people above 18 years of age from May 1. He said that they have requested for stock from the manufacturing companies. “We don’t have enough vaccines. We have requested for procurement of vaccines from the respective companies. Despite all preparations, availability of vaccines is needed for the inoculation to begin. As soon as it is made clear and we receive the vaccines, we will let you know in a couple of days or so,” the Minister said about vaccination of people above 18 years of age. He said that the government has not received the schedule from companies yet, which includes how many vials will reach and on which dates. Fall in TPR Mr. Jain said that there is a fall in the test positivity rate [TPR] and it is a good sign. “With the positivity rate dropping to 31.76%, Delhi reported 25,986 cases yesterday [Wednesday]. The numbers have been constantly breaching the 20,000 mark for the past 10-12 days. However, the fact that the positivity rate has been declining is a ray of hope for us. The highest was recorded at nearly 35% about four days ago,” he said. The Health Minister said the government feared that the positivity rate might go beyond 45%, but it has halted at 35% and it has dropped to 31.76% on Wednesday. About the number of tests coming down, he said, “The Delhi government has not reduced its testing strategy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-enough-vaccines-to-inoculate-those-above-18-years/article34445707.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Save lives, alleviate pain, says Sonia||Noting that India now needs an absolute one-point programme to save lives and alleviate the pain of millions of citizens, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in an interview to The Hindu on Thursday, called for a gigantic collective endeavour cutting across party lines. “We need to work together and mobilise all assistance and help for the millions in dire need, and we need to ensure that vaccination coverage expands as fast as possible,” she said. “Increasing vaccine supply and rate of vaccination is the most urgent task that requires a national effort.” Ms. Gandhi said that in every State, the Congress had shunned a blame game, and prioritised saving lives over fixing accountability. “We are extending help in whatever way we can,” she said. Ms. Gandhi, however, said that a “political consensus” during a national crisis required the “ability to listen” and not an attitude that “you know everything”. She said the Union government declared a premature victory over the novel coronavirus some months ago and started celebrating. Recommendations made by the Parliamentary Standing Committee to be in a state of preparedness were ignored. By early February, public health experts in India and abroad were issuing warnings on what might happen given the situation prevailing elsewhere. “But we were caught in a web of hubris and complacency. Super-spreader events were allowed with no thought or care about their potential impact,” she said. She accused the Prime Minister of “ruthlessly politicising” the vaccine policy. Asked if COVID-19 was being manipulated to hide the real picture, Ms. Gandhi said the Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government were those whoi were resorting to it the most. She said while international help that had come to the aid of India was welcome, but it was “pathetic” to see that such help was being “spun” around to hail the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/save-lives-alleviate-pain-says-sonia/article34446130.ece
30 April 2021||Chennai,||High Courts pull up Centre on pandemic||The Madras High Court and the Delhi High Court, hearing separate cases on Thursday, questioned the Centre’s actions during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hearing asuo motupublic interest litigation, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee wondered what the Centre had been doing for the past 12 to 14 months without anticipating the second wave. The court said there cannot be adhocism in dealing with a pandemic and that the Centre should have acted in a planned and informed manner with expert advice. A Delhi High Court Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre why States such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were allotted more oxygen than they had asked for, while Delhi was not even allotted its projected requirement. “We are not asking you [Centre] to stop giving to these States. But the point is, on April 20, Delhi’s projected demand was 700 metric tonnes, but you allocated 480 meric tonnes. . It doesn’t appear to be falling in line,” the Bench said.  (With inputs from Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-courts-pull-up-centre-on-pandemic/article34445449.ece
30 April 2021||Patna,||Two new crematoriums to handle rush of bodies in Patna||The Patna Municipal Corporation [PMC] has decided to build new cremation grounds to ease the long lines to cremate bodies. The unprecedented rise in the number of deaths due to COVID-19 has led to a long wait for families to conduct the last rites at the three crematoriums here at Bansh ghat, Gulabi ghat and Khajekalan ghat. “A nine to ten hour wait for bodies to be consigned to the flames is quite normal,” Munna, a shop owner selling kafans [shrouds] outside the Bansh ghat crematorium, said over the phone. “I’ve not seen such a rush of bodies here in my 15 years of business at the ghat,” he said. “On normal days, a maximum of 30 to 40 bodies came to the ground to be cremated. But today it is constant.” A similar situation played out at Gulabi ghat, only four km away from Bansh ghat, and at Khajekalan ghat as well. “The Patna Municipal Corporation has registered two new crematoriums at Digha ghat and Nand Gola ghat to ease the long wait for bereaved families,” PMC Commissioner Himanshu Sharma said. Meanwhile, discrepancies have been cropping up in the figures of daily deaths. Bihar officially recorded 84 deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-new-crematoriums-to-handle-rush-of-bodies-in-patna/article34445698.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Pandemic curve peaks further||The State has again hit a peak in daily infections with 14,792 cases and 57 deaths in the 24 hours ending Thursday. The cumulative tally increased to 10,84,336  and the toll reached 7,928. A huge number of 8,188 patients recovered in the past day and yet the number of active patients at 1,14,158 was at its all-time highest. The number of recoveries increased to  9,62,250 and the recovery rate came down to 88.74%. New cases The number of samples tested in the past day increased to 86,035, and yet the positivity rate of the tests was 17.19%. In the past day, seven deaths each were reported in Anantapur, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. East Godavari reported six deaths while Chittoor and Visakhapatnam reported five deaths each. Nellore and Srikakulam reported four each and Kadapa, Krishna and Prakasam reported three deaths each. Kurnool reported two and Guntur reported one death. Chittoor and Srikakulam reported 1,831 and 1,829 infections respectively. They were followed by Guntur (1,760), East Godavari (1,702), Anantapur (1,538), Visakhapatnam (1,129), Nellore (1,002), Kurnool (876), Kadapa (669), Prakasam (639), Vizianagaram (624), Krishna (597) and West Godavari (596). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,39,940), Chittoor (1,16,620), Guntur (1,02,790), West Godavari (97,980), Anantapur (80,810), Nellore (80,054), Visakhapatnam (78,046), Kurnool (75,574), Prakasam (70,731), Srikakulam (66,490), Kadapa (62,450), Krishna (60,756) and Vizianagaram (49,200).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-curve-peaks-further/article34445407.ece
30 April 2021||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||89 COVID-19 deaths in West Bengal||There was no let up in the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths in West Bengal witha record 17, 407 cases reported in the last 24 hours. As many as 89 patients died in the same period. Even though the number of COVID-19 samples tested remained the same, there is a spike in deaths on Thursday. The State had recorded 77 deaths on Wednesday and the number of samples tested positive for the viral infection was 17, 207. West Bengal is testing about 53,000 samples a day which is creating a huge gap in the number of patients who require tests and who are actually undergoing tests. On Thursday 53,724 samples were tested while it was slightly more at 54,936 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the State health department’s decision to route all COVID-19 admissions to State-run hospitals through its advisory cell at Swastha Bhawan has created more problems. Family members of Ranu Saha, 78-year-old resident of north Kolkata who died on Thursday, said that despite reaching out to Swastha Bhawanthere was no help. “We took her to several private hospitals where the authorities said that beds were not available. After reaching out to State-run Beleghata Hospital the administration asked whether we had contacted Swastha Bhawan. But there was no help from there, and the patient died unattended,” said Chandana Bose , an acquaintance of the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/89-covid-19-deaths-in-west-bengal/article34445577.ece
30 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||Six dead in U.P. hospital, kin allege oxygen scarcity||The Moradabad administration on Thursday launched a probe to find out the exact cause of death of six patients at a private hospital after their relatives alleged that they died due to shortage of oxygen. While the relative of one of the dead patients claimed that 16-17 persons on oxygen support had died due to disruption in oxygen supply after 3 a.m. on Thursday, the administration maintained that there was no shortage of oxygen at the hospital and that only six persons had died during the period. Rajat Kumar Singh, a scientist with ISRO, alleged that his father died in the Bright Star Hospital due to shortage of oxygen. Mr. Singh claimed that when he went to the hospital at 7.30 a.m., he found his father missing from the ward. He was found dead in the ICU. Complaint to DM “The nurses told me that around 3-4 a.m., the oxygen pressure in the pipeline was almost zero,” said Mr. Singh. Mr. Singh wrote to the District Magistrate complaining about the incident and also enclosed signatures of 17 other persons whose kin also died at the hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage. Indrapal lost his brother and alleged that he too died due to shortage of oxygen. “Twelve-fifteen others also died,” he claimed. Moradabad SDM Prashant Tiwari said that an inspection found that the hospital had sufficient oxygen supply and that the deaths did not occur due to any scarcity. The administration was, however, conducting a death audit of the six patients who died. S||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-dead-in-up-hospital-kin-allege-oxygen-scarcity/article34445700.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Lockdown will not curb vote counting activities||No restrictions will be imposed on the movement of people and materials in Tamil Nadu this Sunday for the counting of votes for the Assembly election, though a total lockdown will be in force. A government order said no curbs will be imposed on the movement or transport of officials, candidates and their agents and food suppliers. The restrictions during other days have been extended “until further orders”. The order, issued by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, said vegetable shops would remain closed on Sundays, as would meat stalls, fish markets, cinema halls, shopping malls and other shops. Vegetable shops were earlier allowed to work from 5 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-will-not-curb-vote-counting-activities/article34445451.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||RT-PCR test rates reduced in State||The government has slashed the rates of RT-PCR tests in private labs from the present Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 500, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. The rates had been revised as ICMR-approved test kits were now available in the market at much lower rates, a statement said here on Thursday. The State had earlier reduced the RT-PCR test rates to Rs. 1,500, which had to be hiked to Rs. 1,700 after the private labs secured an order from the High Court allowing the enhancement of rates. The new and revised rate of Rs. 500 includes the cost of the test lit, swab charges and other personal protective equipment and hence hospitals and ICMR-approved labs may not levy additional charges for the test. RT-PCR will continue to be offered free of cost in all government health institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rt-pcr-test-rates-reduced-in-state/article34445556.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Priority for second dose||The government has issued new guidelines for COVID-19 vaccination, prioritising the vaccination of those who are due for receiving the second dose of vaccine. Accordingly, all vaccination centres have been instructed to give priority for those who are due for their second dose, when scheduling vaccination sessions. The list of beneficiaries who are due for the second dose at each centre can be accessed through the CoWin portal. The managers at the vaccination centres have been asked to mobilise those who are due for the second dose with the help of ASHA workers or local body staff and to administer the vaccine to them through spot allotment. Those who are due for the second dose will be informed about the date and time when their session have been scheduled and they need visit the vaccination centre only after receiving this information. This will avoid crowding at the vaccination sites. As priority is for those who are due for the second dose, vaccination centres have been asked to schedule slots in such a way that only the appointment slots remaining after administering the second doses may be allocated for those seeking the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priority-for-second-dose/article34445557.ece
30 April 2021||guwahati,||Congress sounds EC on ‘discrepancies’ in Assam||The Assam unit of the Congress has written to the Election Commission of India (ECI) complaining about “serious discrepancies” in respect of the safety of strong rooms, EVMs and control units under nine Assembly constituencies in three districts. These constituencies are Dhakuakhana in Lakhimpur district, Chabua, Dibrugarh, Lahowal and Moran in Dibrugarh district, and Dudhnoi, Goalpara East, Goalpara West and Jaleswar in Goalpara district. In a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner on Thursday, State unit president Ripun Bora cited several instances of “serious discrepancies” and sought the ECI’s intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-sounds-ec-on-discrepancies-in-assam/article34445581.ece
30 April 2021||KALABURAGI,||JSW Steel to supply 1,000 tonnes oxygen from today||Responding to the recent surge in demand for liquid medical oxygen, JSW Steel has ramped up and will commence supply of 1,000 tonnes of liquid oxygen supply from Friday. The total supply of liquid medical oxygen by JSW Steel during April 2021 is expected to be more than 20,000 tonnes from all its plants. JSW Steel is supplying liquid oxygen from its three manufacturing facilities in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu to various States across India. In a media release, president of JSW Steel, Vijayanagar Works, Rajashekhar Pattanasetty has said that the demand for liquid medical oxygen had jumped manifold as a consequence of the current national health emergency emerging due to the current wave of COVID-19 infections and JSW Steel is supplying liquid oxygen to meet medical requirements of State governments and hospitals for treating patients. “JSW Steel has so far supplied more than 11,500 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen from its Ballari plant in the month of April. We have more than tripled supply at the JSW Vijayanagar plant from an average of 200 tonnes [a day] in early April to over 680 tonnes per day now. Liquid medical oxygen is supplied to Karnataka as well as other States,” Mr. Pattanasetty said, reiterating JSW Steel’s commitment to augment the supply of liquid oxygen further in critical times to save lives even by lowering the production of steel at its steel-making units. “We are leaving no stone unturned to push the supply of liquid oxygen in the interest of our nation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jsw-steel-to-supply-1000-tonnes-oxygen-from-today/article34445527.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt.’s responsibilities remain: Centre||The Union Home Ministry said on Thursday that the Government of National Capital Territory (GNCTD) Amendment Act, 2021 “in no way alters the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government” to take necessary action in areas of health and education. In a press statement, the Ministry issued a notice that the provisions of the Act would come into effect from April 27. The Act gives more teeth to the oﬃce of the L-G of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govts-responsibilities-remain-centre/article34445705.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||Vaccination suspended in city till May 2||Vaccination against COVID-19 in Mumbai will be suspended till May 2 as the city has run out of stock and has not received adequate supply of vaccines, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said on Thursday. The civic body clarified that vaccination for the 18-44 age group, which is due to begin on May 1, will be postponed due to shortage of doses. It also added that those above 45 years will be given preference along with those requiring the second dose when supply is restored in the city. “Around 63 government and 73 private centres are being used for vaccination in Mumbai. Due to inadequate supply, the administration is planning daily vaccination based on availability. With no supply, vaccination has been put on hold. We will not be able to go ahead for the next three days,” the civic official said. He added that citizens will be informed when the vaccination drive resumes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-suspended-in-city-till-may-2/article34446052.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||Time to think of imposing lockdown, HC asks State govt.||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government if it was time to think of imposing a lockdown like last year for 15 days to control the spread of COVID-19. A Division Bench was hearing a PIL seeking proper management of medicines, oxygen and beds for COVID-19 patients. The Chief Justice asked Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni if the State believed its current restrictions were working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/time-to-think-of-imposing-lockdown-hc-asks-state-govt/article34446056.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Price of infraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/strict-implementation/article34445529.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Save lives, alleviate pain, says Sonia||Noting that India now needs an absolute one-point programme to save lives and alleviate the pain of millions of citizens, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in an interview to The Hindu on Thursday, called for a gigantic collective endeavour cutting across party lines. “We need to work together and mobilise all assistance and help for the millions in dire need, and we need to ensure that vaccination coverage expands as fast as possible,” she said. “Increasing vaccine supply and rate of vaccination is the most urgent task that requires a national effort.” Ms. Gandhi said that in every State, the Congress had shunned a blame game, and prioritised saving lives over fixing accountability. “We are extending help in whatever way we can,” she said. Ms. Gandhi, however, said that a “political consensus” during a national crisis required the “ability to listen” and not an attitude that “you know everything”. She said the Union government declared a premature victory over the novel coronavirus some months ago and started celebrating. Recommendations made by the Parliamentary Standing Committee to be in a state of preparedness were ignored. By early February, public health experts in India and abroad were issuing warnings on what might happen given the situation prevailing elsewhere. “But we were caught in a web of hubris and complacency. Super-spreader events were allowed with no thought or care about their potential impact,” she said. She accused the Prime Minister of “ruthlessly politicising” the vaccine policy. Asked if COVID-19 was being manipulated to hide the real picture, Ms. Gandhi said the Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government were those whoi were resorting to it the most. She said while international help that had come to the aid of India was welcome, but it was “pathetic” to see that such help was being “spun” around to hail the Prime Minister. Ms. Gandhi alleged that the Modi government’s misplaced priorities such as the Central Vista project pushed the country to a situation where it was forced to seek foreign assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/save-lives-alleviate-pain-says-sonia/article34445452.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-of-duty/article34445398.ece
30 April 2021||Chennai,||High Courts pull up Centre on pandemic||The Madras High Court and the Delhi High Court, hearing separate cases on Thursday, questioned the Central government’s actions during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hearing asuo motupublic interest litigation (PIL), Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee wondered what the Central government had been doing for the past 12 to 14 months without anticipating the second wave. The court said there cannot be adhocism in dealing with a pandemic and that the Central government should have acted in a planned and informed manner with expert advice. Oxygen supply A Delhi High Court Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre why States such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were allotted more oxygen than they had asked for, while Delhi was not even allotted its projected requirement. “On April 20, Delhi’s projected demand was 700 metric tonne, but you allocated 480 metric tonne,” the Bench said.  (With inputs from Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-courts-pull-up-centre-on-pandemic/article34446131.ece
30 April 2021||Chennai,||High Courts pull up Centre on pandemic||The Madras High Court and the Delhi High Court, hearing separate cases on Thursday, questioned the Central government’s actions during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hearing asuo motupublic interest litigation (PIL), Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee wondered what the Central government had been doing for the past 12 to 14 months without anticipating the second wave. The court said there cannot be adhocism in dealing with a pandemic and that the Central government should have acted in a planned and informed manner with expert advice. Oxygen supply A Delhi High Court Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre why States such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were allotted more oxygen than they had asked for, while Delhi was not even allotted its projected requirement. “On April 20, Delhi’s projected demand was 700 metric tonne, but you allocated 480 metric tonne,” the Bench said.  (With inputs from Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-courts-pull-up-centre-on-pandemic/article34445403.ece
30 April 2021||mumbai,||Time to think of imposing lockdown, HC to Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government if it was time to think of imposing a lockdown like last year for 15 days to control the spread of COVID-19. A Division Bench was hearing a PIL seeking proper management of medicines, oxygen and beds for COVID-19 patients. The Chief Justice asked Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni if the State believed its current restrictions were working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/time-to-think-of-imposing-lockdown-hc-to-maharashtra/article34445584.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Decision on shifting hospital services reverted||The Udupi district administration, which had shifted all medical services from the Kundapur Taluk Hospital to Udupi, reverted the decision on Thursday following objections from MLC and former Legislative Council chairperson K. Pratapchandra Shetty. Mr. Shetty in a letter to Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Wednesday opposed the shifting of outpatient and inpatient services from the taluk hospital to the district hospital in Udupi and converting the taluk hospital into a COVID-19 hospital. The MLC said that the two services should be continued to be offered at the old building and the new building of the taluk hospital should be reserved for treating COVID-19 patients. Mr. Shetty said that if the services are not reverted, he would raise the matter in an “appropriate forum”. “I oppose the sudden shifting of the outpatient and inpatient services to the Udupi District Hospital. I condemn it as it is an anti-people measure,” the MLC wrote in the letter. After the letter from the MLC, the Deputy Commissioner in a release on Thursday said that COVID-19 patients are being treated in the new building and the old building is being used to offer other medical services, including treatment for non-COVID patients, and medical tests. A COVID-19 vaccination centre has been opened in the Kalamandira on the premises of Government Pre University College in Kundapur, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-shifting-hospital-services-reverted/article34446029.ece
30 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Top ULFA-I ‘commander’ killed in Bongaigao: police||The security forces have claimed to have dealt a major blow to the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent by killing one of its top ‘commanders’ in an encounter in western Assam’s Bongaigaon district on Thursday. Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, Assam’s Director-General of Police, said the outfit’s self-styled ‘colonel’ Dwipen Saud “appears dead with bullet injury” following an encounter. While the police took him to a hospital to ascertain his death, one of his aides, identified as ‘gunman’ Padum Rai, was caught along with a weapon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-ulfa-i-commander-killed-in-bongaigao-police/article34445580.ece
30 April 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata records lowest turnout at 57.53%||Isolated incidents of violence were reported in the last phase of polling for 35 seats in West Bengal on Thursday with 76.07% voters exercising their franchise till 5 p.m. The marathon exercise, which started on March 27, has come to a close with Kolkata recording the lowest turnout at 57.53%. Birbhum recorded the highest turnout (81.87%) followed by Malda (80.06%) and Murshidabad (78.07%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-records-lowest-turnout-at-5753/article34445583.ece
30 April 2021||HUBBALLI,||Military hospitals may become COVID centres||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that in consultation with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Military Hospitals in the State would be converted into COVID-19 hospitals. He was speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/military-hospitals-may-become-covid-centres/article34445530.ece
30 April 2021||Hubballi,||COVID-19 positivity rate is 11% in Dharwad||COVID-19 positivity rate in Dharwad district is around 11%, which is less when compared to other districts, and even during its peak, it has not crossed 15%, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Minister and district-in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad after participating in a video conference with the Chief Minister on Thursday, Mr. Shettar said that the district administration was effectively handling the situation. It had also taken the requisite measures to face the situation in the eventuality of a surge in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-positivity-rate-is-11-in-dharwad/article34445532.ece
30 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha flags acute shortage of Covishield||The Odisha government on Thursday flagged the acute shortage of Covishield vaccine that threatens inoculation of people aged 45 and above waiting for their second dose. “We are unable to give second dose to 45 and above age group,” said P.K. Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-flags-acute-shortage-of-covishield/article34445701.ece
30 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Top ULFA-I ‘commander’ killed, say Assam police||The security forces have claimed to have dealt a major blow to the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent by killing one of its top ‘commanders’, self-styled ‘colonel’ Dwipen Saud, in an encounter in western Assam’s Bongaigaon district on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-ulfa-i-commander-killed-say-assam-police/article34445702.ece
30 April 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan CM Gehlot tests positive||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday tested positive for COVID-19, though he announced that he was feeling well and did not have any symptoms. Mr. Gehlot’s wife Sunita, who had earlier tested positive, is being treated for the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-tests-positive/article34445704.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Ensure judicious usage of beds, Remdesivir: BSY||Following reports of shortage of oxygen in hospitals, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday directed DCs to take steps to ensure timely oxygen supply to hospitals. He also directed officials to ensure judicious usage of oxygenated beds, ventilators, and Remdesivir, which should be given only to the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-judicious-usage-of-beds-remdesivir-bsy/article34445913.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Some industries in State declare holiday||Industrial activity in the State seems to be getting affected again with the raging pandemic. While cluster outbreaks have been reported in industrial areas in the past fortnight, several manufacturing plants in the auto sector have declared holidays to break the chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-industries-in-state-declare-holiday/article34445914.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||State govt. alters rules on BU numbers||The State government has tweaked protocols to ensure that citizens with negative RT-PCR reports, but with CT scans detecting infection, are given BU numbers to enable hospitalisation and immediate medical attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-alters-rules-on-bu-numbers/article34445915.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Order release of seized Remdesivir, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the city government to issue orders for the release of Remdesivir, used in the treatment of COVID-19, as soon as the medicine is seized by the police from hoarders and black-marketeers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-release-of-seized-remdesivir-says-hc/article34445963.ece
30 April 2021||Pune,||Congress MP Rajiv Satav on ventilator support||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Rajiv Satav, 46, who tested positive for COVID-19 last week, is on ventilator support at a private hospital in Pune city after his health deteriorated, medical authorities said on Thursday. Mr. Satav, a member of the All India Congress Committee and considered a mainstay of his party in the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, tested positive on April 22. He was later admitted to the city’s Jehangir Hospital. He has been on ventilator support since Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-mp-rajiv-satav-on-ventilator-support/article34446057.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||‘Is Aadhaar mandatory for prisoners to get jabs?’||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Centre and the Maharashtra government to clarify if it was mandatory for prisoners to carry their Aadhaar cards to get COVID-19 vaccines. A Division Bench was hearing a suo motu petition on the rise of COVID-19 cases inside prisons. The court was informed that prisoners were required to carry Aadhaar cards for vaccination and many were left out as they did not have their cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/is-aadhaar-mandatory-for-prisoners-to-get-jabs/article34446058.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Fishermen unable to sell entire catch in time||The fishing sector that was already hit by delay in diesel subsidy reimbursement and drastic reduction in catch is gasping under COVID-19 restrictions as fishermen are unable to get good price for their catch, within the four hours of morning relaxation window.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fishermen-unable-to-sell-entire-catch-in-time/article34446034.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Ensure judicious usage of beds, Remdesivir: BSY||Following reports of shortage of oxygen in hospitals, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday directed DCs to take steps to ensure timely oxygen supply to hospitals. He also directed officials to ensure judicious usage of oxygenated beds, ventilators, and Remdesivir, which should be given only to the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-judicious-usage-of-beds-remdesivir-bsy/article34445633.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Some industries in State declare holiday||Industrial activity in the State seems to be getting affected again with the raging pandemic. While cluster outbreaks have been reported in industrial areas in the past fortnight, several manufacturing plants in the auto sector have declared holidays to break the chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-industries-in-state-declare-holiday/article34445634.ece
30 April 2021||Mysuru,||COVID-19 situation turns grim in Mysuru, Mandya||The COVID-19 situation has turned grave in Mysuru and Mandya with an alarming spike in daily count. Mysuru and Mandya reported 12 and nine deaths, respectively, on Thursday. Mysuru reported a total of 1,219 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-situation-turns-grim-in-mysuru-mandya/article34445635.ece
30 April 2021||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu reports 17,897 COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 17,897 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, pushing the total caseload to more than 11.48 lakh. As many as 107 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 13,933.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-reports-17897-covid-19-cases/article34445448.ece
30 April 2021||MADURAI,||Receive body of prisoner, HC tells kin||The Greater Chennai Corporation will open a round-the-clock screening centre for triaging COVID-19 patients at Kendriya Vidyalaya Island Grounds in the next two days. This is part of a slew of steps taken by the authorities to increase bed capacity and the number of screening centres in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-to-get-more-beds-screening-centres/article34445931.ece
30 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,||Vedanta pledges Rs. 150 cr. to fight COVID-19||Mining conglomerate Vedanta has pledged Rs. 150 crore to help the country in its fight against the second wave of COVID-19. This is in addition to the Rs. 201 crore spent by the group last year. Anil Agarwal, chairman, Vedanta, said his group would create 1,000 more critical-care beds in 10 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vedanta-pledges-rs-150-cr-to-fight-covid-19/article34445450.ece
30 April 2021||WASHINGTON DC,||U.S. military aircraft bringing critical supplies to New Delhi||Supplies and assistance to help India battle a second COVID-19 wave began making their way from the United States on Wednesday, with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) announcing that the “world’s largest military aircraft” had left Travis Air Force Base in California for New Delhi. The aircraft is carrying supplies that included 440 oxygen cylinders donated by the State of California, 1,00,000 N95 masks and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests, USAID said. The agency is procuring 1,000 oxygen concentrators and said it had sent over $23 million in assistance to India since the start of the pandemic. The White House also released a list of materials and other assistance it was sending to India. It said an initial delivery of 1,000 cylinders will stay in India, getting repeatedly refilled via local supply centres and “more planeloads” would come. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) was also procuring oxygen locally (in India) and will be coordinating with the government to deliver them to hospitals. Other supplies included 1,700 oxygen concentrators, oxygen generation units (supporting 20 patients each), 15 million N95 masks, 1 million rapid diagnostic tests and the first tranche of 20,000 doses of anti-viral remdesivir (the U.S. manufacturers and patent holders, Gilead Sciences has already committed at least 4,50,000 doses). The U.S. government has also diverted its order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India as The Hindu had reported earlier this week. “U.S. CDC experts will work hand-in-hand with India’s experts in the following areas: laboratory, surveillance and epidemiology, bioinformatics for genomic sequencing and modelling, infection prevention and control, vaccine rollout, and risk communication,” the White House said. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin thanked Travis Air Force Base and others involved in in “hustling to prepare” the USAID shipment. “As I’ve said, we’re committed to use every resource at our disposal, within our authority, to support India’s frontline healthcare workers,” Mr. Austin tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-military-aircraft-bringing-critical-supplies-to-new-delhi/article34445331.ece
30 April 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata records lowest turnout at 57.53%||Isolated incidents of violence were reported in the last phase of polling for 35 seats in West Bengal on Thursday as 76.07% voters had exercised their franchise till 5 p.m. The marathon exercise, which started on March 27, has come to a close with Kolkata recording the lowest turnout at 57.53%. Birbhum recorded the highest turnout (81.87%) followed by Malda (80.06%) and Murshidabad (78.07%). Six arrested Violence was reported from Kolkata where crude bombs were hurled in front of Mahajati Sadan and Rabindra Sarani in the early hours. Six persons were arrested in connection with the incidents. The situation in Beleghata and Manicktala Assembly segments turned volatile when the supporters of both the BJP and the Trinamool Congress exchanged blows. In Manicktala Assembly segment, the situation turned tense when Trinamool candidate Sadhan Pande and BJP’s Kalyan Chaubey came face to face with their supporters. Violence was also reported from Nanoor and Bolpur in Birbhum district. The vehicle of BJP candidate from Nanoor Tarakeshwar Saha was attacked when he visited a village in the constituency. BJP candidate from Bolpur Anirban Ganguly also alleged that the party supporters were attacked in Ilambazar area. Supporters of both parties were seen chasing each other with batons and sticks in Birbhum. The Election Commission has deployed 641 companies of Central forces for the phase. Additional DGP (Law and Order) Jag Mohan said 835 persons were arrested across the State, which included four for violating prohibitory orders outside a polling booth and 20 in specific cases. 316 arrests were made in the Kolkata police jurisdiction. Five firearms and 22 rounds of bullets were also seized, he said. Eleven Assembly seats of Murshidabad and Birbhum went to the polls along with six in Malda and seven in Kolkata. Polling was also held at booth number 126 in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment where it was suspended on April 10, after security forces opened fire in which four villagers died. There was some tension at the polling booth when a vehicle with BJP flags came near it. Of the 294 Assembly seats, polling for Jangipur and Shamshergunj Assembly segments in Murshidabad has been suspended after the death of candidates. Chief Electoral Officer Aariz Aftab said all measures are taken to ensure counting of votes is carried out as per COVID-19 guidelines. He said all those who participate in the counting process will have to undergo COVID-19 testing or double dose of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kolkata-records-lowest-turnout-at-5753/article34445305.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Steel plants had huge oxygen stock’||On April 21, India had three times more liquid medical oxygen available in the storage tanks of steel plants than the cumulative demand from 12 States with high COVID-19 case loads, according to papers filed by the Union Home Ministry in the Supreme Court earlier this week. Ten days after this assessment, hospitals in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and other States continue to complain of shortage of oxygen supply with relatives of patients sending distress calls for cylinders as hospitals ran out of beds. Around 16,000 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen for medical use was available in storage tanks of steel plants on April 21, though on April 20, the demand from 12 States with high case loads, including Delhi, cumulatively stood at 4,880 MT. According to an assessment by the Delhi government on an average, a patient occupying an oxygen bed requires 10 litres of oxygen a minute and those in the ICUs require 24 litres. India so far has only 1,224 tankers with a capacity of 16,732 MT to carry medical oxygen. The disbursal of medical oxygen has been taken over by an empowered group of officers under the Central government through an order issued under the Disaster Management Act. Though the empowered group was constituted in September 2020, the mapping exercise of availability was done in meetings from April 11 to 14, at the height of the crisis. “….Apart from the current generation of liquid medical oxygen, the steel sector has made available the liquid oxygen in its storage tanks for medical use [approximately 16,000 MT LMO is available as on April 21],” the Ministry said in an affidavit. The affidavit includes guidelines on issued by the Union Health Ministry on April 22 on “judicious use of oxygen”: out of 100 COVID-19 patients, only three require admission in the ICU and 17 will need oxygen beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steel-plants-had-huge-oxygen-stock/article34445907.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Posts got blocked by mistake: FB||Facebook on Wednesday temporarily blocked posts with a hashtag calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the government’s handling of the pandemic. The social media giant later said these posts were temporarily blocked due to a mistake and were not taken down on government orders. The posts, which were blocked for a couple of hours, were restored. The blocking comes a couple of days after the Indian government had asked social media platforms to take down nearly 100 posts which it said were aimed at creating panic about the COVID-19 situation by “using unrelated, communally sensitive posts and misinformation”. Twitter removes post Following this, Twitter removed over 50 posts from its platform. A majority of these tweets were critical of the Centre’s handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic and had content related to shortage of medicines, beds, mass cremations, and the gathering of crowds at the Kumbh Mela amid the pandemic. The U.K. newspaper The Guardian said Facebook’s temporary block led to the hiding of 12,000 posts highlighting the plight of patients and families dealing with the pandemic amid a shortage of beds and medicines. A Facebook spokesperson said in an e-mailed statement, “We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it.” The company did not give more details. “Govt has not issued any direction to remove this hashtag. Facebook has also clarified that it was removed by mistake,” the Ministry of Electronics and IT said in a tweet. Last year, the U.S.-headquartered firm faced flak over its alleged bias towards the Narendra Modi-led government and violation of its own hate speech policy in India. The controversy was reported by The Wall Street Journal alleging that the company violated its own rules for hate-speech in favour of some individuals, including those associated with the ruling BJP, as punishing violations by politicians from the ruling party “would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/posts-got-blocked-by-mistake-fb/article34445311.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We need to work together and mobilise all help for the millions’||As the health crisis due to COVID-19 worsens, Congress president Sonia Gandhi says she was “shocked” by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s brusque response to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s suggestions on vaccination for the country. She says political consensus in a national crisis requires an “ability to listen” and not an assumption that one knows everything. Excerpts:  The second wave of COVID-19 has been devastating and India is, perhaps, going through the worst public health crisis in recent history. Who or what do you think is responsible for such a rapid slide? Frankly, I think this is the time for a gigantic collective endeavour cutting across party lines. We need to work together and mobilise all assistance and help for the millions in dire need, and we need to ensure that vaccination coverage expands as fast as possible. But I will say this: the Union government declared a premature victory some months back and started celebrating. The facts staring us in the face were ignored. Recommendations made by the Parliamentary Standing Committee to be in a state of preparedness were ignored. By early February this year, public health experts in India and abroad were warning us on what might happen here given the situation prevailing elsewhere. But we were caught in a web of hubris and complacency. Super-spreader events were allowed with no thought or care about their potential impact. There is a narrative that blame game and fixing accountability can wait; it is more important to save lives. What is your view? I agree. The absolute one-point programme now is to save lives, to alleviate the pain, suffering and anguish of millions upon millions of our citizens, to deal with the shortages of oxygen, critical medicines and beds in hospitals. That is the approach the Indian National Congress has taken in each and every State. We are extending help in whatever way we can. This is also not the time, I believe, to take credit for or broadcast what we as a political organisation are doing on the ground. This is the time for work and extend help without fanfare. I also want to add here that we are all very thankful for the manner in which the international community has come to our help these last few days. But I find it quite pathetic that even this is being give a ‘spin’ to hail the Prime Minister when in reality it is a reflection of his government’s incompetence, insensitivity and completely distorted sense of priorities. For example, is this really the time to push on with an unnecessary and wasteful project like the Central Vista Redevelopment Project? Having said this, let me also applaud the manner in which so many civil society organisations and groups and so many individuals in our country have come forward and involved themselves in providing relief and succour. Our frontline health workers have been, of course, braving so many odds and risks and our debt to them is irredeemable. Recently, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh offered six suggestions with regard to vaccination, but it got a stinging rebuttal from Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Mr. Rahul Gandhi and you have also been writing to the Prime Minister with suggestions. But there is some criticism that the Congress is trying to ‘politicise’ a crisis. Yes, Dr. Manmohan Singh wrote a very sober, dignified and constructive letter to the Prime Minister based on his vast learning and experience. Sadly, the Prime Minister did not even acknowledge the letter, but got the Union Health Minister to mount an extraordinarily personal, discourteous and wholly unethical attack on Dr. Singh and the Indian National Congress. I was actually shocked by his reply as I think many were. I have written a number of times to the Prime Minister as has the former Congress President. There have been no meaningful acknowledgements of these letters as well. By the way, I should mention that I have written ten letters to the Prime Minister over the past fourteen months only on COVID-19 containing constructive suggestions. I want to stress that they share practical ideas for action based on discussions we have had in party forums and with Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled States relying on their present experience. It is not a question of politicising this crisis. We are fulfilling our obligations as a responsible and responsive Opposition. There are allegations that COVID-19 data is being manipulated to hide the real picture... I think by now it is abundantly clear that the real picture is far worse than what the government would have us believe. And I say this with a full sense of responsibility — the manipulation is maximum in States like U.P., Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. This has been highlighted by several persons in the media. But all this is symptomatic of a malaise that has afflicted the Modi administration since 2014 — suppress facts that are uncomfortable, doctor data when it puts the ruling regime in poor light and try and control the narrative. Clearly, for this, government deadlines can be missed but headlines are more important. You recently said the Modi government’s handling of the second wave is a ‘complete disaster’. But hasn’t the Opposition been critical of the government in whatever they do. Last year, the Modi government was severely criticised for causing immense hardship and ‘destroying’ the economy by imposing a harsh lockdown. Now, it is being criticised for leaving everything to the States. Where is the political consensus? Let me point out a couple of things. It is the Union government that has consistently played politics and discriminated against Opposition-ruled States. It is the Union government that has centralised everything. When things appear to be getting better, it takes the credit. When things begin to go awry, it blames the States. Take the issue of vaccines. Was pricing ever discussed with States? In fact, this whole issue of pricing makes little sense and has come under severe criticism from public health professionals. The entire vaccination strategy has been relentlessly and ruthlessly politicised by the Prime Minister. Consensus requires honest consultations, a capacity to listen and not assume you know everything, that the only way is your way. Regarding your criticism of the new vaccination policy announced by the government, don’t you think the vaccine producers need to be incentivised and be paid appropriate prices so that they can expand their capacities and fulfil demand? Well, this needs to be looked at from the point of view of the public. Of course, manufacturers of vaccines need to cover their costs and be assured of reasonable margins. But isn’t it the duty of the government — like governments in other countries have done — to facilitate production, to place advance orders and to strengthen supply chains? The Modi government didn’t place any orders till as late as January 2021 and that too in numbers that are miniscule compared to the requirement. If every eligible Indian is to get two doses, we need something like two billion doses, and we need them in a hurry. Our party believes that in this pandemic, the bulk of the people should be given vaccines for free and the Central government should take the responsibility for ensuring this after negotiating with manufacturers. Instead, they have created a system in which there are multiple prices and an encouragement to profiteering. In fact, the government seems to have completely disowned our younger age group, between 18 and 45, who are expected to pay much higher prices for their vaccinations. What according to you is the single most important task calling for a national effort? Without doubt, the answer to this question is vaccination. Less than 10% of the target set by the Union government last January has been achieved so far — and I am referring to those who have got both doses. The target itself was 300 million and now of course with the 18-plus category, it will be much more. Increasing vaccine supply and rate of vaccination is the most urgent task. This has to be a collective endeavour. And I would still say that Dr. Singh’s suggestion that India should invoke compulsory licensing to expand vaccine availability must be acted upon without further delay. Let the Prime Minister take credit — that won’t be anything new — but at least let him act.  The entire vaccination strategy has been relentlessly and ruthlessly politicised by the Prime Minister   When things appear to be getting better, it [Centre] takes the credit When things begin to go awry, it blames the States||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-was-caught-in-a-web-of-hubris-and-complacency/article34445318.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Why low oxygen supply to Delhi: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Central government why States such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were allotted more oxygen than they had asked for, while Delhi was not even allotted its projected requirement to treat COVID-19 patients. “We are not asking you [Centre] to stop giving to these States. But the point is, on April 20, Delhi’s projected demand was 700 metric tonnes [MT], but you allocated 480 MT. It doesn’t appear to be falling in line,” a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The Bench’s query came after senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao, who was appointed amicus curiae to assist the court in the case, on April 20 said Madhya Pradesh had projected a demand for 445 MT, but the allocation given was 543 MT. “Maharashtra had requested for 1,500 MT and it was allotted 1,661 MT,” Mr. Rao added. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said Madhya Pradesh had a surge in demand due to a rise in demand from two districts. “The Delhi government did ask for 700 MT. The allocation is 490 MT. The actual quantity coming to Delhi is about 335-340 MT, which according to our assessment is sufficient,” the Solicitor-General said. “So far as oxygen is concerned, no resource is limited,” Mr. Mehta said. “People who are close to us are not getting beds. We are hearing it everyday,” Justice Sanghi responded. “Hospitals have stopped admission because they don’t have oxygen,” the court said. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, told the court that there were 16,072 non-ICU beds in the larger hospitals in Delhi. By applying the formula worked out by the Central government, the oxygen requirement was 304 MT. As of today, there were 4,866 ICU beds, which would further be augmented by another 1,200 ICU beds by May 10. The existing requirement for oxygen was 704 MT, he said. The court asked the Centre to respond to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-low-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-hc/article34445313.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ventilators, drugs come from Russia||Two planeloads of COVID-19 supplies from Russia landed here on Thursday, comprising ventilators, oxygen concentrators and medicines, including a Russian-made version of the widely used drug Favipiravir. The cargo, weighing 22 tonnes, which came as a grant from Moscow, followed a telephone call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi late on Wednesday, in which the two leaders decided to upgrade contacts and institute a “2+2” format of talks between Foreign and Defence Ministers. “Further development of bilateral relations of the especially privileged strategic partnership was discussed, including a schedule of contacts at various levels,” a statement issued by the Kremlin said, noting that Mr. Modi had thanked Mr. Putin for the aid, which is in “great demand” in India. The Russian flights operated by Emercom included 20 oxygen production units, 75 lung ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 2,00,000 packs of medicine. Policy shift The Russian aid is part of an international effort that now involves about 40 countries, and has meant a major policy shift for the government, which has refused to accept foreign aid for more than 17 years, as India faces an unprecedented number of coronavirus cases, deaths and a shortage of oxygen and medicines. “Russia is closely watching the situation in India, which is becoming more and more alarming due to the coronavirus pandemic,” said Ambassador Nikolai Kudashev in a video statement, adding that Russia had appreciated India’s gesture in 2020 of making stocks of the drug HCQ available to the country. “The only way to defeat coronavirus is to unite and help each other,” he said. India and Russia are also discussing how to ramp up production of Sputnik V vaccine, which is also being accepted in parts of the subcontinent like Bangladesh. Indian companies are expected to produce about 850 million doses of the vaccine annually, with production expected to begin in May. “The leaders welcomed the registration of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine in India and noted its high efficiency and safety,” the Kremlin statement on the Modi-Putin conversation read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ventilators-and-drugs-arrive-from-russia/article34445337.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,||‘What were you doing for 14 months?’||Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee on Thursday wondered what the Centre was doing for the past 12 to 14 months without anticipating the second wave of COVID-19 and getting prepared to face it. Referring to the desperate measures being taken when the wave was at its peak now, he said there could not be ad hocism in dealing with a pandemic. The Centre should have acted in a planned and informed manner after obtaining expert advice, he said. The observations were made during the hearing of a suo motu public interest litigation petition to monitor the availability of hospital beds, medicines, vaccines, oxygen, and ventilators in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The court had asked the Centre to respond on how it was helping the State and the Union Territory. Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan said the Centre was coordinating between pharmaceutical companies that manufacture Remdesivir and the nodal officers of individual States to ensure seamless supply. However, the Chief Justice, presiding over the first Division Bench along with Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, said, “Mr. Solicitor, we cannot resist in asking this: All that you are showing is things that were to be hunky dory. But why are we in the present situation? What happened during the last 12 to 14 months? Why are we jumping into action in the end of April to ensure that June becomes better?” Mr. Sankaranarayanan responded that the surge was not expected until recently. “Had they anticipated, they would have worked on that,” he said. Expressing surprise, Chief Justice Banerjee said, “Sir, without meaning any disrespect to anyone, did they even consult any expert?” The Chief Justice also referred to several other issues such as the high price of vaccines sold to the State governments. “There cannot be any ad hocism in this. There are many institutions involved, but we have to go into it in a planned and informed manner after obtaining expert advice,” the Chief Justice said and adjourned the case to Friday .  When things appear to be getting better, it [Centre] takes credit. When things go awry, it blames the States||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-were-you-doing-for-14-months/article34445315.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||China to support procuring of healthcare equipment||China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday sent a message to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterating China’s support to India in procuring materials amid the COVID-19 surge and current shortages. A large number of goods are in the process of being sourced from China, including oxygen concentrators, on a commercial basis. A first batch of 800 oxygen concentrators was flown in from Hong Kong earlier this week and China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong said on Wednesday that Chinese medical suppliers “are working overtime on orders from India” with “at least 25,000 orders for oxygen concentrators in recent days.” “Cargo planes are under plan for medical supplies. Chinese Customs will facilitate the relevant process,” he said in a statement. Mr. Sun on Thursday shared a message sent by Mr. Wang to Mr. Jaishankar, saying “the Chinese side shares empathy for the challenges facing India and expresses sincere sympathy” and noted that “a new wave of the COVID-19 pandemic is surging in India.” Adding that the “international community needs solidarity and coordination for a concerned response”, Mr. Wang said, “the Chinese side firmly supports the Indian government and people in fighting the pandemic.” “Anti-pandemic materials produced in China are entering India at a faster pace to help India fight the epidemic,” the Foreign Minister added. “The Chinese side will continue to do its utmost to provide support and help according to the needs of India. We hope and believe that under the leadership of the Indian government, the Indian people will surely prevail over the epidemic at an early date.”  The Chinese side shares empathy for the challenges facing India Wang Yi Chinese Foreign Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-pledges-support-to-india-in-procuring-materials/article34445335.ece
30 April 2021||Chennai,||India accounts for 1 in 4 of world’s deaths||For the third consecutive day, India recorded over 3,000 deaths due to COVID-19, with 3,443 fatalities until 11 p.m. on Thursday. The country accounted for nearly one in every four deaths in the world due to the virus as on Wednesday. The country also surpassed 3.8 lakh infections for the first time, with as many as 3,86,795 new cases on the day. India has so far reported a total of 1,87,55,126 cases and 2,08,255 deaths. Maharashtra reported 66,159 infections, followed by Kerala (38,607), and Uttar Pradesh (35,156). Maharashtra also recorded 771 casualties, followed by Delhi (395) and Uttar Pradesh (298). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Ladakh. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily figures. As many as 2,89,998 new recoveries were recorded on Thursday, taking the total to 1,53,72,243. India’s average daily deaths over the last seven days rose to 2,882 and remained the highest in the world. Among the five countries with the highest death toll due to the virus — the U.S., Brazil, Mexico, India and the U.K., fatalities are on a rising trend only in India. The number of daily vaccine doses administered in the country dropped for the second consecutive day, with 21.9 lakh shots given in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Thursday, about 3.6 lakh doses less than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. Nearly 17.7 lakh tests were conducted on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-accounts-for-1-in-4-of-worlds-deaths/article34445333.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||40 nations offered help, says Shringla||Medical and oxygen-related support is being worked out from at least 40 countries that will send items to deal with the pandemic’s second wave, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday. The capacity-boosting supplies are expected to arrive in the coming days from Egypt, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, Guyana, apart from the big powers such as Russia, the U.S. and Saudi Arabia. “Over 40 countries have come forward to offer assistance in whichever capacity possible. We have got commitment of assistance from Europe, Gulf region and even further parts of the world, Australia, New Zealand and countries like Guyana which are located geographically further away,” Mr. Shringla told the media. He said around over 550 oxygen generating plants being sourced from governments, community groups, corporates and private individuals are being brought. The consignments are likely to include over 4,000 oxygen concentrators and over 10,000 cylinders. The announcement for the global mobilisation of resources by the Foreign Secretary came hours before the first consignment of oxygen cylinders, regulators, rapid diagnostic kits, N95 masks and pulse oximeters from the U.S. took off in a C-5M Super Galaxy and a C-17 Globemaster III aircraft. The two aircraft are expected to reach India by Friday. While the large-scale support from the big powers is being flown in, important assistance is on the way also from the developing countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh has announced 10,000 anti-viral vials, 30,000 PPE kits, and several thousand zinc, calcium, vitamin C and other necessary tablets that will be sent to India in the coming days. Bangladesh is also being tapped for remdesivir, an important drug. “We have tried our best to reach out to the supply sources including original manufacturers like Gilead Sciences. We have also contacted Egypt. Gilead Sciences has committed 4,50,000 doses of remdesivir. We are hopeful of getting 4 lakh doses from Egypt. We know that Bangladesh is manufacturing some and there are stocks in Uzbekistan and the UAE,” said Mr. Shringla. Following the April 25 telephone conversation between Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Foreign Minister of the UAE, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, a special cargo for medical aid arrived from the UAE on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/40-nations-offered-help-says-shringla/article34445300.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Vaccine Maitri may have to wait till July’||India is unlikely to resume its Vaccine Maitri programme for the neighbourhood, including Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka, until at least July, given the sudden shortage of vaccines amidst a surge in COVID-19 cases, and the government’s plan for vaccination for all adults set to start on May 1. India has had to suspend the export of both commercial and grant-based vaccine doses, including to countries in the neighbourhood which had already paid for the shipments, with the last batch going out at the beginning of April, after the second wave of the pandemic hit. When asked on Thursday, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla would not give a timeline for when the supplies will be restored. “Today, our needs are far greater, and all our partners understand that in this context, today what we require is to ramp up our vaccination programme, to 2-3 billion, so we have to ramp up significantly,” he said. However, at least two officials said South Block is aware of the problems this has created for India’s neighbours. India’s last shipment to Bangladesh was a grant of 1 lakh doses sent on April 2, while commercial shipments have not been sent since February 21, when 20 lakh doses were shipped, according to the Ministry of External Affairs website. Bangladesh had contracted for 30 million doses of Covishield at 5 million doses a month for six months, but only 7 million of the paid shipments actually arrived between January and February. Sri Lanka placed a commercial order for 1.5 million (15 lakh) doses of Covishield, of which just 5 lakh doses have arrived so far. Sri Lanka and Nepal were last sent shipments through the COVAX alliance on March 6 and 28, respectively, while commercial shipments stopped at the end of February.  Sources said Bangladesh and Nepal have raised concerns about the interruption in supplies officially.  (With inputs from   Meera Srinivasan )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-maitri-not-before-july/article34445308.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Childhood vaccinations must not be delayed’||Childhood vaccinations are crucial to ensure the health and well-being of children, and must not be delayed or missed, said experts at The Hindu ’s wellness webinar, held on Wednesday. The webinar, part of The Hindu ’s Wellness Series, focused on vaccination cards, the “passports to health”, and was presented by GSK. The panellists were K. Radhakrishna, senior consultant paediatrician and managing director of Omni — RK Women and Child Hospital, Visakhapatnam, and R. Kishore Kumar, consultant neonatologist and founder and chairman, Cloudnine Group of Hospitals. “Vaccination has been the biggest contributor to the health of mankind,” Dr. Radhakrishna said. Primary vaccinations (those given in the first nine months), should not be postponed if possible — the aim is to protect the baby from deadly diseases that can kill them in the first year of life, said Dr. Kishore Kumar. On the vaccination card, both doctors stressed its importance as a health record, and said parents could even maintain a digital record in order to ensure that the information stayed secure. The doctors also gave a strong message about misinformation around vaccines and said this needed to be combated with vaccine advocacy and education. Participants in the webinar posted dozens of questions. On the necessity of taking the Hepatitis A vaccine, Dr. Kishore Kumar said that Hepatitis A is a disease transmitted by contaminated water and it affects the liver. Though it is a disease that may not kill, the vaccine has no side effects, so it is a vaccine that is one he would definitely recommend. On an adult having missed the polio vaccine as a child and wanting to know if they could take it, Dr. Radhakrishna said they could take the injectable polio vaccine. Other questions that were addressed included a query on the meningococcal vaccine, vaccines for premature babies, the efficacy of the BCG vaccines, and taking vaccines while breastfeeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/childhood-vaccinations-are-crucial/article34445303.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Decision overturned||The Oversight Board, an independent body set up by Facebook, on Thursday said it has overturned the social network’s decision to remove a November 2020 post alleging that the RSS and PM Narendra Modi were threatening to kill Sikhs in India. “The Board also urged the company to take action to avoid mistakes which silence the voices of religious minorities,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decision-overturned/article34445296.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Win for DMK in T.N., Left Front in Kerala’||In Assam, the exit polls clearly predicted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) pulling ahead in the 126-member Assembly. C-voter predicted 71-58 seats for the BJP, 53-66 seats for the Congress and 0-5 seats for others. The Axis-My India poll predicted a wider margin, with the Bharatiya Janata Party at 75-85 seats, the Congress at 40-50 and others 1-4. Jan Ki Baat also had similar predictions, with 70-80 seats for the BJP, 45-55 for the Congress and 0-1 for others. Today’s Chanakya put the BJP at 70 seats and the Congress at 56. Political tussle For the BJP, the real political tussle will begin post results, with State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, having played the supporting role for five years, now eyeing the Chief Minister’s post. In Kerala too, there was no confusion in the exit polls, with all of them predicting a return for the Left Democratic Front (LDF), led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The last time an incumbent government retained power in the State was in 1977. Big blow to UDF Axis My India predicted that the LDF could get 104-120 seats in the 140-member Assembly, with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) facing near annihilation at 20-36 seats. If the predictions hold on May 2, it will be a big loss for brand Rahul Gandhi, who spent the longest time in Kerala compared with the other States. P Marq, C-Voter and Republic-CNX, all predicted the LDF to win in the range of 70-80 seats and the UDF around 50-66 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/exit-polls-predict-dmk-in-tn-ldf-in-kerala/article34445306.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||U.S. advisory tells citizens to leave India||The United States has issued a Level 4 Travel Health Notice and asked its citizens to leave India “as soon as it is safe to do so” in view of the escalating COVID-19 pandemic as it has restricted access to medical care. The highest level of advisory came in the backdrop of the announcement of oxygen-related support and medical assistance from the Joe Biden administration to India. “New cases and deaths from COVID-19 have risen sharply throughout India to record levels. COVID-19 testing infrastructure is reportedly constrained in many locations. Hospitals are reporting shortages of supplies, oxygen, and beds for both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 related patients,” announced a “Health Alert” from the U.S. Department of State. The advisory said access to medical care had become “severely limited in India due to the surge in COVID-19 cases” and urged U.S. citizens to opt for direct flights between India and the U.S. that were currently operating daily. The Level 4 Travel Advisory has urged U.S. citizens “not to travel to India” because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-advisory-tells-citizens-to-leave-india/article34445326.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Covaxin price reduced to Rs. 400/dose for States||Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech on Thursday said it would supply the vaccine to State governments at Rs. 400 per dose. This is a reduction of Rs. 200 from the Rs. 600 it had set last week. The announcement comes a day after the Serum Institute of India said it was lowering the price of its vaccine, Covishield, for States to Rs. 300 per dose from the earlier announced Rs. 400. Bharat Biotech said “recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to State governments at a price of Rs. 400 per dose”. Stating it was deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing, the company said it wished to be transparent in its approach to pricing. The price, a statement said, was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities, and clinical trials. “With the greater part of the organisation’s facilities and resources being diverted to COVID-19 vaccines, we continue to work towards offering superior COVID-19 vaccines and sincerely wish that this gesture enables our country towards a faster recovery,” Bharat Biotech said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-price-reduced-to-rs-400dose-for-states/article34445327.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Panel nod for Sputnik trials by Hetero Pharma||A subject expert committee has recommended to the Central Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) to grant permission to Hetero Biopharma to conduct the Phase III trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. The Hyderabad-based firm figures in the small list of companies in the country with whom Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has formed manufacturing partnership for Sputnik V. The expert committee prescribed two conditions. “Immunogenicity samples should be taken at Day 21, 28 and 42. Neutralizing antibodies and gamma interferon should be assessed during the study. Accordingly, CDSCO may grant approval for conduct of clinical trial,” said the minutes of the meeting held last week. An important step towards manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine in India, it follows the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) earlier this month giving emergency use authorisation for the vaccine to Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, which is the marketing partner of RDIF and had conducted Phase II and III trials. The permission had paved way for import of the vaccine. The company expects the first consignment of Sputnik to come in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-nod-for-sputnik-trials-by-hetero-pharma/article34445909.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Purpose of the avatar||The Ramayana is also known as ‘Sitaayaa’s Charitam Mahat’, the magnificent life story of Sita, and Paulastya Vadam, the killing of the son of Pulastya, Ravana. The former title is the poet’s heartfelt tribute to the Divine Mother, who, as Sita, is a cut above in many respects, especially in Her compassion towards all. An embodiment of patience and penance, she, like Rama, is committed to the truth and dharma that is central to the epic. The other title refers to the direct purpose of Rama avatar, the killing of Ravana. Among the three births taken by Jaya and Vijaya to fulfill the curse of the Sanatkumaras, their second birth as Ravana and Kumbhakarna turns out to be most formidable even to the Lord, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. This is owing to the fact Ravana’s death is ordained at the hands of man and so He cannot make use of His Paratva. The boons granted by Brahma have made him so powerful and puffed up with arrogance that he always keeps the entire worlds under his control. Even the celestial beings, right from Brahma, Indra, and others as well as the elements, the ocean and so on are in dread of him. The gods discuss these matters with the Lord when they seek His help to find a solution to Ravana’s growing atrocities. The Lord broods over in His mind about a viable plan to ‘uproot the thorn’ of Ravana. To assist the Lord, Brahma commands the various celestial beings and gods to manifest on earth with powers to assume any form at will. Thus, even as the Lord descends as Rama on earth, the celestial beings are born as many valiant monkey chiefs, full of prowess and infinite strength. Valmiki describes this unique Rama Ravana battle where rocks, trees, etc., are used as missiles against the wily magic of the rakshasas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/purpose-of-the-avatar/article34445322.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Steel plants had huge oxygen stock’||On April 21, India had three times more liquid medical oxygen available in the storage tanks of steel plants than the cumulative demand from 12 States with high COVID-19 case loads, according to papers filed by the Union Home Ministry in the Supreme Court earlier this week. Ten days after this assessment, hospitals in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and other States continue to complain of shortage of oxygen with relatives of patients sending distress calls for cylinders as hospitals ran out of beds. Around 16,000 MT of liquid oxygen for medical use was available in storage tanks of steel plants on April 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steel-plants-had-huge-oxygen-stock/article34445965.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. failed to prepare for second wave’||The International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) on Thursday called upon the Centre and the State governments to comply with court orders regarding oxygen supply, hospital beds and medicines for COVID-19, adding that the governments had failed to prepare for the second wave of the pandemic. “The Indian government must urgently remedy failures that have aggravated the impact of the second wave and led to people in the country suffering record-high rates of infection and death,” the ICJ said in a statement. It urged the Centre and the State governments to follow judicial orders regarding medical care and vaccines. ICJ secretary-general Sam Zarifi said: “The Indian federal and State governments failed to prepare for the predictable second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, aggravating the horrific impact of the pandemic and the avoidable tragedy of between 1,500 to over 3,000 deaths daily.” The ICJ noted that India had reported over 2,00,000 cases every day since April 15 and 3,60,960 cases on April 27, the highest in the world. “Many hospitals have reportedly turned away patients due to lack of space, and some hospitals have asked those they admit to sign forms accepting the risk in case of death caused by exhaustion of oxygen supply. The government’s failures have driven people to seek recourse in courts,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-failed-to-prepare-for-second-wave/article34445903.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt.’s duties remain, says Centre||The Union Home Ministry said on Thursday that the Government of National Capital Territory (GNCTD) Amendment Act, 2021 “in no way alters the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government” to take necessary action in areas of health and education. In a press statement, the Ministry issued a notification that the provisions of the Act would come into effect from April 27. The Act passed by Parliament on March 24 gives more teeth to the office of the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of Delhi. The Act amended Sections 21, 24, 33 and 44 of the 1991 Act saying that “government” in the national capital territory of Delhi means the Lieutenant-Governor of Delhi. The Act gives discretionary powers to the L-G even in matters where the Legislative Assembly of Delhi is empowered to make laws. The Act also seeks to ensure that the L-G is “necessarily granted an opportunity” to give an opinion before any decision taken by the Council of Ministers (or the Delhi Cabinet) is implemented. “The objective of the Amendment Act is to make it more relevant to the needs of the capital; further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lt. Governor (LG); and, create a harmonious relationship between the Legislature and the Executive. The Amendment would ensure better governance in the NCT of Delhi and lead to improved implementation of schemes and programmes meant for the common people of Delhi,” the Ministry said on Thursday. In line with SC It added that the amendments are consistent with the existing legal and constitutional provisions, and are in line with the two judgments of the Supreme Court on July 4, 2018 and February 14, 2019, respectively. “The amendments to the GNCTD Act, 1991, in no way alter the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government to take necessary action, in respect of the subjects transferred to them in the State and Concurrent Lists of the Constitution of India, including subjects such as health, education, etc,” the Ministry said. The notification to implement the Act came a day after the Delhi High Court cautioned the Delhi government to put its “house in order” over the issue of inadequate oxygen supply in the city, adding that the Centre would be asked to take over if the Delhi government couldn’t manage the situation created by the pandemic at hand. Delhi is a Union Territory with a legislature and it came into being in 1991 under Article 239AA of the Constitution inserted by ‘the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991. As per the parent Act, the legislative assembly of Delhi has power to make laws in all matters except public order, police and land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-govts-responsibilities-remain-centre/article34445310.ece
30 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||Probe begins after six die in hospital||The Moradabad administration launched a probe on Thursday to find out the exact cause of death of six patients at a private hospital after their relatives alleged that they had died due to oxygen shortage. While the kin of a victim said 16-17 persons had died due to a disruption in oxygen supply on Thursday, the administration said there was no shortage of oxygen and only six died during the said period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-begins-after-six-die-in-hospital/article34445908.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Manmohan discharged from AIIMS||Former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Thursday after he fully recovered from COVID-19. Dr. Singh, 88, was admitted to the AIIMS trauma centre on April 19 after testing positive for COVID-19.  Both vaccine doses The former Prime Minister, however, had taken both his doses of vaccine before he got infected with the virus. “The nation is happy and relieved that Dr. Manmohan Singh has recovered and been discharged from hospital. Nation wishes him a healthy and long life,” former Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram tweeted. The former Finance Minister also wished full and speedy recovery to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who has tested positive. Another senior Congress leader, Anand Sharma, also tweeted that he had returned home after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manmohan-discharged-from-aiims/article34445316.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||MHA issues containment guidelines||The Union Home Ministry issued guidelines under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 on Thursday to implement containment measures in districts where either the test positivity is more than 10% in the past one week or where the bed occupancy is more than 60%. A similar advisory was issued on April 26 based on Health Ministry guidelines, where States were asked to impose localised restrictions for at least 14 days to curb the spread of COVID-19. The guidelines will be applicable till May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-issues-containment-guidelines/article34445910.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. MLAs to donate one month salary to CM relief fund||All Maharashtra Congress MLAs will be donating one month salary to the Chief Minister relief fund as a commitment to the free vaccination decision taken by the State government. Announcing the decision, Congress legislative party leader and State’s Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday said that he will be donating his one year salary for the fund. In addition, Rs. 5 lakh on behalf of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee will be donated, Mr. Thorat added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-mlas-to-donate-one-month-salary-to-cm-relief-fund/article34445586.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||Time to think of imposing lockdown like last year, asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government if it was time to think of imposing a lockdown like last year for 15 days to control the spread of COVID-19. The court also directed the State to ensure that all municipal corporations conduct an immediate fire audit of all hospitals, nursing homes and COVID-19 care centres. The next hearing is on May 4. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a PIL seeking proper management of medicines, oxygen and beds for COVID-19 patients. The Chief Justice asked Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni if the State believed its current restrictions on the movement of citizens were working and that people were out on roads only for urgent business. He suggested, “At least for 15 days if people stay strictly indoors, like last year, we may expect better results. We are not issuing any mandate, but do you think the government should consider a lockdown like last year?” The court said, “You [State] want to have everything. You want Kumbh, you want marriages...are you waiting for the third wave? If some people are bypassing the law, then they are callous people.” Referring to the fire at a private hospital in Thane, the court said, “Again four people have died. We do not want any more fires in hospitals. Please note, these are very difficult times. A patient is in agony and does not have the time to check if a hospital is safe, fire-compliant or not.” “We do not want hospitals turning into Jatugrihas [a highly combustible house made of lac by Duryodhana for the Pandavas in the epic Mahabharata].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/time-to-think-of-imposing-lockdown-like-last-year-asks-bombay-hc/article34445329.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||ESIC sets up dashboard for COVID beds||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has started an online dashboard on its portal esic.in to show the number of beds available at its ESI hospitals, the Labour and Employment Ministry said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/esic-sets-up-dashboard-for-covid-beds/article34445321.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Scientists seek better access to ICMR data||At least 100 Indian scientists, several of them biologists and specialists in disease modelling and genome sequencing from some of India’s leading research institutions, have petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi to coax the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to improve access to its data bank. “The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government. Most scientists — including several identified by Department of Science and Technology and NITI Aayog to develop new prediction models for India — do not have access to these data,” their petition noted. For accurately forecasting and gauging outbreaks, it was necessary to have access to clinical data that in turn would help with estimating requirements for medical supplies. “Many scientists have been trying to get data on comorbidities and blood analysis of hospitalised COVID-19 patients, without success,” the letter noted. The petitioners rued that the government’s policies on Atmanirbhar Bharat had made importing scientific equipment and reagents a tedious process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scientists-seek-better-access-to-icmr-data/article34445323.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks relief for migrant labour amid fresh lockdowns||An application was filed on Thursday seeking urgent intervention from the Supreme Court to ensure food security, dry rations, cash transfer and transport facility for migrant labourers at nominal rates even as the nation is reeling under a second wave of the pandemic. The plea was filed by activists Anjali Bhardwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-relief-for-migrant-labour-amid-fresh-lockdowns/article34445325.ece
30 April 2021||Pune,||COVID-19: Congress MP Rajiv Satav on ventilator support||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Rajiv Satav (46), who tested positive for COVID-19 last week, is on ventilator support at a private hospital in Pune city after his health deteriorated, medical authorities said on Thursday. Mr. Satav, a member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) and considered a mainstay of his party in the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, tested positive on April 22. He was later admitted to the city’s Jehangir Hospital. He has been on ventilator support since Wednesday after his condition worsened, doctors said. “He had been in the ICU for the last four days and was moved to ventilator support on Wednesday. A team of doctors is monitoring his condition. He has already been administered both remdesivir and tocilizumab,” Dr. S.S. Gill, medical director, Jehangir Hospital, said. Minister of State Vishwajeet Kadam, who is the Congress MLA from Palus-Kadegaon (in Sangli) and who is monitoring the situation, visited the hospital on Thursday. “He was responding well to treatment and was in good health till April 25, after which, as per doctors, he developed some complications. Mr. Satav was moved to the ICU on April 25 and has been on ventilator since Wednesday,” Mr. Kadam told reporters later. He stressed that though Mr. Satav was on ventilator support, the MP was a man of strong will power. Maharashtra Revenue Minister and senior Congressman Balasaheb Thorat said while there had been a discussion on whether or not to move Mr. Satav for treatment to Mumbai’s Lilavati Hospital, no decision had yet been taken on that count. Party sources said Rahul Gandhi had earlier spoken to doctors at Jehangir Hospital and was personally monitoring Mr. Satav’s condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-congress-mp-rajiv-satav-on-ventilator-support/article34445328.ece
30 April 2021||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court stays order issued by Coastal Aquaculture Authority||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday granted an interim stay on an order issued by the Coastal Aquaculture Authority that facilitated the operation of coastal aquaculture hatcheries within 200 metres from the High Tide Line. The order issued by the Authority on March 5, 2021, declared that the establishment and operation of coastal aquaculture hatcheries within 200 metres from the high tide line stands exempted from the provision of Section 13(8)(a) of Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act, 2005. Under Section 13(8) of the Act, no aquaculture farm could be set up within 200 metres of the high tide line. The Coastal Regulation Zone notifications prescribe a distance of 200 metres from the high tide line as no development zone. Challenging the order, the petitioner, G. Joseph of Ramanathapuram district, said that by way of the order, the authority had sought to effectively nullify the mandate of the Section 13(8) by issuing an administrative order which was impermissible and unsustainable. Coastal aquaculture farms and hatcheries had to obtain permission under the Act and the Coastal Regulation Zone notifications before the establishment. No aquaculture farm could be set up in the area between the high tide line and 200 metres on the landward side. He said that by the mandate of law it was illegal to establish any such coastal aquaculture farm or hatchery in the 0-200 metre area. He sought a direction to stay the operation of the order passed by the authority. The petitioner said that the mandate of a statutory provision cannot be nullified by way of an administrative order and the order passed was beyond the powers conferred on the Coastal Aquaculture Authority. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed the administrative order cannot nullify the mandate of a statute. The court granted an interim stay and directed the Coastal Aquaculture Authority to file a counter affidavit in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-stays-order-issued-by-coastal-aquaculture-authority/article34445482.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17,897 fresh cases, 107 deaths in T.N.||The number of COVID-19 cases surged on Thursday, with 17,897 more testing positive across Tamil Nadu, including 5,445 in Chennai. With the death of 107 persons (46 at private hospitals and 61 at government facilities), the toll has gone up to 13,933. The total number of cases rose to 11,48,064. The number of active cases stands at 1,12,556. There was a slight increase in the number of persons discharged after treatment. With the discharge of 15,542 people, the total has gone up to 10,21,575. One more returnee from the United Kingdom tested positive. According to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, the patient from Tiruchi was a primary case who tested positive in a follow-up RT-PCR test after seven days, in accordance with the Indian government’s protocol. The patient is being treated in a separate isolation ward. So far, 40 primary and 20 contact cases have been identified. In Chennai district, 5,015 people were discharged and 40 patients died. As many as 31,308 people are undergoing treatment at healthcare facilities or in home quarantine. So far, 3,28,520 people have been infected in the district and 2,92,511 discharged. While 19 of the deaths were due to the infection, 88 others died owing to pre-existing conditions. An 87-year-old man from Chennai who tested positive on April 22 was admitted the next day to a private hospital with complaints of breathing difficulty. He died on April 27 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. The Health Department recently approved a private laboratory in Chennai to conduct tests. The State has 265 testing facilities — 69 in the government sector and 196 in the private sector. As many as 1,35,408 people were tested. So far, 2,21,40,645 people have been tested. The number of people vaccinated remained over one lakh for the fourth day on Thursday. But it has fallen significantly since Monday. With the vaccination of 1,00,852 people, the total number has gone up to 57,69,331.  While 19 of the deaths were due to the infection, 88 others died owing to pre-existing conditions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17897-fresh-cases-107-deaths-in-tn/article34445471.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers and health workers are the ones people rely on||More than a year since they started tending to COVID-19 patients, healthcare workers have remained the support that the families could not offer to patients. Doctors, nurses, ward boys, ambulance drivers and mortuary workers have calmed agitated patients and reassured terrified families as they continue their work. Many of them have to stay away from their families and children. These tireless people who work behind the screens have earned the appreciation and gratitude of patients and their families. In the pandemic that relentlessly makes its way through cities and towns, people the healthcare workers tended to have learned the importance of these unsung heroes and heroines. ‘Like chasing villains’ K. Sreemathy, an entrepreneur in Chennai, is all praise for the ambulance driver who transported her mother to the Government Stanley Hospital and stayed with her until she was admitted to a ward. “My mother’s oxygen level fell from 92 to 87 last Saturday around 4 a.m. From 2 o’clock, we were scouting for a bed and our friend urged us to check the State government’s website. My mom stays with my brother and sister, both of whom had tested positive. My sister in Thiruvanmiyur and I called the 108 ambulance service. Seeing her condition, ambulance driver Paal Pandi and his assistant Vivek said she needed a bed with oxygen supply and drove us to Stanley. These guys were amazing. All the way to the hospital they put her on oxygen support, and by the time we reached Royapuram her oxygen saturation rose to 92. We did not know how to go about it. They were with us until the ECG and chest X-ray were done and even until we were brought to another block. They were godsend to us,” she recalls. Nallusamy, a retired bus conductor who was treated at the Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Salem, says he considered seeking treatment at a private hospital but his family prevailed on him. His personal experience has increased his confidence in government facilities. A resident of Woraiyur is all praise for the team of health workers who ferried her to the Tiruchi government hospital. “They spend at least 15 hours of their day transporting patients. Sometimes more than one patient is brought to the government hospital at a time owing to a sudden spike in cases. While patients requiring emergency medical attention stay calm, it is the asymptomatic young patients who argue and pick quarrels with health workers. A man travelling with me demanded that he be dropped back home. But the staff handled it well, calmed him down and explained to him the seriousness of the situation,” she says.  P. Tharakeswari, a staff nurse at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, says last year when cases began pouring in they could not go home for several days. They made video calls to family members. “It was a tough phase in the beginning. Now, I am used to wearing PPE. We hear that the virus is more virulent in the second wave. But we are not afraid to do our service.” The nurses at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Tiruchi, are exhausted. Twelve of them are deployed in each shift of six hours. Each day, 48 nurses are on COVID ward duty. On a given day in a ward of 500 patients, each nurse is responsible for 40-50 patients. For M. Vatsala, a staff nurse at the Tirupattur Government General Hospital, the hardest part is not being able to hug her son. “My son comes running to hug me when I return from work. But I cannot touch him. This is the hardest part. Though my children are at home, I am not able to spend time with them,” she says. “We have become like mothers to the patients. We do all types of work... We even change the urine bags and the dress of patients. At the end of the day, we go home with body pain,” she adds. Staying safe Emergency medical technician S. Saravanan says he may have transported 1,500 patients since March 2020. “We ensure all support for patients until they reach the hospital,” he says. On a day, approximately 20 patients are transported from across the district. The pandemic has taken its toll on the physical and mental health of mortuary workers as well, says C. Perumal, who has been working at the mortuary of the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, for 14 years. The number of cases handled by the workers increased significantly in the past year. Initially, the workers were afraid to touch the bodies. “Then we realised that we must perform our duty to society. Today, we are continuously dealing with bodies of COVID-19 patients without fear,” he says.  Hearse drivers are front-line workers, too, but their service is barely acknowledged. The drivers say they follow safety protocol during and after transporting the deceased. P. Navinprabhu, district programme manager of the free hearse service in Coimbatore, instilled confidence in the drivers and allocated them duty in shifts so that they could rest and self-quarantine. Behind the staff are senior health officials who remain concerned about their subordinates falling ill as it may lead to a staff shortage. A block medical officer in Tiruppur says around 25 nurses deployed at the three primary health centres there were regularly deputed to COVID Care Centres in the Tiruppur Corporation. The staff nurses could not afford quarantine after they returned to the PHCs owing to manpower shortage. ( With inputs from R. Sujatha in Chennai, Vivek Narayanan in Tirupattur, Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem, Wilson Thomas and R. Akileish in Coimbatore, Kathaleen Antony in Tiruchi and P.A. Narayani in Madura i)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-and-health-workers-are-the-ones-people-rely-on/article34445473.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only hospitals treating the poor are entitled to tax breaks: HC||The Madras High Court has ruled that exemption from payment of property tax, water tax, sewerage charges and the like must be given only to institutions which predominantly serve the poor and not to hospitals which predominantly provide their services to the rich and affluent on collection of hefty amounts of money. The court held that only a hospital which provides free access to the poor and does not deny admission to them could be termed as a charitable institution. Justice S.M. Subramaniam passed the ruling while dismissing two writ petitions filed by Sundaram Medical Foundation, which runs Dr. Rangarajan Memorial Hospital on 2,542 sq m of land allotted to it by the State government at Shanthi Colony in Anna Nagar in April 1992. The present petitions had been filed in 2018 against demand for property tax and other charges by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). The judge said the institution was started with the avowed object of offering services free of cost to the poor and at concessional rates to others. However, now, it had turned into a super speciality hospital and an inspection by the GCC officials found that the hospital was charging equivalent to other private hospitals in the city. ‘An exception’ The Corporation also claimed that the hospital itself admitted that it was providing its services free of cost only to 15% of the patients. After recording the submission, the judge said an institution which was charging heavy amount of money from 85% of its patients could not be termed as a charitable institution entitled to tax exemptions. “Payment of property tax is the law… Application for exemption is a right. Granting exemption is a concession and grant of exemption must be an exception. Such grant of exemption should also be strictly in consonance with the provisions of the statutes,” he observed. Justice Subramaniam went on to state: “We, the people of India, are generous in recognising and appreciating charitable institutions. However, for the purpose of granting exemption from payment of tax, charity should be established to such an extent so as to form an opinion that the access to the poor, needy and deserving for treatment are not only provided but they are allowed to get admission without any restrictions or hindrance.”  An institution charging a lot of money from 85% of its patients can’t be termed a charitable institution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-hospitals-treating-the-poor-are-entitled-to-tax-breaks-hc/article34446087.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veteran AIADMK leader Aranganayagam no more||AIADMK’s veteran leader C. Aranganayagam, who played a key role as Education Minister in launching reforms in the field of education in the 1970s and 1980s, died at a private hospital in Chennai on Thursday evening after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. His son-in-law and the BJP’s State vice-president M.N. Raja said the former Minister, who turned 89 on Sunday, was suffering from diabetes. Starting his career as a school teacher, he branched off into law and was one of those who played a role in the formation of the Coimbatore Bar Association, Mr. Raja recalled. During July 1977-October 1986, Aranganayagam served as Education Minister in the Cabinet headed by M.G. Ramachandran. He got back the portfolio in February 1992 when Jayalalithaa was the Chief Minister. In May 1993, he was dropped following the Madras High Court quashing a government order, granting recognition to teacher training institutes, and passing severe strictures. In the Jayalalithaa Cabinet, he also held the portfolio of Labour for about eight months. Aranganayagam’s political career took off in February 1974 with his victory in byelection to the Coimbatore West assembly constituency. H.V. Hande, who was Health Minister in the MGR Cabinet, recalls that Aranganayagam was the first person to get elected to the Assembly on the AIADMK’s two leaves symbol. Dr. Hande, who was in charge of the constituency then, described the byelection as a “tough contest” because two groups of the Congress, led by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj, had put up a common candidate. Arangayagam went on to win in Coimbatore West on two more occasions — 1977 and 1980. He was also elected from Thondamuthur in 1984 and 1991. His spell as Education Minister in the MGR Cabinet was eventful as the State government introduced, in June 1978, the 10+2 schooling system or higher secondary course in the place of the Pre University Course (PUC), which was abolished a year later. When the AIADMK government decided to bring in a common entrance test for admission to professional courses in the State in 1984, Aranganayagam was one of the prominent advocates of the idea and he asserted that the decision on the entrance test was in response to large-scale criticism of the interview system that was in vogue. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and BJP’s State president L. Murugan condoled the death of the former Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veteran-aiadmk-leader-aranganayagam-no-more/article34445477.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to get more beds, screening centres||The Greater Chennai Corporation will open a 24x7 screening centre for triaging COVID-19 patients at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Island Grounds in two days. This is part of a slew of steps taken by the authorities to increase bed capacity and the number of screening centres in Chennai to deal with the rising number of cases. M.A. Siddique, Principal Secretary, Commercial Taxes Department, who has been deputed as special coordinator to the civic body for COVID-19 management, told the media on Thursday that nine more screening centres would be opened shortly, apart from the 12 functioning now. He said the screening centre to come up at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Island Grounds would particularly help in preventing COVID-19 patients from queuing up in government hospitals at night. Rushing to hospitals “Many are rushing directly to hospitals in ambulances or private vehicles. This can result in longer waiting time for critically-ill patients in ambulances. We do not want the situation that we are seeing in some other cities to happen here,” he said. To complement this, he said the Health and Family Welfare Department was increasing the number of beds reserved for providing immediate care to those brought to government hospitals in a critical condition. “This will reduce the turnaround time for ambulances,” he added. He reiterated the Corporation’s appeal to the public to first approach screening centres as triaging would help in prioritising the cases and ensuring beds for those who were really in need. More beds Acknowledging that beds were filling up fast in Chennai, he said steps were being taken to ramp up capacity in the coming days. Highlighting that there were 2,545 oxygen-supported beds in the government sector, he said another 2,400 would be added shortly. “This will be done by converting some non-oxygen beds into oxygen-supported beds and by adding new beds,” he said. A total of 250 additional oxygen-supported beds each at the Government Royapettah Hospital, the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) and the Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore had become functional from Thursday, he said. He said the 500 beds being set up for the COVID Care Centre to come up at the Chennai Trade Centre would also be oxygen-supported. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the public could visithttp://covid19. chennaicorporation.gov.in/for all information related to COVID-19, including the location of screening centres, sample collection centres, vaccination centres, fever camps and COVID Care Centres.  We do not want the situation that we are seeing in some other cities to happen here||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-beds-screening-centres-soon/article34445934.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police chief appeals to public to follow COVID-19 norms||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday appealed to the public to follow all COVID-19 norms and guidelines. On Thursday, he flagged off a bike rally of the traffic police to create awareness of the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. He advised the police to spread awareness in the city. He said people should not delay the test for COVID-19 if they developed any symptoms. They should take treatment so that the spread of the virus could be prevented. Pointing to the efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines, he said every eligible person should opt for vaccination. Mr. Aggarwal said people should exercise self-restraint among themselves. They should not go out without reason. Business establishments should engage only the required workforce and should avoid crowding unnecessarily, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-chief-appeals-to-public-to-follow-covid-19-norms/article34445936.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No need for lockdown tomorrow, govt. tells HC||The State government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that there will be a complete lockdown in the State on Sunday when the votes polled in the Assembly constituency will be counted. It, however, said there wouldn’t be any necessity to impose a similar lockdown on Saturday too, since it was a public holiday on account of Labour Day and not much of a crowd could be expected on the roads and in public places. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy accepted the submission made by Advocate General Vijay Narayan and said the court had only suggested that a complete lockdown could be imposed on both days to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and if the government, after due deliberations, had decided not to impose a lockdown on Saturday, then the court would have nothing more to add. The submissions were made during the hearing of a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor the COVID-19 situation in the State. Since the court did not want the day of counting of votes to turn into a super spreader event, the A-G informed the court of the Election Commission of India having laid down an elaborate protocol for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-lockdown-tomorrow-govt-tells-hc/article34445943.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals violating protocol will face action: Health Secretary||Action will be taken against institutions that do not follow the prescribed protocol for administering high-end drugs such as Remdesivir, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. After inspecting the 100 oxygen-supported beds on four floors of the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Egmore, he told mediapersons that in a day only 3,000 doses could be distributed. The State had got as many as 59,000 doses of the injection for the period between April 21 and 30. Dr. Radhakrishnan further said that experts from AIIMS had given clear guidelines for administering Remdesivir. “Remdesivir is not a magic pill and is not needed for all. There is more than adequate supply of other usual medicines. If any hospital is found to be going beyond our protocol or the advisories of our senior experts, we will take action. Those who need the drug will be provided with it,” he said. He maintained that more than 50% of those infected would be cured of the infection by isolating themselves at home. Once they test positive, people should go to screening centres for investigations, such as X-ray and blood profile. The decision to hospitalise or be treated at home or at a COVID care centre would be taken by the medical professionals there, he said. On Wednesday, the Government Stanley Hospital added 500 beds and the Raja Sir Ramaswamy Mudaliar Lying-In Hospital, attached to it, had added 100 beds. On Friday, the Government Royapettah Hospital would augment 250 beds. Already 30 beds had been readied, he said. In the past two days, as many as 576 beds had been arranged and another 3,776 beds would be ready by Friday. Also, by May 8, another 8,775 oxygen-supported beds would be ready, he said. He urged the people to remain careful for the next 10 days to avoid going the way of neighbouring States, such as Kerala and Karnataka, and Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-violating-protocol-will-face-action-health-secretary/article34445944.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspended SP moves HC||D. Kannan, a Superintendent of Police currently under suspension and facing a criminal case for having reportedly waylaid a woman SP when she was on her way to lodge a complaint of sexual harassment against a special Director-General of Police (also under suspension), has approached the Madras High Court, challenging his suspension order. He has described himself to be a victim of exaggerated allegations and claimed that he had not done anything wrong but for obeying the orders of his superior. In an affidavit, the suspended SP said that he was on duty at Paranur toll plaza in Chengalpattu district on February 22 since the Chief Minister’s convoy was to pass through the toll gate. At around 1.35 p.m., he received a call on his mobile from the then Special DGP, in-charge of the Chief Minister’s security, instructing him to stop the vehicle of the woman SP who was travelling towards Chennai. Claiming that he was not aware of the alleged sexual advances made by the Special DGP towards the woman SP or that she was proceeding to lodge a complaint against him, the petitioner said the Special DGP only told him that the woman SP was not reachable over phone and he wanted to talk to her. So, he waited for her about 150 m from the toll plaza when her vehicle zipped past him around 2.30 p.m. Accusing the woman SP of having hurled abuses against him, the petitioner said he calmly told her that he was only obeying his superior, who wanted to talk to her. “Later, I handed over my mobile phone by dialling the Special DGP’s mobile number to the complainant,” he said, and added that she then sat inside her car and spoke on the phone for 12 minutes. Five days later, an FIR was registered against him. He brought it to the notice of the court that although he was suspended on March 10, the Special DGP was not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-sp-moves-hc/article34445938.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drugs hidden in gloves, thigh pads seized||Officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have seized amphetamine concealed in cricket batting gloves and thigh pads from a courier shipment headed for New Zealand. Two drug peddlers were arrested in connection with the offence. Based on specific information, officers of the NCB, Chennai zonal unit, seized 990 g of amphetamine from a courier at Guindy recently. The consignment, containing four numbers each of cricket batting gloves and thigh pads, was on its way to Auckland, New Zealand. On close inspection of the thigh pads, the NCB officers grew suspicious. They found drugs hidden in the pads. The extraction and testing of the hidden material revealed that it was amphetamine, a very potent stimulant. Immediate follow up action was initiated under the supervision of Amit Ghawate, Zonal Director, Chennai, which led to the arrest of two persons, T. Ashwin and C. Surendran, both residents of Chennai, on Wednesday. Investigations are on to unearth the alleged larger network involved in the case. Mr. Ghawate said in a press release that amphetamine was a potent and dangerous stimulant. The side effects of the drug were dangerous to the human body. Continued usage could damage the heart and cause memory loss, hallucinations and seizures, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drugs-hidden-in-gloves-thigh-pads-seized/article34446090.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exit polls predict a win for DMK alliance in T.N., AINRC-BJP in U.T.||Multiple exit polls conducted by various agencies are predicting that the DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu would win with a landslide and return to power after 10 years. Almost all the exit polls released on Thursday project the DMK alliance to win over 160 seats, while the AIADMK alliance is projected to win less than 70 seats. NDTV’s poll of exit polls [averaging out all exit polls] projects the DMK alliance to win 165 seats and the AIADMK alliance to get 66 seats. The AMMK alliance is projected to win one seat, and others two. The India Today-Axis My India exit poll projects the DMK alliance to win between 175 and 195 seats and the AIADMK alliance to win 38-54 seats. The AMMK alliance is projected to win one to two seats, while the MNM alliance is projected to win zero to two seats. The C Voter exit poll has predicted 160-172 seats for the DMK alliance, 58 to 70 seats for the AIADMK front, and zero to two seats each for the fronts led by the AMMK and the MNM. The others are projected to win between zero and three seats. Today’s Chanakya projects the DMK alliance to win between 164 and 186 seats, the AIADMK alliance to win 46-68 seats and others to win zero to eight seats. The Republic-CNX exit poll has projected the DMK alliance to win 160-170 seats, the AIADMK alliance 58 to 68 seats and the AMMK front four to six seats. Only the Jan Ki Baat poll has projected a tighter contest, with the DMK alliance pegged at 110-130 seats and the AIADMK alliance at 102-123 seats, while others are projected to win about two seats. Thanthi TV projected the DMK front to win 133 seats and the AIADMK front 68. The Congress, which is part of the DMK alliance, is projected to win 16 seats, while the BJP, which is part of the AIADMK combine, is not projected to win even one seat. In Puducherry, all the exit polls predict a big win for the AINRC-BJP alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exit-polls-predict-a-win-for-dmk-alliance-in-tn-ainrc-bjp-in-ut/article34445468.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur hospitals have beds, but no staff||Eight of the nine government hospitals in Tiruvallur district have allocated beds to treat COVID-19 patients but have no staff, K. Jayakumar, Member of Parliament, has claimed in a letter to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Of the 635 beds in nine GHs in the district, 260 have been allocated for COVID-19 patients. However, only the Tiruttani GH has admitted 37 patients. Mr. Jayakumar listed the hospitals and the bed strength in his letter. The district has GHs in Ponneri (120 beds); Tiruttani (205); Gummidipoondi (50); Uthukottai (60); Pallipattu (50); Pazhaverkadu (32); Pothaturpettai (36); Avadi (50); and Poonamallee (32). While Ponneri GH has demarcated 30 beds, in Tiruttani GH 60 beds were allotted for COVID-19 patients. Gummidipoondi, Uthukottai and Pallipattu GHs had set aside 40 beds each; Pazhaverkadu, Pothatupettai and Avadi GHs had allocated 10 beds each. Poonamallee GH had set aside 20 beds. While in Tiruttani GH 37 patients were undergoing treatment, the rest of the hospitals did not admit COVID-19 patients. The only reason cited was lack of staff, the MP added. Mr. Jayakumar urged the official to permit GH heads to recruit people and commence COVID services wherever beds are allocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-hospitals-have-beds-but-no-staff/article34445941.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No abnormal increase in number of deaths: Prakash||Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G. Prakash said on Thursday that the civic body had not registered any abnormal increase in deaths. He told journalists that officials were monitoring all the 240 burial grounds for any abnormal increase in deaths. “The City Health Officer is the custodian of data on births and deaths. We would have known if there had been any increase in the number of deaths. The condition of Chennai is not like that of cities in northern parts of India. The case fatality of COVID-19 has reduced to 1.4% in Chennai,” said Mr. Prakash. Pointing to a technical snag in the COVID-19 portal, Mr. Prakash said it would be streamlined shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-abnormal-increase-in-number-of-deaths-prakash/article34445932.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SI’s son among two held for burglary||Two persons, including the son of a sub-inspector, have been arrested for allegedly committing a burglary at a shop in the Thirumullaivoyal police station limits. Police said the complainant, N. Thangadurai, 54, runs a shop on Cholambedu Main Road in Thirumullaivoyal. On Tuesday night, he closed his shop and left for home. Around midnight, he received a call and found his shop burgled. About Rs. 40,000 in cash was missing. Mr. Thangadurai and his neighbours caught D. Abiraj, 28, son of a sub-inspector, and his associate R. Prasad, 20, of Bangarapet, while counting the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sis-son-among-two-held-for-burglary/article34445937.ece
30 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ATM that dispenses gold coin opened||Fullmoon Exports has launched “Gold on the Go,” a gold coin ATM, here. According to LS Srinivasan, partner at Fullmoon Exports, the ATM counter will dispense gold coins in four denominations - one gram, two grams, four grams, and eight grams. Customers can pay by cash or any of the UPI options. The company had developed the ATM at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh and plans to instal 10 to 20 in the city. Franchise “We also plan to give franchise to those interested in setting up the ATMs,” he said. The company is looking installing the machines across the country and at scaling up the coin sales to 50 grams a day. “With spread of COVID-19, customers are reluctant to visit shops. The ATMs are a safe option to buy gold coins,” he said. The coins have BIS mark and a QR code that can be scanned to get details of the coin manufacturers. The machine too has several security features, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atm-that-dispenses-gold-coin-opened/article34445948.ece
30 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore firms step in to meet oxygen needs||With the Government sanctioning procurement of portable oxygen concentrators and setting up of medical oxygen plants, with a technology developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, some of the companies in Coimbatore are expected to cater to these orders. Trident Pneumatics, which is one of the companies to which DRDO has transferred the medical oxygen plant technology, will make 48 plants to be installed across the country. According to its Managing Director, K.S. Natarajan, the company had already received the technology and had installed 70 machines. It will now instal 48 plants. “There are a lot of challenges, but it will be done” he said. According to an official press release on Wednesday, Tata Advanced Systems, Bengaluru, and Trident Pneumatics, Coimbatore will produce 380 plants for installation at hospitals across the country under the PM CARES Fund. Another release said that the Prime Minister had sanctioned procurement of one lakh portable oxygen concentrators from the PM CARES Fund. A. Prabhakharan, Chief Executive Officer of Ozone Engineers, said it was an ozone generator manufacturer and would now cater to the healthcare sector. It would supply oxygen plants to Maharashtra government soon. “We started making oxygen concentrators too and supply these now to the healthcare sector.” One of the raw materials is procured from Korea or the U.S. and there is shortage in availability, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-firms-step-in-to-meet-oxygen-needs/article34445949.ece
30 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man carries live rounds to airport||A man hailing from Jammu and Kashmir was stopped by security personnel at the Coimbatore International Airport late on Wednesday after he was found carrying five live bullets in his baggage. According to police, the man works as a security guard with a private agency that fills cash in ATMs in Coimbatore. He had come to the airport to board a flight to Delhi. The bullets were detected when his baggage was scanned. Personnel with the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), entrusted with the security of the airport, questioned him and he told them that he forgot to remove the bullets from the baggage before coming to the airport. When checked, it was found that the man possessed a valid licence for a rifle. The CISF informed the Peelamedu police about the incident and police officials questioned him. The police said that a case was not registered against the man as it was found that the man carried the bullets by oversight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-carries-live-rounds-to-airport/article34445953.ece
30 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Retirement community wins awards for its gazebo||NNRC Retirement Community, which will be inaugurated early next year, has won two awards for its gazebo. According to Dhinakar Perumal, who heads the community project, said the 2,608 sq.ft gazebo will provide adequate ventilation and sunlight for the residents of the community who want to gather for common workouts, yoga, games, art sessions and lectures. It will enable the participants to maintain physical distance. It has won the India Records Academy award and the Tamilan Book award for the largest gazebo. 41Villas The retirement community that is coming up on three acres here will have 41 villas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retirement-community-wins-awards-for-its-gazebo/article34445945.ece
30 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three held for attempting to smuggle ration rice||The Anamalai police arrested early on Thursday three persons, including a TNSTC employee, who attempted to smuggle rice meant to be distributed through the public distribution system. The police seized 4.5 tonnes of ration rice that the accused were loading onto a mini truck. A. Rafik (39) from Gandhi Nagar Street at Anaimalai, Mohammed Rafik (29) from Kannapan Nagar at Pollachi and A. Habibullah from Pollachi Main Road at Anamalai were arrested by a police team led by Special Sub Inspector Murugavel. While on night duty, Mr. Murugavel received specific information that some persons were attempting to smuggle ration rice. He and his team found Rafik and Habibullah loading the rice onto the vehicle at an open space near Periyapalivasal around 2.30 a.m. The police apprehended them and later arrested Mohammed Rafik. According to the police, Habibullah had been working at TNSTC's Ukkadam Depot II. Two-wheelers seized Apart from the rice and the mini truck, police also seized three two-wheelers from them. The accused and the seized rice and vehicles were handed over to the Civil Supplies CID, Pollachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-attempting-to-smuggle-ration-rice/article34445954.ece
30 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner dies||A prisoner, who was in judicial remand at the Coimbatore Central Prison, died on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as J. Palaniselvam (46) from Muthalipalayam in Tiruppur district.  According to the Race Course police, Palaniselvam was arrested by the Uthukuli police for an attempt to murder and was lodged in the central prison. The police said that he was recently admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for the treatment of diabetes. He died without responding to treatment around 11 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-dies/article34445959.ece
30 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for job fraud||The Selvapuram police on Thursday arrested a 29-year-old man for allegedly cheating a Coimbatore native on the pretext of providing him a job at the Department of Sericulture. The accused S. Manikandan, a native of Komaralingam near Madathukulam in Tiruppur district, was arrested following a complaint from S. Ajithraja from LIC Colony, Selvapuram. The accused assured Ajithraja to arrange a job with the Sericulture Department for which he paid Rs. 4.5 lakh. However, the job was not arranged, Ajithraja had complained. Manikandan was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. Four booked The Ramanathapuram police (Crime) have booked four persons on the charges of cheating a woman of Rs. 12 lakh by promising to build her a house. The police said that a case was registered against persons namely Abimannan, Tamilarasi, Sindhu and Feroshkhan based on a complaint lodged by a 32-year-old woman from Kinathukadavu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-job-fraud/article34445488.ece
30 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant calf found dead near Valparai||An elephant calf was found dead near Valparai in Coimbatore district on Thursday evening. The Forest Department said that the carcass of a female elephant aged around two was found within the limits of Oosimalai beat of Akkamalai section of Valparai forest range. The Department has arranged the post-mortem on Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-calf-found-dead-near-valparai/article34445957.ece
30 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 awareness ride||A COVID-19 awareness ride was organised recently by the Rotaract Club of Personiv along with Western Ghats Chapter of Harley Davidson Owners’ Group on Avinashi Road.The objective of the ride was to create awareness among the public on the safety of vaccination against COVID-19. The ride was co-sponsored by Lions Club of Coimbatore Elite and Roundtable Spark 323.   Vijaya Pathippagam announced its annual ‘Vijaya Readers Circle’ award recently to mark the World Book Day. Publisher M. Velayutham said in a statement that poet Vikramadithyan received the’ Jayakanthan Award,’ author Sudesamitran bagged the ‘Pudhumaipithan Award’ and Ram Thangam was awarded the ‘Kavignar Meera’ award||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-awareness-ride/article34445950.ece
30 April 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||RT-PCR test mandatory for entry into counting centres in Dharmapuri||The Election Commission of India may have mandated RT-PCR test for entry to counting centres only for those without two doses of vaccination, but Dharmapuri district administration has made mandatory RT-PCR tests for all polling personnel, agents of candidates and the media ignoring the two dose vaccination caveat of the Election Commission. The move, according to the administration a precautionary exercise, however is seen to burden the testing facilities that are grappling with the rising number of cases and the accompanying demand for testing of those with severe symptoms. For instance, at a testing camp in Krishnagiri district, a government doctor showed the ECI guideline and indicated how universal testing for the counting day even of those with two dose vaccination was burdening the labs. There are persons with symptoms waiting for results, and this had appeared to overburden the technicians, the labs and the doctors too, said the medical source. However, Krishnagiri administration had stuck to the guideline and made the RT-PCR testing mandatory only for those who had not completed their vaccination. In the special testing camp in Hosur, an approximate of 244 samples were collected as of Thursday evening. This included 226 agents and the remaining of that polling staff. But, Dharmapuri district administration had insisted on testing all of counting staff, some of who were vaccinated during Phase II as part of the coverage of government staff. Similarly, it was made mandatory for the media, too, irrespective of their vaccination status.  The Hindu contacted Dharmapuri Sub-Collector M. Prathap on the dissonance with the ECI guideline that exempted those vaccinated with two doses from RT-PCR.“We have seen cases of infection even among those vaccinated. t is for everybody’s safety,” said Mr. Prathap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-entry-into-counting-centres-in-dharmapuri/article34445494.ece
30 April 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Retired official found dead||Kuppusami, 75, a retired state government official, was found dead in his car parked outside his house here on Wednesday. He was sick and lived with his wife Ramathal (70) in his house while their son and daughter were living in different cities. He went to bed on Tuesday night after talking to his wife but a deafening noise woke up neighbours early in the morning. They found the car burning with Kuppusamy sitting in the driver’s seat. District Fire Officer Venkataramanan and team doused the fire. Dindigul Town West Police sent the body to the Government Hospital for post-mortem and registered a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-official-found-dead/article34445478.ece
30 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide assistance to workers who were denied rural jobs’||With the Central government asking the States to exclude people over 55 years from Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), various labour associations have urged the Rural Development Department to provide relief assistance to the workers whose livelihoods were affected. P.L. Sundaram, president of Erode District Rural Workers Association, in a letter to the Secretary, Rural Development Department, said that the Central government had on April 19 sent a circular to the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department asking not to employ persons above 55 years. The Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) was asked to enforce the order. The letter said that all precautionary measures were taken by the workers to prevent the spread of the virus and no COVID-19 cases were reported at the workplace so far. “But denying jobs to persons above 55 years will leave them without income”, the letter added. He said that it is the only income for most of the people in rural areas and also for differently-abled persons. “Over 50% of the workers will lose their livelihood”, he said and added that Section 7 (3) of MGNREGA, 2005 makes the State government liable to pay unemployment allowance to a household during any financial year, if they were denied jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-assistance-to-workers-who-were-denied-rural-jobs/article34445497.ece
30 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Swab collected ahead of counting in Erode||With the Election Commission making it mandatory for candidates and agents to have either negative COVID-19 test results or both doses of vaccine for entering the counting halls on May 2, swab test for COVID-19 were conducted for politicians, agents, election officials and mediapersons here on Thursday. Counting of votes for all the eight Assembly constituencies will take place on Sunday at the Institute of Road Transport and Technology (IRTT) at Chithode and at Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam. In view of the second wave of pandemic, strict norms were laid down to ensure virus do not spread during counting of votes. Politicians and agents were asked to produce negative RT-PCR reports or vaccination reports within 48 hours of the start of counting. Since many were not vaccinated, they preferred swab tests, which took place at all the constituencies in the district. All the 128 contestants, their agents, government officials involved in counting of votes and supervisors, police personnel and conservancy workers who will be on duty at the two centres underwent swab tests at eight locations in the district. Swab samples were lifted for Erode (East) and Erode (West) Assembly constituencies at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam Park while swab samples were lifted from mediapersons at the Collectorate. Health officials said that tests results will be available in the portal on Friday evening. If any person tests positive, he will be screened and will not be allowed to participate in the counting. The negative test report should be produced at the entrance of the counting centre along with the ECI entry card after which they will be allowed inside, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swab-collected-ahead-of-counting-in-erode/article34445499.ece
30 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman makes brutal attack on pawnbroker||A 29-year-old woman, U. Saranya, allegedly made a murderous attack on an aged pawnbroker, M. Senthil Athiban, 69, with a machete and threw acid on his eyes after tying him up as he refused to give additional money for the jewels she had already pledged with him in Othakadai on Thursday afternoon. “Fortunately, his (pawnbroker’s) daughter came there in search of her father and raised an alarm that helped save Senthil,” said Othakadai Inspector of Police P. Sekar. The police said that the woman from Pudupatti had pledged her jewels without the knowledge of her husband. Since she had some urgent requirement for money, she had come to the pawnbroker. “It looks like the woman had planned to attack the aged man and had come prepared with machete, hammer and acid,” the Inspector said. After Senthil refused to give her more money, the woman who got furious, had locked the door from inside and attacked him with the machete. After tying his limbs, she threw acid (meant for cleaning toilets) on his eyes,” the Inspector said. Since the man had not turned up at his house for lunch at the usual time, his daughter came in search of him to the shop. When she found that the door was locked from inside and heard the moaning of her father, she raised an alarm and people in the vicinity broke open the door and overpowered the woman. The man has been admitted to a private hospital. The Othakadai police have booked the woman, a mother of two children, for criminal trespass, wrongful confinement, assaulting and attempt to murder. The police said that the woman had no criminal background, but her desperation for money had led to the brutal attack.  It looks like the woman had come prepared with machete, hammer and acid Inspector of Police Othakadai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-makes-brutal-attack-on-pawnbroker/article34446024.ece
30 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No morning flights to leave Madurai airport from today||In the wake of 10 out of 15 staff in the technical wing of Madurai airport having tested positive in the past few days starting last Friday, morning flight services have stand suspended and the airport will operate only between 12 noon and10.30 pm. from Friday until further advice. “This is a contingency arrangement and the morning operations will resume soon,” Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan told The Hindu here on Thursday. As of now, the airport handles nine flight services, including two international flights to Singapore and Dubai. “Out of this, three domestic services being operated between 7.30 a.m. and 12 noon will have to be rescheduled,” he said. ‘Services critical’ “The services of the technical staff are critical to flight operations as they maintain the VHF omnidirectional range, the aircraft navigational system, instrumental landing system and other communication system,” he said. Consequently, the airport that has been operating in two shifts will run on a single shift. However, Mr. Senthil Valavan exuded confidence that the morning operations will start as soon as the staff get well. Only five of them have been hospitalised. Overall, 15 staff of Madurai airport, including four firemen and one engineering staff, have tested positive in the second wave. Mr. Senthil Valavan said that all precautionary measures were in place at the airport terminal for a safe journey of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-morning-flights-from-today/article34445479.ece
30 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rural Mart inaugurated||Rural Mart, a venture of Green Fem Producer Company, was inaugurated by Rajakumari Jeevagan, chairperson of Women Entrepreneurs (WE) of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and P. S. Harikrishnaraj, Deputy General Manager of NABARD, here on Thursday. Green Fem Producer Company, supported by NABARD, helps women entrepreneurs to market their products. It has around 300 women shareholders and five board of directors. Majority of the women are informal workers hailing from various parts of the city, Alanganallur, Tirupparankundram, Melur and Vadipatti . Elamathi, its director, and S.A. Arul, secretary of Voluntary Association for People's Service, a non-governmental organisation, implement the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-mart-inaugurated/article34446026.ece
30 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||5 more COVID-19 Care Centres in Madurai||The Health Department has increased the number of COVID-19 Care Centres functioning in the district to 11, in the wake of rising number of positive cases. Until Tuesday, the district had six COVID-19 Care Centres. This was increased to 11 from Wednesday. The following are the COVID-19 Care Centres in Madurai district: Madurai Kamaraj University hostel; MKU Constituent College, Kappalur; Aachi International School, Usilampatti; SACS MAVMM Engineering College, Kidaripatti; Arul Anandar College, Karumathur; Crescent College, Kallampatti; SVN College, Nagamalai Pudukottai; Velammal Engineering College, Viraganoor; Bharathiyar Matriculation School, Elumalai; Government Higher Secondary School, T. Kallupatti; and Kamaraj Engineering College, Kallikudi. Deputy Director of Health Services K. V. Arjun Kumar said that the COVID-19 Care Centres have been increased in such a manner that patients from all blocks across the district can easily access the nearest COVID-19 Care Centre.  To reduce burden The whole idea was to reduce the burden on Government Rajaji Hospital, said Dr. Arjun Kumar. “All positive patients from rural areas are travelling to the GRH for treatment, regardless of the severity of the infection,” he said. “Hence, we are now strictly following an effective triaging model at the block level. The positive patients have to undergo triaging to be categorised as those with mild, moderate and severe infection. All asymptomatic and mild patients can either go for home isolation or be admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres. While patients with moderate infection can be treated at COVID-19 Health Centres, those with severe infection can be treated at the GRH,” said Dr. Arjun Kumar. Only around 25% of beds of COVID-19 Care Centres have been currently occupied. " Many sections of the public rush to private hospitals to have their COVID-19 treatment. But they must understand that all government hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres run by the government have all the necessary equipment to provide quality treatment to the patients," added Dr. Arjun Kumar.  The idea is to reduce burden on GRH as all positive patients from rural areas head there regardless of severity of infection K. V. Arjun Kumar Deputy Director of Health Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-more-covid-19-care-centres-opened-in-madurai/article34446019.ece
30 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Receive body of prisoner, HC tells kin||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the family members of Muthu Mano, a remand prisoner who was killed inside Palayamkottai Central Prison, to receive the body and perform the last rites by May 1. Justice G. Ilangovan passed the order after a mention was made by the State. The State submitted that the family members refused to receive the body of the deceased on the ground that their petition was pending before the court. They were insisting that the government should provide compensation and a job to a family member, it was submitted. A proposal was sent to the State recommending a government job to a family member and appropriate compensation. The court took note of the fact that the Tirunelveli Collector had already sent a letter to the Chief Secretary in this regard. It observed that the move showed that the government was providing help and support to the family. The father of the deceased, A. Pavanasam, filed a petition before the court seeking a probe into the murder of his son inside the prison by a few inmates. The CB-CID will be investigating the death of the remand prisoner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/receive-body-of-remand-prisoner-hc-tells-kin/article34445480.ece
30 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chinmaya Mission donates biscuit packets, water||The Chinmaya Mission here presented 1,000 one litre water bottles and 2,000 biscuit packets to the COVID Care Centre on Madurai Kamaraj University campus on Thursday. According to a press release, Swami Sivayogananda gave the materials to Medical Officer Dr. Wellington at the centre in the presence of Mission secretary Thirumalaiappan and joint secretary Jayapradeep. The Mission would extend all possible support to the patients and offered prayers for speedy recovery of the COVID-19 affected people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinmaya-mission-donates-biscuit-packets-water/article34446018.ece
30 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 126.60 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 25 cusecs and a discharge of 150 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 62.06 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 372 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,260 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday.    M. Periyakaruppan, 36, was murdered by his father, K. Murugesan, 50, at Pungankulam under Tirumangalam Taluk police station limits on Wednesday. The police said the deceased, a drunkard, used to quarrel with his family members frequently. On Wednesday night, he picked up a fight in an inebriated condition with his father and attempted to murder him with an axe. However, the father pushed him down and inflicted cut injuries on him with the same axe. The body has been kept at Government Rajaji hospital and the accused has been arrested.    A cinema production unit was fined Rs. 5,000 after some members in the shooting spot were found violating the COVID-19 guidelines on Thursday. Following complaints that the film company was not adhering to the rules, Block Development Officer Krishnan and Sub-Inspector of Police Vasu visited Konapatti near Sanarpatti where the shooting was in progress.    Virudhunagar district recorded 226 positive cases on Thursday taking the number of positive cases to 1,352. A total of 165 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district. COVID-19-related death toll in the district stands at 240.    The district administration on Wednesday said that candidates, counting staff, agents and media personnel should have taken both doses of vaccine. In a press release, it said that since many of them had not taken both doses or taken the first dose very recently and thus have several days more to have the second jab, it would not be possible for them to be eligible to get permission for entry into counting centre. It has urged them to get a negative report for swab test taken 72 hours prior to the commencement of counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34445484.ece
30 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chinmaya Mission’s gesture||The Chinmaya Mission here presented 1,000 one litre water bottles and 2,000 biscuit packets to the COVID Care Centre on Madurai Kamaraj University campus on Thursday. Swami Sivayogananda gave the material to Medical Officer Wellington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinmaya-missions-gesture/article34446129.ece
30 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Unregistered children’s homes warned||District Collector K. Megraj has warned of stern action against children’s homes operating in the district without proper registration. According to a release, all children homes should operate only after registering under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Homes operating without registration would face a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh and imprisonment for one year, a release said. Mr. Megraj said that the public could contact the District Child Protection Officer or the Childline for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unregistered-childrens-homes-warned/article34445507.ece
30 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||1,122 fresh cases, 12 deaths reported in Union Territory||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 793 with 12 deaths reported on Thursday, even as 1,122 new cases were detected from a record 9,727 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. Puducherry recorded 9 deaths, Karaikal two and Mahe one. With this, the region-wise cumulative toll was 638 in Puducherry, 93 in Karaikal, 48 in Yanam and 14 in Mahe. The patients, including three women, were in the 36-80 age group. Five of them had no comorbidities. Puducherry accounted for 940 new cases, Karaikal 101, Yanam 30 and Mahe 51. The test positivity rate was 11.53%, the case fatality rate 1.38% and the recovery rate 82.97%. With 564 patients recovering from the infection, the active cases stood at 8,689. Of them, 1,681 were in hospitals and 7,308 in home isolation. The bed occupancy status was as follows: Jipmer (277), IGMCRI (311) and COVID Care Centres (815). The cumulative caseload in the Union Territory was 57,427, with 47,645 patients having recovered. Of an estimated 7.86 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department till date, over 7.04 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 187 healthcare workers, 60 frontline staff and 892 members of the public took their first shots of the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory till date is 1,92,910, including 31,907 healthcare workers, 18,591 frontline staff and 1,42,412 members of the public. Health Secretary T. Arun said late admissions continued to be the major factor behind mortalities. Most of the deaths in the last 24 hours, for instance, occurred within two to three days of admission. Patients were ignoring symptoms and reporting to hospitals late, often when they began developing breathlessness, he said. He appealed to the patients not to take fever, throat pain or runny nose lightly, and to get themselves tested without delay. The test volumes had been ramped up manifold, reflecting good public participation, he noted. He appealed to the public to get themselves tested at the nearest public health centre or the IGMCRI as early detection was crucial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-deaths-reported-in-union-territory/article34445464.ece
30 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Multiple govt. orders on restrictions creating chaos’||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said multiple orders on lockdown restrictions were creating chaos and confusion, and called for clarity and coordination from various departments. In a video message, Mr. Narayanasamy said a succession of lockdown orders had come out in different forms, causing confusion among merchants, traders, fleet operators and others. He asked the Centre to ensure that the oxygen requirements of hospitals, including private facilities in Puducherry, were met before diverting supplies to other States. He alleged that the Centre had, without the knowledge of the Puducherry government, directed the diversion of oxygen cylinders, produced within the Union Territory, to other States. Such a measure would hinder hospitals in Puducherry from meeting patients’ requirements, he claimed. Given the ferocity of the second wave of COVID-19, it was imperative that the administration chalked out a concerted strategy, in association with hospitals including Jipmer, the former Chief Minister said. He said several facilities created by the previous government remained unutilised in hospitals. Ventilators donated by several voluntary organisations were also gathering dust in hospitals and steps should be taken to use them, keeping in mind the spurt in their demand, he said. The lack of awareness on the part of the people in observing safety norms and the failure on the part of parties and their candidates during campaigning for the April 6 Assembly election were driving the surge in cases, Mr. Narayanasamy said. He called for joint efforts by the government, hospitals and health administrators to check the spread of COVID-19.  The Centre has, without the knowledge of the Puducherry government, directed the diversion of oxygen cylinders produced within the Union Territory to other States||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multiple-govt-orders-on-restrictions-creating-chaos/article34446093.ece
30 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Allot more Remdesivir, Tocilizumab to U.T.: MP||Puducherry Lok Sabha MP V. Vaithilingam has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the allocation of more quantities of the drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, which are used to treat patients with severe COVID-19 infection, for the Union Territory. In his letter, Mr. Vaithilingam said the Union Territory had witnessed a spike in the number of novel coronavirus cases. As of April 28, there were more than 8,500 active COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory. The number of people requiring oxygen support and admissions to the intensive care units had increased, he said. ‘U.T. left out’ “I have seen an interim allocation order dated April 27 for the supply of Tocilizumab, an imported drug for treating severe cases of COVID-19. Unfortunately, the Union Territory has been left out in the allocation. I would kindly request the Prime Minister to intervene and allot at least 200 Tocilizumab and an additional 7,000 injections of Remdesivir to the Union Territory,” the MP said. Mr. Vaithilingam also requested the Prime Minister to facilitate the treatment of more COVID-19 patients at Jipmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allot-more-remdesivir-tocilizumab-to-ut-mp/article34446089.ece
30 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Plea for adequate safeguards for poll officials||The Puducherry Unified Ministerial Staff Association has called for adequate safeguards for election officials in the wake of several polling personnel testing positive for COVID-19 and some in a critical condition battling for life. In a memorandum to the Chief Electoral Officer, the association said it was pained to learn that officials deployed in various offices of the Returning Officer had been affected by COVID-19 and some had died. It noted that S. Adimoulame, Joint Director, Economics and Statistics, deputed as Assistant Returning Officer in RO-VIII, had died on April 25. Apart from this, many officials who got COVID-19 were in a critical condition — one such official was Ananda Balane, assistant, Chief Secretariat, Puducherry, deputed to RO-VIII for election duty. The official’s condition was very critical, the association said. According to the association, government servants were the heart and brain of the government machinery and their healthcare should be given utmost importance since they were the ones catering to various requirements of the people. The lack of adequate preventive measures prior to the conduct of the election had resulted in many of the officials contracting COVID-19, it said. The body urged the CEO to take preventive measures during counting. Apart from stipulating that all officials and agents of candidates be tested and only those whose results returned negative be allowed inside counting centres, the association sought a reduction in the number of counting tables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-safeguards-for-ut-poll-officials-sought/article34446094.ece
30 April 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Doctors boycott OP section||Doctors boycotted out-patient sections on Thursday, in protest against the alleged ill-treatment of two doctors by Deputy Superintendent of Police Velmurugan in Paramakudi on Wednesday. Expressing their solidarity, doctors from the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association, Indian Medical Association and other associations condemned the DSP. It is said that two doctors, Manikandan and Vignesh, who were working in a Primary Health Centre, were asked to work at the COVID care centre in Paramakudi Government Arts College. The two went to a nearby shop at around 8.30 p.m. to purchase a few items including soaps and tooth-paste. Even as they were about to leave in their two-wheeler, a police officer questioned them as a part of inquiry. They did not have identity cards so that he suspected their claim that they were doctors. When the doctors tried to contact their seniors, some unpleasant exchange of words took place. When senior officers from the Health Department prevailed upon the police, they were let off, office-bearers of doctors association told reporters in front of the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. A senior police officer said that since COVID-19 restrictions were in force, they were directing all shops to down shutters. If they produced their identity cards, the issue could have been solved. Though there was suspicion that the two could have consumed liquor, doctors claimed it was baseless charge. The association, as a mark of protest, announced a boycott of out-patient sections on Thursday at the Government Medical College Hospital and at Paramakudi. The TNGDA state office-bearers said that such ill treatment was painful at a time when doctors were taking very high risk in treating patients. They said that they were thoroughly upset over the way the DSP Velmurugan handled the issue and demanded a departmental action against him. The doctors threatened to intensify their agitation if there was any failure to take stern action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-boycott-op-section/article34445490.ece
30 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||700 security personnel to be deployed for counting in Salem||As many as 700 personnel, including Central Armed Police Forces, will be deployed at counting centres in Salem rural limits on counting day. Two centres Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said that there are two counting centres in Salem rural limits, at Sankari and Thalaivasal. The counting centres for Gengavalli and Thalaivasal have been set up in a private college at Thalaivasal and centres for Edappadi and Sankari have been set up at a private college in Sankari. Dr. Ganiger said that personnel from Central Industrial Security Force and the Border Security Force have been deployed at both the centres along with the Salem district police personnel. “All security precautions have been taken to ensure smooth counting process here”, she said. Dr. Ganiger said that a majority of personnel have taken two doses of vaccine and they have been advised of all safety precautions. The Superintendent of Police said that they are also mulling using drones for surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/700-security-personnel-to-be-deployed-for-counting-in-salem/article34445501.ece
30 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Training for counting staff||District Collector S.A. Raman on Wednesday briefed counting personnel on various procedures to be followed during counting on May 2. Mr. Raman said in a release that four counting centres have been set up for 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. Mr. Raman said that counting personnel should have taken COVID-19 vaccination. RT-PCR tests should be taken 48 hours ahead of counting day and persons involved in counting must possess negative reports with them. According to a release, 165 tables would be set up in 11 counting halls here for counting, including a table for Returning Officer. Separate tables would be arranged for counting postal votes. An office or village assistant has been appointed for each table to bring and return ballot machines from strong rooms. As many as 198 counting observers, 198 counting assistants and 198 micro observers would be deployed on counting day. Counting personnel were advised to arrive at counting centres by 6 a.m on May 2 and be ready at their tables for counting by 7.30 a.m. The personnel were advised to follow all guidelines issued by the ECI for counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-counting-staff/article34445504.ece
30 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Emergency medical facility set up at Salem Airport||A first-aid room with emergency medical facilities was set up at the Salem Airport on Thursday. Airport Director V.K. Ravindra Sharma inaugurated the medical room. According to officials, there are five beds in the facility and it has been set up at a cost of Rs. 65 lakh. Persons requiring emergency medical treatment could be treated here until arrival of professional emergency medical services, officials said. The facility has oxygen cylinder, oxygen concentrator, ECG, monitoring blood pressure, sugar level and other emergency equipment, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emergency-medical-facility-set-up-at-salem-airport/article34445505.ece
30 April 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Re-open schools with rigid SOPs’||The new government assuming charge should examine the possibilities of re-opening of the schools positively, taking into consideration the future of the younger generation, the Tamil Nadu Private School Correspondents Association has emphasised. In a statement issued on Thursday, Association president G. R. Sridhar said students would be pushed into a disadvantageous position due to the government’s extension of the online teaching methodology or through television citing the pandemic situation. Personal interaction between the teacher and pupil and practical sessions at the laboratories play a key role in the process of acquiring of knowledge by the students. Moreover, the hiccups in internet connectivity experienced in rural pockets make life miserable for the students who have now been asked to pursue their studies in online mode, he pointed out. Schools should also be allowed to function with stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) to control the spread of coronavirus, similar to the permission granted to small and medium industries sector.  Further, keeping the educational institutions, particularly private schools and other institutions, under lock and key for a longer period would impact the financial status of the families of teaching and non-teaching staff, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-open-schools-with-rigid-sops/article34445453.ece
30 April 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Booked for fleeing from COVID Care Centre||The Pattukottai police have registered a case against a 44-year-old COVID-19 patient for escaping from a care centre. Acting on a complaint from the village administrative officer, Pattukottai, that the inmate had sneaked out from the care centre earlier this week, the Pattukottai police located him in the same area and admitted him back . He was booked under sections 270, 271 and 188 of IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, for the offence of spreading the virus in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/booked-for-fleeing-from-covid-care-centre/article34445455.ece
30 April 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Parties fooled themselves by letting Sterlite run oxygen plant’||Political parties have fooled themselves by giving conditional approval to Sterlite Copper to run its oxygen plant, a consortium of environmentalists, social activists and former bureaucrats has said. It reasoned that the oxygen plants at public sector units across Tamil Nadu could increase production to meet the demand for medical-grade oxygen. Citing experts, the consortium said the country was not suffering from a shortage of oxygen production capacity as industrial-grade oxygen being produced by many factories could be used for medical purposes with “some modifications”. Oxygen thus produced within the shortest duration could be transported by public sector companies and the armed forces. Tamil Nadu, which faces no oxygen shortage, could produce more by using the public sector units, including BHEL, Tiruchi, it said. ‘Deadly poisonous gas’ Instead of using other facilities in north India for producing medical-grade oxygen to save the lives of COVID-19 patients, Vedanta, which owns Sterlite Copper, was keen on producing oxygen from its copper smelter at Thoothukudi that “had produced deadly poisonous gas”, the consortium said. Moreover, serious doubts about the capacity to produce medical-grade oxygen at the plant were yet to be clarified, it added. “Vedanta is fully responsible for the murder of 13 persons [in police firing during a protest] and environmental degradation of Thoothukudi city and its neighbourhood. Allowing Sterlite Copper to produce life-saving oxygen is a travesty of public health and governance. When the locals are demanding the dismantling of Sterlite Copper, the decision to reopen the factory is like rubbing salt in the wound. The arguments by Colin Gonsalves, who represented the citizens of Thoothukudi in the Supreme Court, were ignored,” the consortium said. Hence, the factory should not be opened for oxygen production and should be closed permanently. Vedanta should compensate the people of Thoothukudi for environmental degradation, it added. The Consortium’s members include M.G. Devasahayam, a former IAS officer; Janakarajan, former professor of the Madras Institute of Development Studies; Henri Tiphagne, of People’s Watch; P. Rajamanickam, general secretary, All India People’s Science Network; G. Sundararajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal; and Suresh, of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-fooled-themselves-by-letting-sterlite-run-oxygen-plant/article34445467.ece
30 April 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Waiting for formation of panel’||A statement from Sterlite Copper said the company was awaiting the formation of the oversight committee, as the Supreme Court had directed while allowing the operation of the oxygen plant. It was looking forward to the restoration of electricity supply to the plant and the recommendations of the committee to start production, it added. The committee will have the Collector as chairman. Its members will include the Thoothukudi SP; the Sub-Collector; the District Environmental Engineer; an oxygen plant expert from a government department; and two environmental experts, to be proposed by the 10th respondent in the case (S. Raja of Thermal Nagar, Thoothukudi). If the 10th respondent fails to propose the two experts, the State may appoint them. The panel, empowered to inspect the factory, will monitor compliance with norms stipulated by the Supreme Court for the operation of the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waiting-for-formation-of-panel/article34445469.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Many establishments go for ‘no work no salary’ model||COVID 19 restrictions imposed by the State government has hit business hard and a large number of workers employed in large scale commercial establishments have become jobless in Tiruchi. Most of the shopping malls, textile showrooms and jewellery marts downed their shutters since Wednesday here in compliance with the directive of the State government. The owners and managements of the establishments were told that the establishments with space exceeding 3000 square feet would have to down shutters until further notice from the government. The managements were told that it was aimed at preventing crowds so as to check the spread of the COVID 19 infections. Following this, major establishments on NSB Road, Big Bazar Street, West Boulevard Road, College Road, Chathiram Bus Stand, Cantonment and other areas remained closed. The textile and departmental stores on Tiruchi-Thanjavur road also closed their businesses. The employees and workers were apparently told not to report for work until further notice. Though the decision is said to be inevitable given the current situation, which has turned out to be grim, traders and merchants are of the view that it would have a cascading effect not only on turnover and revenue but also on workers and their livelihood. Big commercial establishments employ workers in large numbers. The government directive has forced them to be out of workplaces at least for a month. Based on the last year experience, it said that except a few establishments most of them would not pay salary to the employees for the closed period. “It is a huge loss for us. Whether we have business or not we need to pay rent to the landlords. We cannot escape from it. Moreover it is not easy to pay salary to employees when business is zero,” observed a manager of a major establishment near Chathiram Bus Stand. Though the government has not opted for total lockdown, the business streets in Tiruchi are witnessing less crowd for the last two weeks. “Business is so dull as customers prefer to stay indoors as a precaution. The streets. which are usually busy with hundreds of customers, are literally deserted,” says M. Akilan, a road side trader on Big Bazar Street.  It is a huge loss for us. Whether we have business or not we need to pay rent to landlords. Moreover, it is not easy to pay salary to employees when business is zero||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-establishments-go-for-no-work-no-salary-model/article34445457.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||He serves free biryani to break the fast during Ramadan||Along the Race Course Road in Tiruchi’s Mannarpuram is Alif Biryani and Tea Stall run by Ashraf Ali, where piping hot mutton biryani is served for free during the month of Ramadan. ‘Ali anna’, as he is better known in these parts, has been serving free meals during Ramadan (a month of fasting from dawn to dusk for Muslims) over the last seven years. The day begins at Mr. Ali's shop at around 4 p.m., when a firewood stove is lit and a large vessel is put on the boil to prepare the mutton biryani. “Some days we get tired of eating mutton biryani and serve ghee rice and mutton gravy. That is also a favourite for many,” he said. A total of 60 kg of rice and 45 kg of mutton is used per day to prepare the biryani. While 300 packets are given for free, around 200 more are sold to those who are willing to purchase it at Rs. 50. “We purchased everything on our own and gave it all for free until recently. Since our funds have dried out and business was hit during the COVID-19 lockdown, we accept money and use it to purchase the meat,” he said. The rice is donated by a well-wisher. Donors also sometimes contribute other ingredients such as various masala and even curd for the raita. Mr. Ali also serves the mutton biryani to patients and their attenders at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and other hospitals in the city. “They contact us and request a meal to break their fast. For them, we personally deliver it,” he said. He has even served a group of men at 3 a.m. “They had travelled to Tiruchi via train and had reached the Tiruchi Junction at around 3.30 a.m. They had to eat a meal and pray before daybreak. I rushed to the station and delivered the meal to them,” he said. To avoid overcrowding at the stall Mr. Ali hands out coupons to his regular customers who are observing the Ramadan fast. The service begins at 7 p.m. and ends before 8:30 p.m. “They can come to the shop and show the coupon and take a free packet of biryani,” he said. Others place an order a day in advance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/he-serves-free-biryani-to-break-the-fast-during-ramadan/article34446122.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Entry of visitors to meet inmates barred at Tiruchi Central Prison||Amid spike in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the State, the Central Prison authorities here have barred entry of visitors to meet prisoners lodged in the jail. The move was put in place from April 27 onwards, said prison authorities. The Central Prison here accommodates about 1,200 inmates including around 600 convicts. The jail authorities had barred family members to meet the inmates from last year when the viral infection began to spread in the State. Following relaxations announced by the State government and as the number of cases showed signs of decline, the move to prevent visitors from meeting the prisoners was lifted in February, said the authorities. The visitors were again allowed to meet the inmates from Monday to Friday. As per the system in place, visitors were allowed to meet remand prisoners on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Visitors could meet the convicts on Tuesday and Thursday. The jail authorities said restrictions were imposed on visitors while meeting the prisoners. Earlier, three visitors could meet one prisoner. In the wake of the pandemic, only one visitor was allowed per prisoner by maintaining adequate social distancing and by registering their names well in advance. COVID-19 safety protocols were put in place as per which every visitor used to be subjected to thermal scanning and asked to wash their hands at the jail entrance where wash basins were installed. They were also instructed to wear masks while coming to meet the inmates. The authorities said the sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the State prompted them to bar the entry of visitors from April 27 onwards keeping in mind the safety of the inmates and that of the jail personnel. The prison authorities have simultaneously taken steps to administer COVID-19 vaccines to a section of prisoners and jail personnel who were above 45 years. About 200 inmates and jail personnel have been administered the vaccine till now by engaging the para-medical staff attached to the prison hospital. Spraying of disinfectants was being done inside the sprawling jail premises and the prison staff and personnel have been instructed to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entry-of-visitors-to-meet-inmates-barred-at-tiruchi-central-prison/article34445460.ece
30 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||S. Valarmathi, Minister for Backward Classes and Minority Welfare tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday night. According to sources in the Health Department, the Minister had been feeling unwell and had got herself tested for the infection. When the results turned out positive, she was admitted to Apollo Hospitals for treatment around 9 p.m., hospital sources said. Sources at the hospital said that she was stable and did not have severe symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34446028.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 1,472 positive cases||The central region reported 1,472 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, mostly pertaining to Tiruchi, Thanjavur, and Nagapattinam districts. Seven deaths were reported in the region - three in Thanjavur, two in Tiruvarur, and one each in Tiruchi and Pudukottai. Two women aged 50 and 86 years, and a 53-year-old man succumbed to COVID-19 in Thanjavur. An 84-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man from Tiruvarur, both suffering from a history of coronary artery disease and hypertension, also succumbed to the infection. A 72-year-old man from Tiruchi and a 67-year-old man from Pudukottai also died. Tiruchi district reported 403 fresh cases. A few more containment zones were created by the Tiruchi Corporation. Meanwhile, Thanjavur reported a further spike with 315 fresh cases. Nagapattinam recorded 265 fresh cases, Tiruvarur 175 and Karur, 138. Pudukottai reported more than 100 cases for the first time in 2021. A total of 102 patients tested positive in the district on Thursday. In Ariyalur, 44 patients tested positive while in Perambalur, 30 cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-1472-positive-cases/article34445458.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Minister tests positive||S. Valarmathi, Minister for Backward Classes and Minority Welfare tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday night. The minister had been feeling unwell and had taken a test for the viral infection. When the test returned positive, she was admitted at Apollo Hospitals for treatment at around 9 p.m. Sources at the hospital said that she was stable and did not have any severe symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-tests-positive/article34445459.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||National College signs MoU with NRCB||National College has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana for collaborative research and internship of Biotechnology and Microbiology students. The MoU envisages deriving the utility of the facilities at ICAR-NRCB, the only research centre dedicated for banana in the country, with a field gene bank consisting of 373 banana germplasms, well-equipped research laboratories for genetic resources management, crop improvement, molecular biology, virology and biotechnology. The ICAR-NRCB also has a successfully functioning business incubation, IPR, consultancy processing and technology commercialisation and transfer. Similarly, certain instrumentation and exclusive research facilities in the Department of Biotechnology and Microbiology at National College, Tiruchi, will also be open for scholars and scientists of NRCB, a press release issued by National College said. College Principal R. Sundararaman and NRCB Director Uma exchanged the MoU documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-college-signs-mou-with-nrcb/article34445463.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.89 feet on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,050 cusecs and the discharge was 800 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34445462.ece
30 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanta pledges Rs. 150 cr. to fight virus||Vedanta, India’s leading producer of metals and oil and gas, has pledged Rs. 150 crore to help the country in its fight against the second wave of COVID-19. This is in addition to Rs. 201 crore spent by the group last year. In a statement, Anil Agarwal, chairman, Vedanta, said his group would create 1,000 more critical-care beds in 10 cities. They would be placed in state-of-the-art field hospitals to be attached to recognised and reputed hospitals. Each field hospital would have 100 beds in an air-conditioned tent. The critical-care facilities would have 90 beds equipped with oxygen support, while the rest would have ventilator support. “We believe that this additional infrastructure to be set up immediately will bring much-needed relief to those affected by this deadly virus. Vedanta will also provide essential medical equipment to ... doctors and healthcare workers...,” Mr. Agarwal said. The critical-care beds would be provided in Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Goa, Karnataka and the Delhi-National Capital Region. The company has planned to commission the first set of facilities within 14 days and the rest in 30 days. Vedanta will provide this support for a minimum of six months. Mr. Agarwal said Vedanta was now supporting around 700 beds for COVID-19 patients, and the number would be increased to 1,000 in the near future. The group’s Hindustan Zinc was supplying 5 tonnes of oxygen a day for medical treatment and was in the process of increasing the quantum by another 2-3 tonnes. Sesa Goa Iron Ore, a group company, was supplying 3 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen daily to the Goa government and hospitals, while ESL, the group’s steel-maker, had registered its plant near Bokaro for supply of 10 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen a day. The company has rolled out a tele-medicine programme under its flagship corporate social responsibility project, Nand Ghar, in Rajasthan, Odhisha, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. It has also opened a 24/7 helpline with Apollo Hospitals to provide medical assistance to all employees and their families, Mr. Agarwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vedanta-pledges-rs-150-cr-to-fight-virus/article34445475.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||16 triage centres set up across Tiruppur district||With Tiruppur district witnessing a surge in new COVID-19 cases, the district administration is likely to ramp up the precautionary measures after Sunday following the counting of votes for the State Assembly election. Top sources in the district administration said that following the counting of votes, the staff members from various departments would be available for COVID-19-related work. Monitoring teams comprising officials from the local bodies, Revenue Department and the police would likely be formed across the district in May. On April 27, Tiruppur district’s daily COVID-19 caseload crossed the 500-mark for the first time and the overall tally crossed 25,000 cases. The tally crossed the 20,000-mark on April 7 and the district added over 5,000 fresh cases within 20 days, as per the data from the Health Department. Meanwhile, the district administration has set up 16 triage centres across the district, including three within the Corporation, to assist patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 whether to be hospitalised, sent to a COVID-19 care centre (CCC) or undertake self-isolation, the sources said. The beds in CCC have been augmented to over 700 beds across the district and would be increased further, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-triage-centres-set-up-across-tiruppur-district/article34445951.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman poisons daughters to death, attempts suicide||A woman allegedly poisoned her two daughters and attempted suicide at Palladam in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. According to the police, Tamilselvi (28) and her two daughters were admitted at the Palladam Government Hospital.They were subsequently referred to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, where she allegedly told the doctors that she consumed rat poison and also made her two daughters to consume the poison, the police said. The mother and the younger daughter were later referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). On Thursday morning, the seven-year-old daughter died at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, while the five-year-old girl died at CMCH, the police said. The condition of the woman, who was undergoing treatment at CMCH, was said to be critical.Preliminary investigations revealed that the woman was separated from her husband and that issues within the family might have been the reason for this act.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-poisons-daughters-to-death-attempts-suicide/article34445960.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||20 detained under Goondas Act so far||The Tiruppur City Police said on Thursday that 20 accused, who were arrested in various cases, have been remanded under the Goondas Act since the beginning of this year. According to a press release, Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan ordered the detention of two accused – V. Sathishraja (38) and M. Premkumar (36) – who were arrested on March 12 under the Goondas Act and the detention orders were served to the accused at the Coimbatore Central Prison on Thursday. The Nallur police arrested the duo for receiving cash to the tune of Rs. 84.92 lakh from various persons assuring job opportunities at Health Department, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-detained-under-goondas-act-so-far/article34445952.ece
30 April 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Seven murder suspects arrested||Seven persons were arrested at Muthupettai by special police teams in connection with a murder case and lethal weapons including country-made explosives was seized from them on Thursday. The Muthupettai police investigating the murder of Rajesh of Kovilur during February 22 had arrested five persons subsequently and a sixth accused Kannan last month. The special teams on Thursday rounded up Chinnadurai, Kombaiyah, Muthu, Veeramani, Nagarajan, Vallimuthu and Isakkimuthu while they were heading for Muthupettai in a car, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-murder-suspects-arrested/article34445454.ece
30 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||During pandemic, child marriages and sexual abuse cases rise in the Nilgiris||Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of children in the Nilgiris who have been sexually abused increased by more than 50 %, according to figures provided by the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU). And, child marriages are being seen by some communities as a safer way to prevent abuse. According to officials, 37 instances of sexual abuse of minors were recorded in 2019, prior to the outbreak of COVID-19. But, the number rose to 56 in 2020. And, the first four months of 2021 have already seen 22 cases being recorded. During the pandemic-related lockdown, children left alone at home have been at risk of sexual abuse, especially by persons known to the family. Officials said that with schools remaining closed for more than a year, many parents of teenage minor girls believe that it was “safer” to get their children married. “Many of these girls are from disenfranchised communities, with parents having to go to work, leaving the child unattended at home. They fear that their children could be abused at home by a relative, or become sexually active,” said an official from the DCPU. Officials said that 17 child marriages were stopped across the Nilgiris since 2020. The safety and security of minors has come into sharp focus after five child marriages were stopped across the district over the last one week. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that with children staying at home during the pandemic, the number of child marriages was increasing. “We will take strict action against any people encouraging such marriages, with criminal cases being registered,” she said. District Child Protection Officer J. Prabhu has been asked to look into the reasons for the increase in child marriages in the district, the Collector said. “We will have a brainstorming session with the police, NGOs and social welfare staff in the coming week to find solutions to the problem and how best to tackle the issue,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/during-pandemic-child-marriages-and-sexual-abuse-rise-in-the-nilgiris/article34445500.ece
30 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||351 fresh cases in Vellore||With 351 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, Vellore district’s case tally touched 26,533. While as many as 23,683 people have been discharged after treatment so far, active cases in the district stand at 2,466. The district’s toll is at 384. In Ranipet district, 334 cases were reported, taking the total figure to 20,323. Tirupathur district saw 176 fresh infections, and its case tally touched 9,844. Tiruvannamalai district saw 225 new cases, taking the total number of cases to 23,601. Of these, 21,246 people have been discharged after treatment and the number of active cases stands at 2,054.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/351-fresh-cases-in-vellore/article34446096.ece
30 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||House burgled||Unidentified persons broke into the house of G. Mariyammal, 70, and decamped with over 17 sovereigns of gold jewellery in Alangulam. The police said that the woman, who was living at Kalaignar Nagar, left for her daughter’s house at Kansapuram on April 27 to attend a temple festival. When she returned on Friday, she found that the front door was broken open by thieves and almirahs were broken open. She said that over 60 sovereigns of gold jewellery were kept in the house by her five daughters. We found after verification that only 38 sovereigns of gold jewellery was kept in the house, a police official said. However, the family members managed to collect 21 sovereigns of jewellery which the woman had secretly kept in different places in the house. “As of now, only over 17 sovereigns of gold jewellery are missing,” the official said. The police said that the accused had attempted to break open another house in the neighbourhood. When the culprits tried to push the door, the light got switched on and the thieves fled from the scene. The police said the house-owner Kumarasamy, an electrician, had installed a smart lighting facility which switched on automatically when the thieves opened the front door. “The owner, who was away then, said the thieves would have panicked that the inmates had woken up and escaped from the scene when the lights got switched on automatically,” the police said. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sattur, Ramakrishnan, inspected the scene of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-burgled/article34445486.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore crosses 1,000-mark again||The daily caseload of COVID-19 breached the 1,000-mark again in Coimbatore district on Thursday after registering 963 and 996 cases on Wednesday and Tuesday. The district’s 1,008 new cases on Thursday took the number of active cases to 6,922. The Health Department said that 1,019 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. The death toll increased to 720 after a 38-year-old man died at a private hospital on Wednesday. According to the district administration, 1,765 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients were remaining vacant in private and government hospitals in Coimbatore district as of Thursday evening. Seven COVID Care Centres in the district together had 1,455 vacant beds. A total of 1,641 patients were in home isolation. The district administration said that all the government and private vaccination centres and the Health Department’s main walk-in cooler had 5,090 doses of COVID-19 vaccines as of Thursday. Poochiyur road closed Poochiyur road at Narasimhanaickenpalayam was closed using tins sheets at two places on Thursday, demarcating the area falling within as a containment zone. An official attached to Narasimhanaickenpalayam town panchayat said that the containment zone was demarcated after two persons died and many tested positive for the disease.  The daily COVID-19 caseload of Tiruppur district saw a further dip on Thursday with the reporting of 366 new cases, which took the overall tally to 25,979 cases. After witnessing major spikes on Tuesday and Wednesday, where 546 and 493 cases were reported respectively, the daily caseload went below the 400-mark after two days. The death of two men aged 40 years and 83 years, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, took the district's toll to 238, according to Health Department. As many as 2,871 patients were active cases in the district. A total of 22,870 have recovered from the district so far, out of which 183 were discharged on Thursday. In the Nilgiris, 49 people tested positive on Thursday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 9,792. The number of deaths stood at 51, while 410 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-crosses-1000-mark-again/article34445956.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Why steps not taken to notify Madurai airport as an international facility: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday observed that when the criteria for an international airport was met by Madurai airport, why had the Centre not taken steps to declare/notify the airport as an international airport. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi sought a response from the Centre in three separate public interest litigation petitions filed by the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, represented by its president N. Jegatheesan. The petitioner sought a direction to the Centre to take steps to declare Madurai airport as an international airport. The declaration of the Madurai airport as an international airport would boost industrial and economic growth in Southern Tamil Nadu, he said. He sought a direction to the authorities concerned to take steps to construct a new terminal building wand extend the runway, besides a plant quarantine and cold storage facilities. During the course of the hearing, the Centre submitted that approval from the Union Cabinet was to upgrade/notify the status of adurai airport as an international airport and other parameters like infrastructure facilities had to be looked into. The TN Chamber said that it was pursuing the issue to declare/notify the Madurai airport as an international airport since 2013. But there was no positive response from the authorities concerned, it said. The court ordered notice to the Centre and directed the authorities to file a counter affidavit in the case. Earlier, a similar petition was filed by the Forum of the Tour Organisers, Madurai, represented by its president A. Satheesh Kumar. The court had sought a response from the Centre in the case and the Centre submitted that it would file a detailed counter affidavit in the case. The hearing in the case was adjourned for the filing of the response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-steps-not-taken-to-notify-madurai-airport-as-an-international-facility-hc/article34446021.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Candidates, agents submit samples for RT-PCR test||Political candidates and agents gave their samples for RT-PCR test at various centres across the 10 constituencies of the district on Thursday ahead of the process of counting of votes polled in the State Assembly elections. According to the rules issued by the Election Commission of India, candidates and agents will be allowed inside the counting centres only if they produce negative RT-PCR tests or produce vaccination certificates, mentioning that they have completed two doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Accordingly, the district administration had made arrangements to conduct RT-PCR tests for candidates and agents. An official from the district administration said that there are nearly 420 government staff who have been drafted for duty at counting centres in the district. "Nearly half of them have completed their two doses of vaccination. The others have given their samples for RT-PCR tests," she said. There are around 2,900 candidates and agents who have shown interest to be in counting centres. “While half of them have given their samples today, the rest will give their samples tomorrow,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidates-agents-submit-samples-for-rt-pcr-test/article34446023.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Firing victims’ kin demand permanent closure of plant||Families of anti-Sterlite agitation firing victims on Thursday submitted a petition at the Collectorate here in protest against the Supreme Court’s order allowing operation of the plant. The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed Vedanta to operate its oxygen production unit at its Sterlite Copper premises in Thoothukudi in the wake of an alarming rise in number of COVID-19 patients admitted in hospitals and growing shortage of oxygen. Subsequently, anti-Sterlite groups announced that residents of Thoothukudi would observe ‘Black Day’ on Thursday. Black flags could be seen tied in a few houses in Pandaarampatti and ‘Ban Sterlite’ rangoli drawn at a few places in the village. Also, some family members of the firing victims, carrying photos of the deceased, arrived at the Collectorate on Thursday and submitted a petition seeking permanent closure of the plant. “We have lost our loved ones in the police firing for having protested against the copper smelter. Some of us are yet to recover from the injuries we sustained in the firing. However, the Supreme Court, without understanding our pain, has ordered operation of the oxygen plant of Sterlite Copper. We cannot accept it,” they said in the petition submitted to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firing-victims-kin-demand-permanent-closure-of-plant/article34446127.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||513 positive cases in Salem||As many as 513 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Thursday. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 270 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, five men aged 64, 35, 60, 56 and 65 respectively and a 60-year-old woman from Namakkal died at private and government facilities in Salem. A 68-year-old man died at a private hospital in Namakkal. Erode district reported 473 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 20,729. While 308 persons were discharged, 2,966 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 160 in the district. Krishnagiri recorded 371 fresh cases on a single day. A total of 268 persons were discharged after treatment. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 2,902 as of Tuesday. A total of 14,004 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. In Namakkal, 298 cases were reported, all indigenous. Dharmapuri recorded 154 fresh cases, and 101 discharged cases with one death registered. The total number of cases in the district was 1,119. As of date, a total 9,250 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/513-positive-cases-in-salem/article34445503.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea for AIS-fitted GPS navigator in fishing boats||With increasing incidents of mechanised boat-ship collision, resulting in loss of human lives, fishermen and other stakeholders feel that the Centre and States should help in installation of GPS navigator with automatic identification system (AIS) in boats to prevent fatal accidents in high seas. The GPS navigator with AIS fitted in deep sea fishing boats displays information about other vessels nearby, which will be helpful to fishermen in the event of any emergency. Besides, the boats can send and receive alert/rescue messages. The equipment also shows accurate GPS location, worldwide map, track and locate gillnet and long-line hooks with GPS buoys. If the onshore control room of the Department of Fisheries is connected with the system in boats that are beyond 400 or 500 nautical miles, any distress call can be attended to and appropriate action taken in real time. “Since we sre losing a good number of fishermen in deep sea accidents involving ships and mechanised fishing boats in the recent past, installation of GPS Navigator with AIS will effectively avert such mishaps since it will send an alert to oncoming crafts including ships,” says Sunil Sabariar of Vallavilai, who holds M.Tech. degree in Computer Science and Technology. He says governments should help fishermen buy the life-saving gadget costing between Rs. 37,000 and Rs. 60,000. A group of mariners, who participated in a meeting recently organised by International Fishermen Development Trust at Chinnathurai in western Kanniyakumari, support the proposal of giving grant for fitting the system in mechanised fishing boats involved in deep sea fishing. Meanwhile, fishermen of the lost-and-found boat ‘Mercedes’ are expected to reach Thaengaaipattinam fishing harbour by Sunday. According to driver and owner of the boat, Franklin, the fishnet of his vessel has not suffered any damage. “However, our crews have suffered minor internal injuries,” he said over the phone. The boat, which is being escorted by an Indian Coast Guard Ship from Lakshadweep, has adequate fuel and food, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-ais-fitted-gps-navigator-in-fishing-boats/article34446128.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mild tremors felt in parts of Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari||Mild tremors were felt in coastal areas of southern Tirunelveli district and some parts of neighbouring Kanniyakumari district on Thursday. After mild tremors were felt at 3.38 p.m. in the coastal villages of Pazhavoor, Karungulam, Chettikulam, Perumanal, Koodankulam and Idinthakarai in Tirunelveli district and some parts of eastern Kanniyakumari district, residents immediately rushed out of their homes. The tremors lasted three seconds. “I felt the tremors. I came out of the house and went to the seashore straightaway to take a look at my country boat, which was intact,” said Thomas, a fisherman of Perumanal village. Echoing the fisherman’s claim, a top official in the district administration said mild tremors were felt in the southern parts of Tirunelveli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mild-tremors-in-parts-of-tirunelveli/article34445485.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Curbs won’t affect vote counting||The order said the night curfew would continue throughout the State between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. Private and public buses, autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles would not be permitted, as decided earlier. However, autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles will be allowed to ply for medical emergencies and to ferry passengers from and to railway stations and airports. IT workers would continue to work night shifts from office. Weddings would be permitted with guests not exceeding 50 and funerals/last rites with no more than 25 people. Markets and stalls selling meat would remain closed at weekends. Fruit and vegetable retail outlets in the Koyambedu market complex and retail outlets in wholesale markets in all districts won’t be allowed. Big-format shops (size of 3,000 sq ft and above), shopping complexes and malls shall not be permitted. By following the SOP, intra-State bus services and Chennai MTC services would be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-wont-affect-vote-counting/article34445474.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery showroom sealed||A reputed jewellery showroom in Gobichettipalayam that was found violating the new restrictions on COVID-19 was sealed by revenue officials on Thursday. The showroom at Cutchery Medu is spread over 3,000 sq.ft. and was functioning with customers not wearing masks and the management had switched on the air conditioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-showroom-sealed/article34445496.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||30-04-21-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  RASIKA RANJANI SABHA (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Due to COVID-19 Todays Program stands cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-04-21-city-cinema/article34445940.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Coimbatore Speakers’ Forum of Toastmasters International: Online talk on “In it to Win it”, 6.29 p.m.  Karpagam Deemed to be University : Webinar on “Agility and Employability Skill for Project Management”, 10.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Poetry contest to mark Earth Day, 30.30 p.m.  SREC Business School of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: Workshop on "Working Capital Management", 5 p.m. ; Orientation Program on Online Certification Course on "Customer Relationship Management" offered by IIM-B, 3.30 p.m.  Shri Nehru Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science: Webinar for World Book Day , 2.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34445946.ece
30 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shopping complex closed down as manager argues with officer||A team of officers locked down Jyoti Bazaar, a shopping complex, for violating COVID-19 lockdown guidelines in Chikkodi on Thursday. The bazaar is a unit of the Jolle Group, a business conglomerate owned and operated by the Chikkodi-based Jolle family. As per the website of the Jolle Group, Lok Sabha member Anna Saheb Jolle is the chairman and his wife and Minister for Women and Child Welfare Shashikala Jolle is on its board. A team of officers, including Commissioner of the Chikkodi City Municipal Corporation Apoorva Bidri, locked down the complex and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on the manager. The manager got into an altercation with the officer. At one point, the manager threatened Ms. Bidri stating that he would get her transferred by making a phone call to Ms. Jolle. This angered the officer who said that she would rather resign if she was unable to carry out her duties, including closing down the shopping complex. News of closing down the shopping complex spread in the town and a crowd of Mr. Jolle’s supporters gathered there. One of them called the police who arrived in minutes. Ms. Bidri complained to the police that they were not letting her do her duty. Videos of the incident were widely shared on the social media. A meeting was called in the office of the Assistant commissioner, to resolve the issue later. “A person who claimed to be the personal assistant of the Minister argued with me. He alleged that I was acting out of political motives. I said I had none and that I was just doing my duty,’’ Ms. Bidri said. Mr. Anna Saheb Jolle later clarified that he was unaware of the incident. “Usually, all our offices and establishments close by 10 a.m., the deadline set by the government. But it is possible that some staff members may have been working in the complex after the deadline, which was misunderstood by the enforcing officers as routine business. Anyway, I will instruct all our staff to stick to the deadlines,’’ he said. He said that he will look into allegations that his supporters threatened officers on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shopping-complex-closed-down-as-manager-argues-with-officer/article34445536.ece
30 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||UGC allows college students to take up NCC as an elective||University Grants Commission has allowed students to take up NCC (National Cadet Corps) as an elective subject in college. This will benefit cadets, including those from the coastal areas where additional cadet strength has been authorised as part of the overall Border Areas Expansion Plan, NCC officers say. This is part of the guidelines issued by UGC to Vice-Chancellors of all universities on April 15. NCC is to be considered a General Elective Credit Course (GECC) in response to the proposal mooted by the Directorate General National Cadet Corps, New Delhi. NCC syllabus for B and C certificates is designed as per the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) of National Education Policy 2020 which grants 24 credit points covering six semesters out of which a student can accrue four credits in the first two semesters and 10 credits in the third and fourth semesters and similarly 10 credits in the fifth and sixth semesters. The move is in consonance with the National Education Policy 2020 where students can select their choices of subjects rather than being confined to only those being offered by the institutions. This makes the learning holistic and skill oriented. On the successful completion of the course, students are awarded credit points which will enable them to qualify for their respective degrees. Efforts are being made by Colonel K. Srinivas, Group Commander, NCC Group, Belagavi, for early implementation of NCC as an elective subject in educational institutions in Karnataka and Goa, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ugc-allows-college-students-to-take-up-ncc-as-an-elective/article34445537.ece
30 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Centre, State criticised for drug scarcity||The former Minister and chairman of BLDE Society M.B. Patil has criticised the Union and State governments for not addressing COVID-19 drug scarcity, especially Remdesivir. He visited hospitals in Vijayapura on Thursday and found that there was a severe scarcity of COVID-19 drugs. He accused the Centre of discriminating between States while releasing injection doses. While Gujarat got 1.64 lakh doses and Madhya Pradesh got 92,000 doses, Karnataka got only 25,400 doses. This is despite the fact that Gujarat had only 14,000 cases as against 40,000 in Karnataka, he said. This is injustice, he added. The BLDE Society Hospital plans to augment its oxygen supplying capabilities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-state-criticised-for-drug-scarcity/article34445538.ece
30 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Nodal officers to manage health crisis appointed||Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar has appointed nodal officers to assist him in COVID management. He has appointed officers to check on hospital administration, supply and use of oxygen, distribution of drugs, including Remdesivir, and other essentials. The officers will visit hospitals, drug storage centres and oxygen factories once every day and submit reports. They can hear Public grievances and issue orders to rectify anomalies in logistics supply. The officers in charge are Additional Deputy Commissioner Y. Yogeshwar for Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) that has the most patients and Belagavi City Corporation Commissioner K.H. Jagadish for all other hospitals. Education Department officers S.C. Pattanashetty, K. Pundalik, G. Mannikeri and M. Sangamesh will monitor oxygen factories and bottling and supply centres. District Backward Class Welfare Officer M.R. Gourishankar will monitor oxygen supply in BIMS. Assistant Drug Controller S. Jones will be in charge of monitoring drug supply and usage and can receive grievances about scarcity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nodal-officers-to-manage-health-crisis-appointed/article34445535.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ensure judicious usage of beds, ventilators, Remdesivir, says CM||Following reports of shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday directed the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) to take steps to ensure timely oxygen supply to hospitals. He also asked hospitals to conduct an audit of oxygen and Remdesivir vials. The Chief Minister directed officials to ensure judicious usage of oxygenated beds, ventilators, and Remdesivir, which should be given only to the needy. Augmenting supply Mr. Yediyurappa held a videoconference with the district in-charge Ministers, DCs, CEOs of zilla panchayats, and Superintendents of Police and took stock of the COVID-19 situation in the State. The oxygen generating plant in Mysuru has five units out of which only two are functioning. To augment the supply of oxygen, the Mysuru Deputy Commissioner was directed to take steps to get the remaining three units repaired at the earliest. The government has asked the DCs to cooperate with the neighbouring districts in case of a shortage of oxygen. The district administration has been directed to take up preventive measures to contain COVID-19 on priority. Noting laxity in the execution of government guidelines in some districts, the Chief Minister asked the DCs to strictly implement guidelines and to ensure COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. The Chief Minister asked the DCs to set up COVID care centres on priority, wherever necessary. Funds have been released to the DCs and they were asked to distribute medical kits to the infected who are in home isolation. Teams should be formed to monitor the health condition of such patients. Task forces The meeting decided to set up task forces in taluks and gram panchayats to take care of infected people. During the meeting, the government told the district authorities to focus on testing of symptomatic people. The results of the tests must be given within 24 hours. All backlogs should be cleared soon, he said. In case of a shortage of personnel, the DCs were told to take the services of human resources from various departments to manage the situation. The Chief Minister directed the DCs to take steps to ensure uninterrupted and smooth operation of agricultural and industrial activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-judicious-usage-of-beds-ventilators-remdesivir-says-cm/article34445679.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 surge: Some industries declare holiday to break chain of infection||Industrial activity in the State, which had picked up after the restrictions imposed during the lockdown last year were eased, seems to be getting affected again with the raging pandemic. While cluster outbreaks have been reported in industrial areas in the past fortnight, several manufacturing plants in the auto sector have already declared holiday to break the chain of infection. In industrial areas Multiple sources in the industry confirmed that several big automobile companies have declared holiday, and other factories that have adequate inventory have also shut down for a few days. A big number of cases have started being reported in factories from industrial areas in Jigani–Anekal–Bommasandra, Peenya, Doddaballapur, and Narasapura. Cluster outbreaks have been reported in pharma companies too. “A lot of industries that have sufficient stock have shut down without affecting thesupply chain. Several other industries have shut after cluster outbreaks were reported while some have closed to prevent outbreaks,” Karnataka Employers’ Association president B.C. Prabhakar confirmed to The Hindu . According to him, companies in the pharma and defence-related manufacturing have not declared holiday, but a number of automobile manufacturing and components, electrical, and electronics industries have shut. Among those that have been shut temporarily include Volvo truck plant at Hoskote, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India plant at Narasapura, Biesse Manufacturing in Bengaluru, and Automotive Axles in Mysuru, while Toyota plant in Bidadi has been shut down for scheduled annual maintenance of the plant that is coinciding with the raging pandemic time. Several ancillary units are also expected to follow suit. Earlier this week, HAL, the defence PSU, declared a plant holiday. Incidentally, the State government in January made it mandatory for the industries to provide fully paid quarantine leave of 14 days for persons testing positive for COVID-19 and their primary contacts in the workplace under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. While industries functioned amid COVID-19 last year, both employers and employees are learnt to have become jittery during the second wave.  ‘State of paranoia’ “Many factories are insisting on a negative RTPCR test report from employees absenting themselves from work even for a day. The paranoia about the employee bringing in the virus has heightened anxiety for the management while employees are losing leave or pay as RTPCR test results are getting delayed,” AITUC Bengaluru secretary M. Satyananda said. The crumbling medical infrastructure, he said, had scared the workers this time, and they were informally asking for alternative working days or a three-day work that would enable social distancing on the shop floor and reduce human contact without affecting production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-surge-some-industries-declare-holiday-to-break-chain-of-infection/article34445685.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. urges govt. to give 10 kg of rice to poor||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday urged the State government to give 10 kg of rice to each poor person per month along with other essential items as people are finding it difficult to afford even basic essentials during the lockdown. “People are [at] home without jobs due to lockdown in the state. They are finding it difficult to afford even basic essentials. I urge @BSYBJP to distribute 10 kg of rice to each person along with other essential items,” he said in a tweet. Campaign Meanwhile, the State Congress has launched a postcard campaign seeking 10 kg of rice for each member of a family having green ration card. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said all district/block Congress presidents and heads of various wings of the party had been told to launch the campaign. All party workers and leaders would send postcards addressed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The previous Congress government had given 7 kg of rice and the BJP government reduced it to 2 kg, the KPCC chief pointed out. Party workers have also been told to makevideos about their sufferings owing to the pandemic and lockdown and post them on social media group or on the website of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-urges-govt-to-give-10-kg-of-rice-to-poor/article34445680.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. extends timings of milk parlours||Relenting to the demand from Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF), the State government has decided to extend the time allowed for sale of milk and milk products in its parlours till 8 p.m. As per the earlier guidelines, they were allowed to be open only between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. during the 14-day lockdown like all other shops selling essential commodities.  The Hindu had reported on Wednesdaythat the KMF was facing a Herculean task of sustaining during the lockdown.Ever since the short window of sale kicked in on Saturday, milk sales were down by over 27%.An emergency meeting of the KMF on Wednesday sought extension of timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-extends-timings-of-milk-parlours/article34445681.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. hiding death numbers: Congress||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged that the State government was hiding the actual COVID-19 deaths in Bengaluru. He tweeted, “@BJP4Karnataka govt is hiding the actual #Covid19 death numbers. There is a lot of difference in the data released by the govt & BBMP. We would not have been in this situation if the government had taken necessary precautions & kept the infrastructure ready.” He said in another tweet, “@BJP4Karnataka leaders are of the opinion that we always criticise. Exposing the mismanagement is also the responsibility of the Opposition. Is it not true that people are dying without beds, oxygen, ICU & medicines? Should we not question this?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-hiding-death-numbers-congress/article34445682.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||8,500 Home Guards, 15,000 Civil Defence volunteers will be deployed: Bommai||Home and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that 8,500 Home Guards will be deployed for management of COVID-19 in the State and 15,000 Civil Defence volunteers for tracking, testing, and providing services for patients recommended for home isolation in Bengaluru. Mr. Bommai, who attended a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the State chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday, said that more Home Guards would be deployed for pandemic management, if required. With Bengaluru recording more than 50% of positive cases of the State, Civil Defence volunteers who were registered with the department would be deployed in different wards of the Bengaluru city corporation. It was decided to sanitise all prisons of the State. About 300 prisoners and prison staff have tested positive in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8500-home-guards-15000-civil-defence-volunteers-will-be-deployed-bommai/article34445676.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cyclists offer to deliver medicines||The cycling community is volunteering to deliver medicines and other essentials to senior citizens and other vulnerable groups. Relief Riders, headed by Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor Sathya Sankaran, will be of service from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. every day. They can be contacted to get groceries, medicines and other essentials delivered home. They can also check on people with physical and cognitive disabilities. The team has tied up with the elders helpline (1090). Those who need help or wish to volunteer can call 9591975791 or 9845303515.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyclists-offer-to-deliver-medicines/article34445928.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ministers to donate one year’s salary||To help the cash-strapped situation in Karnataka, Ministers on Thursday decided to donate one year’s salary for the COVID-19 fund. After attending a meeting on COVID-19 situation chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Revenue Minister R. Ashok told presspersons that the Ministers had decided to donate to help in the fight against COVID-19. The Chief Minister had appealed to MLAs and MLCs to donate one month’s salary to the fund. In 2020, the government had slashed 30% salary and allowances of MLAs, MLCs, the Speaker, and the Deputy Speaker and the Ministers for one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministers-to-donate-one-years-salary/article34445683.ece
30 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shortage of ICU beds at HIMS leading to deaths||The shortage of beds in the intensive care unit is said to have increased deaths at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. A couple of patients who could not get beds in the ICU, even after their oxygen level dropped drastically, succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday. According to the bulletin issued by the administration, seven people died on the day. The institute has 60 beds in the ICU and all of them are occupied. The patients suffering from low oxygen level were provided with medical oxygen. However, patients whose condition did not improve even after providing them with medical oxygen needed to be shifted to the ICU. “We could not shift them as there were no beds in the ICU. With the sudden fall in the oxygen patients are dying”, said a doctor with the institute. The beds in the ICU get vacant only if someone recovers or succumbs to the infection. "The patients are taking a long time to recover. There are some patients for nearly a week in the ICU,”, the doctor said. Many people, caretakers of patients, are seen pleading the staff in the institute for ICU facility. Hassan district administration has decided to enhance the number of beds in the ICU by 40. The ventilators, which remained unutilised in taluk hospitals at Arsikere and Sakleshpur, are being shifted to HIMS. Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, in charge of Hassan, held a meeting with officers on measures necessary to contain the infection. A decision to increase the number of beds at HIMS from 400 to 550 had been taken. A proposal had been sent to set up another hospital at a cost of Rs. 7 crore. “All primary health centres will have oxygenated beds”, he said. Care centre A COVID-19 care centre with 300 beds had been set up at SDM Ayurveda Hospital in Hassan. With this, the burden on HIMS would come down. The SDM Institute had agreed to provide more facilities to treat the patients, the Minister said. Further, the Minister said he had instructed the officers to ensure the lockdown guidelines were implemented strictly. The officers had noticed the public roaming unnecessarily even after 10 a.m. The police had already seized 99 vehicles and they would take strict action to ensure lockdown was total, he added.  Fresh cases As many as 635 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Hassan on Thursday. With that, the total number of cases rose to 38,225 in the district. Seven more people died on the day, increasing the death toll to 563. Among the dead, five are from Hassan, and one each from Arsikere and Sakleshpur taluks. So far 31,838 people have recovered from the infection and 6,124 are under treatment. As many as 68 people are in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases, 201 are from Hassan taluk, 138 from Channarayapatna, 68 from Arkalgud, 64 from Arsikere, 50 from Sakleshpur, 49 from Belur, 47 from Holenarsipur, 11 from Alur and seven are from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shortage-of-icu-beds-at-hims-leading-to-deaths/article34445637.ece
30 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Title deeds for families living in slums: KSE||Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa has said 5,531 families residing in slums of Shivamogga Assembly constituency will get title deeds soon. At a press conference in Shivamogga on Thursday, Mr Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in charge of Shivamogga district, said the State government had issued an order allowing the slum dwellers to own the houses they constructed in the declared slum, located in government properties. The State government has also reduced the price fixed for the title deeds. The people who get dwelling places measuring not more than 1,200 sq.ft in town municipal council or town panchayat would have to pay Rs. 2,000. The amount would be Rs. 1,000 if the beneficiary belonged to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe. Similarly, in the limits of the City Municipal Council, the beneficiaries would get 600 sq.ft of land against the fee of Rs. 2,000 and it would be Rs. 1,000 in case of SC-ST beneficiaries. The beneficiaries in the limits of city corporations would have to pay Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 2,000 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/title-deeds-for-families-living-in-slums-kse/article34445639.ece
30 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. did not err: C.T. Ravi||BJP National General Secretary C.T. Ravi said the State government did not err in handling the COVID-19 situation. “But we failed to follow the guidelines”, he said at a press conference in Hassan on Thursday. The government was anticipating that the cases in the second wave would be double the cases reported in the first wave. But, the cases were 15 times more. “This is not the time do politics on the pandemic. Congress leaders are targeting the government. They should look at the situation in Congress-ruled States as well.” He said that the situation should be viewed as medical emergency, instead of blaming the party in power. “Because we exported vaccines, many countries have come forward to help us now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-did-not-err-ct-ravi/article34445638.ece
30 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positivity rate 11% in Dharwad||COVID-19 positivity rate in Dharwad district is around 11%, which is less when compared to other districts, and even during its peak, it has not crossed 15%, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Minister and district-in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad after participating in a video conference with the Chief Minister on Thursday, Mr. Shettar said that the district administration was effectively handling the situation. It had also taken the requisite measures to face the situation in the eventuality of a surge in COVID-19 cases. Mr. Shettar said that at present, Dharwad district had 3,489 active cases and of them, 2,486 patients were under home isolation. A total of 1,212 patients were admitted to different hospitals in the district and among them, 228 were from other districts, he said. The district administration had got 2,000 beds available for COVID-19 treatment and of them, 1,074 were vacant. In all, 397 oxygen beds, 60 ICU beds and 104 ventilators were available in the district, he said. The Minister said that more people were volunteering to get vaccinated now. So far, 2,61,080 lakh people had been inoculated. With the government allowing people above the age of 18 to get inoculated, more vaccination centres had been planned to prevent crowding. ‘There is no shortage’ Clarifying that there was no shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir injection in the district, he said that continuous supply had been ensured for oxygen units. Emphasising that the partial lockdown was for saving the lives of the people, Mr. Shettar appealed to the people to make the partial lockdown successful by staying indoors and taking all precautionary measures. “The Chief Minister has communicated that if necessary cooperation is not extended by the public, then the government will be forced to think of the need to extend the partial lockdown,” he said. The Minister appealed to the people to avail themselves of government hospital services and they could also get treated at private hospitals with referral letter from the competent authorities. “Free treatment is given in government hospitals and 50% of the beds in private hospitals are kept for free treatment. Those getting admitted to private hospitals should contact Nodal Officer Shashi Patil on Ph: 9880973247 and get referral letter from him by providing the SRF ID of the COVID-19 positive report and Aadhaar number . By doing this, they will be eligible for treatment at private hospitals,” he explained. Mentioning that private hospitals were not cooperating enough with the district administration in the fight against the pandemic, he said that another meeting of the members of management boards of private hospitals would be convened to seek their cooperation again. Makeshift ward The Minister said that steps were being taken for setting up a makeshift hospital ward on KIMS Hospital premises in Hubballi for providing emergency services to COVID-19 patients and it would be ready in another 10 days. “This is the first such initiative in the State and the district administration has already issued an order for getting the makeshift ward ready,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram and Municipal Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-positivity-rate-11-in-dharwad/article34445546.ece
30 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Several helplines launched in Hubballi-Dharwad||Even as the district administration is busy taking various steps to attend to the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, a few political leaders and organisations have launched their own helplines and also set up help desks to extend a helping hand to people in need. KPCC coordinator Rajat Ullagaddimath has launched a helpline Ph: 9590403098 for extending medical advice and counselling to COVID-19 patients and their family members. Mr. Rajat has said that there re various reports and fake news that had caused panic among the people. By calling the number, people could get clarification from expert doctors, he has said. In Kalghatgi taluk, the former MLA Santosh Lad has launched another helpline for the people of his constituency through his aide Anand Kalal. People could call helpline Ph: 7676688688 to get clarifications and their doubts cleared on the pandemic. Mr. Anand Kalal, former director of NWKRTC, has said that expert doctors could be consulted through the helpline from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. On Thursday, Seva Bharati Trust and Neravu organisations set up a COVID Help Desk on KIMS Hospital premises in Hubballi. Launching the help desk, senior Pracharak and Rashtriya Vyavastha Pramukh of RSS Mangesh Bhende said that only through mutual cooperation, the second wave of the pandemic could be fought effectively. He said that nearly six lakh RSS volunteers were serving as COVID warriors. KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani said that cooperation and assistance from organisations in fighting the pandemic are necessary and such initiatives helped the poor and needy a great deal. The organisations too have set up helplines Ph: 7411734247 and 7411744246. Ambulance service Meanwhile, BJP Yuva Morcha of Hubballi Dharwad East Assembly Constituency has launched free ambulance service for COVID-19 patients. On Wednesday, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi launched the free service. Yuva Morcha leader Preetam Arakeri, Prabhu Navalgundmath and others were present. People can Ph: 8951403060 and 8722441235 for free ambulance service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-helplines-launched-in-hubballi-dharwad/article34445543.ece
30 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Military hospitals may be converted as COVID-19 hospitals||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that in consultation with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Military Hospitals in the State would be converted into COVID-19 hospitals. Speaking to presspersons after reviewing the progress of the 66-bed COVID Casualty Makeshift Ward on KIMS Hospital premises in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr. Joshi said that he had written to Mr. Rajnath Singh on the need for constructing make-shift COVID wards at various places in the State, including Bengaluru, through DRDO and other defence agencies. “I am hopeful of a positive response from the Defence Minister. Both the Union and State governments are working on a war-footing. As a precautionary measure, additional beds are being kept ready. We are hoping that we will not reach such a stage of using those additional beds,” he said. On the delay in test reports, he said that the issue had already been brought to his notice and he would take it up with the Health Minister and Health Secretary based on the need to give results early so that treatment could be given immediately. Mr Joshi said that Karnataka had been given 1.22 lakh vials of Remdesivir injection and it was left to the discretion of doctors for which patients the injection should be given. There was no need to panic and moreover, Remdesivir was not the only solution to COVID-19, he said.  In 10 days Mr. Joshi said that the make-shift COVID-19 casualty Hospital would be constructed in next 10 days at a cost of Rs. 66 lakh. “Three casualty wings will be set up in an area of 1,500 sq ft. Each wing will have 22 beds with all facilities. And, there will be six bathrooms and toilets each for male and female patients,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that every day, 2,000 COVID-19 tests were being held in KIMS. Directions had been given to set up another swab collection centre at KIMS. Mr. Patil said that 17,000 people had been given Covaxin dose and based on availability, it would be given to those receiving the second dose. It would not be given to first-timers, he added. KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/military-hospitals-may-be-converted-as-covid-19-hospitals/article34445545.ece
30 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four Kalyana Karnataka districts report 40 deaths||Ballari, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Bidar districts in Kalyana Karnataka region together reported 40 deaths on Thursday. And, 20 of the deceased were aged less than 60. Ballari reported 16 deaths, the highest, taking the toll to 716 in the district. Of the 16, 14 were aged less than 60, the youngest being a 22-year-old woman. The district also reported 896 new cases taking the total number of active cases to 7,946. Kalaburagi reported 11 deaths and 957 new cases. Of the dead, only two were aged less than 60. The deaths took the toll to 460. With the new cases, the total number of active cases rose to 7,932. Yadgir district, which witnessed a slow spread in the initial days of the second wave, reported eight deaths and 259 new cases taking the total number of deaths to 87 and active cases to 2,016. Four of the eight people who died were aged less than 60. Bidar reported five deaths and 180 new cases. The media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, however, said that four of the deaths were due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID-19 deaths rose to 246 in the district and the active cases to 3,207. In their efforts to check the spread of the pandemic, the district administrations across the region resorted to implementing stricter measures to prevent people from moving from one place to another. Police teams deployed at key junctions to minimise the people’s movement imposed punishment on people who violated the partial lockdown in force. Kalaburagi District Principal and Sessions Judge and Chairperson of District Legal Services Authority K. Subramanya appealed to the people to remain indoors and help the administration in the fight against the pandemic. He also appealed to people to get vaccinated as a means to protection against infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-kalyana-karnataka-districts-report-40-deaths/article34445540.ece
30 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||HKCCI seeks extension of business time for APMC market, dal mills||Welcoming the initiatives taken by the State government for containing the spread of COVID-19, Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), an organisation of traders and industrialists, appealed to the government to extend working hours of the APMC market and dal mills. In a letter to the Chief Minister and the Chief Secretary on Thursday, president and secretary of the trade body Prashant S. Manakar and Sharanabasappa M. Pappa have sought revision of operational timings of APMC market and dall mills till 2 p.m. to synchronise them with the working hours of banks so that payment to farmers, hamalis, workers and others involved in the business can be made. “Farmers who form the core of this [APMC] market are finding it to difficult to bring their foodgrains and sell them in the market between the stipulated 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Further, as bank timings are different from APMC timings, farmers are finding it difficult to receive amount towards foodgrains sold by them in the APMC market. Since no passes/identity cards are issued to farmers either by gram panchayats or by APMCs themselves, their movement to and from APMC market during this lockdown has become a nightmare for them,” the office-bearers of the trade body observed in the letter. “Since the APMC Yard and banks have to work hand-in-hand to achieve the economic objective, the same is not possible with the different timings of both APMC and banks. Hence, there is a need to synchronise the timings of APMC market with that of the banks and the APMC market should be allowed to work till 2 p.m.,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hkcci-seeks-extension-of-business-time-for-apmc-market-dal-mills/article34445541.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fishermen unable to sell entire catch before closing time||The fishing sector that was already hit by delay in diesel subsidy reimbursement and drastic reduction in catch is gasping under COVID-19 restrictions as fishermen are unable to get good price for their catch, within the four hours of morning relaxation window. The three coastal districts, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada, had robust marine fishing till a few years ago which, of late, has been affected by reduced catch. An increase in the number of deep sea vessels, unbridled marine resources exploitation and environmental pollution have all contributed to reduction in marine resources, according to experts in the field. With the government enforcing the fortnight-long partial lockdown from Tuesday night till May 12 with a window for buying essentials between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m., fishermen are finding it difficult to dispose of whatever catch they land in deep sea. Sanjiv Suvarna, a fishermen working on a deep sea vessel based at the Mangaluru Fishing Harbour, said that they have to return to the harbour only after 6 a.m. and dispose of the entire catch before 9 a.m. The police begin closing down operations from 9 a.m. itself, he said. Thus, fishermen are deprived of a good price for their catch as there is no bargaining and also, they are in a hurry to dispose it of. Suvarna wondered why the government which equates fishing with agriculture is not allowing fishing activities throughout the day. The situation is similar in almost all major fishing ports along the coast, including Malpe, Gangolli, Honnavar and Karwar. Vessels anchored Many a fishermen has already anchored his vessel due to reduced catch and non-payment of diesel subsidy. The present partial lockdown has only worsened the situation with more and more fishermen intending to halt fishing activities ahead of the monsoon fishing holidays, said Sumith Mendon, another fisherman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-unable-to-sell-entire-catch-before-closing-time/article34446037.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. told to curb business activities at Central Market||The district administration on Thursday directed Mangaluru City Corporation to strictly prohibit trade in vegetables and fish and other business activities in and around the Central Market area. Chairing a meeting on combating COVID-19 here, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar to enforce the rule immediately as large gatherings of people without adhering to COVID-19 guidelines were being observed in the locality. No one was permitted to sell commodities around Central Market and any such activity is illegal, he said. As all wholesale business activities in vegetables and fruits have already been shifted to the APMC Yard at Baikampady, the corporation should ensure that no wholesale business takes place at Central Market. It also should ensure decentralised sale of vegetables and fruits across the city without causing any gathering of people. Dr. Rajendra said that many street vendors and thousands of people gather in the Central Market area every morning during the emergency buying window and it has become a cause for concern. There was also heavy movement of vehicular traffic during the period in the area, he said. The Deputy Commissioner directed Mangaluru City Traffic Police to regulate vehicular movement in and around Central Market. Member of Legislative Assembly D. Vedavyasa Kamath and other senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corpn-told-to-curb-business-activities-at-central-market/article34446036.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Expert Pre University College booked||The Mangaluru Rural Police on Thursday registered a case against the management of Expert Pre University College, Valachil, under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act on the charge of holding classes and other academic activities on campus. The college has also been accused of being responsible for some parents holding a protest outside its campus during the lockdown on Thursday for not sending students back home. But the college has denied both the charge. More than 30 parents from Dharwad, Vijayapura, Tarikere and other parts of the State came to the institution on Thursday morning asking the management to send their children back home along with them. “More than 60% of students have already been sent back home. My daughter is among the remaining 40% who are in the hostel. We are worried of their safety, hence we have come to take them home,” said Rashmi, one of the parents. Another parent said that the parents are worried about the health of their children due to the second wave of COVID-19. As there are no classes and the practical examinations have also been postponed, there was no need for retaining the children in the hostel. Despite coming to the institution by traversing more than 500 km, the management was not ready to speak and made us stand and wait outside the gate, he added. Another parent said that none from the management responded to emails sent by them about their willingness to take their children back home. When the parents staged the protest, Mangaluru Tahsildar and police arrived at the institution and later, the management sent the students along with their parents back home. Following this incident, the Mangaluru Rural Police registered a case against Chairman of Expert Group of Institutions Narendra Nayak and other members of the management of the institution for offences under Section 5 (1) and 5 (4) of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act. Denying the charge, Mr. Nayak told The Hindu that the institution has not violated any of the guidelines of the State government. “It is the parents who have violated the guidelines by travelling from faraway distances and protesting outside the college,” he said. Mr. Nayak said that after the declaration of partial lockdown on April 21 emails had been sent asking parents to take their children back home. As many as 1,500 of the 2,300 students on Valachil campus have gone home so far. “On Thursday, the process of sending students back home was on. But the parents were in a hurry and staged the protest without waiting for the completion of the procedure,” he said. The students were allowed to stay in the hostel as per the recent order of the Pre University Department. The institution had taken every care to protect them from getting infected. No classes and other academic activities had been conducted since April 21, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/expert-pre-university-college-booked/article34446046.ece
30 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Group shares medical burden of poor||A group of dedicated like-minded people in two villages in Dakshina Kannada has come together sponsoring a poor family each every month by paying Rs. 5,000 to meet their medical expenses. Under the banner Kittura Chennamma Seva Samithi, it contributes Rs. 30 to Rs. 50 every week for the purpose. The fund collected is deposited in a bank account of the samithi. The members collectively identify a poor family in dire straits before handing over the money. P. Dharanendra Kumar, a member of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat, who is the brain behind the initiative, told The Hindu that initially members thought that the money should be given only to pregnant women from economically weaker sections to bear their delivery expenses. But as it is difficult to get such beneficiaries every month, the members decided to select a poor family in need of help instead. “The initiative took off this January. So far we have given away Rs. 15,000 to three families. The money for April is yet to be handed over,” said Mr. Kumar. The initiative has been launched by 60 persons living in Hosangady and Badakodi villages under Naravi Zilla Panchayat constituency in Belthangady Taluk. The group members are linked through a WhatsApp group. Mr. Kumar represents the constituency. “The three beneficiaries to whom the money has been given now are from Naravi constituency. But we have not set any boundary for selecting the beneficiaries. It can be given to anyone who deserves it,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/group-shares-medical-burden-of-poor/article34446035.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wild elephants spotted in Mandekolu village||A herd of wild elephants is roaming around the Mandekolu village and its surrounding areas in Sullia taluk for the last 10 days damaging crops of some farmers, reports reaching here said. The herd comprises three adults and three baby elephants. The pachyderms entered some farmland in Mururu, Devaragunda, Akkappady, Kalladkka, Kanyana, Aerkalpady, Bolugallu, Perdodi, Putya and Mavanji, the reports said and added that they are damaging crops during the night. The villagers are encountering the elephants at times on the road during the day. Some people captured images of the herd crossing the Payaswini river and roaming in the same area in Mandekolu village on Wednesday. Though the Forest Department has dug up trenches to prevent their entry to Mandekolu village, these steps have not yielded any result and the presence of the elephants has created fear among the people, the reports said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wild-elephants-spotted-in-mandekolu-village/article34446045.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wenlock Hospital told to increase ventilators to 50||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Thursday instructed the Government Wenlock Hospital to increase the number of ventilators in its Intensive Care Unit (ICU) from 15 to 50. Chairing a meeting at the hospital, he said that the hospital should make necessary arrangements to increase the capacity in ICU. The meeting decided to shift the room reserved for dialysis ward from the first floor to the old medical block. It resolved to appoint 50 staff nurses after consulting doctors. Dr. Rajendra instructed the hospital to shift such COVID-19 patients who have recovered from symptoms and those who are having only mild symptoms and those who have completed 10 days of treatment to the ESI hospital in the city. The meeting also reviewed the quality of food being served to patients in the hospital and cleanliness maintained. Later, wearing a PPE kit, Dr. Rajendra visited the COVID ward and spoke to the patients undergoing treatment and their issues, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wenlock-hospital-told-to-increase-ventilators-to-50/article34446041.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Venkatesh Kamath passes away||Kanthavar Venkatesh Kamath (75), retired headmaster of Canara High School (Main), Dongerkery, in the city passed away in the early hours of Thursday following age-related illness. He was admitted to a private hospital a few days ago. Kamath is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. The last rites were performed at his residence in Dongerkery, followed by cremation at Boloor Crematorium. Kamath was born on October 15, 1945. He became headmaster in 1976, at a relatively young age of 31 and served till 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/venkatesh-kamath-passes-away/article34446039.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Case booked against temple panel members||The Ullal Police have registered a case under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act against members of the organising committee of Brahmakalashotsava of Ullal Someshwara Temple for organising rathotsava which resulted in a huge gathering of people on Monday evening. The case was registered on the charge that the event had been organised against the guidelines issued by the State government to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The case was registered on Tuesday after a visit to the temple by Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner Madan Mohan and Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Kumar Bhandaru on Monday evening. “The organising committee is accused of going ahead with the event disregarding notice issued to stop it,” Mr. Bhandaru said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-booked-against-temple-panel-members/article34446047.ece
30 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kundapur MLA discharged||Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty, who had been admitted to Dr. TMA Pai Hospital in Udupi for COVID-19 treatment, was discharged on Thursday. He had been diagnosed to have moderate COVID-19 and had a smooth recovery after receiving appropriate treatment for his condition. He will continue to monitor his health and stay in isolation as per the government guidelines, the Medical Superintendent of the hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kundapur-mla-discharged/article34446042.ece
30 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Funds for legacy waste treatment in MCC budget||The city’s legacy waste of nearly 3 lakh tonnes is finally set to be cleared through biomining and remediation process for which the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has earmarked funds in the budget for the year 2021-22 presented on Thursday. Tabled almost a month into the new financial year, the MCC budget has a slew of projects for the city with focus on shoring up the environment. Announcing some of the projects in the budget M.S. Shobha, chairperson, Standing Committee on Taxation, Finance and Appeal, said the city generates 424 tonnes of waste daily of which 200 tonnes is handled by the centralised waste treatment plant at Vidyaranyapuram while 35 tonnes are handled by the 7 zero waste management units and 15 tonnes of animal waste is sent to the unit at Kesare. The remaining untreated waste has accumulated over the years at the plant at Vidyaranyapuram and has now occupied over 15 acres of land. The new project will not only help clear the legacy waste but will improve the ambient air quality and environment in general while the land can also be reclaimed. The project is expected to cost Rs. 14.38 crore against which the budget has earmarked Rs. 7.02 crore while Rs. 7.35 crore will be released by the State government. Diesel extraction The budget also proposed to install an unit to extract diesel from plastic for which Rs. 1 crore has been set aside. Beautification of major circles in the city will receive Rs. 10 crore and this includes Nanjumalige circle, Ballal circle, and Matrumandali circle apart from the circles at Sharadadevi Nagar, Hebbal, Basavanagudi, K.G.Koppal, St. Anthony Church, and Lorry Terminal. The budget has also allotted Rs. 1.5 crore towards the repair of the Clock Tower in front of Town Hall as the heritage structure constructed in 1927 has developed cracks and experts have called for intervention. Illumination The MCC building itself has completed 100 years and Rs. 5 crore has been earmarked for its beautification and illumination besides erecting the statues of the rulers of the Wadiyar dynasty as a mark of respect to the erstwhile rulers who strived for the development of Mysuru, said Mr. Shoba. There are 520 parks and lawns in the MCC limits of which 240 are being developed and maintained by the corporation. The rest will be developed into tree parks with the assistance of the Forest Department. The budget has earmarked Rs. 14 crore for the purpose. The MCC also expects funds for modernisation of the solid waste treatment plants at Kesare, Vidyaranyapuram, and Rayanakere under the Sustainable Cities Integrated Approach Pilot in India. A set of electric or battery-operated vehicles will also be procured during the current year instead of petrol or diesel vehicles. Other projects Construction of precast manholes, underpass at a cost Rs. 2 crore near Jaganmohan Palace, development of stadium at Vijayanagar and Railway Layout, covering potholes in the city, installation of cash deposit machine at the MCC, purchase of medical instruments and creating infrastructure to carry out free health check-up for people from economically weaker section of the society are some of the other projects listed in the budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/funds-for-legacy-waste-treatment-in-mcc-budget/article34445647.ece
30 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Property tax single largest source of revenue||The 2021-22 budget of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) projects a revenue of Rs. 987.68 crore and anticipates an expenditure of Rs. 981.55 crore. The revenue through property tax is one of its major source of income and it has projected to accrue Rs. 188.44 crore under this head during 2021-22 as against Rs. 132.16 crore realised during the previous financial year. Tariff on water supply and UGD cess is expected to accrue Rs. 65 crore as against Rs. 54.12 crore realised last year. The MCC also expects a grant of Rs. 75 crore this year for clearing electricity bills and Rs. 70.86 crore for staff salary and pension. This is in addition to Rs. 70.27 crore expected from the 15th Finance Commission. projected sources include Rs. 30 crore from the CM’s Nagarothana scheme and Rs. 25 crore from Mahatma Gandhi City Development Plan. This apart the MCC expects Rs. 6.65 crore from CR reports, fines, road cutting charges etc and Rs. 9 crore from trade licenses. The rentals through various complexes and shops of MCC is expected to yield Rs. 4.25 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-tax-single-largest-source-of-revenue/article34445645.ece
30 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Land transfer questioned||BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath lashed out at his party and the State government on its decision to transfer 3677 acres of land to Jindal Steel. Addressing media persons here on Thursday he questioned the necessity of the transfer and highlighted the “double standards” of the BJP which had opposed it when the party was in the Opposition and the Congess-JD (S) coalition had given its sanction. He also questioned the pricing and said that it was calculated as per the rate which prevailed a decade ago and wondered at the silence of the political leadership in the State. He said the State was reeling under a pandemic and there was a lockdown and a deal has been rushed so as to avert drawing public attention and opposition. Mr. Vishwanath said he will write to the Cabinet Ministers not to ratify the decision. He said a joint committee of the Legislature should be constituted to inspect the extent of utilisation of land already held by the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-transfer-questioned/article34445648.ece
30 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Man murders four of family||A woman in her 20s, her two children and her mother-in-law were done to death by her husband in Sargur taluk of Mysuru district. The incident occurred in Chammegowdana Hundi village and is suspected to have taken place late on Wednesday night. The victims were identified as Ganga (28), her two children Samrat (3) and Rohit (2),and her mother-in-law Kempamma (60). Police say the accused, Manikantha Swamy (35), assaulted his family members in a fit of rage and suspect it to be a fallout of long standing marital discord. Quoting neighbours the police say there was an argument between the husband and wife on Wednesday night after which Manikantaswamy, who is said to be physically challenged, went out of the house He returned after sometime and assaulted the family members with an iron rod and fled from the place. The murder came to light in the morning and the police who reached the spot suspected the involvement of Manikanta Swamy based on the inputs provided by the locals. Fingerprint experts and sniffer dogs were pressed into service and a manhunt has been launched to trace the accused. Ganga was in an advanced stage of pregnancy, according to the locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-murders-four-of-family/article34445643.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Focus is now on mobilising beds||Amidst the second wave of COVID-19 with rise of new cases with each passing day despite the lockdown, a delegation comprising Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, State BJP vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, L. Nagendra, MLA, and others inspected the 250-bed Princess Krishnarajammanni Super Speciality Hospital on KRS Road where the district administration wants to dedicate around 89 oxygenated beds for COVID-19 treatment. The yet-to-be-commissioned hospital on the premises of PKTB Sanatorium is hurriedly being readied as beds in all other hospitals across Mysuru ARE occupied amid the rapid spread with daily count crossing the 2,000-mark.. This is the last vacant public healthcare facility available for converting it into another COVID-19 Hospital with the Trauma Care Centre recently converted into a COVID-19 treatment facility besides the dedicated COVID-19 Hospital in THE District Hospital also located on the same premises. After the inspection, Mr. Vijayendra told reporters that Mysuru has been under pressure for beds since patients from neighbouring districts are also seeking beds here. However, efforts are on to increase beds with facilities like the super speciality hospital being identified for the patients. “The government is ready to provide all support for meeting the immediate needs for expanding treatment. The District Minister has been camping here since the last three days to review the situation and provide support accordingly. Hopefully, the super speciality hospital may be ready in one week’s time,” he replied. While admitting that panic has gripped the city over the surge, he said only patients in critical stages would need beds and those with mild symptoms can be treated at home. Mr. Simha said private hospitals had been asked to spare 50 per cent of their beds, promising them essential medical supplies for the treatment. “The new hospital has provision for 89 oxygenated beds and the same is being readied. Steps had been taken to make it operational at the earliest with the government ensuring all support.” He said 100-plus oxygenated beds would soon be ready at the renovated Tulsidas Hospital as part of efforts to increase the bed strength. Mr. Somashekar said 50 per cent of ICU and ventilator beds had been set aside in private hospitals for the patients referred by the district administration. “These beds are being allotted seeing the patient’s condition and I too have not recommended anybody for the beds despite getting innumerable calls seeking beds. The discretion of bed allotment is left to the district administration.” He claimed that he held meetings in 10 out 12 Assembly segments, including K R Nagar, and took stock of the situation, providing all essential medical supplies. On the charges of K.R. Nagar MLA S.R. Mahesh, Mr. Somashekar said if he had concern for his constituency he should have attended the meeting and extended all support for facing the current crisis. He, however, skipped the meeting. “Let the people decide”the Minister replied to the MLA’s allegations on the government’s failure to handle the COVID-19 situation. Mr. Simha, while refusing to admit that Mysuru was facing beds’ shortage,causing deaths, said the government can address the issue if a specific case was quoted instead of a sweeping statement. “The MLA has to reply on the ventilator issue in K.R. Nagar,” he said, on Mr. Mahesh’s charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-is-now-on-mobilising-beds/article34445641.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rapid lung involvement due to mutations, high infectivity||The demand for medical oxygen seems to be comparatively higher during the second wave of COVID-19. Doctors, who are seeing an increasing number of patients with rapid lung involvement, attributed the trend to mutations, high infectivity, apart from delayed reporting. While there is no data to compare the usage of medical oxygen during the first outbreak with the current wave, doctors said the overall volume of infected persons and rapidity of the surge has made oxygen scarce. Although patients develop pneumonia in the second week after getting infected, doctors said this is happening much earlier in some patients. Consultant pulmonologist at Apollo Hospitals Ravindra Mehta, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said the possibility of the virus behaving differently during the second wave cannot be ruled out. “The possibility of highly infectious mutants also having a more accelerated clinical course cannot be ruled out. The humongous number of people affected in a record short period of time, which shows that the virus is highly infectious, has led to a large population with moderate to severe disease requiring oxygen. This has put a tremendous load on the system,” he said. The demand for oxygen is high also because the requirement of this life-saving commodity is not short-term. Most patients, who require oxygen, are in need of it for a long period, even after discharge, he explained. Besides, delay in seeking healthcare, getting tested coupled with the delay in test results because of the pandemic overload are also reasons for many patients developing complications within days. “By the time a person consults a doctor, gets tested and gets his reports it is six-seven days by when pneumonia would have set in,” he said. V. Ravi, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said most patients who report at hospitals with low oxygen saturation are those who would have been asymptomatic initially. This indicates that there is no proper monitoring of home-isolated patients, he said. “Patients are deteriorating between five and 12 days as that is when their immune system becomes weak. Once a patient develops breathing problems, oxygen saturation drops rapidly in hours,” he said. “During the first wave, the number of cases was less, and there was tremendous tracking, tracing, testing and monitoring of people in home isolation. This time, with the numbers going out of control, it has become difficult for the health system to monitor the situation,” he asserted. Anoop Amarnath, member of Karnataka’s COVID critical care support unit (CCSU), who heads the department of Geriatric Medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said there is not much evidence yet that the disease characteristics are vastly different in the two waves. “The acute surge in cases explains the increased need for oxygen. Patients are developing complications due to delayed reporting, which was happening during the first wave too,” he added.  Patients are deteriorating between five and 12 days as that is when their immune system becomes weak. Once a patient develops breathing problems, oxygen saturation drops rapidly in hours V. Ravi, member, COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rapid-lung-involvement-due-to-mutations-high-infectivity/article34445920.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. alters rules on BU numbers||Recently, actor Pavan posted a video on how citizens with negative RT-PCR reports, but with CT scans detecting COVID-19 infection, are not given BU numbers for hospitalisation. Taking cognisance of such cases and false negative reports that are being increasingly reported in the city, the Karnataka government has tweaked existing protocols to ensure that such citizens are given BU numbers to enable hospitalisation and immediate medical attention. An order, issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday, however, offers no solace to scores of families who have lost their loved ones due to complications and delay in hospitalisation for want of patient numbers. Suresh Kumar, brother of a COVID-19 patient, who succumbed to the infection recently, said there was a delay of over five days in delivery of the RT-PCR test result. By then, his brother’s condition had deteriorated. “We got a chest CT scan done, which clearly indicated COVID-19. But no BU number had been generated, since the RT-PCR result was delayed. We had to run from pillar to post to get him admitted in a hospital. After much struggle, we admitted him in the emergency ward of a hospital, but it took another two days to get an ICU bed,” he said. His brother died of complications two days after being hospitalised. BBMP health officials admitted that many such cases were being reported following the recent surge in COVID-19 cases in the second wave. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) P. Rajendra Cholan maintained that it was very difficult to quantify such cases. This decision will help COVID-19 infected persons get timely admission and treatment, especially those who seek treatment in government hospitals and private hospitals through SAST reference. Last October, the health department had issued an order directing all government and private hospitals to strictly follow a syndromic approach in treating such cases. It had taken note of studies that had found CT thorax scans had greater sensitivity (86%-98%) and lower false-negative rate than the RT-PCR test, and stated that it was essential that a proxy syndrome, called COVID-19 Like Syndrome or COVID-19 Probable case be used to identify such cases.  A chest CT scan clearly indicated COVID-19. But no BU number was generated since the RT-PCR result was delayed. We had to run around to get him admitted in a hospital Suresh Kumar, brother of a COVID-19 patient||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-alters-rules-on-bu-numbers/article34445929.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bleak future for auto and taxi drivers, many return home||For the last two days, taxi driver Kiran Kumar B.M. has been living in his car near his village at his native place, Bevinahalli, in Mandya district. He left Bengaluru earlier this week when the Karnataka government extended the lockdown by 14 days, but has not got his RT-PCR test report. Until then, he intends to live in his car. “Only if it is negative will I join my family members, as there are children in the house,” he said. The number of taxis and autos on the city’s roads has reduced noticeably, as many drivers, no longer able to earn a livelihood, have packed their bags and left Bengaluru. Even before the lockdown, their earnings had taken a hit. “In Bengaluru, my rent was Rs. 3,500, my car EMI was Rs. 15,500 and I relied on hotels for food. There were other expenses too. How can I survive in the city if I don’t earn money?” Mr. Kumar added. Muniraju, a taxi driver, said, “This one year has hit us hard, and the second wave is making life more miserable. Due to work-from-home and increasing cases of COVID-19, drivers were not getting bookings. Now the State has imposed a lockdown. We understand that saving lives is more important, but what about our livelihood. How can we pay rent or EMI for our vehicles by sitting at home? If we do not pay the EMI, recovery agents start harassing us.” Drivers want the State government to step in with a financial aid package that includes extending the date for payment of EMIs, tax breaks, and other measures. K. Somashekar, president of the Namma Chalakara Trade Union, pointed out that though the Chief Minister had announced financial assistance for auto and taxi drivers, less than half actually benefited from it. “We do not have any hope of getting financial assistance this time. The least the State government can do is ask financial institutions to postpone EMI collection for vehicle loans, relax taxes for taxis for at least six months,” he said. In March, a taxi driver had committed suicide at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) allegedly due to poor earnings. The incident spurred the State government to hike taxi fares applicable to aggregators. However, drivers say it did not help them as by then, the number of people commuting had dropped due to a surge in COVID-19 cases. Though the lockdown guidelines state that citizens can use autos and taxis for emergencies, or to travel to the airport and railway stations, ridership remains low as most people are staying indoors. Drivers are bitter about the lack of preparedness. Subash, an auto driver, said, “Everyone thought this year would be better, but it’s turning out to be worse than 2020. Governments are not prepared, and the general public is paying the price,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bleak-future-for-auto-and-taxi-drivers-many-return-home/article34445925.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Death toll rises in Mysuru, Mandya||The COVID-19 situation has turned grave in Mysuru and Mandya,with alarming spike in daily count. Mysuru and Mandya reported 12 and 9 deaths respectively on Thursday. Mysuru reported 1,219 new cases on Thursday - a marginal dip in new infections when compared to the last three-four days. As usual, a major chunk of cases is being reported from Mysuru city even as the new cases saw a minimal drop in taluks when compared to the situation in the last few days when cases had seen a sharp jump. The break-up of new cases: Mysuru 765, H.D. Kote 25, Hunsur 52, K.R. Nagar 112, Mysuru taluk 94, Nanjangud 62, Periyapatna 40 and T. Narsipur 69. The death toll touched 1,192 as on Thursday. On a positive note, the growing recoveries in Mysuru are reassuring as the daily discharges were inching closer to 1,000. On Thursday, 955 patients were discharged, which was perhaps the highest in the current wave, taking the number of recoveries to 63,717. The active case tally rose to 8,366 with no let-up in new infections. In Mandya, the active case tally shot to 5,191 with 939 new cases on Thursday even as discharges in the district also saw a jump with 791 patients recovering from the infection. The total number of positive cases rose to 29,114 with 23,711 discharges as on Thursday. Thursday's count in Mandya: Mandya 370, Maddur 80, Malavalli 77, Pandavapura 35, Srirangapatna 128, K.R. Pet 84, Nagamangala 143, and 22 from outside districts. As many as 604 beds in government hospitals and 194 in private hospitals had been occupied, and 3,405 patients are in home isolation. The death toll has climbed to 210. Surge in Kodagu Kodagu’s surge has also worried the district administration as 537 new cases were reported on Thursday. The number of active cases has increased to 3,403.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-toll-rises-in-mysuru-mandya/article34445642.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure oxygen only for medical purposes’||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Thursday told medical oxygen producers and re-filling units to cater only to the needs of hospitals and medical purposes as a measure to ensure unhindered oxygen supplies for handling the current COVID-19 crisis. The DC’s diktat comes a day after Chief Minister B .S Yediyurappa directed all the deputy commissioners to effectively handle the situation without allowing any disruption in medical oxygen supplies to patients. Meeting At a meeting with the manufacturers and suppliers here, she told them to strictly comply with the government’s guidelines on oxygen supplies. Oxygen has to be supplied only for medical purposes and to the government-recommended institutes, Ms. Sindhuri said. In order to monitor supplies as recommended by the government, the district administration has appointed nodal officers to each unit and the onus on the unhindered oxygen supplies for Mysuru district lies with the office of Drug Controller. “The district should not face scarcity of medical oxygen at any cost,” she told the suppliers. Representatives of medical oxygen producers and suppliers including Padaki Air Products, The Southern Gas Limited, Mahathi Oxygen Company, Peenya Industrial Gases, and Mangala Enterprises attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-oxygen-only-for-medical-purposes/article34445644.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man preys on COVID-19 patients seeking beds||The Jayanagar police on Thursday arrested a housekeeping staff contractor who disappeared after allegedly taking money from people by promising ICU beds. The accused, Manish Sarkar, hails from West Bengal and resides in Malleswaram. He circulated his contact number on WhatsApp groups. People started contacting him for beds, following which Sarkar took their money and promised to get back to them. ‘Paid Rs. 20,000 for a bed’ One of his victims was a resident of Jayanagar who was looking for a bed for his ailing mother. He claims to have paid Rs. 20,000 to Sarkar. The man waited to hear back on which hospital to go to, but Sarkar did not contact him. “Eventually, the complainant’s mother succumbed while his father, who was also suffering from COVID-19, died on April 25,” said a police officer. After performing their late rites, the complainant approached the police seeking action against Sarkar. The police tracked down Sarkar and booked him for extortion and cheating . The lack of ICU beds and oxygenated beds amidst an unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases in the city has results in touts and conmen trying to make a quick buck. Harish Pandey, DCP (South), requested people not to entertain touts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-preys-on-covid-19-patients-seeking-beds/article34445927.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Will prescribe Remdesivir only if required: PHANA||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) on Thursday gave an assurance to the High Court of Karnataka that it would instruct all member-hospitals to prescribe Remdesivir injection only to COVID-19 patients who require it immediately. PHANA president H.M. Prasanna told the court that normally hospitals procure the injection from private suppliers based on approval granted by the Drugs Controller, but, in some cases, patients or their relatives pressurise doctors to prescribe the injection so that they can procure it from outside. He assured that instructions would be given to member-hospitals to display the information about availability of beds, contact information of nodal officers appointed by the Karnataka government, as per the court’s directions. These assurances were given to a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar when advocates for petitioners, who had filed PIL petitions on COVID-19 issues, alleged that some private hospitals are forcing patients to get the injection from the open market, and some are prescribing it indiscriminately or unnecessarily. Special Counsel for the State government Vikram Huilgol told the bench that there are debates on use of Remdesivir for COVID-19 while also pointing out that the government has come across instances of indiscriminate use of this injection in private hospital while justifying its action of controlling procurement of injection by private hospitals. As Advocate General Prabhuling K. Navadgi told him to narrate one instance where Remdesivir was administered to an advocate, Mr. Huilgol said that doctors at a leading hospital in the city asked an advocate whether he has health insurance or was paying from his pocket, and administered Remdesivir on knowing that he has health insurance. On a query by the bench, Dr. Prasanna said that PHANA will launch in 24 hours a portal on real-time bed availability status in member-hospitals for COVID-19 patients, including the 50% beds earmarked for patients referred by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-prescribe-remdesivir-only-if-required-phana/article34445918.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||35,024 new cases; 270 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 35,024 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 14,74,846. Of these, 19,637 cases are from Bengaluru Urban district. With 270 deaths, the toll rose to 15,306. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 14,142 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 11,10,025. Of the remaining 3,49,496 active patients, 2,431 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 19.92%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.77%. 1.75 lakh tests As many as 1,75,816 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,60,698 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,54,07,198. Karnataka had vaccinated 93,96,115 people till 8.30 p.m. on Thursday. On Thursday, 1,03,801 beneficiaries took the jab. More police personnel test positive As many as 31 personnel in the Bengaluru City Police (BCP) tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Sixteen personnel had taken both doses of the vaccine while 12 had been administered the first shot. Since the start of the second wave, as many as 688 police personnel have contracted the virus, and seven have succumbed. On Thursday, BCP lost PSI Krishnamurthy, 59, who was attached to Subramanyanagar police station. As per data from the police department, 569 personnel are currently COVID-19 positive, of which 541 are in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/35024-new-cases-270-deaths/article34445921.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Morning crowd||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/morning-crowd/article34445923.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Property tax rebate period extended||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has extended the property tax rebate period till the end of May. An order to this effect was issued by Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. The civic body usually extends a 5% rebate on property tax to citizens who make the complete payment in the first month of the new financial year. This year, however, with the 14-day lockdown in place in light of the surge in COVID-19 cases, the civic body has decided to extend the rebate period till the end of May, the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-tax-rebate-period-extended/article34445930.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Staying safe in Udupi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/staying-safe-in-udupi/article34446050.ece
30 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha logs 2,043 cases||The district reported 2,000 plus COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day as 2,043 people were diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. TPR at 20.42% The fresh cases include 2,033 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven others remains unidentified. Three persons who came from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 20.42%. Of the 2,043 cases, 176 were logged from Alappuzha municipality and 70 each from Kayamkulam municipality and Puliyoor grama panchayat. Mararikulam (69 cases), Bharanikavu (59), Edathua (58), Thazhakara (58), Purakkad (57), Budhanoor (56), and Chettikulangara (54) grama panchayats also registered 50 plus cases on a single day. Meanwhile, 1,853 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 14,542. More restrictions The district administration has imposed more restrictions to tackle the spread of the pandemic. District Collector A.Alexander issued an order banning the assembly of more than five people in the Alappuzha municipal area. The administration also directed eight private hospitals in the district to earmark at least 25% of beds for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-logs-2043-cases/article34445607.ece
30 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Finding ‘core’ of life in intricate patterns||Pravin Kannanur was trained as a zoologist. His nimble fingers that once painstakingly explored the structures of cells, vertebra and vascular network now create paintings, murals and installations. A nautilus shell, the spiralling arm of a galaxy, the eye of a cyclone, growth rings and heartwood of the cross-section of a tree — the entire gamut of whorl patterns that nature has in store is revealed through the Core, a series of nine abstract works by Mr. Kannanur. It is on display at the ongoing Lokame Tharavadu contemporary art show in Alappuzha. Sculptural elements His works manifest the micro and macro aspects of nature. "It is an abstraction of several sculptural characteristics I see in nature, like the arrangement of tree rings and tree canopies. It's the same pattern you can see in the spiral whorls of galaxies and hurricanes," says Mr. Kannanur who uses the Fibonacci series as an underlay in his works. Combining disciplines The Core combines maths, art and nature. "Core is how I reconstruct the universe on canvas. I look at the world topologically. I like to see how structures map onto each other. Physical structures occurring in nature and the physical forces that dictate their form hold parallels with social constructs as well," says Kannanur who cites artists Bhagwan Chavan, Vijay Shinde and Prabhakar Kolte among his influences. Mr. Kannanur, a multidisciplinary artist based in Chennai, has his roots in Palakkad and works predominantly in the visual arts, theatre and contemporary dance. Experimental plays A founding member of the theatre group Magic Lantern and the contemporary art collective Basement 21, his paintings have been exhibited in solo shows at the Alliance Française de Madras, InKo Centre, The Amethyst in Chennai, Chitrakala Parishath in Bengaluru, The India Habitat Centre, New Delhi and Jehangir Art Gallery, Mumbai. He has directed several plays for the experimental theatre group Koothu-P-Pattarai and for Magic Lantern. Kalki’s Ponniyin Selvan is his landmark production.  The entire gamut of whorl patterns that nature exhibits is revealed through the Core series that has nine abstract works||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finding-core-of-life-in-intricate-patterns/article34445606.ece
30 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Set up vaccine production at KSDP: Ariff tells Centre||A.M. Ariff, Member of Parliament, has urged the Centre to initiate steps to set up a COVID-19 vaccine production facility and oxygen production plant at the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) at Kalavoor in Alappuzha. In a letter to Harsh Vardhan, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Mr. Ariff noted that the company has facilities for the production of injection drugs with a capacity to produce 3.5 crore ampules, 1.3 crore vials, 1.2 crore large-volume parenterals and 88 lakh ophthalmic medicines per annum. "It has been learned that the company is interested to set apart a part of the injection drug production plant for producing the COVID-19 vaccine on necessary technology transfer. There is also scope for establishing a large-scale oxygen production plant in KSDP premises, which would help boost the production of medical oxygen," the letter reads. Transfer of technology He urged the Centre to ensure the transfer of technology and allocate sufficient funds in consultation with the State government. "This will help tide over the present crisis of vaccine shortage and ensure adequate supply of vaccines at cheaper rates across the country," Mr. Ariff said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/set-up-vaccine-production-at-ksdp-ariff-tells-centre/article34445608.ece
30 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Actual figures may be higher: Collector||District Collector H. Dinesan said on Thursday that the test positivity rate (TPR) could not be compared with the extent of spread of COVID-19 in Idukki since the actual number of cases may be much higher than what it indicates. As of Thursday, the TPR in the district stood at 22.85% and the total number of persons who had contracted the disease on the day was 1,153. The Thodupuzha and Kattappana municipalities remained on the top of the list with the highest number of reported COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actual-figures-may-be-higher-collector/article34445609.ece
30 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||909 test positive in Wayanad district||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic continued to rage in Wayanad district with 909 people, including 10 health workers, testing positive for the disease on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 898 patients were infected through local contact and 11 persons had arrived from other States. With 305 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 7,929 active cases, besides 23,731 others under observation. Meanwhile, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said that the district health department had on Thursday received 10,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. It would be administered to those who had already registered for it through 35 centres in the district from Friday, Dr. Renuka said. Treatment centres The Wayanad district administration is preparing to hand over the buildings of hostels and model residential schools for tribal children with furniture for the smooth functioning of the COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTC) in the wake of the increase in COVID-19 positive cases in the district. District Collector Adeela Abdulla said that she had directed the Tribal Development Department officials to provide the facilities on a warfooting to the local administrative bodies as per the request of the secretaries of the civic bodies.  Meanwhile, the district administration has taken over the multi-storey office building of the Government Medical College Hospital at Mananthavady. The COVID second line treatment center would be set up in the building, Ms. Abdulla said. The college office would be temporarily shifted to PWD rest house there, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/909-test-positive-in-wayanad-district/article34445559.ece
30 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Guidelines issued||The Wayanad District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued guidelines for the functioning of the control rooms set up in each civic body in the district in the wake of a steady increase in the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR). The average TPR in the district on Thursday was 17.56%. District Collector Adeela Abdualla directed the secretaries of civic bodies in the district to ensure round-the-clock functioning of the control rooms. They should provide details on the daily COVID positive cases, primary contacts, number of people quarantined and vaccination at the control rooms and report the details to the district nodal officer. They have to make arrangements to provide the phone number of control rooms in each civic body to the COVID patients under home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-issued/article34445562.ece
30 April 2021||Kannur,KERALA||COVID patient found dead in Kannur||A COVID-19 patient was found hanging inside his house at Kizhunna here on Thursday. The deceased, Ramachandran, was in home isolation for COVID-19. According to the police, he was showing symptoms of psychological disturabnce after he was diagnosed with the disease. The Edakkad police have launched an investigation into the incident. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000 and DIrection Interventions System for Health Awareness (DISH)- 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-patient-found-dead-in-kannur/article34445558.ece
30 April 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Accused in hit-and-run case held in Kasaragod||A 35-year-old man, who is the accused in a hit-and-run case that led to the death of a retired school teacher while he was on his morning walk, was arrested from Kasaragod. The accused, Moidheen Kunhu, a resident of Vidhyanagar in Kasaragod, who was arrested in a sandalwood smuggling case, revealed his involvement in the hit-and-run case during police interrogation. The victim, Balakrishnan, 72, was killed at 5.30 a.m. on April 23 near Chekiyatkavu Papas Hotel in Mayyil. According to the police, the accident took place when the accused was returning to Kasaragod after visiting Mattanur in connection with sandalwood smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-hit-and-run-case-held-in-kasaragod/article34445561.ece
30 April 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Woman drowns while trying to save child||A 25-year-old woman drowned while trying to save a child who fell into Nayikali river in Mattannur on Thursday morning. The deceased has been identified as Amrita, a resident of Palat, Kodolipram. She is the daughter of Munderi Higher Secondary School Lab Assistant C. Balakrishnan and Palat Ramani The incident happened near Nayikali Durga Bhagwati Temple. Though the child was rescued, Amrita could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-drowns-while-trying-to-save-child/article34445560.ece
30 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam sees no respite as daily cases keep soaring||The COVID-19 situation continued to be grim in Ernakulam on Friday, with 5,369 people testing positive on the day. While four persons came from abroad or other States, as many as 5,217 cases were through local contact. The source of infection in 143 cases could not be identified. Five health workers also tested positive on the day, according to a communication from the district administration. A total of 175 cases were recorded in Thripunithura followed by 175 in Thrikkakara, 120 in Varapuzha, 116 each in Kadungalloor and Vazhakkulam, and 112 in Cheranalloor. Data released by the district administration showed that 1,293 persons, who had earlier tested positive, were cured of the disease on Friday. The day witnessed 6,930 persons going into home quarantine, while the quarantine period of 875 persons ended. At present, 91,265 persons are in home quarantine in the district. As many as 224 persons were admitted to various hospitals or first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), while 146 were discharged. According to the district administration, 43,557 people are under treatment, and they do not include those who tested positive on the day. The health authorities have dispatched 19,210 samples from the district for testing. The district COVID control room can be accessed at - 0484 2368802 / 2368902 / 2368702.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-no-respite-as-daily-cases-keep-soaring/article34446009.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,651 officials for counting||The district administration has deployed 3,651 officials for counting of votes in 14 Assembly constituencies in the district on Sunday. The training for counting staff has been completed, according to a communication from the administration. Three halls have been set up at the Boys’ Higher Secondary School, Perumbavoor, for counting of votes of the Perumbavoor constituency. While postal ballots will be counted on four tables, votes in the machines will be counted on 17 tables. The counting of votes for Aluva and Angamaly constituencies will be held at UC College, Aluva. Postal ballots will be counted on four tables each, and the votes in machines on 21 tables each for the two constituencies. In the case of Kalamassery, counting will be held at Sree Narayana High School, North Paravur, where four counting halls have been set up. Government Boys’ High School, Paravur, will be the venue of counting of votes of Paravur. In Vypeen, counting will be held at Cochin College Annex. T.D. High School, Mattanchery, will be the venue of counting of votes of Kochi. In the case of Thripunithura, counting will be held at Maharaja’s College. Bharat Mata College, Thrikkakara, will be the venue of the counting of votes of Thrikkakara. The Ernakulam Government Girls’ High School will be the venue for counting of votes of Ernakulam, and counting for Kunnathunad will be held at Ashramam Higher Secondary School, Perumbavoor. Nirmala Higher Secondary High School will be the venue of counting of votes of the Muvattupuzha constituency, and votes of Piravom will be counted at Nirmala Public School. For the Kothamangalam constituency, counting will take place at MA College, Kothamangalam, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3651-officials-for-counting/article34446006.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 100 booked for violating quarantine norms in district||The Kalloorkkad police on Thursday registered a case against a COVID-19 patient on charge of violating quarantine norms. He allegedly stepped out of his house despite having tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. He was also accused of removing the barricade denoting containment zone and has been slapped with charges under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. The Ernakulam Rural police on Thursday registered 115 cases for quarantine violations. Thirty-five persons were arrested and three vehicles were seized. Action was also taken against 1,813 for not wearing masks and 1,674 for not maintaining physical distance. Food distribution The Kochi Corporation has begun distribution of food for COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine. P. Raju, CPI district secretary, inaugurated the programme. The civic administration distributed 4,111 food packets on the day. Besides Mayor M. Anilkumar, Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya and standing committee chairpersons Sheeba Lal and V.A Sreejith were present. While Skyline Foundation donated Rs. 1 lakh, Kerala Steel Traders’ Association provided 100 beds, and workers of Hindustan Latex Limited and Confederation of Indian Industry donated rice. Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union provided 20,000 packing containers, and the Ernakulam district committee of WMF gave 5,000 containers. Oxygen war room An oxygen war room has been opened at the Kochi metro station building at Kaloor to ensure availability of medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients. Data centre The war room will also coordinate the supply of oxygen to centres where it is required. A shifting control room and data centre for ensuring hospital-based medical treatment for needy patients have also started functioning. Around 80 persons have been deployed at the war room, said a communication from District Collector S. Suhas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-100-booked-for-violating-quarantine-norms-in-district/article34446012.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Trial court says ED has no document against accused||Barring the custodial statements of the accused, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has no documents in its hand to prove the involvement of the accused in the money laundering case booked in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, according to a trial court. The observation was made by D. Sureshkumar, the First Additional District Judge, while granting bail to the accused, Sandeep Nair and P. S. Sarith, in the case on Wednesday. Swapna Suresh and M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, the other two accused in the case, were granted bail earlier. The court noted that it was based on the statements of the petitioners, which were given while in custody, that the ED stated that the accused smuggled gold to Indian on 20 occasions. “Apart from this, at present, there are no documents to prove the involvement of the accused in this regard,” the court noted. Equal role The court observed that there was no evidence at this stage to state that Sarith and Sandeep were the kingpins in the crime. Records revealed that all accused had equal role in the allegations made against them. As all the accused in the case were alleged to have equal involvement in the crime and two of them already granted bail, the two others cannot be denied the bail, the judge observed. The investigation in the case was almost over and the custodial interrogation of the accused was not necessary. There are no chances for the petitioners to tamper with the evidence or influence the official witnesses. The chances of them committing similar offences were remote and no purpose would be served in detaining them in prison, especially considering the present COVID -9 pandemic situation, the court noted. Travel warning The two were asked to execute a bond for Rs. 5lakh each with two solvent sureties for the like sum each to the satisfaction of the court. They were also asked to surrender their passport. Though granted bail, the three accused, except Sivasankar, will remain in prison as they have been detained under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-court-says-ed-has-no-document-against-accused/article34445619.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police to enforce stringent restrictions||The Ernakulam Rural police have said that counting day restrictions will be enforced strictly in the district on Sunday in keeping with the directions of the court and the Election Commission, considering the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The rural limits account for eight counting centres — Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Perumbavoor; U.C. College, Aluva; Sree Narayana High School, North Paravur; Government Higher Secondary School, North Paravur; Ashramam Higher Secondary School, Perumbavoor; Nirmala Public School, Muvattupuzha; Nirmala Higher Secondary School, Muvattupuzha; and M.A. College, Kothamangalam. The counting centres are being guarded by 325 police and paramilitary personnel under the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick. “We will deploy around 1,700 local police and Central forces across all five subdivisions. A DySP each will be in charge of the counting centres. All proceedings at the counting centres will also be videographed,” said Mr. Karthick. The presence of executive magistrates will be ensured at sensitive areas. Only counting officials, candidates, counting agents, and media personnel will be allowed entry into the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-to-enforce-stringent-restrictions/article34446010.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Steps taken to improve water supply to W. Kochi’||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has informed the High Court that necessary measures, including increasing the number of pumping stations, had been taken for improving water supply to the West Kochi area. The submission was made when a writ petition filed by M.H.M. Asharaf from West Kochi seeking a directive to provide quality drinking water to the people in the area came up for hearing. According to him, the people of the area were experiencing water shortage even after the construction of a 2.2-million litres per day (mld) capacity new water tank at Modi Bathroom Junction at Mattancherry at a cost of Rs. 2.2 crore and the repair of the old water tank at Fort Kochi. Moreover, not even a litre of water was supplied to the public from the water tank at Koovapadam. In a statement, the KWA said drinking water to the West Kochi area was mainly supplied from the Karuvelipady pump house. However, the main source of water was the Perumanoor pump house. In order to improve water supply, a major replacement of old pipes was carried out. Old 600-mm mild steel (MS) pumping main laid underneath the Mattancherry Bridge was replaced with a new pipe of a length of 600 m. The work of replacing the existing 525 mm distribution-cum-pumping main with 600-mm DI pipe rider main from Karuvelipady pump to Koovapadam Overhead Service Reservoir along Santho Gopalan Road was nearing completion under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation project. As a result of those works, water supply in the entire West Kochi area had improved considerably and there was no major scarcity of water in the area, stated the KWA. The court disposed of the petition, recording the submission of the KWA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-taken-to-improve-water-supply-to-w-kochi/article34446005.ece
30 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of bike theft||The Aluva East police on Thursday arrested a man on the charge of motorcycle theft. Aslam Jamal, 30, of Kadungalloor had allegedly stolen the motorcycle parked in front of a house on Aluva Palace Road. He was nabbed by a special squad after he was found riding the motorcycle without the number plate, which he had removed. He is an accused in several cases, including drug peddling, the police said. A team led by Aluva East Inspector P.S. Rajesh, Sub Inspector K.A. Tomy, and Civil Police Officers N.A. Muhammed Ameer and Mahin Shah made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-bike-theft/article34446013.ece
30 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tinkering with building structure hampers firefighting||Fire and rescue services personnel who fought a major blaze in a building on Electronic Street in Kochi on Wednesday had a horror time thanks to the tinkering with the building structure that hampered unhindered firefighting. Firefighters lament that they come across two very common impediments in all major fire breakouts at shops and commercial establishments, which was the case in the recent fire as well. Vents sealed “Most buildings will have the vents permanently sealed primarily as a precaution against theft. Temporary partitions using highly inflammatory objects add to fire outbreak vulnerability. Such cloistered atmosphere creates a pressure cooker-like situation leading to stoking of smoke and spread of fire at double-quick pace making an already hazardous job of firefighting even more dangerous,” said K.K. Shiju, Ernakulam Regional Fire Officer. He lamented that in the absence of Fire Safety Rules, fire and rescue services remain handicapped in taking penal measures against violators. Mayor M. Anilkumar said a meeting of the Fire and Rescue Services Department and corporation officials would be held after the pandemic subsides, to find a lasting solution to the problem. “It has often been noticed that while high-rises mandated to take no-objection certificates from the Fire Department do have firefighting systems, major fire breakouts often took place in smaller and relatively older buildings with no such fire safety obligations under the Building Rules. This lacuna needs to be addressed,” he said. Rule violations A merchant on condition of anonymity said makeshift partitions were rampant at shops and establishments across the city, and that building owners and tenants were partners in the crime. “While building owners do it to increase the rented space and enhance their income, tenants do it often to save the cost of renting separate godown space,” he said. P.S. Paul, who runs a shop dealing in office stationary at the extremely congested and vulnerable Broadway, said most traders overlook the need for even basic firefighting equipment like fire extinguishers, which could prove very effective in controlling any potentially serious fire breakouts during daytime in the bud. “Most shop owners now do not power off the main switch at night after business hours, to keep their CCTVs running, thus leaving a potential possibility for fire breakouts,” he added. His shop was gutted in 2000 when the shops still had tiled roofs, and a thief entered a shop in the neighbourhood by removing tiles and left a candle burning that triggered a major fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tinkering-with-building-structure-hampers-firefighting/article34446075.ece
30 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi metro timetable revised||The timetable to operate Kochi metro trains has been temporarily revised, in view of the fall in ridership during the past one week owing to the pandemic situation and subsequent restrictions. Trains will operate from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at the frequency of a train every 10 minutes during peak hours and at 14-minute frequency during non-peak hours, during weekdays (Monday to Friday). On Saturday and Sunday, the trains will operate from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. every 15 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-timetable-revised/article34446003.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MP’s COVID desk supplies medicines to 300 persons||The COVID help desk initiated by Hibi Eden, MP, helped distribute medicines worth Rs. 2 lakh to around 300 people affected by the pandemic since Monday. The help desk functions from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. A call centre having interactive voice response system has been readied for the purpose. It can attend 10 calls simultaneously. Apart from seeking help for medicines, many people call seeking medical advice. Teleconsultation with doctors is arranged for such people, Mr. Eden, who recently rested positive for SARS-CoV-2, said. Medicines under the initiative are distributed by Youth Congress workers in Kochi city, West Kochi, Paravur, Vypeen, Kalamassery, Thrikkakara, and Thripunithura. Medicines for non-COVID patients in families of COVID patients too are arranged under within 24 hours. Contact 0484-3503177.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mps-covid-desk-supplies-medicines-to-300-persons/article34446004.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BSNL timings rescheduled||The working hours of BSNL customer service centres in Ernakulam and Idukki districts will be rescheduled from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. till further notice, as part of precautionary measures being initiated in the backdrop of the spread of COVID-19, from May 1, the Principal General Manager, Ernakulam Business Area, informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsnl-timings-rescheduled/article34446014.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Meet flays bid to tarnish varsity’s image||A Syndicate meet of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit on Wednesday condemned the alleged efforts by P.C. Muraleemadhavan, its member, to tarnish the image of the varsity. The meet said Prof. Muraleemadhavan had given misleading inputs to the media on the proposal in the agenda of the Syndicate meet to consider the appointment of librarians with qualifications prescribed by the UGC as academic staff. The proposal was originally submitted by All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association to the Minister of Higher Education. Prof. Muraleemadhavan said it was the second time that such a resolution was passed against him by the Syndicate for opposing the illegal decisions of the varsity. He also wondered how a memorandum given by a teachers’ body could be the basis for posting of non-teaching staff as academic members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-flays-bid-to-tarnish-varsitys-image/article34446015.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held with drugs||In a joint operation, the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force and Inforpark police seized four kilograms of ganja and three grams of MDMA, and arrested three persons from a hotel room at Kakkanad on Thursday. The arrested were identified as Asif, 24, of Kasaragod; Ummarul Faruk, 23, of Athani, Kakkanad; and Manu Mani, 20, of Kakkanad. They were reportedly under surveillance and were nabbed with the contraband based on a tip-off about their gathering at the hotel room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-with-drugs/article34446016.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court rejects Kunju’s plea||A petition filed by former Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, an accused in the Palarivattom flyover scam case, for relaxing the bail conditions was rejected by the Vigilance Special Judge on Friday. Mr. Kunju approached the court with a prayer to relax the bail condition to enable him to travel out of Kochi to vote in the Rajya Sabha polls and to vacate his apartment at the MLA Quarters in the capital. The prosecution opposed the plea by pointing out that the RS polls were held unanimously and there would not be any polling. The Vigilance court, while granting bail to the former Minister on health grounds, had asked him not to leave the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-rejects-kunjus-plea/article34445620.ece
30 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam cases cross 2,000||The number of new COVID-19 cases crossed 2,000 in Kollam district for the first time, hitting 2,058 on Thursday. While the tally remained above 1,000 during the week, it was 1,422 on Wednesday. Those who contracted the disease include 1,384 contact cases, three health workers and five others who had travelled from other States. The number of recoveries on Thursday was 1,384. Kollam currently has 22,094 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 10,98,861. While 1,362 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 2,10,153 primary and 16,156 secondary contacts of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-cases-cross-2000/article34445610.ece
30 April 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Applications invited for short-term courses||The Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) has invited applications for various short-term courses to be held at its nine skill development centres in the district. The courses, which commence in May, include animator, GST accounts assistant, general duty assistant, automotive engine repair technician, multi-cuisine cook, assistant beauty therapist, fitness trainer, automotive service technician, accounting technician and CCTV installation technician, according to a release here. For details, visitwww.asapkerala.gov.inor contact 8848094505.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-short-term-courses/article34445611.ece
30 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||3,616 more test positive in Kottayam district||The district continued to witness a sharp rise in COVID-19 infections with 3,616 more persons testing positive for the virus on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) also hit a new high of 32.62%, indicating that one out of every three persons tested had been infected with the virus. The TPR stands above 20% in 60 out of total 77 local bodies in the district, while it crossed the 50%-mark in two local bodies and hovers between 40 and 50 in fivebodies. According to district Collector M. Anjana, the spread of the disease is deemed “alarming” in 57 grama panchayats and three municipalities. “Hopefully, the impact of the restrictions currently imposed will begin to reflect in the coming days,” the official said. 6,137 recoveries Statistics showed that daily cases went past the 100-mark in more panchayats. Among the local bodies, Kottayam municipality continued to lead the tally with 341 cases. At the same time, the Health Department heaved a sigh of relief as 6,137 persons recovered from the infection on Thursday, bringing down the total number of active cases in the district to 13,100. The district administration has begun opening oxygen parlours across the district, including in the CFLTCs. "It helps reduce the risk of delay in treatment if there is a sudden change in the oxygen level," noted the District Collector. COVID patients staying in isolation at home can arrive at the parlour, check the oxygen level and receive the gas if needed. The facility, established at a cost of Rs. 50,000, uses a concentrator machine that can deliver oxygen 24 hours a day. Having a capacity to deliver five litres of oxygen (93%) per minute, the machine extracts and stores oxygen from the atmosphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3616-more-test-positive-in-kottayam-district/article34445615.ece
30 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Eco, waste management projects in Orthodox Church budget||The managing committee of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Thursday approved a budget of Rs. 841 crore under various schedules for the fiscal 2021-22. The budget, presented by association secretary Biju Oommen at an online meeting presided over by Baselios Mar Thoma Paulose II, gives thrust to projects for ecological conservation, waste management, and financial assistance to church members. The meeting also decided to inaugurate the year-long platinum jubilee of the canonisation of Mar Gregorious of Parumala and Mar Baselios Yeldho of Kothamanglam in November this year. The budget sets apart Rs. 10 lakh as financial assistance to the kin of economically weak church members who died of COVID-19. Sanitiser unit It also proposes to launch a face mask/ hand sanitiser unit under the Marth Mariam Samajam at Rs. 25 lakh. A sum of Rs. 15 lakh has been allotted as uniform allowance to students who aspire to join the health sector. Sahaya Hastham, a dialysis and liver transplantation project initiated by the church, receives an allocation of Rs. 40 lakh while Rs. 25 lakh has been set apart for distribution of pension to deserving widows of the church members. Funds have also been allotted for providing educational assistance to students from poor families, construction of homes, and marriage assistance, among others. In honour of jawan Anish Thomas, a soldier who was killed in a shell attack by the Pakistan army, a fixed deposit will be opened in the name of his daughter. Funds will also be given for planting hybrid fruit saplings in the properties under the church, besides establishing a mini nature park at the Pambady Dayara. The budget also proposes to launch a mobile application for mapping the various establishments and services of the church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eco-waste-management-projects-in-orthodox-church-budget/article34446076.ece
30 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||4,990 fresh infections recorded as vigil continues in Kozhikode||Amid the heightened vigil, the Health Department on Thursday confirmed 4,990 more COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district. Of the newly reported cases, 4,814 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. Four Non-Resident Indians, and 11 persons who recently came to the district from other States were also among the infected. Health Department officials said they were clueless about the source of infection in 161 persons. As many as 2,577 persons recovered from the disease. The number of people under observation reached 89,346 in the district on Thursday with the addition of 6,804 more persons with symptoms and history of primary contacts. On Thursday alone, 21,422 samples were sent for lab inspection. The test positivity rate stood at 24.66%. According to the latest figures released by the Health Department, there are now 40,194 COVID-19 patients under treatment in Kozhikode district. Of this, 298 persons are from other districts. There are also 82 Kozhikode natives who undergo treatment in other districts. Vaccination Officials say that 1,02,960 persons have already received two doses of their vaccine in the district. Another 5,29,114 persons are waiting for their second dose. Till date, 6,32,074 doses have been distributed. Cases registered In view of the increasing number of cases, the police have also intensified their enforcement activities by deploying more field-level squads. On Thursday, 1,019 cases were registered for violation of safety protocol. A majority of cases were registered within the Kozhikode city limits. Police officials say the cases were registered against those who flouted physical distancing norms and hesitated to wear masks. As part of the safety arrangements in place for the Assembly polls counting day, no public merriment would be entertained. Based on the latest instructions from the election authorities, disciplinary action would be taken against officials who fail to comply with safety rules or hesitate to implement restrictions at counting centres. Helplines for public The service of COVID-19 control cell will be available 24x7 for all needy citizens in Kozhikode district. Following are the special helplines created to offer guidance: 04952371471 (general services); 7594001442 (vaccination) and 9495002270 (counselling support).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4990-fresh-infections-recorded-as-vigil-continues-in-kozhikode/article34445565.ece
30 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rival fronts optimistic about poll outcome||With barely two days left for the counting of votes of the Assembly polls, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) are optimistic about their performances in 13 Assembly constituencies in Kozhikode district. Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leaders say that the Left front will retain all its sitting seats as well as wrest the Kuttiyadi and Kozhikode South Assembly segments. The achievements of the LDF government and the performance of its legislators in the past five years were in the minds of the electorate, P. Mohanan, CPI(M) district secretary, says. CPI(M) functionaries were also confident about their electioneering work despite some political unrest in the local cadre over allotting the Kuttiyadi seat to the Kerala Congress (M) initially. The party finally fielded former Kozhikode district panchayat president K.P. Kunhammed Kutty to fight the polls in Kuttiyadi. In the 2016 polls, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) nominee Parakkal Abdulla had won the seat by a margin of 1,157 votes. The Indian National League (INL) has fielded Ahamed Devarkovil to capture the Kozhikode South segment. Here, the IUML has fielded Noorbina Rasheed, the party’s first female candidate to contest the Assembly polls in 25 years. At the same time, IUML sitting legislator and popular leader M.K. Muneer was shifted to recapture the Koduvally seat it lost to the Left Independent candidate Karat Razak in the 2016 elections. ‘No hope’ Meantime, UDF leaders exude confidence over upsetting the apple cart of the CPI(M) in many constituencies. The coalition won just two seats last time. The only seat they have no hope is the Elathur segment which was allotted to Sulfikkar Mayuri of the Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK) under the seat-sharing pact. They say that some deft moves in the selection of candidates, although at the last moment, will help the coalition spring surprises in Kunnamangalam, Nadapuram and Koyilandy, and even in Kozhikode North. The decision of the IUML to field DCC secretary Dinesh Perumanna as an Independent candidate to take on LDF-backed sitting legislator P.T. Rahim was a smart move, M.K. Raghavan, MP, says. The Congress-IUML poll managers are also confident of K.K. Rema, wife of slain RMP founder T.P. Chandrasekharan, emerging victorious in the Vadakara segment. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is pinning hopes on its State general secretary M.T. Ramesh, who contested from Kozhikode North.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rival-fronts-optimistic-about-poll-outcome/article34445563.ece
30 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode war memorial yet to be a reality||Military veterans’ call for building a war memorial within the Kozhikode city limits is yet to become a reality with the delay in identifying a suitable patch of land. For over three years, ex-servicemen and their associations have been after various departments and the district administration to accomplish their dream and pay obeisance to martyrs on important occasions. Veterans who campaign for the demand say there are about 30 soldiers from various parts of Kozhikode district who have sacrificed their lives for the country in various armed conflicts. Apart from this, there are nearly 15,000 ex-servicemen, 3,000 widows and thousands of soldiers who have taken part in various wars for the country. A district-level memorial will certainly be an honour for them, they point out. “Only five cents, preferably on the Kozhikode beach area, is required to start the construction work. Our city corporation can definitely help us realise this dream. It is even possible for the district panchayat to bear the rest of the construction expenses,” says R.K. Nair, director, Calicut Sainik Welfare Trust. He points out that many other districts have already come up with such memorials paying tribute to soldiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-war-memorial-yet-to-be-a-reality/article34446083.ece
30 April 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Prakash’s passing a loss for UDF in Malappuram||The untimely passing of Malappuram District Congress Committee (DCC) president V.V. Prakash, 56, is feared to inflict a blow to the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the district. Especially vulnerable will be the Congress’s delicate relation with its trustworthy ally Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) sans Mr. Prakash. Under the stewardship of Mr. Prakash, the Congress had had the best of relation with the IUML in Malappuram. The civic body election held in December last year was testimony to the UDF unity in the district. When the Left Democratic Front (LDF) made gains in other parts of the State, Malappuram continued to remain a UDF fortress. The reactions from the IUML soon after his death indicated how much Mr. Prakash meant to that party. “He was the face of politeness. His loss will be heavy for the UDF. The entire Malappuram is going to miss him,” said IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty. Mr. Kunhalikutty’s words encapsulated what Mr. Prakash meant for the IUML. IUML treasurer P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, admitted that IUML cadres had worked with a special enthusiasm in the April 6 election for Mr. Prakash in Nilambur. “He was a close ally for all of us,” said Mr. Wahab. Affable nature His soft nature helped him address many differences not only between the IUML and the Congress but also within the Congress through dialogues. He took special care in not offending the other sides, and also in giving a patient ear. Thanks to Mr. Prakash’s leadership, the IUML and the Congress closed ranks in several panchayats in the district. It was for the first time in recent memory that the IUML and the Congress fought the election unitedly without showing any differences.  He was the face of politeness. His loss will be heavy for the UDF. P.K. Kunhalikutty IUML general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prakashs-passing-a-loss-for-udf-in-malappuram/article34445566.ece
30 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Now, all eyes on Nilambur||All eyes will be on Nilambur when the counting of the votes held to the 15th Kerala Assembly takes place on Sunday morning. The death of the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in Nilambur, V.V. Prakash, on Thursday morning has left everyone guessing. If Mr. Prakash wins the election, Nilambur will have to go to polls again. A byelection to be held in a couple of months will determine who will be the member to represent Nilambur in the Assembly. And Mr. Prakash’s name will go down the memory lane as a deserving politician who lost an Assembly membership by the sheer swing of fate. If Mr. Prakash loses to Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s incumbent P.V. Anvar, then it will be a second term in succession for Mr. Anvar. The LDF independent had wrested Nilambur from the Congress in 2016 when he defeated Aryadan Shoukath by 11,504 votes. Election rules “If a candidate dies before the polling, then that election will have to be postponed. If a winning candidate dies before or after the counting, then the constituency will have to face a byelection. We are hopeful that Mr. Prakash will win in Nilambur, and there will be a byelection,” said Mr. Prakash’s friend and Palakkad District Congress Committee president V.K. Sreekandan, MP. Mr. Sreekandan described Mr. Prakash as a ‘clean but unlucky leader who deserved much better placement.’ “His soft and amiable nature proved to be his strength and weakness as well,” said Mr. Sreekandan. Mr. Prakash was widely considered the softest and most affable face of the Congress in Malappuram. “His death is a great loss to entire Malappuram. More than being a politician, he was a great human being,” said Indian Union Muslim League national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty. “I lost a family friend. He was so close to us,” said P. Ubaidullah, MLA. “He was like an elder brother to me. He was a great organiser too,” said P.K. Basheer, MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-all-eyes-on-nilambur/article34446084.ece
30 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Cases breach 1,000 mark in Pathanamthitta||Fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta district crossed the 1,000-mark once again with 1,245 persons testing positive for the virus on Thursday. Of the new cases, 1,160 contracted the disease through local transmission and the contact source of 11 persons were not identified. Seven of the cases were those who travelled to the State from abroad and the rest from other States. With 84 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality led the tally, followed by Thiruvalla with 64 cases. The district also reported seven COVID-19-related deaths during the day. With 487 recoveries, the district currently has 9,848 active cases, while 22,416 are under observation. The total test positivity rate (TPR) climbed to 8.8% from 8.71%. Oxygen shortage Earlier in the day, the General Hospital here witnessed anxious moments after reports of shortage in oxygen stock, coupled with a persistent rise in the number of patients. The issue, however, was resolved following intervention from the district administration, which soon arranged for a few cylinders from a private hospitals. Confirming the report, district medical officer A.L. Sheeja attributed the gas shortage to a delay in distribution. The district administration kick-started efforts to create a buffer stock of oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-breach-1000-mark-in-pathanamthitta/article34445613.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,940 new cases in capital, TPR at 24.3%||The district’s COVID-19 caseload continued to touch uncharted levels as 3,940 people were diagnosed with the disease in 24 hours. The test positivity rate rose to 24.3%. The active cases’ count stood at 23,000 on Thursday. As many as 1,572 people recovered from the illness. Twelve healthcare workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of people who were quarantined has gone up to 64,569 in the district. Containment zones New containment zones have been declared in Jagathy ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, the second and ninth wards of Karakulam grama panchayat, first ward in Elakamon grama panchayat, and seven wards of Madavoor grama panchayat. The district administration has evolved a strategy to shore up its medical oxygen reserves. As part of procuring oxygen cylinders from private enterprises and industrial hubs, the district authorities have obtained 225 cylinders in the initial phase. Nedumangad Sub-Collector Chetan Meena has been spearheading the efforts. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu has stressed on the need for room quarantine for people who develop COVID-19 symptoms. They must remain isolated until they test negative for the disease. He reminded those diagnosed with the disease to inform the nearest health care institution at the earliest. Those unaware of the contact details of such centres, health workers or ASHA workers should inform the panchayat authorities. Patients can also contact the officials concerned by dialling 1056 or 0471-2552056 (DISHA), 1077, 9188610100, 0471 2779000. Covishield will be administered at 42 public health institutions on Thursday. Among them, the vaccination camp at Jimmy George indoor stadium will be held across five sessions. Three hospitals will administer Covaxin. In order to ensure vaccination coverage among those requiring the second doses, 80% of the available doses will be allocated for such people through spot registration. Only the remaining slots will be opened up for the rest. As many as 22,456 people were vaccinated on Thursday. These included 21,511 of those who received Covishield. While there remained nearly 10,000 doses in the district vaccine store, the district received an additional 10,000 doses by Thursday evening.  80% of available doses will be allocated through spot registration to those requiring second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3940-new-cases-in-capital-tpr-at-243/article34446115.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oxygen supply may fall short soon||The COVID-19 situation in Kerala is quite volatile and the next two weeks could see the case numbers explode to a level wherein the State’s oxygen requirement could rise sharply and supply can fall short, warn public health experts. “Kerala has crossed that critical point when policy interventions could nip the growth of the pandemic. A two-week lockdown right now can reduce the force of the epidemic and give the State an opportunity to stall the transmission,” says a senior public health professional on condition of anonymity. Containment efforts on the field have not had a major impact on disease transmission, because of the wide circulation of three virus variants which are highly infective and have increased virulence (death hazard associated with the B.1.1.7 variant is 61% more than the wild-type virus) “In many hospitals, ICU and oxygen beds have all but filled up. There are plenty of patients in the field requiring transfers to hospital beds with oxygen on a daily basis . ICUs cannot run by itself. Human resource is a critical element for opening up more ICUs. We are woefully short of support staff and we have a huge number of non-COVID patients too,” says a doctor in a private hospital at Ernakulam, adding the oxygen shortage is going to be likely due to the supply and distribution issues in the field, rather than a shortage in production Disease modellers and epidemiologists are quite reluctant to bandy about State’s case projections because too many variables are in play now. “Two days ago, it was reasonable to project that the State could expect between 75,000 to one lakh cases per day in another two weeks when the epidemic peaks and that the active caseload would reach explosive levels. But the change in the State’s discharge policy (mild and moderate patients are let off sooner from hospitals than before) could mean that the active case pool will shrink even when the actual number of COVID-affected rises exponentially. The other variables confounding projections are the number of those in the vulnerable category and those in the 45-60 age group who are vaccinated and are fairly protected,” says T. S. Anish, a public health expert. The health system is under severe strain now even when just about 9% of the active cases are currently hospitalised. Health-care workers fear that once the system starts collapsing, it will have a chain effect across districts. “The focus should be on improved management of those COVID patients at home. Also, there should be a centralised system to monitor hospital bed/ICU occupancy and oxygen requirement and manage logistics at district level,” says a senior health official said. “This virus primarily spreads indoors and indoor gatherings are a huge risk for disease transmission. It is easy to blame the virus variants for the current situation but the real variant is the human behaviour,”says Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman of IMA’s research wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oxygen-supply-may-fall-short-soon/article34445629.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Impose two-week lockdown: KGMOA||With Kerala witnessing a massive surge in COVID-19 cases, the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) on Thursday urged the State government to clamp a two-week lockdown to quell the swell. The State had on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of 35,013, pushing the cumulative cases to 14.95 lakh and active cases to 2.66 lakh. Pointing out that since the State was in the grip of a severe spread of the virus, a two-week lockdown was necessary, the association said in a letter to Chief Secretary V.P. Joy. Studies have shown that the mutant strains were getting transmitted from person to person through the atmosphere and this results in the spread of the virus from an infected person to 100 others. The need now is to ensure people do not move around in public places and remain in their homes, the association said. It also sought an increase in the strength of doctors and other medical staff, more domiciliary care centres and first-line treatment centres (FLTC) should be set up at the block level and tele-consultation facilities should be provided. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had earlier suggested a week-long lockdown. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Wednesday made it clear that there were no plans for a Statewide lockdown as of now, but more restrictions would be put in place in a stringent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/impose-two-week-lockdown-kgmoa/article34445623.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A tussle over closure of hospital’s drug bank||Drug sales have been partially affected at the SAT Hospital following a tiff between the hospital authorities and the city Corporation that closed a makeshift office of its drug bank. A temporary office of the In House Drug Bank (IHDB), functioning under the SAT Hospital Health Education Society, which has been operating for some months from the Corporation’s rest house on the hospital premises, was shut down a day ago the civic body objected to its ‘unauthorised use.’ The IHDB had partially shifted its administration and store sections to the rest house since its building was being reconstructed. This did not go down well with the Corporation which asked it to vacate the premises. Things came to a head when Mayor Arya Rajendran and Medical College ward councillor D.R. Anil locked the rest house on Wednesday evening. SAT Hospital superintendent A. Santhosh Kumar said the move had come at an inopportune time. The drug bank had occupied two rooms of the facility owing to a paucity of space to store medicines, PPE kits, masks, and gloves that had been in much demand lately. ‘Cheaper rates’ While the drugs and other products were shifted to an unused creche in the hospital, the rooms had to be used as an office with computers and minimal furniture to coordinate the drug bank’s database. “With the offices being locked, drug supply to many hospitals has been hit,” Dr. Kumar. Chief pharmacist of IHDB Biju A. said the bank’s medical store has been bringing great relief to large sections by providing generic drugs for many diseases at cheaper rates. Its N95 masks, PPE kits and pulse oximeters went for Rs. 10, Rs. 270, and Rs. 325 respectively. “Most government hospitals in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram, including the Regional Cancer Centre, have been procuring medicines and equipment from us,” he said. Mayor’s version Refuting the allegations, the Mayor wondered how the medicine supply could be affected since the office had only a computer and several defunct items. She said the action was taken on the basis of several complaints and repeated directives to the hospital authorities. In its last phase of renovation, the rest house is meant for caregivers of patients in the hospital. There is also a plan to utilise the building as a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre.  Corpn. shuts down SAT Hospital’s temporary facility in its rest house Hospital says drug supply to many hospitals affected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tussle-over-closure-of-hospitals-drug-bank/article34446113.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Impose two-week lockdown: KGMOA||Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has reiterated that the intense pace of COVID transmission in the State can be broken only if it can be fully ensured that people are staying back home and there are no interactions in public places. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, KGMOA said that a two-week lockdown right now was the scientific solution to breaking the disease transmission chain and that this should be imposed across the State right away. Studies have shown that the mutant strains were getting transmitted from person to person through the atmosphere and this results in the spread of the virus from an infected person to 100 others. The need now is to ensure people do not move around in public places and remain in their homes, the association said. KGMOA also pointed out that shortage of human resources was creating a major problem in hospitals and that more healthcare workers, including doctors be appointed immediately. The increase in the number of patients on home care necessitated the setting up of a 24 x 7 call centre so that people can reach across for help immediately.KGMOA also pointed out the need for a centralised real-time monitoring and public information system to track the availability of beds, ICUs and oxygen in both private and public hospitals in the State. It also sought an increase in the strength of doctors and other medical staff. ( With in p uts from agency )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/impose-two-week-lockdown-kgmoa/article34446017.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bottled water plant yet to go full throttle||More than three months after launching operations, the bottled water plant at Aruvikkara is yet to see production shift gears to full capacity. Production at the Rs. 16-crore facility has not moved beyond the 20-litre jars which had hit the market following the inauguration by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in January this year. Of the three production lines, only one is operational. The Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC), which runs the plant, had announced plans to bring out one and two litres, and 750 ml and 500 ml bottles under the KIIDC’s ‘Hilly Aqua’ brand. The KIIDC has been marketing the 20-litre jars through the Kudumbashree, but the market has been generally sluggish due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Nonetheless, the Irrigation Department agency has been supplying it to venues such as the Jimmy George Indoor Stadium where the COVID-19 vaccination camp is in progress. KIIDC officials attributed the delay in operationalising the remaining two production lines to the absence of appropriate labelling machinery. “We have invited bids, and we hope to start production of the one-litre bottles in another two months,” Thilakan S., chief executive officer, KIIDC, said. The one-litre bottles from the Aruvikkara plant will be priced at Rs. 13. The production line that is operational is capable of churning out 2,720 twenty-litre jars per day. The other two lines — for one and two litres, 750 ml and 500 ml bottles — have a capacity of 3,600 litres per hour. Reverse osmosis unit Further, KIIDC has plans to install a reverse osmosis unit at the plant. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA), which built the facility, had equipped it with an ultrafiltration (UF) system. The bottled water facility was conceived and built by the KWA, but it failed to obtain the mandatory clearances from the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. Subsequently, the State government had decided to transfer it to KIIDC, ignoring the protests of the KWA employees’ unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bottled-water-plant-yet-to-go-full-throttle/article34446119.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||5 centres get ready for vote counting||All arrangements are in place in the district for the counting of votes on May 2, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. The counting will start with the postal ballots at 8 a.m., and by 8.30 a.m., the counting of votes polled in the Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) will begin. The votes polled in 10 Assembly segments in the district will be counted at various centres at the Mar Ivanios Nagar, Nalanchira. They are as follows; silver jubilee auditorium of the Sarvodaya ICSE School (Varkala segment); St. Peter’s block of Sarvodaya ICSE School (Attingal); Mar Ivanios College Auditorium (Chirayinkeezhu); St. John’s HSS (Nedumangad); third floor of the main building of Mar Ivanios College (Vamanapuram); third floor of the Mar Gregorios College of Law (Aruvikkara); Sarvodaya CBSE School (Parassala); Mar Baselios College of Engineering (Kattakada); Mar Theophilus Training College (Kovalam); ground floor, Mar Gregorios College of Law (Neyyattinkara). The counting centres for the remaining four constituencies are as follows: Loyola School, Sreekaryam (Kazhakuttam); St. Mary’s School, Pattom (Vattiyurkavu); Manacaud Government Girls HSS (Thiruvananthapuram); Government GHSS, Cotton Hill (Nemom). Three counting halls each have been arranged for each segment at these centres, given the need to strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines. Each will have seven tables. The counting is designed to be completed in 15-16 rounds with 21 booths per round, the Collector said. Postal ballots Postal ballots will be counted at separate tables. There will be four to eight tables in each centre. The last two rounds of EVM votes will be counted only after the postal ballots in a constituency are counted in full. The victor will be declared after the counting of slips in five of the VVPAT machines. The five machines will be decided by a draw of lots.  Votes in 10 segments to be counted at Mar Ivanios Nagar, those in other segments in four schools||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-centres-get-ready-for-vote-counting/article34446120.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elaborate arrangements for counting in place||The counting of votes polled in the April 6 Assembly elections in the State scheduled for May 2 is designed to be an elaborate exercise, given the need to strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines. The votes will be counted in 633 counting halls across 114 centres, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said on Thursday. The counting of the postal ballots will start at 8 a.m., and the counting of votes polled in the electronic voting machines (EVM), at 8.30 a.m. The number of counting halls has in fact gone up from 140 last time, Mr. Meena said. The number of halls was increased as the Election Commission of India asked States to reduce the number of tables per hall from 14 to seven to meet physical distancing norms. This effectively means, three to four halls for each assembly segment. Separate halls As many as 527 of the counting halls will be dedicated to count EVM votes. The postal ballots will be counted in 106 halls. In all, 24,709 officials, including reserve staff, have been deputed for the counting duty. The votes will be counted in the presence of observers appointed by the Commission. The strong rooms where the EVMs are stored will be opened in the presence of the observers and the counting agents. Given their large number, the postal ballots can prove a decisive factor in tightly-contested constituencies. Last time, the postal ballots had totalled 60,000 to 70,000 in Kerala. This time, individual constituencies have 3,000 to 4,000 postal ballots each. Postal ballots The Election Commission of India (ECI) had distributed 5,84,238 postal ballots ahead of the April 6 polls. Till April 28, the Commission has received 4,54,237 ballots. In all, 2,96,691 postal ballots were distributed to voters above the age of 80, and 51,711 to persons with disabilities. The Commission had also distributed postal ballots to 601 COVID-19 patients, 32,633 voters in the essential categories list and 2,02,602 polling officials. In view of the COVID-19 situation in the State, the number polling booths was increased by 89% on April 6. The Commission had used 50,496 each of ballot units and control units and 54,349 voter verifiable paper audit trail machines (VVPAT) machines for the Assembly elections. In all, 2,594 ballot units, 2,578 control units and 2,852 VVPAT machines were used for the byelection to the Malappuram Lok Sabha seat which was held simultaneously. After the elections, the EVMs and VVPATs used in the Assembly polls were stored under tight security in 140 strong rooms, and those for the Malappuram bypoll, in seven strong rooms. Forty-nine companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) are guarding the strong rooms, supported by the State Armed Police Battalion and the State police force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elaborate-arrangements-for-counting-in-place/article34445625.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rape bid on train brings safety of women commuters into focus||The safety of women travelling on trains is in focus again after a woman jumped off a train trying to escape from a theft and rape bid by an unidentified person near Mulanthuruthy on Wednesday. Law enforcers and rail authorities are baffled as the incident took place amidst several tiers of security to ensure safe journey for women and prevent crime against them on trains and railway premises. The incident took place at a small railway station and when the movement of commuters via the rail network has come down drastically due to the second wave of the pandemic. Railways are viewing the incident seriously as a similar incident had happened on a train in 2011. According to Railway Protection Force sources, the woman, working at the higher secondary regional office at Chengannur, boarded the Guruvayur-Punalur express from Mulanthuruthy around 8.45 a.m. She boarded the D-8 coach that was empty. Two other women, also regulars from the same station, boarded the coaches in front of the train. Questions Questions about how the assailant, a history-sheeter with a defective eye, boarded the train, whether he was a bonafide traveller, security at the railway station, presence of the police on the train, and whether there was laxity on the part of law enforcers in keeping a tab on the history-sheeter remain unanswered. The resistance put up by the woman and the presence of mind shown by her despite being attacked have surprised law enforcers. The incident has come after the safety guidelines issued by the Railways asking law enforcers, duty officers, and staff to keep a watch on suspects and vulnerable spots during their rounds. A senior RPF official said the force was keeping a close watch on all trains running through the division and women need not have to worry about their safety and security on trains over an isolated incident. Besides, awareness programmes were being organised for women travellers. ‘RPF Mitra’ as part of ‘RPF Mitra Yojna’, a community policing initiative for ensuring security of passengers with public participation, and ‘Meri Saheli’, an initiative to provide safety and security to women passengers, are in place in long-distance trains, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-bid-on-train-brings-safety-of-women-commuters-into-focus/article34445621.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assault charge: SHRC orders probe against CI||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed further investigation against the Kanjiramkulam Circle Inspector (CI) on a complaint that he beat up a person who had presented himself at the station on the directives of the police. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic issued the order on a complaint by Thannimoodu resident Prasannakumar that when he attempted to build a compound wall for a property in his wife’s name, the CI summoned him to the police station and abused and assaulted him. The commission had sought a report from the Neyyattinkara Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP), but it was not satisfactory. The Dy.SP’s report said the complainant was called to the police station for ignoring the directive not to create law and order problems. On June 3 Following this, the commission looked into the complainant’s medical records pertaining to treatment at the Neyyattinkara government hospital, and issued orders that a further report be submitted. The commission observed that the Dy.SP’s report had been submitted without adequate investigation. The case will be taken up again on June 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-charge-shrc-orders-probe-against-ci/article34446111.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hacking case: three in police custody||The Sreekaryam police have taken three people into custody in connection with the attack on a person a day ago, which resulted in his right leg getting severed. The breakthrough into the case came a day after Abey, 27, of Sreekaryam, was hacked allegedly by four people who came on two motorcycles and a car. The incident occurred around 11.30 a.m. at Edavacode on Wednesday. Abey is the fourth accused in the murder case of RSS worker Rajesh near Sreekaryam in 2017. According to the police, the perpetrators, all of whom are believed to hail from the region, had contacted those now in custody. The police have identified the assailants, but are yet to divulge their identities. Following the incident, the perpetrators had fled from the scene. While Abey was initially admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, he was soon shifted to a private hospital where is condition is stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hacking-case-three-in-police-custody/article34446116.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM exudes confidence of win in polls||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday exuded confidence that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would carry the day when Assembly vote counting ended on May 2. When pressed about the impending results, Mr. Vijayan said: “I have faith in the people. The LDF would get more seats than it did in 2016. I do not doubt the outcome. I have not changed my stance. Victory is assured.” Responding to the United Democratic Front’s claim of a groundswell of support in its favour, Mr. Vijayan said he did not want to disrupt the Opposition’s “daydream.” “The result would emerge in a few hours. The people have had their say. Let us wait for their verdict,” he said. Flays Central agencies Mr. Vijayan said the court had rightly pointed out that the Central agencies had failed to get to the bottom of the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. “They (agencies) have not identified or arrested the persons who channelled the gold to India via the diplomatic route. Moreover, the agencies have not stated who benefited from the racket. Instead, they chased chimaera and hoped to tarnish the government in the process,” he said. The court observation that the Central law enforcement had adduced little evidence about the racket validated the LDF stance. The court had observed that the agencies leaned heavily on the confessional statement of the accused to incarcerate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-exudes-confidence-of-win-in-polls/article34445622.ece
30 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Voting updates||The updates on the counting of votes will be available to the public onhttps://results.eci.gov.in/, the official website of the Election Commission of India (ECI), on May 2, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voting-updates/article34445626.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Boy gifted bicycle for donation to CMDRF||The Indus Cycling Embassy gifted a gear cycle to Adarsh S.M., a class 7 student of St. Thomas Higher Secondary School, Mukkola, who contributed the money saved up to buy a bicycle to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund as part of the vaccine challenge. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, handed over the bicycle to Adarsh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-gifted-bicycle-for-donation-to-cmdrf/article34446112.ece
30 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||3,954 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 3,954 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. A total of 1,361 people recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate of the district is 26.85%. Seven grama panchayats in the district have test positivity rates above 50%. They are Chovvannur (54.19), Elavally (61.83), Nenmanikkara (52.24), Punnayurkkulam (64.77), Vadakkekkad (55.17), Punnayur (50.82), and Athirappilly (64.86). There are 28,331 active cases in the district and 125 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 1,43,712 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,14,692 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 3,922 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. Of them, 505 people are above the age of 60 and 209 patients are below the age of 10. In all, 21,890 people are under home care. As many as 14,725 samples were taken for testing on Thursday. So far 5,72,271 people have taken the first dose of the vaccine in the district while 1,01,718 people have taken the second dose. Palakkad situation As many as 2,411 people tested positive in Palakkad district on Thursday. While 1,239 of them contracted the disease through direct interaction with infected persons, there were 1,139 cases without an identifiable source of infection. District officials said 931 people recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3954-new-cases-in-thrissur/article34446081.ece
30 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Injured barn owl rescued||Animal lovers reached for the rescue of a barn owl, which fractured its wing. The owl that tried to enter the house of retired Sub-Inspector Rajan Kalani at Karamukku fractured its wing on hitting the leaf of a fan. The Forest Department and the Thalikulam Animal Care Society were informed. Animal care workers with the help of veterinary doctor Aneesh Kumar treated its wing. The owl will be given protection until it can fly, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/injured-barn-owl-rescued/article34446078.ece
30 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Medical colleges to help in COVID treatment||The governing council of the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) has decided to utilise facilities of the 20 private medical colleges under it for COVID-19 treatment. An urgent meeting of Principals and management committees of these colleges was held on Thursday to chalk out an action plan.  Exams on schedule To ensure sufficient medical professionals and health workers for COVID duty, final year examinations that have been scheduled will be held in the month of May itself. The theory classes will continue online. Urgent practical/clinical sessions will be conducted in small groups maintaining the COVID protocol, according to a release from the KUHS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-colleges-to-help-in-covid-treatment/article34446074.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sign of relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sign-of-relief/article34445618.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poignant scenes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poignant-scenes/article34446086.ece
30 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) demands 90% subsidy on groundnut seeds||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded that the State government must announce a subsidy of 90% on groundnut seeds to be distributed among the farmers in Anantapur district. Having suffered from severe crop loss and low yield due to excess rainfall in the monsoon season last year, many farmers now do not have adequate seed stock to sow or borrow from the fellow ryots. The Agriculture Department must expedite the procurement of groundnut seeds and process them in time for the kharif season, said CPI (M) district secretary V. Rambhupal. “The Agriculture Department has so far procured only 2 lakh quintals of seed against the projected demand of 4 lakh quintals for this season,” Mr. Rambhupal told the media here on Thursday. Party district committee member R. Chandrasekhar Reddy demanded the distribution of seeds through village secretariats based on the 1-B patta documents held by the farmers, not through the ‘biometric’ system as it could lead to further spread of coronavirus. Sufficient quantity to cover the seed requirement at least up to 5 acres of landholding should be supplied on subsidy as the farmers had lost their investments in 14 lakh acres of groundnut crop last year and a majority of them were yet to receive compensation. The subsidy should be enhanced to 90%, said Mr. Chandrasekhar. Last year, the distribution of groundnut seeds began on May 18 despite COVID19, but this year no announcement has been made yet on the subsidy or the date from which the supply would begin at Ruthu Bharosa Kendras. The CPI(M) leaders also took exception to the RBI rule of mortgaging land documents if farmers need a loan of more than Rs. 1.6 lakh. Many farmers have loans in their names more than that amount, and they would be asked to repay the entire amount before fresh loans were sanctioned, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-demands-90-subsidy-on-groundnut-seeds/article34445410.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use facilities of armed forces, HC tells Karnataka||Observing that lack of preparedness to manage a sudden surge of COVID-19 cases is a disaster on the part of the State government, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the administration to immediately get in touch with the armed forces seeking assistance in providing beds with oxygen supply facility. “The armed forces, including Indian Air Force and the Navy, always provide help to citizens in situations likes natural disasters... and we hope that the armed forces will go out of the way to help citizens of Bengaluru city by providing beds with oxygen facility, the High Court observed. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while noticing that the State government and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) were only marginally able to increase the number of different categories of beds to treat COVID-19 patients in the city. The Stare government and the BBMP have also been directed to immediately approach officers of the South Western Railway to utilise railway coaches readied for COVID-19 patients. The bench issued the directions after counsel for the Central government M.N. Kumar pointed out that there are over 200 railway coaches, with beds to treat COVID-19 patients, in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi, and the railways had intimated availability of these coaches to the State government, which has not yet shown interest in using them. The bench said that the government must come out with an estimate of beds required of different categories, like ICU, ICU with ventilator, beds with oxygen supply, and Remdesivir injection and oxygen as “preparedness and capacity building for dealing with the disaster” is an important task assigned to the State Disaster Management Authority under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. COVID-19 has been declared as a ‘disaster’ by the Central government. The bench also directed the State government to immediately write to the Central government to enhance allocation of Remdesivir and oxygen while directing the Centre to decide on increasing allocation immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-facilities-of-armed-forces-hc-tells-karnataka/article34445339.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ex-judge paying bribe to get post unfortunate’||Observing that it “is most unfortunate that a former judge of the High Court has paid bribe for securing the post of Governor”, the High Court of Karnataka said that act of the former judge has not only “lowered the prestige of a judge” but also “affected the image of Governor’s post”. Justice K. Natarajan made these observations while dismissing petitions seeking bail filed by Yuvaraj, who was arrested in several cases of cheating people of crores of rupees by promising them to get posts like the Governor, chairpersons of boards and corporations, jobs in government departments and settling land disputes having huge financial stakes. Among many persons, B.S. Indrakala, a former judge of the High Court, had also lodged a complaint with the police that she had paid Rs. 8.5 crore to Yuvaraj as he had assured her to get the post of Governor. While denying bail to Yuvaraj in six different criminal cases, the High Court wondered how could the magistrate grant bail to him in the case lodged by Ms. Indrakala. “It is most unfortunate that the State has not chosen to file any application for cancellation of the bail granted by the magistrate,” the High Court observed, while stating Yuvaraj was likely to tamper with evidence if granted bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-judge-paying-bribe-to-get-post-unfortunate/article34445341.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC imposes costs on Antrix-Devas||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a cost of Rs. 5 lakh on Devas Employees’ Mauritius Pvt. Ltd. (DEMPL) for filling a petition “abusing process of law and as a proxy war” on behalf of Devas Multimedia Pvt. Ltd., which is facing money-laundering and other charges on its alleged fraudulent agreement on bandwidth facilities with the Indian Space Research Organisation’s commercial arm, the Antrix Corporation. Petition dismissed  Justice P.S. Dinesh Kumar passed the order while dismissing DEMPL’s petition questioning the legality of the sanction granted by the Central government on January 18, 2021 for Antrix Corporation to initiate winding up proceedings against Devas.  Pointing out that the petitioner had already become a party before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in liquidation proceedings against Devas, the High Court observed that the present petition was filed a day prior to the date fixed for final hearing before the NCLT on a plea for the liquidation of Devas, and this conduct amounted to “abuse of process of law and a proxy war on behalf of Devas”. Observing that Devas had not challenged the sanction granted by the Central government, the court said that the DEMPL, which has a miniscule shareholding of 3.48% in Devas, has approached the High Court challenging the liquidation proceedings though the sanction order has not affected its fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-imposes-costs-on-antrix-devas/article34445340.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||IISc student hangs self||An undergraduate student at the Indian Institute of Science was found hanging in his room on the IISc campus on Thursday morning, the police said. The student was identified as Rohan M, 21, doing his third year B.Sc. “He was a native of Bengaluru. He wanted to study abroad, which did not materialise,” a police officer said. The IISc. extended its condolences to the student’s family and friends.   (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iisc-student-hangs-self/article34445348.ece
30 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public warned against home isolation without ‘triaging’||In view of the spurt in coronavirus infection and casualties in Chittoor, the district administration has cautioned the people to immediately get them tested for the virus in case they show any symptom, and to get compulsorily registered with the ‘triage centres’. Collector M. Hari Narayanan and Deputy District Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju conducted a series of inspections on the community health centers in Karveti Nagaram, Puttur, Nagari and Satyavedu mandals on Thursday. Speaking to the media at Nagari, Deputy DM&HO and district nodal officer (triage centres) Dr. Ravi Raju said during the inspections, it was found that many people after testing positive were putting themselves in home isolation without getting diagnosed at the triage centres. “Self medication and home isolation without triaging are risky as it may lead to high casualties and fast spread of the virus,” he said. The nodal officer said that there was a big misconeption that the youth and those below 45 years of age were not prone to fatalities and serious infections. “Many people are putting themselves in home isolation and taking self-medication, besides moving freely in public places, sometimes even without wearing mask. The Collector has initiated measures to set up 20 triage centres at all community hospitals, in addition to the existing ones at the district hospital in Chittoor, SVIMS, SVRR and Padmavathi Hospitals in Tirupati,” said Dr. Ravi Raju. The Deputy DM&HO said the field staffs of the COVID Task Force had been instructed to guide all the patients, irrespective of their age, to the triage centers in their respective areas. “All the patients need to undergo blood tests, X-ray and ECG procedures compulsorily to assess the viral load and co-morbid conditions. The medical officers at the triage centres will decide whether the patients will be put under home isolation or sent to COVID Care Centres or COVID Hospitals,” he said.  ‘Mobile triaging’ The health authorities have also plans to deploy ‘mobile triaging’ module under the jurisdiction of various community hospitals, to conduct relevant tests to COVID patients at their doorsteps . “This mobile triaging intends to avoid travel of patients to hospitals, thereby curtailing the virus spread. From the patient’s doorstep, we will decide whether they will be shifted to COVID Care Centers or hospital,” Dr. Ravi Raju added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-warned-against-home-isolation-without-triaging/article34445413.ece
30 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader’s house burgled in Chittoor||Unidentified persons broke into the house of D.K. Badrinarayana, industrialist and Telugu Desam Party leader, at B.V. Reddy Colony here in the early hours of Thursday and decamped with a booty, believed to be over Rs. 2 crore, including gold jewellery, foreign watches and cash. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said the police had deployed the CLUES team, which was on the job to collect fingerprints. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar visited the industrialist’s house. Mr Badrinarayana is the younger brother of former TTD chairman late D.K. Audikesavulu Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-house-burgled-in-chittoor/article34445411.ece
30 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No patient should be turned away, says Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has asked District Collectors to ensure that no patient is turned away from hospitals citing insufficient beds. During a video conference with Collectors of seven most affected districts, the Minister asked them to ensure that bed strength was increased in both hospitals and COVID Care Centres. “Please ensure that the results of RT-PCR tests are released within 24 hours. The functioning of the 104 call centre should be monitored daily. The COVID Care Centres should be set up with support from local communities and ensure that people moved to CCC feel at home,” said the Minister. State COVID Control Room head K.S. Jawahar Reddy interacted with the Collectors and DMHOs and asked them to submit details of daily action plan. “We will ensure that the issues in supply of oxygen and anti viral rugs are taken care of. Ensure all the patients are given good care and monitor calls made to 104,” said Mr. Jawahar Reddy. Commissioner of Health and Family planning K Bhaskar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-patient-should-be-turned-away-says-minister/article34446134.ece
30 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP creating panic among people, says Ambati||YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu said that the TDP was creating panic among the people of the State amidst pandemic. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, Mr. Rambabu said the State government under Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was striving hard to tackle the COVID situation, but the TDP leaders were acting irresponsible by creating panic among people. “Andhra Pradesh is in the first position in the country by conducting more number of COVID-19 tests. Over 1.6 crore people have been tested so far. While the State is putting up such relentless efforts, the TDP is trying to defame the government in all possible ways for political benefit,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-creating-panic-among-people-says-ambati/article34446132.ece
30 April 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims youth’s life a day before his wedding||He went to his native villageahead of his wedding on Thursday, but COVID-19 claimed 32-year old D.M. Pruthviraj just a day before in Chikkamagaluru district, plunging his family and the bride-to-bein grief. Mr. Pruthviraj, a native of Devarakudige in Koppa taluk of Chikkamagaluru district, was working in a private company in Bengaluru. He had gone to his native place 10 days ago for marriage preparations. After he tested positive, he isolated himself at home. However, as his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. He succumbed to the infection on Wednesday. Sources said that Pruthviraj was admitted to Koppa taluk hospital on April 23. Then his oxygen level was 89%. He had a mild fever, stomach ache, besides breathlessness. The doctors at Koppa treated him for a day and discharged him on April 24 and referred him to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga as oxygen level suddenly dropped down to 70%. He was put on a ventilator in Shivamogga and he finally succumbed on Wednesday. Doctors observe that there have been several instances of oxygen levels dropping suddenly, requiring oxygenated beds and ICU admission. An ICU doctor in Hassan observed, “We have had cases of people in general ward experiencing sudden decrease in oxygen level. They had to be shifted to ICU. Due to non availability of ICU beds, two died. We had not seen this kind of deterioration last year. Earlier those in ICU would recover in one or two days. But now they take weeks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-youths-life-a-day-before-his-wedding/article34445338.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Urban local body polls in TS today||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Opposition parties will vie for honours when they go to polls in Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations, Siddipet, Nakrekal, Atchampet, Kothur and Jadcherla municipalities and five wards in various urban local bodies, including Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, to fill casual vacancies. The campaigning for the polls, which concluded on Tuesday evening, saw ministers E. Dayakar Rao, Ms. Satyavathi Rathod, Mr. Koppula Easwar and Mr. P. Ajay Kumar and ruling party MLAs touring extensively in Warangal and Khammam. The TRS was looking to retain its stronghold in both the corporations where it had won last time. Mr. Nannapaneni Narender and Mr. Papa Lal were elected mayors respectively at Warangal and Khammam but the former was replaced by Mr. Gunda Prakash later on his election as MLA. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao led the campaign at his home turf in Siddipet. The State Election Commission has ordered strict enforcement of COVID guidelines, factoring in observations also made by High Court on Thursday, for elections to Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations, Siddipet, Nakrekal, Atchampet, Kothur and Jadcherla municipalities and five wards in various urban local bodies. Members of four other wards were elected unanimously. State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi on Thursday held a video conference with collectors, superintendents or commissioners of Police, municipal commissioners and district medical and health officers in places going to polls to brief them about the steps to be taken for the safety of voters from the standpoint of COVID. It was brought to their notice that a large quantity of face masks, face shields, hand gloves and sanitisers were despatched for supply to poll personnel. At least 15 boxes should be painted in front of polling stations for voters to wait, maintaining social distance, until they were allowed inside. About 9,800 polling and 4,557 security personnel will be on duty on Friday. As many as 2,500 ballot boxes will be pressed into service and they will all be disinfected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/urban-local-body-polls-today/article34445997.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre warned only about 2nd wave, not its severity’||Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender criticised the manner in which the Central government is allotting COVID-19 medical resources like Remdesivir, oxygen, COVID vaccines at a press conference , third one in a row, on Thursday. He picked on issues with each of the resources, suggested ways to address the shortage, and reminded the Central government’s duty to save the people. When asked if he was trying to shift blame when cases in the State are spiralling out of control, the Health Minister said he was responding to criticism but not trying to shift blame. Oxygen shortage Mr Rajender said though the Central government issued warning about a second wave, severity of it was not mentioned. “Would the Central government hold elections across the country or give permission for Kumbh Mela if they expected the severity or had prior information about it,” the Minister asked . He said before levelling criticism, against the State, the situation in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled States like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, has to be considered where people are dying due to oxygen shortage. Rectifying problems “But Telangana government is treating patients from four States -Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. Despite having patients from so many States, we are ensuring that no one faces inconvenience such as lack of oxygen, medicines or hospital beds. We are rectifying wherever there are problems,” Mr Rajender said. As it is predicted that COVID cases are likely to spike in May, the State government has requested allotment of 600 metric tons of oxygen from neigbouring States. “The news that people are dying due to lack of oxygen is an insult to the country. The Central government should find ways to send oxygen, and other resources through Air Force planes, railways, or other means as per the requirement of each State,” Mr Rajender said. Clarity sought He demanded clarity on the number of COVID vaccine doses that would be supplied to each State and measures to address the huge demand for jabs. There are around 1.75 crore people in Telangana belonging to the 18-44 age group. The Health Minister also sought to know whether the Centre was planning to procure vaccines from other countries or increase production in our country, and how many doses will be given to each State. Mr Rajender said that instances of people forced to shell out Rs. 30,000 for one vial of Remdesivir has come to the notice of the authorities and they have taken action against some people. The Telangana Health Minister has requested suppliers of the COVID-19 medical resources and private hospitals not to be focused on money in these grave times, but to help save lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-warned-only-about-2nd-wave-not-its-severity/article34445972.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illustrator Chandra succumbs to COVID-19||Well-known illustrator, artist, cartoonist and writer Myadam Chandrashekhar, 74, popularly known as Chandra, succumbed to the COVID-19 in the wee hours of Thursday. Known for social, political and satirical cartoons, Chandra was also an illustrator who made sketches of several famous personalities at national and international level including from the Telugu land. He also made illustrations related to natural, folk, spiritual, mythological, modern and revolutionary ideologies besides writing several short stories. Chandra was undergoing treatment for nerves-related illness at Mother Teresa Rehabilitation Centre at Karkhana in Secunderabad. He was infected with COVID-19 at the centre and breathed his last on Thursday. He is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter and all the three children are settled overseas. Born on August 28, 1946 at Warangal, Chandra married Talluri Vijaya Bhargavi. Chandra worked as Chief Illustrator for Ambedkar Open University and his cover illustrations for novels and books used to be special attraction among readers. He also contributed illustrations to thousands of books between 1970 and 2000. He was also associated with film industry and worked for films such as Rangula Kala, Chillara Devullu and Maa Bhoomi . He was close associate of stalwarts such as Dasharathi Krishnamacharya, Kaloji Narayana Rao and Palla Durgaiah. Chandra’s body was shifted to his residence in Srinagar Colony from the rehabilitation centre. Meanwhile, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rai condoled the death of Chandra. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved members of the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illustrator-chandra-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34445568.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guard shot dead in ATM robbery in Hyderabad||A security guard of a cash management company was shot dead, while his supervisor suffered a bullet injury in a broad daylight robbery at Kukatpally here on Thursday. The victim, Mirza Subhan Ali Baig (74), an ex-CRPF constable from Borabanda, was declared brought dead by the doctors at a private hospital, while supervisor Chintala Srinivas’s health condition is said to be stable. Srinivas was shifted to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences from the hospital for better medical assistance. As per the police, staffers of the Writer Safeguards Private Limited were replenishing cash in a HDFC Bank ATM at a kiosk at Patelkunta, when two bike-borne masked suspects reached the spot, shot Baig below his chest on the abdomen, and entered the centre. They shot two more rounds at Srinivas who was refilling the cash chest and the glass door, before fleeing away with Rs. 5 lakh. Naveen, another employee of the company, tried to catch one of the suspects, but in vain, another aimed the gun at him and zoomed towards the main road. Speaking to The Hindu Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar, who along with other senior officers rushed the spot, suspected that ‘criminals’ of an inter-State gang were involved in the offence. He said that around 1.45 p.m. two persons came on a bike and committed the offence. They were following the cash carrying vehicle from its previous stop in the area where they loaded Rs. 10 lakh and here they were supposed to load Rs. 12 lakh. Confirming that the fire-arm was a country-made pistol, the Commissioner said that their teams have recovered a magazine and two empty cartridges from the scene of offences. They also have found a helmet of the suspect. “They were following the vehicle and their focus was on committing the offence. They did not interact with any local people,” he said, adding that more than 10 special teams were formed to nab the suspects. Meanwhile, investigators have cordoned off the spot and analysed the video footage of the surveillance cameras of the area and found that the duo were on a black-coloured Bajaj Pulsar bike. “Though locals hurled stones at the suspects, and tried to catch them, they managed to sped away,” police said. Later in the evening, Cyberabad police reportedly picked up two members of the gang from Sangareddy. Sources confirmed that the apprehended persons did not commit the offence, but were part of the gang. Police suspect that the prime suspects fled to Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guard-shot-dead-in-atm-robbery-in-hyderabad/article34445345.ece
30 April 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vontimitta Brahmotsavam concludes in ekantam||‘Chakra Snanam’, which used to be a grand finale for any annual Brahmotsavams, turned out to be a simple ‘in private’ (ekantam) ceremony at Sri Kodandarama temple in Vontimitta on Thursday. Owing to COVID-19 situation and in tune with the Central guidelines, the Sri Rama Navami Brahmotsavams were conducted within the temple precincts and in the presence of limited number of persons. After pre-dawn rituals like ‘Shuddhi’ and ‘Aradhana’, the processional deities of Sita, Rama, Lakshmana and Sudarshana Chakrathalwar were seated at Ranga Mandapam. Rakesh Bhattar, who was the officiating priest (Kankana Bhattar) for the festival, performed the rituals that culminated in immersing the Chakra idol into a huge utensil, considering it to be the tank.  ‘Dhwajavarohanam’ ‘Dhwajavarohanam’ was performed at the end of the day, when the sacred flag hoisted atop the temple flag post on the first day was brought down in a ceremonial manner. Assistant Executive Officer Muralidhar, Superintendent Venkata Seshaiah and priests took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vontimitta-brahmotsavam-concludes-in-ekantam/article34445421.ece
30 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja seized from inter-State gang||East Godavari police have arrested eight persons belonging to Odisha, Telangana and Karnataka while they were transporting 2,000 kg of ganja from the Visakhapatnam Agency to Hyderabad on Wednesday evening. The gang was caught at the check-post at Donkarai police station in Chintoor Agency while they were proceeding in a van. The accused have been identified as Manajit Dhali, Amith Singh, Sumant Mandal, Rabindranath Mistri and Sanjith Mandal of Kalimela block in Malkangiri district of Odisha, Mohammad Saleem and Mohammad Jilani from Hyderabad and Pawan Manohar Tambole of Bidar district in Karnataka. “The gang had procured the ganja worth Rs. 60 lakh from the Visakhapatnam Agency area and were transporting it to Hyderabad. They have been produced before a local court on Thursday,” said Chintoor DSP Khadar Basha, in an official release. The police also seized a car belonging to the gang and registered cases against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-seized-from-inter-state-gang/article34446097.ece
30 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MLA dies of cardiac arrest||YSRCP leader and two-time MLA from Amalapuram K. Chittabbai (71) died of cardiac arrest while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kakinada in East Godavari district on Thursday. A native of Amalapuram town, Mr. Chittabbai was elected to the Assembly as Independent candidate in 2004. “Mr. Chittabbai died of cardiac arrest. As per his medical reports, he did not suffer from COVID-19,” District Medical and Health Officer K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao said. Mr. Chittabbai had been associated with the YSRCP since its establishment. He had served as party district president during its formative years. Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna expressed sorrow, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-mla-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/article34446063.ece
30 April 2021||Malapppuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||UDF candidate V.V. Prakash passes away||Malappuram District Congress Committee (DCC) president and United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in Nilambur Assembly constituency V.V. Prakash died of a heart attack on Thursday morning. Cardiac arest Mr. Prakash suffered a cardiac arrest on Wednesday night and was taken to a hospital at Edakkara. He was shifted to another hospital at Manjeri, where he died around 5 a.m. He was 56. His death took place two days before the counting of the votes to the Assembly election held on April 6. His candidacy in Nilambur was keenly watched as he had put up a strong fight against Left Democratic Front (LDF) incumbent P.V. Anvar. Mr. Prakash had expressed strong confidence in his victory. He had made wide arrangements with the Congress workers in the district ahead of the counting of the votes to be held on Sunday. His family sources said he had been prone to heart ailments and had undergone medical interventions some months ago. Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, expressed shock and grief over the death of Prakash. They extended condolences to his family. Mr. Gandhi said, “The untimely demise of Malappuram DCC president and UDF Nilambur candidate V.V. Prakash Ji is extremely tragic. He will be remembered as an honest and hardworking member of the Congress, always ready to offer help to the people. My heartfelt condolences to his family.” Mr. Prakash entered the Congress through the Kerala Students Union and became the party’s district president nearly five years ago. He was widely acknowledged as the soft and affable face of the Congress in Malappuram. He had contested unsuccessfully against Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel in Thavanur in 2011. His body was brought to the DCC office at Malappuram in the morning. The body was later taken to his home at Edakkara. The funeral took place at public cemetery, Palunda, in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/udf-candidate-vv-prakash-passes-away/article34445350.ece
30 April 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven more die as South Coastal A.P. logs 1,600 cases in 24 hours||The second wave of coronavirus continued to taking toll in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as more than 1,600 people contracted the infection, while seven more patients succumbed to the virus in a span of 24 hours. The number of active cases rose to 18,481 as 1,641 more persons tested positive in the last 24 hours ending at 9 a.m. on Thursday, according to a health bulletin released the State government on Thursday night. Four more patients died in Nellore district while three more succumbed to the virus in Praksam districts during the period, taking total toll to 1,226. Nellore district has reported 604 deaths while Prakasam district accounted for 622 deaths so far. The cumulative tally crossed the 1.50 lakh mark in the region as Nellore and Prakasam district reported 1,002 and 639 infections respectively. Ongole alone reported 174 new cases. Even as there was a dip in the fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the health officials had a tough time in treating the growing number of patients. Only about 500 patients, including 304 in Nellore district, got cured during the period as the hospitals overflowed with patients requiring oxygen support. The recovery rate dipped to 86.93% as only a little over 1.31 lakh people have won the battle against the virus so far. COVID Care Centre opened Meanwhile, only 751 persons took the jab at eight session sites in Nellore district on Thursday, according to an official release. Meanwhile, a COVID Care Centre (CCC) was opened at Kavali to treat the asymtomatic patients in the revenue division, leaving the hospitals to critical cases. The health officials exhorted the people to adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, cleaning hands with sanitiser and maintaining social distance in view of the rapid rise in the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-more-die-as-south-coastal-ap-logs-1600-cases-in-24-hours/article34445415.ece
30 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second wave of pandemic rubs salt into the wound of Prakasam farmers||The prevailing heatwave conditions in later part of the March kindled the hopes of Raghava (53), a salt farmer from Kothapatnam village Prakasam district, that he would reap a good harvest. As the April proceeded, his hopes shattered as a majority of the workers who scrap salt from pans have contracted coronavirus infection. The situation is no different in other coastal villages such as Chinnaganjam, Motumala, Biramkunda, Singarayakonda, Padarthi and etc., where the salt extraction is the main economic activity during this part of the year, in the absence of fishing and farm operations. It is like the bitter memories of the Cyclonic storm Laila snatching away their ready-to-harvest produce in May 2010 coming back hunt them again. The farmers are spending sleepless nights as the salt is ready to the scrapped and just one spell of unseasonal rain will force them into heavy losses. The weather system developing in the Bay of Bengal also has kept the salt farmers on tenterhooks. Thanks to 61-day fishing holiday, fishermen used to compete with farm hands for work at the sprawling salt pans in summer. Now, a majority of the agricultural workers and fishermen are not coming for work as the pandemic did not spare the coastal mandals. The authorities have enforced micro-containment activity to stop the spread of the infection. It is the time the salt extraction work was at its peak, a group of salt farmers from Motumala village told The Hindu . They had a tough time this year as the Cyclonic storm Nivar had forced them to prepare salt pans again from the scratch . “As a result, salt production has been delayed by more than a month,” explained K. Venkateswara Rao, who had taken up salt production in six acres of land. “We are finding it difficult to find workers to take to safety the extracted salt,” added another farmer, S. Jeeva Rao. The pandemic has not only hit hard their health condition but also adversely affected their livelihood, laments a middle-aged farmer Koduri Srinivasulu. The Union and State governments should come to the rescue of salt farmers and workers by announcing ex gratia, said Centre of Indian Trade Union Kothapatnam mandal secretary S. Swamy Reddy.  Minimum support price The authorities should fix minimum support price for salt on the lines of the farm produce to avoid the unpleasant situation of salt farmers selling away their produce at a throw-away price to traders who formed themselves into a syndicate, he said. Salt, which is procured at less than Rs. 100 per quintal at the pan level, is however, sold more than 10 times higher the price to consumers. And the farmers are not in a position to show the extent of loss incurred as heavy rain during the middle of the extraction season leave the entire pan in a sheet of water and diluting the salt content, said Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Workers Union mandal secretary P. Prakasam, while stressing on evolving liberal guidelines to assess the production loss due to natural calamity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-wave-of-pandemic-rubs-salt-into-the-wound-of-prakasam-farmers/article34446065.ece
30 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||A farmer’s organic offering to the Lord||A farmer, Vijayaram, from Pinagudurlanka in Krishna on Thursday donated various organic farm products to the hill temple. He donated rice weighing 2,200 kg, vegetables, bananas, and jaggery, and desi cow ghee (15 kg), which were sufficient to meet the ‘naivedhyam’ requirements for 10 days. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, who received the offerings, lauded the farmer for producing products without using fertilizers and pesticides. He said the TTD was ready to use the organic products daily in preparing ‘naivedhyam’ to the presiding deity. The TTD was also ready to use such products under its ‘Nitya Annadanam’ if it succeeded in procuring them in sufficient quantities. TTD member-trustee Shiv kumar, Deputy EOs Vijaya Saradhi and Harindranath, Health Officer R.R. Reddy, and catering officer (Annadanam) G.L.N. Sastry were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-farmers-organic-offering-to-the-lord/article34445417.ece
30 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID negative report must for entering counting centre||Polling staff and party agents will have to undergo a COVID-19 test and secure a ‘negative’ report in order to enter the centres where counting will be taken up for the byelection conducted to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, on May 2. The staff and agents should have a negative report, apart from a valid identity card, said Collector M. Hari Narayanan, who, along with MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, held a review meeting with the Assistant Returning Officers after participating in a videoconference with Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand. “As per the new circular released by the Election Commission, the agents and staff would have to undergo a COVID-19 test once again and submit the report that they have indeed tested negative,” Mr. Hari Narayanan said, adding that additional manpower to the tune of 50% was being mobilised to meet such exigencies. The review was held in the backdrop of Sri Venkateswara Arts College, Tirupati, becoming the centre to count the votes pertaining to Tirupati, Srikalahasti and Satyavedu Assembly segments under the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency. The centre will be sanitised and exhaust fans arranged in the halls to avoid suffocation. Every alternate person among the agents will have to don the PPE suits, while the policemen will also have to wear face shields and masks. MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy, Assistant Returning Officers Chandramouliswar Reddy (Tirupati), Srinivasulu (Srikalahasti) and Chandra Sekhar (Satyavedu), Smart City Corporation General Manager V. Chandramouli and Tahsildar (Tirupati Urban) Jaya Ramulu took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-negative-report-must-for-entering-counting-centre/article34446067.ece
30 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City donates oxygen storage tank to SVIMS||The Sri City has donated an oxygen storage tank with a capacity of 10,000 litres to the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) on Thursday to augment the stock at its Sri Padmavathi Medical College for Women (SPMCW), a State COVID hospital. The SVIMS, which has three oxygen tanks, is struggling to cater to the needs of COVID patients. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan wanted to add one more tank to the hospital, while Satyavedu MLA Koneti Adimulam approached the Sri City for the purpose. Sri City Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy passed on the request to the VRV Asia Pacific, which was among the first to establish a base in the Sri City to manufacture medical oxygen containers, to spare a tank. The company immediately readied a vertical oriented vacuum insulated tank and sent it to the SVIMS in Tirupati. “Oxygen shortage has left patients gasping for breath in hospitals. We feel that it is our duty to strengthen the hands of district administration,” said Mr. Sannareddy. The donation was made in the name of former Chief Minister Dr. Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, who had inaugurated the Sri City in 2008 and laid the foundation stone for the VRV Asia Pacific plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-city-donates-oxygen-storage-tank-to-svims/article34445418.ece
30 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jawahar Reddy continues as EO, clarifies TTD||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has termed as ‘baseless’ the reports floating in a section of media that its Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has been transferred. Mr. Reddy was recently made the Chairman of the State COVID Command Control Centre, which is an additional responsibility, in view of his vast experience in successfully handling the pandemic last year, during his previous stint as the Secretary, Health and Family Welfare. The government has recently directed shifting of his headquarters to Velagapudi for effective functioning of the COVID Command Control, due to which he asked the TTD’s Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy to take care of the daily affairs. Clarifying on the ‘wrong interpretation’ by a section of media, the TTD, in a press release, maintained that Mr. Jawahar Reddy still continues as the Executive Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawahar-reddy-continues-as-eo-clarifies-ttd/article34445419.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raids unearth ‘irregularities’ in hospitals treating COVID patients||Notwithstanding the tall claims being made by the government over the measures taken to streamline the sale of Remdesivir vials in the State, stocks worth lakhs of rupees were being sold illegally every day. Officials of the Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E), Drug Control Administration (DCA), Police and Medical and Health Department, who conducted raids on a few COVID hospitals, found many irregularities in the last two days. “Out of nine hospitals verified, we found misuse of about 160 Remdesivir vials in four. In some hospitals, the managements were fleecing the patients by collecting Rs. 3,000 and above for oxygen supply and a huge amount from patients for giving admissions,” said a Vigilance and Enforcement officer. The Guntur Urban and Vijayawada police found that Remdesivir vials were sold at Rs. 40,000 each in different cases. They arrested two doctors, nurses, medical representatives and other hospital staff for black-marketing the drug. V&E Director General K.V. Rajendranath Reddy said the managements of some hospitals tampered with the case sheets of patients and prescribed Remdesivir injections and diverted them for others. In some hospitals, the injections were missing, the DG said. “We request the hospital managements not to draw Remdesivir stocks unnecessarily, misuse them and create trouble to the needy patients. The raids will continue to prevent illegal sale of the injections,” Mr. Reddy said. Increased vigil Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said that the vigil has been stepped up to check black-marketing of Remdesivir. Stern action will be taken against those who try to take advantage of the situation, he warned. “We are keeping a vigil at hospitals, pharmacies, clinics, on hospital staff, RMPs, PMPs and medical distributors and representatives. Our decoy parties are moving at COVID hospitals and interacting with the attendants to prevent middlemen and cheating,” said Guntur Urban SP R.N. Ammireddy. “Employees of some hospitals, nurses, ANMs, pharmacists and medical representatives are hoarding Remdesivir vials and are trying to sell them on black market. We request doctors to keep a watch on their staff and not to indulge in irregularities during the crisis period,” said Krishna district SP M. Ravindranath Babu. West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik said that all steps have been taken to check illegal transportation of Remdesivir from the neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raids-unearth-irregularities-in-hospitals-treating-covid-patients/article34446073.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinema theatres downing shutters again||It’s curtains again for the cinemas following a spurt in the COVID-19 cases, and the latest to join the list of theatres to suspend shows is Durga Mahal in the Patamata area in the city. Annapoorna and Sakuntala too have dropped curtains earlier citing a similar reason. A steep fall in occupancy is one of the main reasons that is forcing the theatre owners to suspend the shows. “It is a huge financial burden to run the show. We need to pay salaries and taxes. On top of it, we have to adhere to the COVID-19 protocols, and ensure only 50% occupancy and sanitise the premises at regular intervals,” they say. It costs a minimum of Rs. 10,000 per day towards payment of salaries, maintenance, electricity, and sanitation, says Alankar Prasad, president of the Andhra Pradesh Exhibitors’ Association. “The collections are a mere Rs. 2,000 per day. So, the owners are voluntarily closing down the theatres,” says Mr. Prasad. This apart, lack of production is another major reason for the cinemas downing the shutters. “The distributors have stopped film releases fearing losses. With no production, the exhibitors are left with no other choice except to close down the theatres,” says R.V. Bhupal Prasad, proprietor of Navarang theatre, where screening will be stopped from Friday. According to information, there are about 1,100 theatres in the State, 60 in Vijayawada alone. On an average, each theatre spends Rs. 1.25 lakh per month towards salaries and Rs. 1.70 lakh per month on power. About Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 is spent on sanitation alone. Many theatres have a seating capacity of 500 to 600. And about 50 to 70 persons working in booking counters, canteens, parking arena are dependent on each theatre. With the Pawan Kalyan-starrer ‘Vakeel Saab’ available on Amazon Prime Video from Friday, the exhibitors fear lesser footfalls in the theatres screening it. As there are no new releases in the near future, it will be a wrong decision to run the theatres with one movie or the other, say the exhibitors. “There used to be four or five new releases prior to the outbreak of COVID-19. The lockdown that followed has taken away the sheen. Even as the exhibitors are grappling to come out of the red, the second wave of COVID-19 has hit them hard. The situation may not return to normal before January 2022,” says Sai Prasad, sercretary of the Vijayawada Exhibitors’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-day-last-show-for-many-cinemas-in-ap/article34445343.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intermediate students’ safety is our responsibility: Minister||“The safety of the students is the responsibility of the government,” Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said on Friday. Addressing the media on the Intermediate examination scheduled to start from May 5, he underlined the need for conducting the examinations. “If the examinations are cancelled, the students will receive a mere pass certificate, which may deprive them of many good academic opportunities in the future,” the Minister reasoned. Mr. Suresh said, “No State in the country has cancelled the Intermediate examinations.” He lashed out at the opposition parties for “creating a fear psychosis among the students and their parents .” “The Centre has asked the State governments to decide on the conduct of the examinations depending on the COVID-19 situation ,” the Minister said, and adding, “At the moment, it may look like the government is taking a harsh stand, but it is for the good of the students.” Asking the parents not to worry, Mr. Suresh said, “I give you my word. Your children’s safety is paramount for us.” The examination material was being sent to the 1,452 centres across the State, he said. “This year, 41 additional examination centres are being established,” he said. COVID protocols A COVID Control Centre was being set up in the office of the Commissioner, Board of Intermediate Education (BIE), besides constitution of squads, special mobile parties and mobile medical vans, he said. “Thermal scanners, sanitisers and masks will be made available at the examination centres. Every centre will have an isolation room, where students showing symptoms will write the examinations. The staff invigilating in the isolation rooms will be given PPE kits,” the Minister said. Mr. Suresh said the hall-tickets would be available on the website – bie.ac.gov.in – from Thursday evening, and an app, ‘IPE Exam Centre Locator, is available in the Google playstore to help the students access information about their centres. “Students who have contracted the virus and are not able to write the exam will have to produce a certificate to that effect. The BIE will hold a separate examination at a later date,” the Minister said.  If the exams are cancelled, students will receive a mere pass certificate, which may deprive them of good academic opportunities A. Suresh Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intermediate-students-safety-is-our-responsibility-minister/article34446070.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati Parirakshana JAC seeks Modi’s intervention||The protests headed by leaders of the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) in support of their demand that the YSRCP government drop its three-capital formula and allow Amaravati to continue as the single capital of the State, will complete 500 days on Friday. Coinciding with the occasion, leaders of JAC and other organisations wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impress upon Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to withdraw the move of shifting the State capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. ‘Without a capital’ In their letter, they pointed out that Andhra Pradesh was left without a capital due to Mr. Jagan's “three capitals formula”, resultantly bringing development in the State to a halt. They said as a head of the country, Mr. Modi should take the initiative of convincing the Chief Minister to do what is right for people of the State. The letter was signed by Akhila Bharat Hindu Maha Sabha's national secretary GVR Sastry, State president Velagapudi Gopalakrishna Prasad, AP Congress Committee Coordinating member Sunkara Padmasri, Amaravati Bahujana JAC president P. Balakotaiah, national secretary of Dalit Bahujana Front M. Bhagya Rao, Andhra Pradesh Samagrabhivridhi Adhyayana Vedika president T. Lakshmi Narayana and a few others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-parirakshana-jac-seeks-modis-intervention/article34446136.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff’s health our top priority, says RTC MD||Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation Vice-Chairman and Managing Director R.P. Thakur on Thursday said the employees’ welfare was the top priority for the management in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. In a statement, he said the main hospitals constructed at Vidyadharapuram was meant to cater to the medical needs of the employees, both in service and the retired staff. RTC employees from across the State visit this hospital for treatment. Doctors with certain specialisations were not available in the hospital and in such cases, the patients were referred to private hospitals. The 30-bed hospital extended medical services to nearly 250 employees every day, he said. With regard to COVID, the hospital was equipped with the oxygen facility and patients were being referred to private hospitals. To ensure health safety of the employees, thermal scanners were given to every depot and those showing symptoms were sent to dispensaries and they were supplied with COVID kits, he said, adding that for vaccination, camps would be set up in every bus depot. Mr. Thakur admitted that a few of the employees had died while undergoing treatment. “But there has been no neglect on the part of the management in extending medical services to employees who were in need of it,” he clarified. From March this year, the Employees Health Scheme (EHS) was being implemented for 50,500 employees and their details had been submitted to the Aarogyasri wing. “They will get their health cards immediately,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staffs-health-our-top-priority-says-rtc-md/article34446137.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dial 100 or 1902 in case of malpractice: DGP||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has called upon the public to inform authorities about any unauthorised sale of Remdesivir and oxygen by dialling 100 or 1902. Mr. Sawang said the Police, Vigilance and Enforcement and Health departments were jointly enforcing the sale and supply of medicines, oxygen and hospital treatment across the State. He asked patients and their relatives to dial 100 or 1902 if they were forced to pay more than that was allowed by the government for treatment and medicines. The police were ensuring safe and faster transportation of oxygen supply vehicles and nodal officers were appointed for the same. Mr. Sawang said that people spreading rumours and false news about the pandemic on social media would be booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dial-100-or-1902-in-case-of-malpractice-dgp/article34446062.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candidates’ list on APPSC website||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has displayed on its website – www.psc.ap.gov.in – the list of candidates provisionally admitted for verification of certificates and oral test (interview) for the posts falling under Group-I Services. In a statement on Thursday, Commission’s Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said any candidate having any valid grievances might approach him with valid proof on May 3 at 12 noon. It was mandatory for the candidates approaching the Secretary to follow the COVID-19 protocols, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/candidates-list-on-appsc-website/article34446069.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC dismisses quash petition of Dhulipalla||Justice R. Raghunandan Rao of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday dismissed the quash petition filed by former MLA and Sangam Dairy chairman Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar and MD P. Gopala Krishnan against the remand order passed by the special judge for ACB cases on April 23. The court also turned down the duo’s bail plea. It ordered that counter affidavits should be filed by May 5 and directed the ACB to continue investigation into the financial and administrative irregularities said to be committed by Mr. Kumar and the company’s MD. The allegations levelled by the ACB are that the Sangam Dairy was fraudulently converted into a company from the Mutually Aided Cooperative Societies Act and all government assets were personalised and misappropriated by a trust formed by Mr. Kumar’s family. Justice Raghunandan Rao said in his order that his observations and findings were based on a prima facie view of the matter and none of them were final and they should not be taken into account by any of the parties or the trial court in the future conduct of probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-dismisses-dhulipallas-quash-petition/article34445344.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veerraju asks State to allocate Rs. 2,000 crore for COVID mitigation||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has demanded that the State government make a budgetary allocation of Rs. 2,000 crore for the containment of COVID-19. Addressing the media along with party general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Thursday, he said that the results of COVID-19 tests should be declared on the same day of sample collection. Speedy test results would also be of great help to the government in tackling the pandemic, he said. Mr. Veerraju said that the government should also focus on finding out the factors behind the virus posing high risk to young adults. He alleged that the opposition parties were spreading misinformation through the social media in spite of the dedication with which the Centre was fighting the pandemic. On its part, the BJP was rendering various services to the needy, he added. ‘Postpone examinations’ Mr. Veerraju said the government should not be stubborn on conducting the SSC and Intermediate examinations when the second wave was sweeping the country. The BJP had written to the Chief Minister seeking postponement of the examinations, and stringent action against private hospitals exploiting the patients. The State government failed in curbing the black marketing of Remdesivir, which were being sold at exorbitant costs, he alleged. Mr. Veerraju said that the Centre had so far provided 65 lakh vaccines to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veerraju-asks-state-to-allocate-rs-2000-crore-for-covid-mitigation/article34446071.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Swachha Sankalpam from July 8||The State government will launch ‘CLAP (Clean Andhra Pradesh) — Jagananna Swachha Sankalpam’ programme on July 8 marking the birth anniversary of the former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made an announcement at a meeting on Swachha Sankalpam, YSR Jala Kala, Jal Jeevan Mission, Jagananna Palle Velugu and construction of roads in villages, at his camp office on Thursday. He asked the officials to deal with the sewage problem and to focus on the development of slums. He wanted emphasis to be laid on the collection of garbage and its safe disposal. The Chief Minister said it had been decided to dig two lakh borewells and distribute 1.50 lakh pump sets benefiting three lakh small and medium farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-swachha-sankalpam-from-july-8/article34446072.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP starts free services for COVID patients||Telugu Desam Party national president N Chandrababu Naidu has said that TDP offices and workers will extend free services to COVID patients to get online medical help. The party will also help in getting hospital beds for serious patients. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Naidu asked the needy people to contact the TDP offices nearby so that they would be able to avail themselves of the necessary services. The party would arrange free online assistance for those having mild symptoms of COVID and those who were in home isolation. Free medicines would be made available to the poor patients who were suffering from COVID, he said. In case of patients suffering from severe symptoms, the TDP would extend help to find beds for those patients in government or private hospitals. These services were being launched as part of the TDP's foundation motto of treating the people as gods and the society as a temple, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-starts-free-services-for-covid-patients/article34446135.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officer dies of COVID-19||Intelligence Security Wing (ISW) Superintendent of Police (SP) T. Ram Prasad (50) reportedly died of COVID-19, on Thursday. He was a native of Kaviti village in Srikakulam district. He is survided by wife T. Santhi Sudha, daughter Nikitha and son Nikhil Bharadwaja. A 2007 batch Group-I officer, Mr. Ram Prasad worked as the Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer (RVEO), Rajamahendravaram, and Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), in Vijayawada. Police officers of different cadres mourned the demise of the SP and expressed condolences to his family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officer-dies-of-covid/article34445423.ece
30 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Model schools’ issues discussed||Education Minister A. Suresh on Thursday met Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and discussed problems faced by model schools and other key issues. Implementation of service rules, Contributory Pension Scheme, health cards and other issues related to the Education Department awaiting solution came up for discussion. The Finance Minister responded favourably to Mr. Suresh's suggestions, said a statement issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/model-schools-issues-discussed/article34446138.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Glitches in distribution hit oxygen supply in city||A sharp rise in the number of active COVID-19 cases in the city has turned the spotlight on the availability of medical oxygen at hospitals. While there is no shortage of liquid medical oxygen, some issues with the distribution process and shortage of empty oxygen cylinders is said to be the reason behind the non-availability of beds with oxygen supply at hospitals. Some private hospitals say they are facing problems in the procurement of oxygen, which is partly due to the huge surge in patients requiring oxygen beds and the stocks, available with them, running out frequently. “A private notified hospital, which has a sanctioned oxygen bed strength of 100, is being forced to admit nearly double that number of patients in view of the huge caseload. The hospital procures 100 cylinders and at the rate of consuming 10 cylinders an hour, their supply would run out in 10 hours. This is forcing some of the private notified hospitals to turn away patients requiring oxygen support,” sources said. Ventilator beds allocated for COVID-19 patients, and the ICUs, are also full most of the time. The availability of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) for Visakhapatnam district, from what is produced at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and at a plant at Pharma City near Parawada, is around 160 metric tonnes, according to conservative estimates. “Time plays a key factor in the distribution network. Timely delivery is essential to keep circulation of oxygen running. But in the present condition, the supply is delayed by 10 to 12 hours and that is upsetting flow of oxygen to the beds. We have limited storage capacity and it can be run round-the-clock if we have timely supply,” said the managing director of a private hospital. Meanwhile, it is learnt that though a provision has been made for setting up of a total of 180 oxygen beds at Government ENT Hospital, Regional Eye Hospital and Rani Chandramani Devi (RCD) Hospital, they could not be operationalised so far, reportedly due to non-availability of oxygen cylinders. Death toll crosses 600 The district reported 1,129 COVID-19 cases on Thursday — the highest single-day tally in the second wave — taking the overall caseload to 78,558. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported this month is 16,260. Meanwhile, the death toll crossed the 600-mark to reach 603, with five more persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. The total number of COVID-19 deaths reported in April is 57. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 9,179. With the recovery of 685 persons, the total number of recoveries stands at 68,776.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/glitches-in-distribution-hit-oxygen-supply-in-city/article34446142.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ESI hospital project to materialise soon, says BJP||The ESI hospital, sanctioned to Visakhapatnam due to the efforts made by former Lok Sabha MP and BJP leader Kambhampati Haribabu, is going to materialise soon, BJP leaders said here on Thursday. The party’s Parliamentary district president M. Raveendra said they had exerted pressure on the YSRCP government to take up the issue with the Centre, which is learnt to have agreed to the proposal. Mr. Raveendra said that the then Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya had laid the foundation stone for the construction of a 300-bed ESI Hospital at Sheelanagar on April 11, 2016. Later, it was decided to construct a 500-bed hospital along with a medical college in view of the growing medical needs of North Andhra. On February 22 this year, a decision was taken to construct a 350-bed hospital with an additional 50-bed SST wing in Visakhapatnam, he said. Though the Centre had expressed its readiness to sanction a 500-bed hospital, the ‘dynastic parties’ in the State had failed to take advantage of it, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/esi-hospital-to-materialise-in-vizag-soon-says-bjp/article34446103.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains cancelled||The Railways on Thursday announced the cancellation of some special trains in the wake of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 08531 Visakhapatnam-Palasa special will be cancelled with effect from April 30. The 08532 Palasa-Visakhapatnam special will be cancelled from May 1, and the 08522 Visakhapatnam-Gunupur special and the 08521 Gunupur-Visakhapatnam special from April 30. The other trains being cancelled are: 08508 Visakhapatnam-Rayagada special from April 30, 08507 Rayagada-Visakhapatnam special from May 1 while the 06572 Howrah-Yesvantpur leaving Howrah on May 5 will be cancelled. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi appealed to passengers to make a note of the changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-cancelled/article34446102.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No school from May 1 to 31 for Class X students||The Director of School Education has declared holidays for Class X students of all schools from May 1 to 31 in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. All Class X students in the district should prepare for their SSC public examinations at home, District Education Officer K. Nageswara Rao said in a statement here on Thursday, adding that students can visit their school from June 1 to 5 to take suggestions/guidance of their teachers. In the meantime, the teachers can guide their students through digital platforms if required, he said. Managements of all schools have been directed to follow the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-school-from-may-1-to-31-for-class-x-students/article34446144.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH to get 60 more beds||District Collector V. Vinay Chand on Thursday directed officials to arrange an additional 60 beds at the King George Hospital (KGH) in order to ease the shortage. Mr. Vinay Chand held a review meeting with medical and revenue officials, on the services being extended to COVID-19 patients, at the Andhra Medical College (AMC) Principal’s chambers on Thursday. The Collector said that no COVID-19 patient should be made to wait outside the hospital. He also sought that arrangements be made for quick discharge of patients. He enquired about the services being given to COVID patients with mild symptoms and in severe cases. Oxygen should be given only when needed, he said. Dr. P. Mythili, Superintendent, KGH, apprised the Collector that specialist doctors, general doctors, nurses, anaesthetists, ECG and X-Ray technicians were required for the hospital. Joint Collector P. Arun Babu and P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kgh-to-get-60-more-beds/article34446143.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to oppose VSP sale||CITU city secretary P. Pydiraju called upon the public to oppose the privatisation policies of the BJP government and the proposed sale of VSP. He said VSP was not allotted captive mines deliberately with the object of privatising it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-oppose-vsp-sale/article34446145.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan timing revised||Due to the COVID situation, officials of Sri Kanakamahalakshmi Temple have decided to curtail timings of the darshan from May 1. Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi said devotees will be allowed only from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Officials requested that devotees adhere to COVID-19 protocols while visiting the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-timing-revised/article34446146.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic chief visits Ward 30||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana inspected Kummari Veedhi and Thadi Veedhi in Ward 30 of Zone IV on Thursday. She requested locals not to dump waste in drains and hand over it to sanitary staff after segregating it. She also urged them to follow precautions amid the rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-chief-visits-ward-30/article34446147.ece
30 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will boost capacity of care centres’||Collector V. Vinay Chand said beds at COVID-19 Care Centres would be increased from 2,800 to 3,400 in the city. He was speaking to State COVID-19 Special Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy in a video-conference here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-boost-capacity-of-care-centres/article34446148.ece
30 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hold exams only after teachers are inoculated’||Member of Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council Pakalapati Raghuvarma on Thursday urged the State government to conduct the SSC and Intermediate examinations only after inoculating the teachers and others who would be involved in the process. Addresssing a press meet, the MLC said that the exams should be postponed at least by two months, given the severity of the second wave of the pandemic. “Not only students, the parents, teachers and others are to face the risk of contracting the infection, if the examinations are conducted in May. The health experts have warned about the rapid spread infection. So, it is wise to postpone the examinations and avoid the risk,” said Mr. Raghuvarma. Meanwhile, Manava Hakkula Vedika District convener Bankuru Joginaidu also urged the government to announce a special treatment and compensation package for the employees who would be involved in the examination process. Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation leader Kuruhari Srinivasan urged the government to consider the directions of Supreme Court and High Courts with regard to precautionary measures to be taken to check the COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hold-exams-only-after-teachers-are-inoculated/article34446099.ece
30 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private hospital raided||The police and vigilance officials reportedly raided a private hospital in Vizianagaram on Wednesday night and found evidence pertaining to sale of Remdesivir injections in black market. However, authorities are yet to confirm about the incident. According to sources, the police questioned the management of the Queens NRI hospital in Vizianagaram which is facing charge of selling Remdesivir injections illegally. The hospital, a designated COVID-19 facility, allegedly diverted Remdesivir vials that were supplied to it for the patients undergoing treatment there under Aarogyasri scheme, the sources added. An announcement over the alleged scam in the hospital is expected soon. Vizianagaram Pattana Powra Samskshema Sangham president R. Sankara Rao on Thursday demanded action against the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-hospital-raided/article34446101.ece
30 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manpower crunch hits services in COVID-19 hospitals||Acute shortage of staff, including doctors, nurses and sanitary staff, has turned into a bane for the patients who got admitted to the COVID-19 hospitals in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. A similar situation prevails in the private COVID designated hospitals. The authorities are unable to handle the rush of patients as they could not deploy the required manpower in three shifts, which has worsened the night time situation at the hospitals. The administrations of the two districts are trying in vain to recruit more doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, ward boys and sanitary staff. The government offers Rs. 24,000 for staff nurses and Rs. 15,000 per month for other category employees taken on a temporary basis. However, not many are interested to join due to the reported delay in payment of wages in 2019 and fear of contracting the virus. Some of those who joined are quitting due to work overload and working hours going beyond 12, it is said. “We need to arrange at least one staff nurse and a doctor for five patients in non-serious cases and at least one staff nurse for three patients in intensive care units. Staff adjustment has become a tough task. Non-availability of technicians to monitor oxygen supply has turned into another challenge for the government,” said a senior medical officer. Requirements to rise More doctors and staff will be needed in May as cases are expected to rise in the two districts. Currently, 1,480 patients are being treated in 13 COVID designated hospitals in Srikakulam. As many as 1,062 patients are in COVID Care Centers where staff is inadequate. Currently, 4,687 patients are in the COVID-19 hospitals and COVID Care Centres in Vizianagaram. A private hospital’s director told The Hindu that they were unable to get more doctors and staff as they were demanding double pay to work in COVID-19 wards. “We have increased salaries significantly for the existing staff also to retain the manpower. Otherwise, we cannot ensure proper treatment, particularly at night time which is a very crucial period for patients,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/manpower-crunch-hits-services-in-covid-19-hospitals/article34446100.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||At 38,607 cases, Kerala hits a new high||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph hit yet another high on Thursday with 38,607 new cases. The average test positivity rate (TPR) was 24.5%. In all, 5,69,831 persons were in home or institutional isolation in the State. Reflecting the case trend, Kerala had 1,652 critically ill patients in ICUs, and those on ventilator rose to 577. On Wednesday, the State added 48 new deaths. Ernakulam district reported the highest number of new cases at 5,369, Kozhikode 4,990, Thrissur 3,954, Thiruvananthapuram 3,940, Malappuram 3,857, Kottayam 3,616, Palakkad 2,411, Kollam 2,058, Alappuzha 2,043, Kannur 1,999, Pathanamthitta 1,245, Idukki 1,153, Kasaragod 1,063 and Wayanad 909 cases. The Kerala Government Medical Officers Association on Thursday urged the State government to clamp a two-week lockdown to quell rising cases. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had earlier suggested a week-long lockdown. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said there was no plan for a Statewide lockdown, but stricter restrictions would be put in place. Karnataka’s new cases stood at 35,024 on Thursday, 19,637 of them from Bengaluru Urban. There were 270 more deaths. Of 3,49,496 active cases, 2,431 were in ICUs. The TPR for the day was 19.92%. The State conducted 1,75,816 fresh tests, including 1,60,698 RT-PCR tests. Ministers pledge salary Following reports of oxygen shortage, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asked Deputy Commissioners to ensure oxygen supply to hospitals. There should be judicious usage of oxygen beds, ventilators, and Remdesivir. Karnataka’s Ministers decided to contribute one year's salary for COVID-19 relief work. Andhra Pradesh hit a peak in daily infections again with 14,792 cases and 57 deaths on Thursday. Samples tested in a day rose to 86,035, and the TPR was 17.19%. In the past day, seven new deaths each were reported in Anantapur, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. East Godavari reported six deaths, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam five each, Nellore and Srikakulam four each and Kadapa, Krishna and Prakasam three deaths each. Kurnool reported two and Guntur reported one death. Telangana recorded 7,994 new cases on Wednesday and 58 people died. Senior Health officials claimed that compared to other States, Telangana was offering a high number of tests. The highest of 1,630 cases were detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.    (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/at-38607-cases-kerala-hits-a-new-high/article34445347.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to cheer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-cheer/article34445354.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trying their luck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trying-their-luck/article34446140.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Insurance a strict no for some private hospitals||Complaints about some private hospitals in and around Hyderabad rejecting insurance coverage has started flowing again. When family members are stuck in a desperate situation to save their dear ones, the hospitals are informing that their COVID-19 patient will be admitted only if the bill is settled in cash and that insurance will not be accepted. Health Minister Eatala Rajender too, had pointed out this issue at a press conference held on Tuesday. Doctors attending to COVID-19 patients said that since money from insurance covers will be less, a few private hospitals are demanding cash payment so that they can charge more. The charges for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals are varying from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 80,000 a day. “Insurance of two patients in their mid-30s were rejected. If this issue is not addressed, thousands of critical patients cannot avail the treatment. Poor and middle-class cannot gather Rs. 50,000 or more a day. Does it mean only the rich who can spend will be saved at private hospitals?” questioned a doctor. Insurance advisers too said that they are working on several files related to the rejections. “A lot of people buy health insurance policies as they cannot afford huge bills at hospitals. We are getting many calls from customers that their policies have been rejected. The governments have to ensure that hospitals do not do this. Something has to be done as people pay 18% tax on insurance policies,” said P. Ravinder Reddy, insurance advisor. Since the horrifying second wave of COVID-19 will continue for a few more weeks at least, there will be lakhs of more patients in need of medical services. And scores of them will rely on insurance to get treated. An option apart from private hospitals are government hospitals. However, ICU and ventilator beds at government hospitals in Hyderabad are almost full most of the times. State Health department officials said that they have taken up works to increase the bed capacity.  Insurance of two patients in their mid-30s were rejected. If this issue is not addressed, thousands of critical patients cannot avail treatment. Poor and middle-class cannot gather Rs. 50,000 or more a day. A doctor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/insurance-a-strict-no-for-some-private-hospitals/article34445981.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court pulls up SEC for not stalling ULB polls||What was the need to hold elections to seven urban local bodies despite the massive surge in COVID-19 cases in the State, Telangana High Court asked State Election Commission on Thursday. Taking a serious objection to the SEC’s decision to conduct elections to Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations along with five other municipalities, the HC wondered if “the SEC officials were living in a bubble”. “How can the SEC justify conducting the polls when people are losing lives to COVID-19?” a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The bench was hearing a batch of PIL pleas seeking to defer elections to the two municipal corporations and seven other municipalities spread over five districts. The CJ asked senior counsel Vidya Sagar, appearing for SEC, as to why the Commission did not defer the elections despite having powers. If elections were not conducted on completion of the term of these municipal corporations and municipalities, the government could have appointed special officers who would have discharged the duties of the local bodies. Yet the SEC chose to hold elections to the seven ULBs even as the State and the entire country was passing through a turbulent period of tackling COVID-19 crisis, the bench noted. The SEC began preparations for the polls in December, 2020. In next two months i.e. by February-end, Coronavirus positive cases began rising alarmingly across the State. While the entire State was reeling under COVID-19 second wave, the SEC went ahead with the polls. “Why did the SEC show such a hurry in holding the polls when the State is going through a serious situation?” the CJ asked. The bench remarked that the SEC had power to shrink the campaign period of the elections. Instead of doing so, the Commission permitted political parties to take out rallies and hold public meetings. “What is the point of SEC not using the power it had,” the bench said. “Are we not waging a war against COVID-19... Why did not SEC stall the polls…. why it wrote to government seeking assistance to conduct the municipal elections,” the CJ asked Secretary to State Election Commission Ashok Kumar. When he said the elections were confined to only a few districts, the CJ read out the number of positive cases in the districts — Khammam-213, Mahabubnagar-271, Nagarkurnool-216, Rangareddy-558, Suryapet-264 and Warangal Urban-164 — where the elections were being held. With so many number of cases, was the Commission not risking the lives of election staff and the police personnel attending to poll duties, the bench said. The pleas were posted to May 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-pulls-up-sec-for-not-stalling-ulb-polls/article34445993.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fill up TSPSC chairman, member posts: HC||Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to fill up the posts of Chairman and nine members of Telangana State Public Service Commission within four weeks. Otherwise a judicial order would be passed to wind up the institution so that the Commission’s premises would be used for better purposes, said a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. PIL petition The bench was hearing a PIL petition seeking a direction to fill up the posts of the Commission’s chairman and nine members which are vacant for the past eight months. The petition was filed by one J. Shankar. Senior counsel Satyam Reddy appearing for the petitioner said there is only one key officer in the Commission and he too would be retiring this August.   “Why is the State government not filling up the vacancies to such an important institution?”, the bench sought to know. Strange, says court The bench observed the State government not appointing Chairman and members for the institution is “strange”. It wondered if the government wanted to wind up the Commission. The CJ asked Special Government Pleader Harinder Parshad, appearing for government, what steps had the government taken to fill up the key posts of the Commission. ‘Made redundant’ Not recruiting Chairman and members of the Commission had made the institution redundant, the bench observed. Observing that it was gross denial by the government, the bench said “this court is upset” over the matter. The bench directed the government to implement its direction to fill up the important posts of the Commission and file a compliance report. The matter was posted after summer vacation for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fill-up-tspsc-chairman-member-posts-hc/article34445994.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Convey decision to hospitals in an hour, IRDAI tells insurers||Sixty minutes is within which health insurers must convey their decision on cashless treatment claim authorisation to hospitals. Similarly, they must inform their decision on the final bill also within one hour. Instructions in this regard were issued by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on Thursday. It followed an April 28 order of Delhi High Court, on a writ petition, directing IRDAI to advise insurers to communicate cashless approvals to hospitals/establishments within a maximum of 30-60 minutes. This was to ensure against delay in discharge of patients and hospital beds do not remain unoccupied, the IRDAI said referring to the court order. In a circular to the insurers, the regulator said “decision on authorisation for cashless treatment for COVID-19 claims shall be communicated to the network provider (hospital) within a period of 60 minutes from the time of receipt of authorisation request along with all necessary requirements from the hospital.” Also, the decision on final discharge of patients covered in COVID-19 claims has to be communicated to the hospital within one hour from the time of receipt of final bill along with all necessary requirements from the hospital. Noting that these were outer limits, General Manager (Health) D.V.S Ramesh said, “Insurers are advised to process such requests promptly so that both authorisation for cashless treatment and discharge of the patient can be hastened to the maximum extent.” The insurers were also advised to issue appropriate directions to the respective Third Party Administrators (TPAs) for ensuring compliance with the timelines. According to IRDAI, a circular issued earlier this month had fixed a turnaround time of two hours for granting both cashless pre-authorisation and for final discharge of the insured patient. Sources said the time taken by insurers to give approval to the hospitals was one of the reasons for hospitals denying cashless treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/convey-decision-to-hospitals-in-an-hour-irdai-tells-insurers/article34445986.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ills plague cashless insurance||A year on, some aspects about COVID-19 refuse to change as evident from a recent tweet of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on hospitals denying cashless treatment to eligible health insurance policy-holders. It remains a concern, especially for people who opted for the covers in the wake of pandemic and after witnessing families exhaust savings on the treatment. Though the tweet did not share specifics and referred to reports, it was enough for insurance regulator IRDAI to swing into action. It issued two advisories, asking health insurers to ensure network providers (hospitals) extend cashless treatment as well as lodge complaints against hospitals denying the facility to respective State governments. General Insurance Agents’ Federation Integrated president Rapolu Sudhakar says little has changed, from last year, as many hospitals have been insisting on policy-holders settling the bill and then seeking reimbursement from their insurer. The tariffs prescribed for the hospitals, which he says are low, are a reason. Aggrieved customers, he adds, are venting ire on insurance agents who sold them the health covers. Director, Underwriting, Claims and Product at Max Bupa Health Insurance Bhabatosh Mishra said insurers come to know only when either the customer complains or during survey on reimbursement claims. “During the survey, we check with customers why they did not opt for cashless,” he said. Cashless treatment offers immense benefit, both in terms of relatively lesser charges on account of the tariff and in view of the average cost of COVID-19 treatment being Rs. 1-1.5 lakh, something that not many can afford out of pocket. He, however, added that instances of hospitals denying cashless treatment were sporadic. Concurring with him, Star Health Insurance Managing Director S. Prakash said, “When insurance was giving good revenue and profit they were aligned... Now, when there is a crisis, it is inhuman for hospitals to say they will not entertain cashless.” Both the executives emphasised the need to standardise treatment protocol. According to Dr. Prakash, “Opportunities come in adversity” and in the present context, insurance companies through the General Insurance Council should approach hospitals and initiate baby steps towards having in place such a standard operating procedure not just for COVID-19 but in the management of other acute conditions. Insurance companies are also at the receiving end with some blacklisting hospitals for fudging documents and conducting investigations when not required. An official of IRDAI said in addition to lodging complaints with the insurers concerned, aggrieved customers also can make use of the integrated complaint system available with the regulator. On advice to policy-holders, Dr. Mishra says before going to the hospital COVID patients should consult a clinician, and check if their condition warrants admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ills-plague-cashless-insurance/article34445982.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NTPC expands green cover in R’gundam||After developing two urban forest blocks, increasingly known as oxygen parks, in an area of 7,662 square metres (about 1.9 acres) in the industrial city of Ramagundam in Peddapalli district, NTPC has decided to raise one more urban forest block in the city in an area of 4,176 sq. metres (1.03 acres). The first two phases of the urban forest blocks have over 14,000 plantation of different species planted in the Miyawaki method in the oxidation pond area of the NTPC power plant there with the help of Telangana State Forest Development Corporation Ltd. The public sector energy utility now plans to have one more urban park, this time in the Ganganagar Park of the Ramagundam Municipal Corporation. NTPC-Ramagundam officials stated that they have plans to plant over 8,000 saplings in the third phase of the urban forest block development there by planting 54 tree species. “Our work began with clearing the jungle that has grown in Ganganagar Park. Filled with ash and bushes, the area specified by the urban forest block has been cleared of ash and bushes first to make it suitable for plantation and later filled with red soil”, NTPC official Sahadev Sethi said. The NTPC officials are of the view that “at a time when people, particularly the COVID-19 patients, are struggling to get the required medical oxygen supplies, the availability of clean air to the rest of the population is also getting increasingly scarce, particularly in the urban areas. The urban forest blocks in the Miyawaki method provide a good solution to citizens in the urban areas as they act as lung spaces with fresh air”. Miyawaki method To be developed in association with TSFDCL, the area identified for the third phase of urban forest block in the Miyawaki method has been secured with a boundary wall already and the plantation area has been divided into eight sectors. Each sector-wise bed has been dug up for 0.60 metres depth and filled with layers of paddy husk, farmyard manure, cocopeat and jeevamrutham. It is being planned to plant 13 varieties of high canopy species, 18 varieties of medium canopy species and 23 varieties of low canopy species with a grid interval of 0.75×0.75 metres. The first two urban forest blocks have already grown into thick green cover with 100% survival rate of plants, the NTPC officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-expands-green-cover-in-rgundam/article34446110.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1.75 cr. people in 18-45 age group in State||There are around 1.75 crore people in Telangana who are in the age group of 18-45 years. And 3.5 crore doses would be needed to give jab twice to all of them. Comparison of these numbers with the number of doses consumed in the State will give an idea about the scale of requirement. Since January 16, the State has received 46.53 lakh doses of vaccine on the whole. The Health department officials said that procuring the vaccines for the age group from May 1 will be quite a task when people are already waiting for their second dose. No slots Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that officials had informed him that there would be confusion if the vaccine doses were not available. The slots to book the vaccination date were not available till Thursday night. “Leaving the onus of procuring the vaccines on States led to many issues. Efforts are being put in to get more doses,” sources in the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/175-cr-people-in-18-45-age-group-in-state/article34445984.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana likely to get rains for next few days||Light, moderate and even thunder-showers have been forecast for the next few days across Telangana due to a trough running from west Vidarbha to south Tamil Nadu across interior Karnataka. Partly cloudy sky Partly cloudy sky with no major change in temperatures either during the day or night and likely to stay at 39 degree Celsius and 26 degree Celsius, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday. Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) has stated in the bulletin that the highest rainfall of 20.3 mm has been recorded at Thimmajipeta (Nagarkurnool), highest maximum temperature of 43.5 degree Celsius recorded at Jaina (Jagtial) and lowest minimum temperature of 19.4 degree Celsius recorded at Thimmajipeta (Nagarkurnool). Within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, the highest maximum temperature of 38.3 degree Celsius was recorded at Kapra and the lowest minimum temperature of 21.4 degree Celsius was recorded at BHEL in Ramachandrapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-likely-to-get-rains-for-next-few-days/article34445988.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TASK summit on new skills for students||Telangana Academy of Skills and Knowledge (TASK), Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC), X Billion Skills Lab, and The United Nations Young Changemakers Conclave (UNYCC) have partnered to address the skill gap of students so that they can build a sustainable career in the new technology-driven world of work. Some 10,000 students would be trained from 33 districts as a part of the programme and this is being done through a summit on ‘21st century workplace skills’ on May 1. The summit features some of the top industry professionals such Vikas Gupta, managing director of Talent, Deloitte, Renuka Bodla of Novartis Biome India, Vijaya Mohana Reddy, chief of staff, IT, in Dell, Koushik Srinivasan, managing director of KaN Associates and Bhuvaneshwari Cheruvu, chief marketing officer of Artean, who will speak on various subjects. Keynote addresses will be delivered by national badminton coach Pullela Gopichand and Principal Secretary, ITE&C and Industries, Jayesh Ranjan. CEO of TASK Shrikant Sinha said the summit addresses some very pertinent aspects about today’s work culture and also some key skills like agility, creativity, critical thinking, negotiation, emotional intelligence, collaboration and the wisdom to make independent decisions in addition to their technical or academic skills. The summit is open to all the students from across different fields of study. Registrations can be done on http://bit.ly/unycc_task. Registered students can attend the live programme on www.task.radiusedutech.com, as well as the Facebook and YouTube channels of TASK and UNYCC. The program will also be telecast live on TSAT Nipuna channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/task-summit-on-new-skills-for-students/article34446108.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TIMS declares phone on patient status||Flooded with complaints about the functioning of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) and its employees, the hospital authorities on Thursday announced certain measures to help the families of COVID patients. TIMS director Dr. Vimala Thomas said that a dedicated phone with operations was being assigned for the status updates of patients. Updates would also be given via whatsapp especially in case of those admitted in the ICUs. The diet contractor is being replaced with effect from May 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tims-declares-phone-on-patient-status/article34445985.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Asked about polls, Eatala evades topic||In the wake of people from various walks of life criticising the municipal elections in Telangana on April 30 at a time when the State is reeling under the second wave of coronavirus, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that the elections are held in only four to five municipalities, which are small. When questions about the elections were raised at a press conference held in Hyderabad on Thursday, Mr. Rajender gave a brief reply and switched the topic in a few seconds. If the numbers from the first and second wave of the pandemic are considered, the highest number of cases and deaths were recorded in the past a few days. Doctors have been alerting that elections in such times could lead to further burden on the health system. “Precautionary measures are already taken. The SEC issued instructions not to come out without wearing masks, and maintain physical distancing. I would like to talk about the three demands we received, the first one being that vaccination and tests are conducted at the same PHCs that give chances for cross contamination,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asked-about-elections-eatala-evades-topic/article34445983.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Oxygen Express leaves for Odisha||The first empty ‘Oxygen Express’ with five tankers from the South Central Railway (SCR) started from Secunderabad (Cantonment military siding) on Thursday for Angul in Odisha, where the empty tankers will be filled with liquid oxygen. The special train commissioned on the request of the TS government and the green corridor to ensure the run was uninterrupted was mapped out taking into consideration various constraints like curves, road over bridges, platform canopies, and overhead equipment, among others, along the route. General Manager Gajanan Mallya advised officials to continue taking proactive steps in case of any request for further Oxygen Express movement and instructed all the divisions to give utmost priority to run these trains and continuously monitor the movement, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-express-leaves-for-odisha/article34445987.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘1.92 PMGKAY beneficiaries in TS’||In Telangana, the total number of persons who benefited under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) scheme are 1.92 crore with a total distribution of 1.92 lakh metric tonnes of rice to be distributed by the end of the month, according to Mr. Ashwani Kumar Gupta, General Manager of Food Corporation of India (Telangana). In a media release on Thursday, the top official said that the PMGKAY had reintroduced by the Government of India for May and June 2021. “This is a pro-poor scheme to ameliorate the hardships faced by the poor due to economic disruption caused by the Covid pandemic,” he said. “Under the scheme, food grains @ 5 kg per month are given free of cost to NFSA beneficiaries,” he added. This allocation will be in addition to the regular monthly NFSA allocation and migrant NFSA beneficiaries can use the facility of portability under one nation one ration card to avail the benefits under this scheme, the top FCI official said. “The FCI and the State machinery are geared up and are fully prepared to ensure that all the beneficiaries get their quota of rice within time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/192-pmgkay-beneficiaries-in-telangana/article34445995.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||19 oxygen cylinders seized, one held||In a joint operation, Hyderabad police and Drug Control Authority officials raided an illegal oxygen storage godown at Golconda and apprehended a person. According to the police, Md Abdul Kareem (32) was selling oxygen cylinders without valid permission from the authorities concerned. They seized 19 cylinders from his possession, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P. Radha Kishan Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/19-oxygen-cylinders-seized-one-held/article34445990.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for selling Remdesivir in black||A 39-year-old man who was black marketing Remdesivir antiviral injection was apprehended by the sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (East Zone) here on Thursday. The accused, B. Srihari, from Nimboliadda, runs a pharmacy shop. They seized four Remdesivir 100 mg injections from his possession. He was selling each injection for Rs. 30,000 to needy customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-selling-remdesivir-in-black/article34445996.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2.7 kg gold seized at RGIA||A passenger from Dubai, who tried to smuggle in 2.7 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.36 crore by concealing it in a pasta making machine was detained by the Customs officials at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, on Thursday. The accused arrived on Emirates flight EK-526. “The 24 karat gold bar was concealed in a pasta making machine,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/27-kg-gold-seized-at-rgia/article34446061.ece
30 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vaccination announced without logistics in place: Congress||Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Thursday charged the Central and State governments with announcing the vaccination programmes without preparing the logistics. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced Vaccination Utsav from April 11 to 14 without any idea about the availability of vaccine doses across the country and it proved to be a damp squib. Similarly, the Centre announced vaccination of all individuals above the age of 18 years from May 1 vaguely without giving a thought to the logistics and infrastructure involved, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-announced-without-logistics-in-place-congress/article34446000.ece
30 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam and Siddipet ready for municipal elections||A little over 2.88 lakh voters are expected to cast their votes in Friday’s election to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) even as elaborate arrangements are in place to enable the voters exercise their franchise in adherence to COVID-19 safety precautions. As the COVID-19 second wave continues to loom large over the district, all eyes are now on the possible impact on the voter turnout in Friday’s KMC election. Around 251 candidates are in the fray for 60 wards in the KMC. The election authorities have made arrangements to provide face masks, face shields and hand sanitisers to the polling staff as per the COVID-19 safety protocols. The postal ballot facility has been extended to the COVID-19 patients and voters above 80 years of age as well as physically challenged electors on a par with the eligible employees deployed on election duty, KMC sources said. A little over 250 postal ballots have been dispatched to the eligible voters by Thursday evening, sources added. In a statement, Collector and the District Election Authority R V Karnan said the civic election will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. at 377 polling booths. All arrangements have been made to ensure conduct of the KMC elections in a free and fair manner. A total of 2,274 polling staff and 1,700 police personnel have been drafted for election duty. The polling process will be videographed in as many as 65 polling booths and webcast in 56 polling booths. A total of 75 micro-observers will monitor the polling process in 258 polling booths. Penalty if no masks Elections for 43 wards in Siddipet municipality will be held on Friday. All arrangements were put in place for the smooth conduct of elections. The polling will commence at 7 a.m. and end at 5 p.m. Those who are in queues by the deadline will be allowed to cast their vote. Those who are coming to polling stations should wear masks or else they would be imposed a penalty of Rs. 1,000. The polling staff were extended with head shield, N-95 masks and sanitisers. Additional Collector Muzammil Khan, ACP Rameswar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner G. Narsaiah supervised the arrangements. The main contestants in the elections are from TRS, BJP and Congress while majority are independents testing their luck. A total of 2,388 polling staff were roped in for the smooth conduct of elections. In addition to the polling staff 482 police officials are on duty. There are more than one lakh voters in the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-and-siddipet-ready-for-municipal-elections/article34446002.ece
30 April 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||COVID positive woman dies in hospital||A woman died at the community health centre (CHC) in Toopran on Thursday after she tested positive. According to sources, the 30-year-old woman of Potharajpally was suffering from corona symptoms since Wednesday and came for testing to the CHC on Thursday. Her sugar levels shot up to 500 mark leading to her collapse. Meanwhile, news of more deaths started pouring in. A 30-year-old woman from the same village reportedly died of corona symptoms. Sarpanch of a village in Kowdipally mandal died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gachibowli, Hyderabad. A 35-year old person died at Sitaramtanda in Shivampet mandal, and a 55-year-old person from a village in Kalher mandal died while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital. At Annaram village in Gummadidala mandal, an elderly person and a youth succumbed. A 50-year old person from Aakaram village in Dubbak mandal too died. A lawyer from Narsapur died while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-positive-woman-dies-in-hospital/article34446105.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Last respect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-respect/article34446107.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pleasant surprise at PHCs - Vaccination response||My husband and I went to the government primary health centre at Venkat Reddy Nagar, Ramanthapur, for vaccination with some apprehensions. To my surprise, the centre turned out to be well-furnished, clean and spacious. Almost all the staff were women and were prompt. We went to the same place for the second dose. There was a huge crowd but the police helped in social distancing. My experience here changed my impressions about government hospitals. I appreciate the staff for their sincerity and methodical way of handling the programme. K. Rajalaxmi Ramanthapur    My wife and I took doses of Covaxin at NIMS even on gazetted holidays. I wish to thank the dedicated staff especially the sisters for their yeoman service. K. Ramakrishna Hyderabad    We (senior citizens) took our first dose of Covaxin at Cantonment Hospital, Secunderabad, on March 18. We did not get any intimation on our mobiles for the second dose and when approached, we were told about non-availability of the vaccine. I request the authorities concerned to make arrangements to administer second shots for seniors like us at home to avoid risk of travelling. N.S.R. Murthy Secunderabad    I am a senior citizen and could not take the first vaccine dose due to my health condition. After recovery, I have been trying since the last 10 days to get my shot but it is not available. Wherever it is available, they are doing the second dose. I wish to draw the kind attention of the authorities to help people by putting a transparent system in place to know when and where they can get vaccination, free or on payment. L.K. Baid Hyderabad     I am a senior citizen and booked a slot through Cowin app in a private hospital at Nallagandla. But, on the day of vaccine, I was informed to reschedule due to non-availability. Ever since I have not been getting a slot in any of the nearby hospitals. If people of my age are not able to get the vaccine, how will the 18 plus get? N. Mohan Rao Hyderabad    I had taken my first jab in a private hospital for which I got a certificate and my second jab was done in a government hospital but there was no acknowledgement and it was not updated in the app. I am also not able to get through the customer care no. 1075. I request the authorities concerned to help me download my vaccine certificate. V.R. Venkatesh Hyderabad    My bed-ridden wife and I got vaccinated last month but we are unable to get the second dose despite numerous attempts made in the last couple of weeks through the online app as the vaccine is not available. It is already eight weeks and we do not know what to do now. Y. Dharma Rao Hyderabad    ISRO’s National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) has been arranging vaccination at the PHC in Balanagar for its serving and retired employees. This helps beneficiaries get convenient jabs with precautions. I thank the administration for its initiative. Mohd. Ikramulla Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pleasant-surprise-at-phcs-vaccination-response/article34445989.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Order release of Remdesivir seized from hoarders: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to issue orders for the release of Remdesivir, used in the treatment of COVID-19, as soon as the medicine is seized by the police from hoarders and black-marketeers. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said that the stock that have been seized by the police does not remain unused as case property. All the medicines or oxygen cylinders, which are seized, can be released and put to use for patients in need, the High Court said. The court also made it clear that Remdesivir or oxygen cylinders ought not to be seized from patients or their attendants, who may have procured it on the black market, as they may have taken such a step “out of sheer desperation and need”. The High Court also asked the Centre to expedite the installation of the remaining four Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants, out of a total eight, in Delhi. It also directed the Delhi government to request the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the supply of the ‘on-board oxygen generation system’, developed for use on Tejas fighter aircraft, which can be installed in hospitals to produce medical grade oxygen. The direction came after the Bench was informed that the Uttar Pradesh government had already made such a request for the system, which can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. Two judicial officers, Kovai Venugopal and Kamran Khan, have succumbed to COVID-19 and over 60 judges are also infected with the virus. Taking note of the issue, the Bench asked the Delhi district judges to coordinate with District Magistrates (DMs) to address the medical concerns of judicial officers and their families during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose said, “We don’t want our judges to become martyrs to COVID-19”, as he suggested converting dispensaries in residential complexes of judicial officers and even court complexes into COVID care centre for judicial officers and their families. The High Court also ordered the Delhi government that the Wednesday’s order to take over the supervision of an oxygen refilling plant, Seth Air, which also supplies to neighbouring States, will not adversely affect the oxygen supply to Haryana. The Haryana government had sought clarification regarding the April 27 order of taking over charge of ‘Seth Air’, which is situated in Palwal and supplies oxygen cylinders in Delhi and Haryana. “We make it clear that the direction to take over supervision of ‘Seth Air’ plant by officers of Delhi government would not have adversarial effects in the supply of oxygen to Haryana in terms of the allocation. Application is disposed of,” the high court said. During the hearing, the court also asked the Delhi government to create a portal for people who wish to donate medical equipment from abroad for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/order-release-of-remdesivir-seized-from-hoarders-delhi-hc/article34445688.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Pet crematorium to be used for last rites of COVID patients||With the sole crematorium located in its vicinity overburdened and forced to function beyond capacity over the last ten days, another facility intended to be the Capital’s first funeral venue for pet animals will now be utilised for the last rites of COVID patients instead. This, despite the capacity of the Dwarka Sector-24 crematorium having been more than doubled between April 19 and April 28 and borne witness to close to the last rites of 400 people who lost their lives to the virus. Five dozen funeral pyres have been constructed and the construction of more is seemingly a matter of time at the Dog Crematorium, which was being constructed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on a parcel of land spread across an estimated four acres in Dwarka’s Sector-29. It was proposed as a pet crematorium by the South civic body last year. “We have so far constructed 60 pyres at the facility. The situation related to COVID-19 deaths and the sudden surge in their numbers in the national capital is rather dynamic and needs to be addressed on a daily basis. More platforms will be built as and when the need to create them is felt over the coming days,” SDMC Mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh said. The Dwarka Sector-24 cremation ground nearby, according to data recorded by the South civic body over the period, has witnessed the cremation of 365 bodies between April 19 and April 28. Beginning with a dedicated capacity of just 20 on April 19, the capacity of the venue was increased to 23 on April 20, reached 32 on April 22 and finally to 44 on April 26. According to records compiled by the three municipal corporations, as many as 5,091 cremations took place over the last ten days and 2,340 of these took place at the nine funeral venues under the South civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pet-crematorium-to-be-used-for-last-rites-of-covid-patients/article34445692.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gurdwara body opens 100-bed hospital near Sarai Kale Khan||The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has opened a 100-bed hospital near Sarai Kale Khan that provides dialysis. DSGMC officials said that there are plans to convert it into a COVID care facility as well in the near future. DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “Several people are turning up for treatment already. This is the biggest ‘sewa’ for humanity. There will be over 100 beds reserved for dialysis. This will be a completely free facility and several people have also voluntarily made contributions towards this facility.” With a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases, Mr. Sirsa said that the DSGMC will also open a facility having over 200 oxygen-supported beds at the Rakabgunj Gurudwara, by next week. “We are planning to open a facility at Rakabgunj with around 250 beds that will be oxygen-supported beds. It should be made available to people by next week – either on May 2 or 3. Preparations to make this facility functional is currently under way,” said Mr. Sirsa. The DSGMC president added that tie-ups with hospitals are also being considered to make ICU beds available at the facility. “We are also planning to start ICU beds, but for that we will need a tie-up with hospitals.,” said Mr. Sirsa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurdwara-body-opens-100-bed-hospital-near-sarai-kale-khan/article34445697.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi police dedicate lane on extreme left for ambulances||The Delhi Police on Thursday dedicated a lane on the extreme left side of the road at picket checking for ambulances to facilitate them as the movement of emergency vehicles has been increased in city due to the spike in COVID-19 cases, officials said. The step was implemented on Thursday in 15 police districts across the national capital, they said. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava took to Twitter to inform about it. “Delhi Police stations directed to dedicate a lane on extreme left of road for ambulance and emergency vehicles, including oxygen tankers & cylinders [in emergency]. This done to facilitate them while lockdown violators prosecuted on regular lanes [sic.],” Mr. Shrivastava tweeted. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said that the lane has been created by putting barricades. “We have created a dedicated passage for emergency vehicles by demarcating a separate lane on the left side of the road. It will remain closed for entry of other exempted vehicles. A loose barricade will be there when there is no movement of emergency vehicles. As and when staffers at picket see ambulances, oxygen tankers or other emergency vehicles, they will make passage for smooth and hassle-free movement,” Mr. Biswal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-dedicate-lane-on-extreme-left-for-ambulances/article34445695.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Dentist held for selling Remdesivir||A 32-year-old dentist has been arrested by a special task force (STF) formed by the Delhi government for selling Remdesivir and a total of eight injections were recovered, a statement said. All District Magistrates were instructed to form STFs to crack down on hoarding and black marketing of drugs. The dentist, Vishu Aggarwal, MDS, was apprehended from Barwala Chowk with his car and he was found possessing three injections of Remdesivir without any receipt or prescription. During interrogation, Dr. Aggarwal disclosed that he procured the injections from Nikhil Garg (22) for Rs. 35,000 per injection and was planning to sell those at Rs. 45,000 per injection. “During interrogation, Nikhil disclosed that the recovered injections were procured from one Naveen from Rohini. We have filed an FIR and efforts are being made to arrest Naveen,” said Isha Khosla, District Magistrate (North).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dentist-held-for-selling-remdesivir/article34445693.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 inmates of Tihar succumb to COVID-19||Two COVID-19 positive inmates of Tihar jail died at a hospital in east Delhi on Thursday, officials said. The deceased have been identified as Kamaljeet (75) and Kehkashan (41), they said. “Murder convict Kamaljeet of central jail number 3, Tihar, tested positive for COVID-19 on April 16. He was admitted to GTB Hospital on April 21 and died on Thursday. Kehkashan of central jail number 6, Tihar, was tested positive on April 17 and was admitted to GTB Hospital on April 22. She also died on Thursday. She was lodged in the jail in a cheating case,” a senior jail official said. Six inmates have died due to the virus since the pandemic began last year. Of them, four died this year. Two COVID-19 positive inmates of Mandoli Jail had died on June 15 and July 4 last year. According to data shared by prisons department, 303 inmates have tested positive since March 2021. Of them, 33 recovered, four expired and 266 are active cases. A total of 125 staff members has tested positive since March this year. Eight have recovered and 117 are still under treatment, it said. The first COVID-19 infection was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-inmates-of-tihar-succumb-to-covid-19/article34445696.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Intramural spread of COVID is most difficult to control’||Dr. Ambarish Satwik, vascular and endovascular surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi calls for the rationing of resources like blood tests so that severe patents who need results with a quicker turnaround time get their report faster. He also stresses on the importance of wearing a mask at home if there is a person developing a respiratory infection so that it does not spread within those living together.  Following are excerpts from an interview.  The nature of the virus is such that entire families are getting infected by just staying at home. How do you deal with such a situation? The intramural spread, which is the spread of the virus inside a household or a closed space, is perhaps the most difficult to control. When you go out, you are wearing a mask but inside a building or office you are not. You obviously can’t wear a mask all the time but even if a person is infected and you are sitting around a table eating lunch, everybody around can get it. So at the slightest suspicion of a person developing an upper respiratory infection or fever, the patient must wear a light surgical mask if he or she is not breathless, and others around should wear an N95 mask. There is an overwhelming consensus that this is an air-borne infection in addition to being a droplet infection that is spread by coughing or sneezing. Aerosols are produced even when speaking and linger around a room like a cloud. Especially now in summers, with air conditioners on most of the time, the virus thrives and can be around for a few hours depending on the viral load of the person. So, it is important to ventilate the space. RTPCR tests results are taking long. Do you think people are not starting to take precautions early and are waiting for validation from test results? In terms of precaution, it must be treated as COVD if a person has fever or an upper respiratory infection. However, medication or treatment should not be started without consulting a doctor. The report sometimes can also be a false negative depending on the quality of the test kit used. Some variants are also evading the RT-PCR test. Communal air then is the biggest source of contagion. I am not saying that one should wear a mask indoors all the time, but if someone in the house has fever, which is a sign of infection or high-grade fever and is a sign of pneumonia, they should sleep in a separate, well-ventilated room. Loss of smell is also another indicator that should not be ignored even if the RT-PCR test result comes negative. We have seen a lot of rush at hospitals over the past few weeks. In such a scenario, how do you choose who to admit and who not to? Most hospitals are following a system of rationalisation of beds and there is a system of who requires admission and who does not. This is where some of the blood tests advised to look for inflammatory markers assume significance because if there is a rapid or significant rise in inflammatory markers, then that could be suggestive of underlying pneumonia or a spiraling turn for the worse. Most cases of mild and moderate COVID can be managed and have been successfully managed at home if you are in constant touch with a physician over the phone and following advice strictly. The government has been engaged in firefighting to upscale health infrastructure. What more needs to be done apart from adding more beds, ensuring medicines are not in short supply and uninterrupted supply of oxygen? Nobody could have anticipated this kind of surge so our unpreparedness for this has been exposed. Both Central and State governments are, I am sure, doing everything possible to deal with the load of cases in the short term, but this is the time to rationalise. What happens is a blood test, for instance, is being prescribed numerous times even for a mild case of COVID. What it does is that it ends up clogging the system and increasing the turnaround time for a test result. A severe patient can’t wait three-four days to get their results as several important decisions, such as starting steroids, can get delayed that could lead to a patient not getting timely treatment. You can’t squander your resources on patients who don’t really require such extensive investigations. The government will get more beds and streamline supplies to deal with the surge, but this is the time to double down on masking and non-pharmacological interventions because you have to block transmission. Remember, somebody dying of COVID obviously got it from someone else who got it from someone else. If you block the chain of transmission, you are doing your bit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/intramural-spread-of-covid-is-most-difficult-to-control/article34445690.ece
30 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha goverment flags acute shortage of Covishield vaccine||The Odisha government on Thursday flagged the acute shortage of Covishield vaccine that threatens inoculation of people aged 45 and above waiting for their second dose. “We are facing acute shortage of Covishield in the State. We are unable to give second dose to 45 and above age group. While vaccine required for beneficiaries due for second dose is 6.3 lakh doses, the State is currently having stock of 1.1 lakh doses,” said P. K. Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health). “At this difficult juncture, the government is minutely identifying people urgently requiring second dose through our vaccine tracking system. We are making best possible efforts to vaccinate them on priority basis. When vaccine consignment arrives, the vaccination drive would be speeded up,” said Mr. Mohapatra. Due to depleted vaccine stock, inoculation drive was temporarily halted in 12 out of 30 districts in Odisha on Thursday. The government which was once carrying out vaccination at more than 1,400 sites brought it down to 302. Vaccination was cancelled in districts such as Balasore, Bhadrak, Boudh, Cuttack, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kendrapara. Keonjhar, Khordha, Koraput, Mayurbhanj and Puri on Thursday.  Covaxin stock Though Bhubaneswar is part of Khordha, vaccination was allowed in the capital city because it is the only place where Covaxin is administered. Odisha has a stock of 3.46 lakh doses of Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-goverment-flags-acute-shortage-of-covishield-vaccine/article34445714.ece
30 April 2021||Chandigarh,||Himachal announces restrictions||With a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday announced that all educational institutions and temples across the State would remain closed till May 10. The decisions were taken at a high-level meeting presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to review the COVID-19 situation in the State. Mr. Thakur said the government had also decided to impose a complete ban on dham (community feast) at weddings and other celebrations. He said it had also been decided to restrict social gatherings to not more than 20 persons. Expressing concern over a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases, Mr. Thakur said the government was making all-out efforts to curb the spread of the pandemic by taking stringent steps.  ‘Five-day week’ “All government offices will have a five-day week and 50% of total employees of the Class III and Class IV categories would be ensured in the government offices till May 10,” he said. Mr. Thakur said that steps were being taken to increase bed capacity, particularly in “heavy load districts” including Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan, Una and Sirmaur. “Testing capacity would be enhanced in the State and the time for getting test reports would be reduced. An effective mechanism would be evolved to check and regulate entry of people visiting the State from other parts of the country. People coming from other parts of the country would have to remain under home isolation for 14 days and also give information regarding their arrival to the local authorities as well as elected representatives of Panchayati Raj institutions and Urban Local Bodies,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/himachal-announces-restrictions/article34445715.ece
30 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Free vaccine sought for ESIC beneficiaries||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday sought directives from the Centre for free vaccine from the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) for all its registered beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 years.  Letter to Minister In a letter to Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, the Chief Minister said such an initiative would be a progressive step towards covering the industrial working class of the country, as part of the Government of India’s aim of vaccinating the adult population against Covid-19. Citing medical experts, the Chief Minister stressed that vaccination could go a long way in arresting the transmission of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/free-vaccine-sought-for-esic-beneficiaries/article34445712.ece
30 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Two bridges, apartments damaged in Assam quake||The earthquake of 6.4 magnitude on Wednesday morning damaged 576 structures, including high-rise apartments, two bridges and a river embankment across 18 districts of Assam, officials said on Thursday. The Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said there were 20 aftershocks of magnitudes varying from 2.3 to 4.7 till 6 p.m. on Thursday. Two people had died of shock in the Dhekiajuli area of Sonitpur district. The total number of injured people went up to 12 in the last 24 hours, the ASDMA said. “Damage assessment has been completed in 18 districts so far and 428 residential houses/apartments and 148 private and public institutions such as schools and health centres are reported to have been damaged,” the authority said. Two bridges in Nagaon district were also damaged, it said. The National Disaster Response Force, the State Disaster Response Force and experts from Assam Engineering College were among various agencies who prepared the damage assessment so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-bridges-apartments-damaged-in-assam-quake/article34445713.ece
30 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan CM Gehlot tests positive||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday tested positive for COVID-19, though he announced that he was feeling well and did not have any symptoms. Mr. Gehlot’s wife Sunita, who had earlier tested positive, is being treated for the infection. In a Twitter post written in Hindi, the 69-year-old senior Congress leader said he would continue working in isolation, while following the COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Gehlot had gone into self-isolation as a precaution on Wednesday after his wife tested positive. Get-well wishes poured in for the Chief Minister from all over the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished for his speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-tests-positive/article34445716.ece
30 April 2021||LUCKNOW:,||U.P. panchayat elections turn deadly for those on duty||Ram Krishna Pandey feels his father Pankaj Pandey’s death could have been averted had the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls been postponed keeping in mind the second wave of COVID-19. Pankaj Pandey, a head clerk with the Basic Education Department in Pratapgarh, died on April 26 after suffering from COVID-19-related complications and a drop in his oxygen levels. While the disease got his father, Mr. Ram Krishna blames the situation in which his father was forced to work. “He died because of the election,” said Mr. Ram Krishna, a graduation student in Allahabad University. “The election should not have taken place now. It could have been delayed or held along with the Bihar polls last year.” Like thousands of teachers in the State, Mr. Ram’s father was also assigned polling duty in the three-tier panchayat polls, voting for which concluded on Thursday. The numbers explain the massive scale of the polls: 12.96 crore registered voters and over 2 lakh voting booths and 80,762 voting centres spread across the State in four phases during the peak of the coronavirus infections. Over 2.43 lakh officials and staff were assigned duties for the polls, according to the State Election Commission (SEC). Pankaj Pandey started to display symptoms, cough and depleting oxygen levels two days after he returned from polling duty, his family said. He was first treated at a private hospital but since he did not get relief, his family shifted him to a major public hospital in Prayagraj, and he died on April 26. He leaves behind his son, wife, and daughter, whose marriage is scheduled for July 11. Mr. Ram Krishna says his father had tested negative earlier and was fine before joining polling duty in the Bihar block of the district. While coming down heavily on the State government, the Allahabad High Court on April 27 issued notice to the U.P. SEC to explain the non-compliance of COVID-19 guidelines during the panchayat polls after taking note of the death of 135 teachers, Shiksha Mitras and investigators, who were assigned to election duty in the ongoing panchayat polls and had tested positive. Various teacher unions in the State estimate that the number of teachers and teaching staff who died due to COVID-19 after being exposed to infection on polling duty to be anywhere between 550 to 1,000. They hold the U.P. SEC and the government responsible for the deaths. Mahendra Nath Rai, secretary of the 65,000-member U.P. Madhyamik Sikshak Sangh, Chandel faction, said 1,000 teachers, from primary to higher education and university levels, died due to the virus during the polls. “This obstinacy to conduct the polls was not in the interest of the society or the State. Life is more important than elections,” said Mr. Rai, demanding that the polling procedure, counting for which is scheduled on May 2, be immediately stalled to prevent further loss of lives. Mr. Rai said the guidelines issued by the court and the SEC for the polls were impractical in densely-populated U.P. The bereaved are dealing with their loss with a sense of anger. Lawyer Satyam Rai’s father Pankaj Rai, a school principal, died on April 24 after serving in the panchayat polls’ second phase in Azamgarh. Mr. Satyam says his father died due to the “poor state of government hospitals” and the culpability of the SEC.  SEC blamed Mr. Satyam blames the SEC for not deferring the polls despite the surge in cases. Rama Shankar Shukla, Pratapgarh president of the Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, says the migration of people from cities and their return home for voting in the locally crucial panchayat polls pushed the infection to the villages. The polling agents first conducted two-three training sessions in villages and then travelled to other districts for polling duty, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-panchayat-elections-turn-deadly-for-those-on-duty/article34445711.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||First in India: BMC decides to introduce mono pile technology in Coastal Road||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to introduce mono pile technology, for the first time in the country, in the under-construction Coastal Road that connects south Mumbai to western suburbs. Generally, any bridge on a sea or river is built using group pile technology. But in mono pile technology, one single pile is used instead of four piles for supporting one pillar. “This will save us on the space to construct the pillars. The number of piles has come down to 176 from 704 due to the introduction of this new technology. It is also environment friendly,” Suprabha Marathe, chief engineer of the coastal road project, said. The BMC has initiated the pioneering project of building three such pillars using mono pile technology. Construction of test piles will be completed by July after which they will be subjected to pressure of a few tonnes horizontally as well as vertically to test their load-taking capacity. “We have invited experts from different countries who have experience in this technology since this is being built for the first time in India,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/first-in-india-bmc-decides-to-introduce-mono-pile-technology-in-coastal-road/article34445595.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||Is Aadhaar mandatory for prisoners to get vaccine jabs, HC asks Centre, State||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Centre and the Maharashtra government to clarify if it was mandatory for prisoners to carry their Aadhaar cards to get COVID-19 vaccines. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) petition on the rise of COVID-19 cases inside prisons in the State. The court was informed that the prisoners were required to carry their Aadhaar cards for vaccination and many were left out as they did not have their cards with them. To this, the court said, “Given that the vaccine was the surest and most cost-effective way of containing the spread of the virus, inmates must not be denied the vaccines because they did not have Aadhaar cards.” The Bench said, “If the Aadhaar card is coming in the way, then let Aadhaar registration camps be organised then and there (in prisons or vaccination centres for inmates), and such cards be issued.” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the State had successfully got vaccination teams inside three prisons, but the process was paused due to lack of vaccines and trained staff. The amicus curie, senior advocate Mihir Desai, and prof. Vijay Raghavan of Tata Institute of Social Sciences told the court that the high-powered committee constituted to look into the release of prisoners in the wake of the pandemic had not met since April 2020. Mr. Desai said in 2020, there were 2,500 inmates in Taloja prison, and it currently had 3,500 prisoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/is-aadhaar-mandatory-for-prisoners-to-get-vaccine-jabs-hc-asks-centre-state/article34445599.ece
30 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC sets up ‘Oxygen War Room’||Following the Nashik oxygen leak incident, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has set up an ‘Oxygen War Room’ with a six-member team to operate it, at its headquarters in Belapur. The war room will monitor oxygen supply at all the NMMC-run COVID Care Centres (CCCs) and private hospitals where COVID-19 patients are treated. “After taking a review of the oxygen status, the decision to establish the ‘Oxygen War Room’ was taken. The room will take prompt action when there is need of oxygen at any hospital,” NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. The corporation has also placed a work order to have its own PSA oxygen plant at the Vashi exhibition centre which is now a civic-run CCC. The plant is expected to be ready by May 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nmmc-sets-up-oxygen-war-room/article34445596.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six of a family killed in cylinder explosion||Six members of a family died after a cylinder caught fire in a shanty in south-west Delhi’s Bijwasan on early Thursday, officials said. According to fire officials, they received a call about a fire in a transformer at Balmiki Colony around 12.30 a.m. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The officials said the fire came from a transformer and flames spread rapidly to two shanties nearby. There were two to three shanties in a field at Balmiki Colony, said a senior police officer. Due to the fire and cylinder blast, labourer Kamlesh (37), his wife Budhani (32), their two daughters aged 16 and 12, and two sons aged 6 years and 3 months, died. After the blaze was doused, fire officials and police personnel shifted the bodies to Safdarjung Hospital. Five persons in the other shanty are safe, police said. A case will be registered under relevant sections of law, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/six-of-a-family-killed-in-cylinder-explosion/article34445969.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for selling fire extinguisher as cylinder||Two persons were arrested for allegedly cheating a woman by selling her a fire extinguisher instead of an oxygen cylinder on Thursday, police said. Ashutosh (19) and Ayush (22), residents of Vikaspuri, were arrested from Uttam Nagar and five fire extinguishers were seized. They were selling each fire extinguisher as oxygen cylinder for Rs. 10,000, police said. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the complainant Geeta Arora, a resident of Shishram Park in Bindapur, alleged that two persons sold her a fire extinguisher in place of an oxygen cylinder. Her relative was suffering from COVID-19 and was having difficulty in breathing. In a bid to arrange an oxygen cylinder, she contacted the accused, who duped her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-held-for-selling-fire-extinguisher-as-cylinder/article34445970.ece
30 April 2021||Pune,||IIT-Bombay pilots innovative technology to generate oxygen||In the wake of medical oxygen shortage to treat COVID-19 patients, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay is piloting a new technology to convert a nitrogen unit into an oxygen generating unit. The institute, in a statement released on Thursday, said the process relied on a simple technological intervention of converting a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) nitrogen unit into a PSA oxygen unit. Initial tests at IIT-Bombay had shown promising results, the statement said. “Oxygen production could be achieved at 3.5 atm pressure, with a purity level of 93%-96 %. This gaseous oxygen can be utilised for COVID-19-related needs across existing hospitals and upcoming COVID-19 specific facilities by providing a continuous supply of oxygen,” the institute said. “It [conversion of nitrogen unit into an oxygen unit] has been done by fine-tuning the existing nitrogen plant set-up and changing the molecular sieves from carbon to zeolite,” the statement said quoting prof. Milind Atrey, dean (R&D), IITB, who led the project. Mr. Atrey said such nitrogen plants, which take air from the atmosphere as raw material, are available in various industrial plants across India. “Therefore, each of them could potentially be converted into an oxygen generator, thus helping us tide over the current public health emergency,” he said. The pilot project is a collaborative effort among IIT-Bombay, Tata Consulting Engineers and Spantech Engineers, Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/iit-bombay-pilots-innovative-technology-to-generate-oxygen/article34445598.ece
30 April 2021||Washington,||Joe Biden calls for expansion in govt. spending||In his first joint address to Congress, U.S. President Joe Biden called for a massive expansion in government spending and investment in American society, unveiling a $1.8-trillion plan that included the provision of universal pre-school, free community college and elderly care under the American Families Plan. Mr. Biden’s speech highlighted his administration’s achievements with mass vaccination for COVID-19 and the impact of a $1.9-trillion relief package passed earlier this year. The focus of the speech was workers and their families, with Mr. Biden also pitching his $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan (the American Jobs Plan). Owing to COVID-19 restrictions, the House Chamber on Capitol Hill was sparsely populated with lawmakers from both sides of the aisle. Other attendees included Chief Justice John Roberts and General Mike Milley, the Joint Chiefs of Staff. As has been practice since the Cold War, there was no ‘designated survivor’, as several members of Mr. Biden’s Cabinet viewed the speech remotely. The evening also witnessed another first, with two women sitting behind the President — Vice-President Kamala Harris and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “Madam Speaker, Madam Vice President — (applause) — no President has ever said those words from this podium. No President has ever said those words, and it’s about time,” Mr. Biden said. The President outlined his administration’s foreign policy, especially with regard to China, Russia and Afghanistan. Speaking for over an hour, Mr. Biden said he would defend human rights abroad, and assured allies that America’s return to the world stage was not temporary. In what appeared to be a clear shift towards the progressive side of the Democratic party, Mr. Biden’s three spending initiatives — the relief package, the Jobs Plan and the Families Plan represent a total of about $ 6 trillion — the largest expansion in social spending seen in decades. Mr. Biden plans to pay for this with increased taxes — such as on corporations and a near doubling of capital gains taxes on those earning more than $1 million each year. Early on in Wednesday’s speech, Mr. Biden spoke of his administration’s achievement with vaccinations, with the U.S. having administered 220 million shots rather than the original target of 100 million shots in 100 days. He described the impact of the COVID-19 relief package passed by Congress with anecdotes of a single mother avoiding eviction and a grandmother being able to take her grandchild to the eye-doctor. Mr. Biden called his jobs plan a “once in a generation investment in America itself” and “a blue-collar blueprint to build America”.    On U.S. foreign relations, Mr. Biden said world leaders told him, “We see America is back. But for how long?” He linked America’s competition abroad — such as with China — with investing at home. He talked about his interactions with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Mr. Xi wanting China to lead the world. “He’s [Mr. Xi] deadly earnest about becoming the most significant, consequential nation in the world. He and others — autocrats — think that democracy can’t compete in the 21st century with autocracies because it takes too long to get consensus,” said Mr. Biden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/joe-biden-calls-for-expansion-in-govt-spending/article34445294.ece
30 April 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar air force bases attacked||Two Myanmar air force bases came under rocket attack on Thursday, the military said, as the country grapples with violence in the wake of the February 1 military coup.  A military spokesman said air bases in the central cities of Magway and Meiktila came under rocket fire early on Thursday morning, but no damage was done. It is not clear who was behind the attacks, but the military has launched air strikes in recent weeks against the Karen National Union (KNU), one of the leading ethnic rebel armies. The KNU, which holds territory along the border with Thailand, on Tuesday attacked and razed an army post, prompting the military to respond with fresh air strikes. The rise in clashes between the military and ethnic rebels has prompted some observers, including the United Nations, to warn that the country’s crisis could spiral into a broader conflict. At least 756 civilians have been killed and more than 4,500 arrested in the military's crackdown on protests, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP), a local monitoring group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-air-force-bases-attacked/article34445286.ece
30 April 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Sri Lanka has prioritised ties with China’||Sri Lanka has prioritised developing relations with China and “firmly supports” China’s position on issues concerning its core interests, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa told Chinese State Councilor and Minister of National Defence Wei Fenghe, according to Chinese state media. The Sri Lankan President said his country “has been pursuing an independent foreign policy and will never bend to pressure from major powers outside the region as well as never forge an alliance with any country”, Xinhua news agency reported on Wednesday. Sri Lanka and China vowed to enhance pragmatic cooperation in all sectors, “including the military”. While specifics of the enhanced military ties are yet to emerge, senior Sri Lankan Defence officials and the visiting Chinese delegation signed a “Military Assistance Protocol”, Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Defence said in a statement issued after the top Chinese official’s departure on Thursday morning. Thanking China for providing “long-term and precious” support to Sri Lanka, President Rajapaksa said he hoped to learn from the Communist Party of China’s governance experience on poverty alleviation and rural revitalisation, Xinhua said in its report. General Wei, in his talks with the Sri Lankan leadership, seems to have reiterated his message in Dhaka on Tuesday slamming “powers from outside the region” for forging military alliances in South Asia. Chinese state media quoted General Wei as telling the Sri Lankan leadership, “Certain major countries are keen to form cliques and factions and seek regional hegemony, which goes against people’s shared aspirations and severely harms the interests of the regional countries. China appreciates Sri Lanka’s independent and non-aligned policy and will make joint efforts with Sri Lanka to strengthen coordination and safeguard regional peace and tranquillity.” His apparent attack on the India-U.S.-Australia-Japan Quad grouping echoed reservations voiced by Sri Lanka earlier. In October last year, Sri Lanka’s Foreign Secretary Admiral Jayanath Colombage had said, “We are observing the rise of Quad as an exclusive military alliance ... If Quad is aiming at economic revival, there are no issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-has-prioritised-ties-with-china/article34445292.ece
30 April 2021||Berlin,||4 killed, one wounded in Germany clinic attack||At least four people were killed and one person seriously wounded in an attack at a care clinic in Germany, police said on Thursday. Officers said the victims were subjected to “intense, extreme violence”, but did not give any details around the circumstances of the killings in the eastern city of Potsdam. A 51-year-old employee has been arrested “under strong suspicion” of carrying out the assault, police said. The motivation for the attack is not known, they added. Those killed are believed to be patients at the clinic, local newspaper Potsdamer Neueste Nachrichten reported. Brandenburg state police were called to the Oberlin Clinic at around 9 p.m. local time on Wednesday, according to reports, with the victims later found in their rooms. Police have also imposed a news blackout. The clinic specialises in helping those with disabilities and offers live-in care. The site includes housing, schools, and workshops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/4-killed-one-wounded-in-germany-clinic-attack/article34445281.ece
30 April 2021||Beijing,||China launches key module for its permanent space station||China on Thursday launched the main module of its first permanent space station that will host astronauts for the long term, in the latest success for a programme that has realised a number of its growing ambitions in recent years. The Tianhe, or the “Heavenly Harmony” module, blasted into space atop a Long March 5B rocket from the Wenchang Launch Center on the southern island province of Hainan. The launch kicks off the first of 11 missions necessary to complete, supply and crew the station by the end of next year. China’s space programme also recently brought back the first new lunar samples in more than 40 years and it also expects to land a probe and rover on the surface of Mars later next month. Minutes after the launch, the fairing opened to expose the Tianhe atop the core stage of the rocket, with the characters for “China Manned Space” emblazoned on its exterior. Soon after, it separated from the rocket, which will orbit for about a week before falling to Earth, and minutes after that, opened its solar arrays to provide a steady energy source. A message of congratulations from state leader and head of the ruling Communist Party Xi Jinping was also read to staff at the Wenchang Launch Center.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-launches-key-module-for-its-permanent-space-station/article34445285.ece
30 April 2021||Manila,||Duterte refuses to stop South China Sea patrols||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said he will not withdraw navy and coast guard boats patrolling the disputed South China Sea, insisting that the country’s sovereignty over the waters is not negotiable. Tensions over the sea, which China claims almost entirely, have spiked as Beijing refuses to pull out vessels from the Philippines’ Exclusive Economic Zone and Manila steps up maritime patrols. Mr. Duterte is under growing domestic pressure to take a harder line, but has been reluctant to confront China over the issue as he fosters closer ties with the economic giant. Mr. Duterte said on Wednesday that while the Philippines is indebted to its “good friend” China for many things, including free COVID-19 vaccines, his country’s claims to the waterway “cannot be bargainable”. “I’ll tell China, we do not want trouble, we do not want war. But if you tell us to leave, no,” added Mr. Duterte.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/duterte-refuses-to-stop-south-china-sea-patrols/article34445288.ece
30 April 2021||Kabul,||After decades, the ‘last Jew’ in Afghanistan mulls exit||For decades, Zebulon Simentov refused to leave Afghanistan, surviving a Soviet invasion, deadly civil war, the brutal rule by the Taliban and the U.S.-led occupation of his homeland. But for Afghanistan’s last Jew, the prospect of the Taliban’s return has him preparing to say goodbye. “They [the Taliban] call me an infidel,” Mr. Simentov told AFP at Kabul’s only synagogue. “I’m the last, the only Jew in Afghanistan ... It could get worse for me here. I have decided to leave for Israel if the Taliban returns.” That appears likely given the deal struck by Washington to withdraw all U.S. forces by later this year, and the ongoing peace talks between the insurgents and the Afghan government. Born in the 1950s in the western city of Herat, Mr. Simentov moved to Kabul during the Soviet invasion in the early 1980s for the capital’s then relative stability. Jews lived in Afghanistan for more than 2,500 years, thousands once residing in Herat. But they steadily left the country since the 19th century. Over the decades, all of Simentov’s relatives left, including his wife and two daughters. Mr. Simentov fondly remembers the years before the Soviet war as the best time for Afghanistan. But events since have made him bitter — particularly the Taliban rule from 1996 to 2001, when the Islamists tried to convert him. “This disgraceful Taliban regime put me in prison four times,” he said. He says when the Taliban were ousted in 2001, he believed that Afghanistan would prosper. “I thought the Europeans and Americans would fix this country ... but that didn’t happen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-decades-the-last-jew-in-afghanistan-mulls-exit/article34445283.ece
30 April 2021||Moscow,||Disbanding, says Navalny’s network||Alexei Navalny’s political network said on Thursday it is disbanding, as the jailed Kremlin critic appeared in court for the first time since ending his hunger strike. The hearing is part of an appeal by Mr. Navalny against a defamation sentence for insulting a World War II veteran. The judge rejected the appeal, upholding a fine of 850,000 rubles ($11,440). Another court held a hearing on Thursday into a request from prosecutors that Mr. Navalny’s regional network and his Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK) be recognised as extremist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/disbanding-says-navalnys-network/article34445287.ece
30 April 2021||United Nations,||U.S., EU nations reject Syria poll in advance||Western members of the UN Security Council, led by the U.S., France and Britain, rejected the outcome of Syria’s May 26 presidential election in advance. “The failure to enact a new constitution is proof positive that the so-called election on May 26 will be a sham,” said U.S. ambassador to the UN, Linda Thomas-Greenfield.  “France will not recognise any validity to the elections planned by the regime at the end of May,” said the French ambassador to the UN, Nicolas de Riviere. “Elections that take place in the absence of a safe and neutral environment ... demonstrate disregard for the Syrian people,” said British diplomat Sonia Farrey. Estonia and other members of the European Union believe a Syrian election must be held under the aegis of the UN and include the opposition and its diaspora, said Estonian ambassador Sven Jurgenson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-eu-nations-reject-syria-poll-in-advance/article34445289.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the government committed to vaccine equity?||The Central government has transferred the responsibility of vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group to the States, and opened up vaccine pricing to market forces, at a time when discussions around the world are about an intellectual property (IP) waiver for COVID-19 vaccines and providing free vaccines. In a conversation moderated byG. Ananthakrishnan,K. Sujatha Rao and K.M. Gopakumar discuss India’s vaccination policy and its challenges. Edited excerpts:  The Central government has shifted responsibility for vaccination largely to the States. What is your view on the impact of the new policy? K. Sujatha Rao:We need to vaccinate about 934 million people above 18 and within that, about 300 are above 45 years and 634 million are in the 18-44 age bracket. We need about 1.8 billion doses. Right now, the production is 60 million doses per month. And about 350 million are yet to be vaccinated in the above-45 age group. The Indian government is committed to providing vaccines to those above 45 and needs about 600 million doses against which it has provided about 100 million. So, at this rate, it will take very long, even if it earmarks 30 million doses per month. The two companies [Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech (BB)] are saying they can produce, from July, 112 million doses or 115 million doses per month. Even then it will take the Government of India almost 6-8 months to cover the target group. Its focus on the target group has an epidemiological basis, as opposed to the current demand that it should also include those aged 18 to 45. But there is a need for that urgency also, mainly because 45% of deaths are in this age group (20-50 years). What the government is trying to do is keep the vaccines at market prices. These prices are quite high. The State governments may not be able to afford to supply the vaccines free or only the richer sections among this age group, who can afford the prices, will be able to get vaccinated. It is some kind of market segmentation and fragmentation that the government is trying to do in order to get supply and demand to sync at some level. K.M. Gopakumar:The important objective in the policy is to accelerate vaccination but the way in which the new policy is designed, we may not achieve that, precisely because it fragments the market. This is now divided into three categories at differential pricing. This is going to hamper bulk procurement and affordability. Earlier, there was only one procuring agency, the Central government. Now you have States which will compete with private hospitals to procure vaccines. All this will have implications for accelerating the vaccination target. From a public health approach, how does the present campaign compare with polio and others? KSR:I think the government has not thought through this policy. It did not think about supply and kept on setting targets for free vaccination. The eligibility criteria has been increasing steadily. That is good, but it did not keep an eye on supply. It did not expect the second wave [of the pandemic]. The anxiety of this wave has triggered a huge demand for vaccines, and in the lull period from October to March, when the pandemic seemed to be petering out, there was a sense of comfort. There was vaccine hesitancy not only due to confusion on the nature of the vaccines, but also [the view] that the pandemic is on its way out. Given vaccine hesitancy, the government was cautious. It did not make advance purchase agreements or stockpile vaccines. It thought these two indigenous companies would be adequate to cover everyone by the end of the year. Since it did not expect a second wave, the window was lost for sorting out supply, giving the capital investment required by these companies to expand their production, ensuring that other companies got this know-how and also began production, having advance agreements with imported vaccine manufacturers, and so on. Did we confine ourselves to too few vaccines? KSR:Yes. Pfizer did offer to enter the market in February, but it was asked to do a bridging study, which has now been relaxed. Pfizer was not willing to do that. You see, it never really cares for the Indian market. Whatever it was producing was being bought at a huge price in the western market, at $20 a shot. Pfizer knows that its vaccine is affordable only to a small segment of the Indian population. But India could have tied up with the company nevertheless. We had many other policy options, which we did not explore because we thought these two companies would be adequate. There is a lot of discussion on public-funded vaccine research. One recent report says the AstraZeneca vaccine is 97% public-funded. Do you have any comment on how this has been commercialised? KMG:. During the TRIPS and access to medicines debate in the early 2000s, we were told that the main justification for IP protection is that it is a mechanism to recoup the investment in research and development (R&D). If there is public investment in R&D, you can separate that from the price of the product. That way you can make the innovation happen as well as ensure access. In the case of COVID-19, as per one calculation, $93 billion was spent by various governments for vaccine research. Moderna is 100% publicly funded, AstraZeneca, 97%, and for Pfizer, though it denies it receives public funding, BioNTech got huge public funding from the German government. Pfizer also got around $2 billion as advance market commitment. All these companies received public funding. After this, there is a complete de-risking of R&D as well as manufacturing, but now they are not ready to give up their monopoly, preventing the scaling-up of production. These companies are not in a position to meet the global demand, but are not ready to share the technology. The developed countries are preventing it. We too have taken a lesson. SII, which has received the technology free of cost from AstraZeneca, and funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to expand manufacturing capability, is now indulging in differential pricing, charging a huge amount disproportionate to its expenditure or investment. The problem is monopoly and profit, not the idea of recovering R&D expenditure. We need to treat vaccines as a public good because there has been a huge spending of public funds. Is there any precedent for States being asked to acquire their own vaccines? KSR:No, never. The government has had the universal immunisation programme starting from the 1960s. This became a global priority from 1991-92 with the World Health Organization (WHO) piloting it, particularly with the entry of the polio pulse programme. When you do central procurement as a single buyer, you have the advantage of market power and you can beat down the prices. Hepatitis B used to cost Rs. 750 per dose in the open market, and when the Government of India entered [the scene], it came down to less than Rs. 200 and crashed further to less than Rs. 100. When you fragment the market and allow pharma companies to set the price, you are giving away all your advantages to them to make super profits. In this context, the Central government has a constitutional obligation to stop the inter-State transfer of infectious diseases, under the Concurrent List. The State governments are no doubt responsible for public health. That is why they are running around for oxygen, beds, doctors. Right from the beginning, the Central government, has had national programmes to combat all infectious diseases, and has supplied vaccines, drugs and consumables at very low prices because of market power. The State governments implement the programme. Why is the Centre giving up that advantage today? Economists have said IPs were never intended for pandemics. What avenues do people have to use laws and conventions to get vaccines? KMG:There are two types of IP rights that are used to control competition — patents and trade secrets. As far as patents are concerned, the government can issue a compulsory licence and ensure freedom of operation for any potential manufacturer. But there is a regulatory system that acts as an enforcement agency for protection of trade secrets. As a result, even if you have a compulsory licence, it would be difficult for a non-originator company to produce a vaccine very quickly. If you produce a small molecule, the regulatory agency (RA) never looks at what kind of manufacturing process is followed to produce a generic version, like paracetamol. What it looks for is whether it is paracetamol or not and the company gets marketing approval. In the case of vaccines, the RA insists that the non-originator company follows the process of the originator. But this process is not in the public domain and is kept a trade secret. We don’t have a compulsory licence to reveal that information to the potential non-originator company. The only agency which can do such sharing with the potential manufacturer is the RA. But it treats the dossier submitted by the original manufacturer as a trade secret. India and South Africa approached the World Trade Organization (WTO), asking that they be given the right to waive the protection and enforcement of certain IPs in the case of COVID-19 medical products. That waiver, if adopted, can be used by the regulatory agencies to share the dossiers with potential manufacturers to speed up the process. So, potential manufacturers in India, China or Brazil have the technological capability without the help of the originator, but the regulatory framework insists that replication requires them to prove clinical safety and efficacy, which are time consuming. We need to take two-pronged action. The RAs need to waive clinical trials by developing an accelerated pathway for the non-originator company, and the national RA should share the dossier with the potential manufacturer. KSR:Even during H1N1, though the [move] had come from Indonesia and WHO was trying to make the process universally available, Pfizer still had control and was not willing to share, and there was some kind of problem in technology transfer. But if the U.S. supports India and South Africa, there are ways to make this a public good. Right now the inequity is unjustifiable. There is now a clamour for distribution of vaccines equitably. Though GAVI set up a mechanism under COVAX, India became the biggest supplier. In India we have Covaxin, produced by BB, where the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has been a knowledge partner. I don’t know who holds the patent here. I suspect ICMR must be a joint patent holder, and it should be able to leverage that advantage. We have about 20 manufacturing companies and depending on the state of technology and readiness, ramping up production of Covaxin can be done. If BB is saying we have incurred an expenditure of Rs. 350 crore, some compensation can be given to the company, and since ICMR is a partner, they should be able to make it available to other companies to quickly scale-up the manufacture. There is a lot of scope available if the Centre is genuinely interested in ensuring universal vaccination in the least possible time.  Should the present vaccine pricing policy be reviewed? KSR:There’s no justification whatsoever for the kind of prices that both Adar Poonawalla and Dr. Krishna Ella have given. There is an element of greed and I feel sorry because this is not the moment when these companies should be thinking of profiteering.  We need to treat vaccines as a public good because there has been a huge spending of public funds. K.M. Gopakumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-the-government-committed-to-vaccine-equity/article34445278.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||To stop a third wave, India has to mask up||As the smoke from countless funeral pyres rises above our cities, and desperately sick people line the corridors and wards of our hospitals seeking beds, medication and oxygen to relieve their virus-damaged lungs, it is difficult to see a way out of the worst crisis India has faced since the plagues and famines of the 18th and 19th centuries. The anaemic pace of the government’s vaccination drive is unlikely to slow the ferocity of this second wave of the pandemic, which epidemiological modellers predict could peak by the middle of May and gradually decline. If there is one thing to be learned from the tragedy unfolding before us, it is that unless active measures are taken, this second wave will be followed by a third wave, and perhaps more. Waves across the globe If we look around the world, the United States has had three distinct waves since last March, as has Brazil. The United Kingdom had a small first wave, followed by nearly four months when cases were low and the virus seemed to be disappearing. This was followed by two explosive waves, which only subsided after a lockdown and an aggressive vaccination campaign in which 95% of all those over the age of 50 have been vaccinated to date, with the entire adult population to be vaccinated by the end of summer. South Africa saw a first wave peaking last August, followed by a second wave that began around November, and peaked in the first week of January (https://bit.ly/3vthhF4). Given this pattern, a second wave in India was almost a given. And once this wave recedes, it is highly likely that a third wave will build up, unless active measures are taken to stop it building up. Now is the time to think ahead and find ways to prevent the next wave. Vaccines are the best option. But given India’s population, the slow pace of vaccination, inelastic vaccine supplies both in India and globally, and limited finances with State governments which have now been given the responsibility of vaccinating the bulk of the country’s population, this is not going to happen quickly enough to blunt either this or future waves. Tested methods that work So along with vaccination, it is important to practise  the full methods that have been shown to slow the spread of COVID-19 in different parts of the world: mask wearing, physical distancing, hand hygiene and a ban on mass gatherings. These measures sound mundane and boring, but they work. They may not be as effective as mass vaccination, but in the absence of vaccines, they are perhaps the only way to reduce community transmission and slow the spread of the virus. Consider some of the evidence demonstrating the effect of these measures. A study last year in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene found that countries where masks were widely used (either because of government orders or cultural norms) had lower per capita mortality from COVID than countries where there was no universal masking (https://bit.ly/2RcjyW1). A smaller study of transmission among family members in Beijing households, found that face masks were 79% effective in preventing transmission when they were used by all household members (https://bit.ly/3e0mrlN). A comprehensive review of the scientific evidence for the use of face masks, published in January this year in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), concluded that “near-universal adoption of nonmedical masks when out in public, in combination with complementary public health measures” (https://bit.ly/3nx7WZR) could reduce community spread, provided the measures were sustained. Mask wearing by itself will not be enough: it needs to be part of a package of measures that include rigorous social distancing, hand hygiene and avoiding mass gatherings. The question is how can people be persuaded to wear masks? Conventional wisdom in India has it that wearing a mask only works when it is imposed as a police measure, with fines and punishments for non-compliance. Mask wearing and social distancing cannot be sustained through lathis . Public health measures that work best are those that the public voluntarily adopts because they see it as being in their best interests. Bangladesh shows the way But there is evidence from an experimental study in Bangladesh that people will use masks enthusiastically if they are provided free, are comfortable, and accompanied with appropriate instructional material. A team of researchers, led by Mushfiq Mobarak of Yale University, carried out an experiment involving 350,000 adults in 600 villages in Bangladesh to try and understand how to increase mask usage. They found that mask usage tripled when they were given away free and accompanied by well-designed instructional material, as well as reminders from religious and community leaders and volunteers. These interventions increased the percentage of people using masks three fold. Having volunteers in public spaces such as markets to remind people to wear masks and distribute masks to those who did not have them, as well as frequent messages from religious and community leaders, saw an increase in mask usage from 13%, when none of these interventions existed, to over 40% with them. One key to success was mask quality: masks needed to be comfortable to wear in hot and humid conditions, as well as being effective filters. Importantly, those who wore masks were also more likely to maintain social distancing. Over the last year, India has built significant capacity to manufacture masks, so supplies should not be an issue. The cost of supplying reusable masks free will need to be budgeted for, but masks are far cheaper than vaccines and the economic benefits of avoiding crippling new waves of the virus should be taken into account. Reaching out the right way Communication at the level of communities is the key to getting people to protect themselves this way. People need to be explained the reasons for mask wearing as well as the right way to wear a mask. Imaginative and creative communication campaigns are essential. In Bangladesh, community-level leaders as well as religious leaders were used to reinforce mask wearing and social distancing messages. Most Indian States have reasonable, well-functioning networks of health workers at the village and community levels who can be used in health campaigns. These solutions may seem simplistic, but if the country is to reduce the impact of future waves, it is essential that they are put in place. Viruses are the most basic of organisms. And often, basic changes in human behaviour can drastically reduce the ability of a virus to transmit. Vaccines are the ultimate solution. But in the meanwhile, it is important to focus on what can be done right now if further disasters are to be prevented. Thomas Abraham is adjunct associate professor at the University of Hong Kong and author of ‘Twenty-First Century Plague: The Story of SARS’ and ‘Polio: The Odyssey of Eradication’. He has been a communication adviser to the World Health Organization||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/to-stop-a-third-wave-india-has-to-mask-up/article34445267.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||State repression that breaches public peace||The Government of Telangana, on March 30, 2021, issued a notification (G.O. Ms.73) banning 16 organisations under the Telangana Public Security Act, 1992 (TPSA), declaring them as ‘unlawful associations’ and ‘new front organisations of the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist)’, which was made public three weeks later on April 24, 2021. The belated public announcement was made at a time when citizens organisations and collectives in the State and country were trapped in the coils of the pandemic and largely left by an abdicating state to fend for themselves in life and death. Health crisis, faltering steps The ban comes during a surging second wave of COVID-19, in which Telangana has fared poorly. On April 19, the High Court of Telangana described the State government’s affidavit in response to PILs urging for greater transparency in control, containment and care as ‘wishy washy’ and ‘disappointing’ and wondered whether the State was competing for the first place in the COVID-19 surge — and we might add, the failure in governance reflected therein. Logically therefore, the attention of the government should be directed at managing the public health crisis and the distress caused to the people at large, demonstrating due diligence in fulfilling its constitutional obligations under Part IV of the Constitution. This is one part of the tragic story unfolding before us. Omnibus labelling The second part is of older vintage (Article 21 rights) and stretches seamlessly over three decades from pre-COVID-19 to COVID-19 times — today ironically from the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Centre to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi-ruled State: the banning of the ‘unlawful organisations — Telangana Praja Front (TPF), the Telangana Asanghatitha Karmika Samakhya (TAKS), Telangana Vidyarthi Vedika (TVV), Democratic Students Organisation (DSU), Telangana Vidyarthi Sangham (TVS), Adivasi Students Union (ASU), Committee for the Release of Political Prisoners (CRPP), Telangana Raithanga Samithi (TRS; not to be confused with the ruling party), Tudum Debba (TD), Praja Kala Mandali (PKM), Telangana Democratic Front (TDF), Forum Against Hindu Fascism Offensive (FAHFO), Civil Liberties Committee (CLC), Amarula Bandhu Mitrula Sangham (ABMS), Chaitanya Mahila Sangham (CMS), and Revolutionary Writers Association. From workers’ collectives, to women’s groups, students’ groups, Adivasi collectives and civil liberties groups — this list trawls in anyone who is likely to resist or protest on any count by merely dubbing organisations as a ‘front’ or ‘new front’, or as ‘urban guerillas’. We cannot forget that less than seven years ago, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi rode to power on the strength of these movements. The reason for the proposed ban is the fact that these activists are ‘moving in urban area by adopting various guerilla tactics… to wage war against the state’. Interestingly, the rationale is strengthened by the fact that they have ‘joined hands with several organisations and [are] alluring the members into their folds [sic] inciting inflammatory statements, meetings and rallies highlighting various issues against the State and Central Governments’. The G.O. goes on to state that these organisations are organising protests in the ‘barren lands’ of Chhattisgarh besides demanding the release of G.N. Saibaba, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson and other leaders of various front organisations who were arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case, and ‘repealing of UAPA Act, Farm Laws, CAA/NRC etc’. Even the reasons for the ban are a medley that stretches from ‘waging war’ to protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or the CAA. This omnibus labelling of organisations and so-called crimes in themselves are ground for challenging the ban. The Bhima Koregaon case is ongoing. Even the investigation is as yet indeterminate. Construing support for the Bhima Koregaon accused as a crime under the TPSA is a criminal mis-reading and deliberate mis-application of an already draconian law. Challenging UAPA The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA, is widely challenged by everyone with a rudimentary understanding of the Constitution as being against every constitutional guarantee. As Indian citizens, it is our right to seek its repeal on clearly reasoned grounds which must be heard by courts. Pending repeal, it is our constitutional right to challenge its application in every case in which we believe its application is a travesty of the Constitution. Protesting against the UAPA or seeking its repeal cannot in itself be construed as an unlawful activity, as this notification by the Telangana government seems to suggest. Can we forget the numbers of protesters against the CAA or diligent journalists indefinitely held in custody on manifestly unjust grounds under the UAPA? This brings us to protests against the CAA and Farm Laws which the G.O. 73 expressly mentions. There has been widespread protest against the farm laws in the State as well as against the CAA. While Telangana Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekar Rao, refused to take a definite stand on the Farm Laws in the legislative debates on this issue, his stand on the CAA is clear and unequivocal. The Telangana Assembly passed a resolution (https://bit.ly/3gO7TYr) against the CAA, the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register on March 15, 2020, stating that the CAA violated the constitutional guarantees of equality, non-discrimination and secularism, and will ‘endanger the lives of vulnerable groups who do not possess adequate documentary proof of citizenship’ — and went on to state that, ‘there are serious questions as to the legality and constitutionality of the CAA, NPR and NRC’. There is no indication that the State Legislature has reversed its stand on this question. On what grounds then, has the Chief Secretary of the State issued a notification that directly contravenes the resolution of the State legislature? Have we forgotten that Telangana is not a State where the BJP is in power? Issue of timing The timing of this notification merits close scrutiny. In paragraph 2, G.O. 73 states that these 16 organisations ‘have as their objective interference with the public administration or the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community… thereby constituting the danger to public peace…’ At a time when the government is facing the heat for mismanaging public health and safety, and therefore endangering public security, the response is to blow out a smokescreen invoking draconian legislation to declare the demand for governmental accountability as an unlawful activity that is evidence of participation in an unlawful association. This amounts to the criminalisation of citizenship, no less. It is state repression that breaches public peace. Not the demand by citizens for state accountability. Kalpana Kannabiran is a sociologist and lawyer based in Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/state-repression-that-breaches-public-peace/article34445269.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating critical thinkers||Despite the pandemic unleashing in full force, the debate over the last month has entailed a mindless conversation over holding or postponing board examinations instead of exploring alternatives. Rather than viewing this unprecedented situation as a unique opportunity for re-imagining educational assessments and evaluations in a world that no longer looks the same, the government insists on the possibility of holding exams in person and posing a further threat to the lives of loved ones. Alternative ways of thinking Students and parents have valid concerns about the future, which include admissions to higher educational institutions. Nonetheless, considering we are in a worldwide crisis where India cannot afford to have gatherings of small/big groups, why aren’t virtual educational committees being organised to rethink approaches on assessing student learning? For instance, one of the challenges is deemed as students ‘cheating’ if the exams were to be conducted online. However, if question papers were designed in a way that encouraged students to critically engage with the material, contest perspectives and build opinions, no book would be able to provide all the answers. Relatedly, in light of the right to education that affirms the importance of formative assessments, teachers could be invited to engage in evaluating student’s performance across the year. If there are concerns around the tendency of schools to self-bolster their performance, reports, portfolios, samples of responses and grades could be shared across a pool of schools so that teachers can anonymously assess and provide insightful feedback on student performance, until a sense of self-accountability and trust can be cultivated. Opening up possibilities of evaluating students on their performance through the year will contribute towards making evaluation and learning much more holistic. Further, inviting higher educational institutions to facilitate online entrance exams could be another option to explore as students gear up for college admissions. Eventually, the goal could be to involve students in self and peer evaluations so that the ability to reflect while participating in learning communities and giving/receiving feedback prepares them for what lies ahead. The National Curriculum Framework of 2005 affirms the importance of embracing the emotional, social, physical and intellectual growth of children within a framework of human values. Thus, a question to consider is whether academic performances can continue to be the sole representation of student growth or we can begin to redefine student success based on social, emotional and spiritual development benchmarks. Redefining education We have an opportunity to redefine meaningful education and even though it does require a concerted change across curriculum in K-12 schools, the entrance criteria determined by higher educational institutions and what we value as communities and societies, we have to start somewhere. Viewing this crisis as a signal for urgent change, core issues can be engaged with and re-evaluated to prevent students from being trapped in the current system of cramming, rote learning and anxiety. The government needs to give complete autonomy to educational committees composed of students, teachers, educational leaders, scholars and researchers who can advocate, organise and implement this change nationally and internationally. Raising the quality of educational assessments and evaluations by involving higher educational institutions may even prevent a mass exodus to international universities so that young leaders can be nurtured to engage with underlying national challenges and add value by advocating for and sustaining the fabric of a diverse and non-stratified India. Kamiya Kumar is a Doctoral Student, Teachers College, Columbia University, and teacher, Bluebells School International||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/creating-critical-thinkers/article34445273.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Long and tortuous||With the eighth phase in West Bengal on Thursday, a long and tortuous election process has concluded in four States and one Union Territory to the relief of most electors and candidates. The election spectacle was overrun by COVID-19 towards the end of the agonisingly staggered phases of voting. The current cycle has added to a growing list of concerns that have emerged regarding elections in India in recent years. If electoral bonds for making contributions to political parties emerged as an opaque instrument well before the current round of elections, a serious cause of worry through all the eight phases has been the persistent doubts over the fairness and autonomy of the Election Commission of India (ECI). The ECI made unprecedented seizures of cash and other items that were meant to be used to influence voters. In the absence of a party-wise break up of such preventive measures, parties opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have alleged that they were specifically targeted in search operations. The selective eagerness of central agencies in investigating crimes turns up the heat on non-BJP State governments and parties, and during elections, this raised the possibility of tilting the balance in the contest. Free, fair and periodic elections are an essential feature of a democracy. Elections are the ultimate opportunity for the people to hold their elected representatives accountable. Election cycles are usually not disrupted, even in challenging situations, for this reason. Ironically, elections can also be easily manipulated into an easy escape route from accountability. This set of Assembly elections in the midst of a pandemic did not generate any meaningful debate on public health or accountability. By denying the crisis in action and messaging, political parties contributed to the current surge in infections. The BJP was particularly irresponsible organising huge rallies, with people violating the mandatory health protocol. The spike in infections from that is already beginning. Considering the unprecedented situation of the pandemic, these elections should have been a quick affair, with limited campaigning. What happened was the opposite. Massive rallies continued even after COVID-19 numbers began to grow exponentially. These Assembly elections would most likely be remembered for worsening a health crisis than for heralding political change. The nature of the results, to be announced on May 2, will likely pale before the magnitude of the unfolding crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/long-and-tortuous/article34445262.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Promises to keep||In his first address to a joint session of Congress, U.S. President Joe Biden made clear that his administration would continue pressing forward with promises made during his election campaign last year, including vigorously meeting the health challenges of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, kick-starting the engines of the U.S. economy to provide sustainable job opportunities in the digital era, and reasserting the position of his country as a driving force for democracy worldwide including pushing back on China’s aspiration to be a regional hegemon in Asia. Mr. Biden’s first 100 days in office have been coterminous with arguably the most fraught times in recent U.S. history, given the devastation wreaked by the coronavirus on life and economic activity — making the U.S. the worst performer worldwide until recently surpassed on this grim scale by India. However, the Democrat has risen to the challenge posed by the virus, when compared to his predecessor Donald Trump’s response, in terms of signing into law a $1.9 trillion pandemic relief bill and funnelling direct payments of $1,400 per person to more than 160 million households. Reports suggest that this shot in the arm could boost economic growth this year to 6% or higher, and revive the nearly 8.4 million jobs lost to COVID-19 by 2022. Whether this will be enough to mollify the likely anger of wealthy Americans for the tax hikes he proposes to slap them with is unclear. Yet, it is not the economy but the wounds of racist hatred that he will have to work even harder to heal. The recent conviction of the police officer responsible for the death of African-American George Floyd represents but the first step toward bridging the chasm between prejudiced, overzealous law enforcement and racial minorities. Notwithstanding the considerable progress made by the Biden administration in domestic politics, it is in the international arena that much work remains unfinished to repair the damage wrought by his predecessor, an isolationist who prioritised transactionalism and bilateral quid pro quo over strengthening the U.S. as a global voice for plurilateral cooperation and regional engagement. Mr. Biden, contrarily, has thrown down the gauntlet to China, assuring its President Xi Jinping that Washington would continue to maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific “not to start conflict, but to prevent one”. Recognising the multi-dimensional character of Beijing’s challenge to the rules-based international order, Mr. Biden has also vowed to stand up to “unfair” trade practices, including disallowed subsidies for Chinese state-owned enterprises and industrial espionage, as well as speak out on perceived violations of fundamental freedoms and rights relating to, for example, Beijing’s aggression in the South China Sea and in Hong Kong and the Xinjiang region, respectively. Whether facing conservative opposition to domestic policies or hostile pushback on the global stage from geopolitical rivals, Mr. Biden must hold fast to the values that saw him elevated to the White House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/promises-to-keep/article34445263.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Watching a tragedy unfold||In the beginning of March, the COVID-19 health bulletin sent every evening by the Delhi government started showing an upward trend from a few hundred cases daily. On WhatsApp, a fellow reporter predicted, “And just like that we’ll reach 1,000”. That happened in no time. The cases and deaths have just been soaring since. Suddenly, even before reporters realised it, we were outside hospitals and cremation grounds covering what is unarguably one of the worst horror stories of recent times. For those of us watching this tragedy unfold every day, the distressing visuals will possibly never leave our minds. Covering stories of COVID-19 victims and their families for the last two weeks has meant being a witness to their desperation, pleas for help, and sorrow. I saw a son holding his mother as she lay on his shoulder and gasped for breath outside a hospital. They were looking for a bed. Unable to get one, she died minutes later. A 65-year-old man risked his life and stood in queue to get an oxygen cylinder refilled for his infected son-in-law who was being looked after by his daughter back home. An eight-year-old lost his father to COVID-19 and stood inside the cremation ground, unable to make sense of what had happened. His COVID-19-positive mother, wearing PPE, could not even offer to hug him. I have seen families wait an entire day to cremate their loved ones because cremation grounds have run out of space for the day. Private and government hospitals have been sending SOS messages on media groups and posting on Twitter asking for oxygen supply. It’s been nothing but reporting pure mayhem. Journalists are perceived to have “connections”, so many of us are also flooded with calls and messages from friends, extended family, and even strangers asking for help in arranging hospital beds or oxygen cylinders. While we’ve been able to help some, we have only been able to tweet the requests of some others, which yielded no results. Social media has been truly helpful during these times, connecting people who need help with those who can provide help. Amid this havoc, there’s the dreaded feeling of getting infected, for reporters are out on the field every day. Despite each of us wearing two masks, a head cover, a face shield and gloves, and despite our drive to share people’s stories, the scare of contracting the virus and endangering the lives of family members remains at the back of our minds. Working in a profession which runs solely on passion is one thing, but the guilt of possibly infecting elderly parents cannot be ignored. The days are spent shuttling between hospitals and cremation grounds, battling guilt and fear. The nights are spent reflecting on the immense pain and misery surrounding us. Then there is helplessness. The toll this takes on our mental health reflects in the painful adjectives we write in our news reports, the unusually high number of calls we make to close ones and sometimes, the tears that flow freely without any trigger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/watching-a-tragedy-unfold/article34445272.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Central Sikh League||The Central Sikh League has accepted the draft constitution of Sikh Leagues whose objects include (a) the attainment of Swarajya by the people of India by all legitimate, peaceful and constitutional means, (b) the promotion of unity, fostering of patriotism and public spirit among the Sikhs and development of economic resources. The principle of direct membership of General Sikhs League has been abolished. The League shall now be governed by a council of 101 members exclusive of ex-officio members. Eighty-one of the 101 members are to be elected by District Sikh Leagues according to a scheme to be prepared shortly by the executive council and 20 shall be nominated by these elected members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/central-sikh-league/article34445270.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Adopt the three language formula: Giri||The President, Mr. V. V. Giri, to-day [April 29] appealed to all States in the country to adopt the three-language formula “unreservedly” and implement it “effectively”. Mr. Giri said the Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh had already taken “active steps” to implement the formula which, besides emphasising the importance of Hindi, took due account of the claims of English and the regional languages. He hoped the other States would follow their example. “It is time that our languages are used consciously as a cementing rather than dividing force”, the President said while inaugurating the golden jubilee celebration of the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha, T. Nagar [Madras], this morning. He said that according to the three-language formula, the mother tongue should be encouraged and developed to the maximum extent so that it could become the effective medium of teaching and intercourse within the State. It should also become the language of the courts and legislatures in due course. English, a well-developed international language, had been and continued to be the binding force of the intelligentsia of the country. It was the language of science and technology and “we cannot discard it in the foreseeable future”. Hindi, drawing fresh strength from Sanskrit and other major languages, should be cultivated extensively so that it could serve as a common medium and reflect the national consciousness as Sanskrit did in the past and Persian and English did in recent times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/adopt-the-three-language-formula-giri/article34445271.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Hindustan Unilever Q4 net rises 13% on volume growth||FMCG major Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUL) on Thursday reported a 13% increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 2,190 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, riding on strong volume growth across categories.  Consolidated total income rose marginally to Rs. 12,542 crore, the company said in a regulatory filing. HUL said it witnessed an “underlying volume growth of 16%” during the quarter. The home care category experienced growth of 15%, driven by a robust recovery in fabric wash. The foods and refreshment segment grew 36%, the company said, adding, “all our tea brands continue to grow in high double digits. Ketchups, soups and ice creams also performed well with double-digit growth”. “Nutrition volumes grew in double digits and we launched Rs. 2 sachets in Horlicks and Boost,” HUL said. Beauty and personal care grew 20% with skin cleansing, hair care and oral care achieving high double-digit growth. Performance by the skin cleansing segment was led by ‘Lifebuoy’ and the premium segment, it added. On rising commodity prices, the consumer goods company said, “a calibrated approach towards price increase has helped protect our business model even as vegetable oils continue to inflate at record levels.” For FY21, consolidated net profit grew 18% to Rs. 7,999 crore. Consolidated total income increased to Rs. 47,438 crore, from Rs. 40,415 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hindustan-unilever-q4-net-rises-13-on-volume-growth/article34445259.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Indian pharma frets as China airline uncertainty hits supply||India’s pharmaceuticals industry is concerned that the disruption to Chinese carrier Sichuan Airlines’ cargo services to the country may seriously hit the imports of key raw materials and has appealed to the Indian envoy to help find a solution. “The decision of Chinese state-owned Sichuan Airlines suspending its cargo services to India for 15 days is worrisome,” Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) director general Ravi Udaya Bhaskar said, urging the Indian embassy in Beijing to intervene. Notwithstanding reports that the airline was mulling a new plan to resume its cargo flights to the region, an industry official said the carrier’s services to India remained suspended for a few days now. Sichuan operated to 6 Indian cities and other industries too depend on its services. In a letter to the Ambassador Vikram Misri, Mr. Bhaskar said there was a real risk of disruption to “frantic efforts” by the industry to import medical supplies, including oxygen concentrators, key starting materials (KSMs) and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) at a time when the country was battling COVID. Industry fears this could lead to shortages of essential medicines as well as hit exports. The DG said 60-70% of drug intermediates, KSM and API requirements are sourced from China. About 45-50% of all APIs imported feature in the National List of Essential Medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-pharma-frets-as-china-airline-uncertainty-hits-supply/article34445247.ece
30 April 2021||MUMBAI,||‘COVID curbs may hurt gold sales’||The demand for gold in India could flatten in the April-June quarter on account of COVID-19-related lockdowns, the World Gold Council (WGC) said. “As lockdowns are reimposed in various regions of the country in response to rising COVID-19 cases, consumer confidence has dipped,” said Somasundaram P.R., MD, India, WGC. “This is likely to impact wedding demand in Q2 2021,” he added, maintaining a cautious outlook for the quarter. Digital cushion “Digital and omnichannel retail strategies developed over the last year by many players may cushion the drop unlike Q2 2020 but the current crisis is beyond just economics and logistics and therefore, sentiment may be affected till large-scale vaccination is achieved,” he said. “We are unable to quantify the impact on full year gold demand as we do not have sight of several critical factors currently at play.” As per WGC data for the January-March quarter, gold demand rose 37% to 140 tonnes from the year-earlier period. In value terms, it rose 57% to Rs. 58,800 crore. Total jewellery demand increased 39% to 102.5 tonnes and the value of jewellery demand was estimated at Rs. 43,100 crore, up 58%. Net bullion imports more than doubled to 301 tonnes, as per the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-curbs-may-hurt-gold-sales/article34445251.ece
30 April 2021||Mumbai,||Bajaj Auto Q4 net rises 2%, firm flags input costs||Bajaj Auto Ltd. reported a 2% rise in standalone net profit to Rs. 1,332 crore for the fourth quarter. Revenue from operations increased 26% to Rs. 8,596 crore. For the year ended March 31, the firm reported a 11% drop in net profit to Rs. 4,555 crore. Revenue from operations dipped 7% to Rs. 27,741 crore. The fourth quarter had seen a sharp rise in input costs, the auto firm said in a filing, adding that input costs continued to increase in the current quarter. “Full year numbers are not comparable as Q1/ FY21 was an absolute washout due to the pandemic and Q4 and full year FY20 had Rs. 119 crore and Rs. 234 crore as dividend income respectively,” it said, adding there was no dividend income in FY21. The board recommended a dividend of Rs. 140 per share. It appointed Niraj Bajaj as chairman effective May 1. Non-executive chairman Rahul Bajaj has been named chairman emeritus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bajaj-auto-q4-net-rises-2-firm-flags-input-costs/article34445250.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdowns have hit activity badly in April’||The spate of local lockdowns and restrictions have dented economic activity severely in April, SBI said in a report on Thursday. The bank’s research team now pegs the loss to the economy at Rs. 1.86 lakh crore, higher than the Rs. 1.5 lakh crore it had estimated last week. “The SBI business activity index, which has been declining in April ’21 has now dipped to a new low of 75.7, the level it had attained in August 2020 and is now a clear 24.3% down from the pre-pandemic level,” the researchers said in the report. “All the indicators, except for labour participation and electricity consumption, have declined significantly during April,” said SBI group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh, who authored the report. Maharashtra, M.P., Karnataka and Rajasthan accounted for 75% of the loss. Maharashtra’s loss stood at 43%, said Mr. Ghosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lockdowns-have-hit-activity-badly-in-april/article34445256.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SEBI allows firms 45 days more to file Q4 results||SEBI on Thursday gave 45 days more for companies to file their fourth-quarter results as well as an additional one-month time to submit their annual results as the regulator eased compliance requirements amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The move comes after the regulator received representations from listed entities, industry associations and market participants requesting extension of timelines for various filings and relaxation from certain compliance obligations due to the COVID second wave and restrictions imposed by various State governments. With respect to quarterly financial results, companies have been given 45 days till June 30 to file their March quarter results, SEBI said in a circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-allows-firms-45-days-more-to-file-q4-results/article34445257.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Laurus Labs net surges on higher sales||Laurus Labs has reported a consolidated net profit of Rs. 297 crore for the quarter ended March on the back of good show in key segments. The drugmaker had posted a net profit of Rs. 110.15 crore in the same period last fiscal. Revenue from operations increased to Rs. 1,412 crore (Rs. 839.14 crore). The company has declared an interim dividend of 80 paise per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/laurus-labs-net-surges-on-higher-sales/article34445248.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Equitas SFB Q4 net profit almost trebles||Equitas Small Finance Bank Ltd. (ESFBL) reported net profit for the quarter ended March has almost trebled to Rs. 113 crore. Net interest income rose to Rs. 449 crore from Rs. 424 crore in the year-earlier period. Net interest margin stood at 7.57%, it said. The percentage of net NPAs to net advances fell to 1.58% from 1.67%. Advances rose 17% to Rs. 17,925 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equitas-sfb-q4-net-profit-almost-trebles/article34445253.ece
30 April 2021||CHENNAI,||IOB rolls out digital retail loans||Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) said it will offer retail loans on its digital platform. Customers can avail of home, personal and clean loans via the bank’s website, Net banking and mobile-banking application while non-customers can apply only through the bank’s website, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iob-rolls-out-digital-retail-loans/article34445252.ece
30 April 2021||KOCHI,||Sable tests positive for COVID||Avinash Sable's preparations for the Tokyo Olympics suffered a setback with the steeplechaser testing positive for COVID-19 at the national camp in Bengaluru. “He tested positive four days ago, but he has no symptoms. He is under quarantine,” said a fellow-national camper. Sable, who has already qualified for the Olympics, had a record-breaking year in 2019 when he entered the final of the Doha World Championships — that also brought him Sportstar 's Athlete of the Year award that year. But the 14-day quarantine, with less than three months to go for the Olympics, could hurt his preparations for Tokyo. Asian Games 1500m champion Jinson Johnson and Olympic-bound race walker Priyanka Goswami along with three other athletes and race walking coach Alexander Artsybashev tested positive for the virus at the Bengaluru national camp a couple of weeks ago. The safety question And that brings one to the big question: Are our national camps safe for athletes? “The national camps are absolutely the safest place, the athletes are in the green zone, these guys may have tried something, may have gone out, or jumped over the wall like some of them had done earlier, otherwise they would not have got it,” Adille Sumariwalla, the president of the Athletics Federation of India, told The Hindu on Thursday evening. “The bubble is so strict, even within the camp there is a green zone and a red zone. “In fact, the national camps are much safer than staying at home.” He explained that the COVID scene in athletics was a lot better than in other sports. “There are not many cases in athletics. May be in boxing or something, not in athletics. In athletics, there are two — Priyanka and Avinash Sable — who are positive in the Bengaluru national camp as far as the Olympic team goes. “That is from among 17 people who have qualified (for Tokyo). We had managed to do everything possible, we have tried very hard, followed all the protocol, we don't know how it happened. Every single federation has been completely overtaken by COVID, we have not.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sable-tests-positive-for-covid/article34445431.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Shawstopper’ Prithvi scorches Knight Riders in blazing innings||Prithvi Shaw’s 41-ball 82 (11x4, 3x6) guided Delhi Capitals to a seven-wicket win over Kolkata Knight Riders at the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad on Thursday. The fastest fifty of the season (18 balls) so far, packed with classical cricketing shots, was straight out of a coaching manual. Electing to bowl, DC had restricted KKR to 154 for six. During the chase, Shaw hit top gear in the first over, smashing 24 runs off Shivam Mavi after a first-ball wide. Shaw unlocked his catalogue — the loft over the bowler’s head, the flick over mid-wicket, the exquisite cover drive — as he struck six successive fours. Shikhar Dhawan (46 off 47) rotated the strike and encouraged the youngster to attack the bowlers. KKR may have erred by not bowling Pat Cummins (three for 24) up front. The Australian maintained an economy of six while his colleagues went for plenty. Eventually, he was the only bowler to dismiss the three DC batsmen — Dhawan, Shaw and Rishabh Pant (16 off 8 balls). Dhawan was trapped in front while Nitish Rana caught Shaw at backward-point. Pant was caught by Mavi at long-on. Earlier, KKR made a steady start in the PowerPlay (45 for one) before Lalit Yadav’s twin strike choked the runs. The opening pair of Shubman Gill (43) and Nitish Rana (15) added only 25. Rana was the first one to fall after hitting a six off a switch-hit. The left-hander charged down the track a little too early and missed the straighter one from Axar Patel pitched outside off; Pant took the bails off in a flash. Gill registered his best score of the season but the strike-rate of 113.15 did not help matters. However, the slog-swept six over deep mid-wicket off Axar was one of the shots of the day. Speedster Avesh Khan cut short Rahul Tripathi’s (19) stay but his partnership of 44 off 35 with Gill rescued KKR from rough waters. Then, off-spinner Lalit removed southpaws Eoin Morgan and Sunil Narine in the 11th over to turn the tide. Lalit’s two for 13 and Axar’s two for 32 ensured that despite Andre Russell’s hustle at the death — the big man smashed four sixes and two fours in an unbeaten 45 off 27 — the chase was always within DC’s reach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shawstopper-prithvi-scorches-knight-riders-in-blazing-innings/article34445374.ece
30 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Need to improve our finishing skill, says Hardik Singh||Following a successful tour of Argentina and Europe, Indian men’s hockey team midfielder Hardik Singh on Thursday said the national side needs to improve its finishing skills and work on the coordination to do well in the Olympics. “I think we need to improve on our finishing. We should convert those chances we create in the opponent’s D. We can also work on our coordination, which would help us control the game against our opponents,” Hardik said in a release issued by Hockey India. “We want to keep improving each and every day, and keep this momentum going by sticking to our daily training goals.” Playing its first top international competition after a one-year hiatus, the Indian team won the first match via a penalty shoot-out, before registering a 3-0 win over host Argentina in the second game of the two-leg FIH pro league. “The Argentina and Europe success are an outcome of high-intensity training, which we have been doing at the camp for one year,” he said. “We trained in such a way that it has kept us in that competitive frame of mind throughout. We have been creating match situations in our training, which I feel has really helped us during our tour.” The Indian team also secured 4-3, 4-4, 0-1 and 4-2 results in their practice matches, which they played against Argentina as a part of their preparations for the Olympic Games in July. “This team has built that fighting spirit over the past few months, and that is one of the key reasons behind our successful Argentina as well as Europe tour. Moreover, we played as a unit, and that reflected on both the tours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-improve-our-finishing-skill-says-hardik-singh/article34445604.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bowlers, de Kock get Mumbai Indians back on track||Quinton de Kock made his first sizeable contribution with the bat and Krunal Pandya made the most of a promotion up the order to help Mumbai Indians overhaul a target of 172 set by Rajasthan Royals in Delhi on Thursday. The duo ensured that superlative work of the pace combination of Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult didn’t go in vain, with MI completing the chase with nine balls to spare.  RR’s total, although a little short of par, was a slightly dicey target. But de Kock (70 n.o., 50b, 6x4, 2x6), having tallied just 47 runs in four previous outings, ensured he took his time before waging an assault on RR’s left-arm pace trio. With Rohit Sharma struggling to time the ball sweetly at the Kotla, it didn’t come as a surprise that the MI captain offered catching practice to Chetan Sakariya at mid-on in Chris Morris’ first over. But de Kock, who had gone after Mustafizur Rahman earlier, took charge, finding gaps at will through the middle overs. Once Suryakumar Yadav flicked Morris straight to mid-wicket in the 10th over, Krunal was promoted, with Ishan Kishan having made way for Nathan Coulter-Nile’s pace. The left-handers ensured that the asking-rate never rose to alarming proportions during their 63-run partnership, Krunal making mincemeat of Rahul Tewatia’s spin. With de Kock at his seamless best, Krunal tried to finish the game in a hurry. Even though he perished in the 17th over, with 26 runs remaining, Kieron Pollard completed the formalities without any fuss. It was the effort of MI’s experienced pace duo, combined with young leggie Rahul Chahar, earlier in the afternoon that kept RR in check. Such was the accuracy of Bumrah and Boult that RR could neither get off the blocks in a hurry nor end with a flurry. The pair conceded just 20 runs in the first four overs and a meagre 19 between overs 17 and 19, with Boult dismantling Sanju Samson’s woodwork with a perfect yorker. In between, despite Jos Buttler and Yashasvi Jaiswal cutting loose after surviving the initial burst, Chahar got rid of both the openers before the MI support bowlers stifled Shivam Dube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-de-kock-get-mumbai-indians-back-on-track/article34445383.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||PBKS faces stern RCB test||Punjab Kings is not short on batting firepower, with the likes of K.L. Rahul, Mayank Agarwal, Chris Gayle, Deepak Hooda and Nicholas Pooran in the ranks. Big runs, however, have been hard to find, leading to four losses in six outings. The most recent failure came on Monday, when PBKS could muster only 123 for nine in a one-sided defeat to Kolkata Knight Riders. The most worrying aspect is the form of West Indian Pooran, who averages a dismal 5.6 for the tournament. Calls to include Dawid Malan — a proven T20 performer — in the playing eleven have grown louder. PBKS will be tested once again, at Ahmedabad on Friday, by an RCB team which boasts of a good attack. Pacer Mohammed Siraj has been impressive with the new ball and at the death. Harshal Patel (17 wickets) holds the Purple Cap. Off-spinner Washington Sundar can be trusted to bowl four tidy overs without leaking runs. RCB's batsmen, meanwhile, have been on song. The team is heavily reliant on the top-order, consisting of Devdutt Padikkal, Virat Kohli, Glenn Maxwell and AB de Villiers. More often than not, at least one of the four has come good. In the previous outing, it was de Villiers who shone bright, hitting an unbeaten 75 in RCB’s one-run win over Delhi Capitals. A steady 22-ball 31 from unheralded Rajat Patidar proved that he is ready for bigger tests to come. With all departments in fine working order, RCB has notched up five wins in six games. PBKS, led by Karnataka lad Rahul, will need to put up a much improved show to stop the RCB juggernaut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pbks-faces-stern-rcb-test/article34445387.ece
30 April 2021||Paris,||Manchester City decks PSG with a 1-2||Manchester City took a big step towards its first Champions League final as goals by Kevin De Bruyne and Riyad Mahrez earned it a 2-1 comeback win at Paris St Germain in the semifinal first leg on Wednesday. PSG went ahead courtesy of a Marquinhos header in the first half, but Mauricio Pochettino’s side lost control after the break with De Bruyne and Mahrez finding the back of the net in the space of eight minutes to secure City’s 18th consecutive away win in all competitions. Last year’s runner-up PSG then found itself with a higher mountain to climb as midfielder Idrissa Gueye picked up a straight red card in the 77th minute for a reckless challenge on Ilkay Gundogan. PSG will need to show next Tuesday the same away form that enabled it to beat Barcelona at the Camp Nou and Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena in previous rounds if it is to progress. City dominated the early possession but PSG was the more dangerous side with Brazilian forward Neymar testing City keeper Ederson twice. Marquinhos put the hosts in front when he headed home Angel Di Maria’s whipped corner in the 15th minute. City was again exposed on a set-piece when Leandro Paredes headed Neymar’s corner just wide.  Pep Guardiola’s City side lacked its usual composure, with Joao Cancelo picking up a yellow card for a woeful challenge on Kylian Mbappe. City’s first real chance came in the 42nd minute when Phil Foden, played infield by Bernardo Silva, shot too close to PSG goalkeeper Keylor Navas. The visitors were more attack-minded in the second half and equalised after 64 minutes when De Bruyne, from a corner by Oleksandr Zinchenko who had just replaced Cancelo, sent in a cross and Navas failed to react as it curled into the far corner of the net. Navas was beaten again seven minutes later when Mahrez’s free kick flew through an inadequate PSG wall.  The result (Semifinal, first leg): Paris Saint-Germain 1 (Marquinhos 15) lost to Manchester City 2 (De Bruyne 64, Mahrez 71).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manchester-city-decks-psg-with-a-one-two/article34445392.ece
30 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Satheevan Balan set for a new innings||Satheevan Balan, one of Kerala’s successful football coaches, is set to begin a new innings as a professional coach. He is the only coach from Kerala to have won both the Santosh Trophy and Sir Ashutosh Mukherjee Trophy titles. He will retire from the Kerala State Sports Council at end of this month. But, the 56-year-old is not ready to enjoy his retired life and instead will test himself in the cut-throat world of professional soccer. “A coach never retires and I feel I still have a lot of things to achieve. Though I have coached the Indian and State and University teams, I never got an opportunity to coach a professional club. Now I have offers from three for four professional clubs from Kerala and other States. For the time being I have decided to join a leading club from North Kerala when the COVID-19 situation improves,” he said. Biggest achievement As a coach Satheevan Balan had a plethora of achievements. But the brightest one was the Santosh Trophy triumph in 2018 when he ended Kerala’s 13-year-old wait. Known for his penchant for spotting talents, the former Indian coach Stephen Constantine appointed him as a talent scout during his tenure. So many players whom Satheevan Balan spotted or coached have gone to become big stars in Indian football. He recalls how he gave V.P. Suhair, the current NorthEast United player, his first break in 2013. “Suhair was earlier rejected from the Calicut University team. But I found that he had certain qualities so I picked him for the Calicut University team and he has not looked back since then. Over the years through hard work Suhair has become a better player and I feel happy for him. He still consults me for important decisions in his career,” he says. Preference Satheevan’s mantra for success was to find players to suit the need of the team. He always gave preference to unselfish and hard working players. “I have never made a team centred around a few individuals. I always believed in team work. For me a hard-working and unselfish player will deliver more than a talented but moody player. And above all I want all my players to strictly follow my instructions both on and off the field,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/satheevan-balan-set-for-a-new-innings/article34445602.ece
30 April 2021||Pallekele,||Karunaratne and Thirimanne hit centuries||Sri Lanka skipper Dimuth Karunaratne made a second straight century against Bangladesh in the second Test here as the host dominated the opening day, closing on a commanding 291 for one. The captain followed his double century in the first Test with a 118 (190b, 15x4), sharing an opening partnership of 209 with Lahiru Thirimanne who batted all day for 131 not out ((253b, 14x4). Elite club Karunaratne also joined an elite club of 10 Lankan players who have scored over 5,000 Test runs with his tally now standing at 5,110. After a tediously high-scoring draw in the first Test, the pitch at Pallekele, censured by the ICC as being below average, provided little for the bowlers. The only chance given by Karunaratne was dropped at first slip by Najmul Shanto off the bowling of Taskin Ahmed when the Sri Lankan skipper was on 28. The left-hander has been in fine form this year having posted four fifties and two centuries. His tally of 648 runs is the second highest in Test cricket in 2021, behind England captain Joe Root’s 794. Karunaratne feathered a catch to wicketkeeper Liton Das to give 19-year-old debutant Shoriful Islam his first wicket in Test cricket. His partnership of 209 with Thirimanne is the highest for the first wicket in Tests between the two countries bettering the 144-run stand between Marvan Atapattu and Sanath Jayasuriya in 2001. Changes Bangladesh left out Ebadot Hossain, handing teenage left-arm seamer Shoriful his first Test cap. Sri Lanka made two changes bringing in left-arm spinner Praveen Jayawickrama and off-spinner Ramesh Mendis in place of Wanindu Hasaranga and Lahiru Kumara.  The scores: Sri Lanka 291/1 in 90 overs (Karunaratne 118, Thirimanne 131 batting, Oshada Fernando 40 batting) v Bangladesh. Toss: Sri Lanka .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karunaratne-and-thirimanne-hit-centuries/article34445427.ece
30 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Mirabai keen to address her shoulder issue||Amidst the pandemic-induced restrictions and uncertainties, weightlifter Mirabai Chanu’s plan to train in the USA to treat a shoulder issue, which is preventing her from realising her potential in snatch, is waiting for the go-ahead. A strong medal prospect in women’s 49kg at the Tokyo Olympics, Mirabai achieved her personal best of 205kg to claim a bronze medal, along with a clean and jerk world record, in the recently-concluded Asian weightlifting championships in Tashkent. However, her snatch attempt of 86kg, following two ‘no lifts’, was a cause for concern. Even as travel restrictions are in place due to the pandemic, Mirabai — who got rid of a lower back issue after getting treated by physiotherapist Dr. Aaron Horschig in the USA last year — is keen to visit the country again. “Sometimes my shoulder feels uncomfortable. That’s why I have planned to go to the USA. I have requested the Government for this, but it is not confirmed yet because of COVID,” Mirabai said at a virtual press conference, organised by Sports Authority of India, on Thursday. “My best snatch effort is 88kg, but it is down a bit due to the shoulder issue. I am doing exercises and trying to rectify my technique to get better results.” Determined Mirabai, who was inducted into the Target Olympics Podium Scheme (TOPS) in November 2018 and has received a total funding of Rs. 51.51 lakh, sounded determined. “What I could not do in Rio, I will try to achieve in Tokyo. I try to replicate what I do in training and don’t take pressure.” Even though she practises a power sport, Mirabai acknowledges the role of a psychologist in soothing her nerves. “Sometimes the body gets dull, you don’t feel like training. If there is an injury or you don’t perform well, then you feel low. A psychologist advises, ‘If you fail today, you will succeed tomorrow.’ “After my failure in Rio, I was devastated. A psychologist told me the failure might have happened due to expectations in my first Olympics. “Then I focused on my training again and everything became normal,” said Mirabai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-keen-to-address-her-shoulder-issue/article34445434.ece
30 April 2021||Madrid,||Valladolid fights back for a draw||Valladolid twice came from behind to draw 2-2 with Athletic Bilbao on Wednesday and climb out of the Spanish league’s relegation zone. Shon Weissman scored an 85th-minute equaliser to give the visitors the point that lifted it to 17th place with five rounds left. Valladolid is tied on 30 points with 18th-pace Elche but is ahead on goal difference. Athletic took the lead through Jon Morcillo in the 14th before Fabian Orellana levelled the match in the 70th and Raul Garcia put the hosts ahead again in the 76th at the San Mames Stadium. The draw extended Valladolid’s winless streak in the league to seven matches. Outside chance Athletic was looking to keep the momentum from a win over leader Atletico Madrid on Sunday. It sits in ninth place and still has an outside chance of qualifying for the Europa League. The match was originally scheduled to be played two weeks ago. It was postponed because of Athletic’s participation in the Copa del Rey final, which it lost to Barcelona.  The result: Athletic Bilbao 2 (Morcillo 14, Raul Garcia 76) drew with Valladolid 2 (Orellana 70, Weissman 85).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valladolid-fights-back-for-a-draw/article34445444.ece
30 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM:,||Penang for Queen’s Guest Handicap||Penang has an edge over his rivals in the Queen’s Guest Handicap (1,600m), the main event of the races to be held here on Friday (April 30). In accordance with the latest State Government Order as regards the COVID-19 pandemic, inter-venue betting on the Udhagamandalam races will not be conducted at the Madras Race Club, Chennai, until further notice. However, on-line totalizator transactions would be in operation at play.madrasraceclub.com.   BOLD RUNNER HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 10-30 a.m.: 1. Daiyamondu (5) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Country’s Moon (2) K.V. Baskar 59.5, 3. Fantastic Hit (4) P. Koushik 59.5, 4. Kings Pride (1) Shahzad Alam 59.5, 5. Mulligan (3) Koshi Kumar 59.5, 6. Sovereignaire (6) Farid Ansari 58, 7. Chanakya (7) Surya Prakash 57.5 and 8. Jericho (8) Irshad Alam 54.  1. FANTASTIC HIT,   2. SOVEREIGNAIRE,   3. DAIYAMONDO   NORA HANDICAP (1,300m), 5-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 11-00: 1. Beforethedawn (3) Kuldeep Singh 60, 2. Renzaccio (4) Koshi Kumar 60, 3. Asian Empress (5) A.A. Vikrant 59.5, 4. Symphony In Style (8) P. Sai Kumar 57, 5. Princess Saaraa (2) A. Ayaz Khan 54, 6. Vulture (7) K.V. Baskar 54, 7. Amazing Kitten (1) Shahar Babu 53 and 8. Arazinger (6) Surya Prakash 51.5.  1. SYMPHONY IN STYLE, 2. BEFORETHEDAWN, 3. ASIAN EMPRESS   BE SAFE PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 11-30: 1. Royal Eminence (1) Rajendra Singh 56, 2. Empress Eternal (2) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 3. First Empress (9) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 4. Geisha Girl (8) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 5. Lakshanam (6) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 6. Ocarina (7) P. Koushik 54.5, 7. Sparkleberry (5) R. Manish 54.5, 8.Star Of Texas (3) Surya Prakash 54.5 and 9. Wisaka (4) Shahar Babu 54.5.  1. LAKSHANAM, 2. STAR OF TEXAS, 3. OCARINA   BE SAFE PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 12-00 noon: 1. Bold Fleet (3) Kuldeep Singh 56, 2. Diamond And Pearls (1) P.K. Gaddam 56, 3. Eagle Prince (2) Nakhat Singh 56, 4. Gold Speck (7) Irshad Alam 56, 5. Marshall (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 6. Bright Light (5) R. Manish 54.5, 7. Elegant Touch (4) Nikhil Naidu 54.5 and 8. Fashion Of Stars (8) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. EAGLE PRINCE,   2. FASHION OF STARS,   3. ELEGANT TOUCH   QUEEN’S GUEST HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65, 12-30 p.m.: 1. Avellino (5) P. Vikram 62, 2. Roman Senator (8) Nazar Alam 62, 3. Demerara (1) A. Ayaz Khan 58.5, 4. Penang (4) A. Imran Khan 58.5, 5. Divina (10) Nikhil Naidu 57, 6. Comanche Brave (2) Nakhat Singh 56, 7. Ganton (9) Surya Prakash 55, 8. Embrace (3) Brisson 54, 9. Otus (6) B.R. Kumar 53.5 and 10. Shield Maiden (7) Shahar Babu 53.5.  1. PENANG, 2. DIVINA,   3. AVELLINO   PANDORA HANDICAP (1,300m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45 (no whip) 1-00: 1. Star Glitter (3) Azad Alam 60, 2. Fiat Justitia (1) Shahzad Alam 58.5, 3. Oberon (10) P. Koushik 57.5, 4. Senora Bianca (4) M. Bhaskar 57, 5. Bossinova (8) Indrajeet K 56, 6. Full Of Surprise (7) R. Manish 54, 7. Majestic Charmer (5) B.R. Kumar 54, 8. Carnoustie (2) Surya Prakash 52.5, 9. Stern Maiden (6) Muzaffar 52.5 and 10. Lord Of The Turf (9) Shahar Babu 52.  1. MAJESTIC CHARMER,   2. SENORA BIANCA, 3. OBERON   TROJAN RIVER HANDICAP (1,300m), rated 20 to 45, 1-30: 1. Bolivia (3) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Off Shore Breeze (6) Nikhil Naidu 60, 3. Right Move (9) P. Koushik 59, 4. Beauteous Maximus (10) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 5. Katahdin (2) Manikandan 58, 6. Feni (1) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 7. Absolute Authority (5) Nazar Alam 56.5, 8. Priceless Treasure (7) Shyam Kumar 56.5, 9. Country’s Lumiere (8) Shahar Babu 52 and 10. Flash Star (4) R. Manish 51.5.  1. BOLIVIA, 2. OFF SHORE BREEZE, 3. BEAUTEOUS MAXIMUS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/penang-for-queens-guest-handicap/article34445424.ece
30 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Dutee saddened at World Relays miss||Sprinter Dutee Chand says she is disappointed at missing the huge opportunity of competing in the 4x100m in the World Athletics Relays to be held in Poland next month after flight disruptions due to the pandemic left the Indian teams stranded here. “The preparations were on in full swing and we were all keen to put up a good show. Everything was going well. A lot of planning went into the national camp and we were really pleased with the batons exchange segment of the training,” Dutee told The Hindu . “It would have been great if all 19 teams were in the fray for the World Relays and a good performance in the women’s 4x100m relay would have ensured a berth for the Tokyo Olympics,” she said. Dutee was to compete along with Hima Das, Dhanalaxmi Sekhar, Archana Suseentran, Daneshwari T.A. and Himashree Roy, “Personally I will continue to focus on my events — 200m and 100m. I am confident of making it to Tokyo since I am World No. 38 in 200m and No. 40 in 100m,” Dutee said. “It will be obviously great if have international competitions. The Athletics Federation of India is doing its best to ensure this but the second wave of the pandemic is throwing things off gear,” she said. Workload “Fortunately, I am guided by mentor and coach Ramesh Sir (SAI athletics coach N. Ramesh). He knows exactly what kind of workload and training I require to peak at the right time,” said the 25-year-old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dutee-saddened-at-world-relays-miss/article34445442.ece
30 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unbeaten Carlsen and Nakamura stay on course||The unbeaten duo of Magnus Carlsen and Hikaru Nakamura stayed on course of a much-anticipated title-clash after reaching the semifinals of the New in Chess Classic rapid online tournament on Wednesday. No tie-breaker was needed as all four semifinalists made it without dropping a match. Carlsen broke Teimour Radjabov’s resistance after five straight draws and then drew twice for a 2.5-1.5 verdict in Match 2. Dominant display Carlsen’s next rival Levon Aronian knocked out Champions Tour leader Wesley So with a dominant display. He drew two games and won the third to advance with a game to spare. Nakamura, in serious trouble in Game 1 and 3 against Liem Quang Le, won 2-1. He escaped to victory in the first game and then managed to draw the next two. Nakamura next plays Shakhriyar Mamedyarov who raced away to a 2.5-0.5 win over an off-colour Alireza Firouzja, after winning the first and third games.  The results (quarterfinals, Match 2): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Teimour Radjabov (Aze) 2.5-1.5; Levon Aronian (Arm) bt Wesley So (USA) 2-1.   Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) bt Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) 2.5-0.5; Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Liem Quang Le (Vie) 2-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-carlsen-and-nakamura-stay-on-course/article34445443.ece
30 April 2021||MUMBAI,||MCA postpones T20 League||Despite getting Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) nod, the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) has indefinitely postponed the T20 Mumbai League. “In view of the current COVID-19 pandemic situation in the country and keeping in mind the safety and interests of all the stakeholders involved, the MCA has decided to defer the conduct of third edition of the T20 Mumbai League till further notice,” stated a joint statement issued by MCA president Vijay Patil and T20 Mumbai League governing council chairman Milind Narvekar. The MCA had planned to start the league from June 4 but was shelved after the recent resurgence of COVID-19. “In these distressing times, we thought it was prudent not to put anyone’s health at risk in the whole ecosystem of Mumbai cricket. “We hope to see cricket, especially the T20 League, back in action soon,” Narvekar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-postpones-t20-league/article34446051.ece
30 April 2021||Margao,||FC Goa’s foreign staff leaves India||ISL side FC Goa on Thursday allowed its foreign staffers, including Spanish head coach Juan Ferrando and some footballers, to leave the country ahead of its last AFC Champions League match in view of the restrictions being imposed on flights from India. The club said that it was a “pre-emptive measure in view of recent policies being taken by European and other countries in regards to travellers from India.”  Apart from Ferrando, the FC Goa set up includes the Spanish trio of Ivan Gonzalez, Edu Bedia and Jorge Ortiz and James Donachie of Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goas-foreign-staff-leaves-india/article34445445.ece
30 April 2021||BARCELONA,||Granada rallies to stun Barca||Barcelona spurned the chance to go top of the table on Thursday as a shock 2-1 defeat by Granada added another twist to LaLiga’s most unpredictable title race in years. Barca could have taken control at the top by moving a point ahead of Atletico Madrid with a win, but Granada came from behind to snatch a stunning victory at Camp Nou, in what will be a huge boost to the other title contenders. Lionel Messi scored his 33rd goal of the season to put Barcelona in front. However, Granada fought back as Darwin Machis equalised and Jorge Molina’s header completed a remarkable turnaround.  The result :   Barcelona 1 (Messi 23) lost to Granada 2 (Machis 63, Molina 79).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/granada-rallies-to-stun-barca/article34445912.ece
30 April 2021||Harare,||Pakistan dominates day one||Pakistan dominated the opening day of the first Test against Zimbabwe on the back of some destructive pace bowling by Hasan Ali and Shaheen Shah Afridi in Harare on Thursday. Hasan finished with 4/53 while Afridi grabbed 4/43 as Zimbabwe — which won the toss and batted — was dismissed for a paltry 176 on a slow pitch at Harare Sports Club. Zimbabwe was hit hard on the eve of the match when regular skipper Sean Williams was ruled out with a hand injury while another experienced batsman Craig Ervine also failed to recover from a calf injury.  The scores: Zimbabwe 176 in 59.1 overs (Roy Kala 48, Hasan Ali 4/53, Shaheen Afridi 4/43) vs Pakistan 103/0 in 30 overs (Abid Ali 56 batting, Imran Butt 43 batting). Toss: Zimbabwe .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-dominates-day-one/article34445384.ece
30 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Tendulkar donates Rs. 1 crore to Mission Oxygen||Sachin Tendulkar has joined the donation drive by pledging Rs. 1 crore to Mission Oxygen, an NGO providing oxygen concentrators to patients. “I hope that their effort soon reaches out to many more hospitals across India,” Tendulkar tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tendulkar-donates-rs-1-crore-to-mission-oxygen/article34445355.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 10:00 IST,||Sudoku — April 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-apriil-30-2021/article34446367.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Surviving on the sidelines||Last year during Deepavali, Akiba Subahani saw a group of Narikuravars by the banks of river Vaigai. About 80 of them, from infants to old people, had left their shanties in Sakkimangalam, on the outskirts of Madurai, and come to the temple town in search of jobs. The lockdown had accentuated their misery as the nomadic tribe was robbed of their livelihood of making bead ornaments, telling fortunes, pachai kuthu (tattooing) and hunting. They frankly admitted that they feared poverty, hunger and deprivation more than the virus. Akiba, who has been running the U Can Foundation for the last seven years, decided to help them. First she convinced them to have a bath in the Vaigai. No one wanted to accept the clothes she got them as they feared if they wore new clothes, they would not be able to seek alms. Akiba managed abiryanifeast for them, sponsored by severalbiryanisellers. Once their stomachs were full, out came the stories of how COVID-19 had restricted their mobility and affected their earnings.  Founder of Green Walk and activist S. Muthukrishnan, who was among the first to research the Narikuravars, says that during lockdown 1.0, he arranged monthly kits of grocery and other essential items for 400 families in Sakkimangalam. The community is also seen in Samayanallanur and Nellaiyurand and are largely dependent on local NGOs for their survival now. “The pandemic has totally cut them off. Some of them have turned wiser from experience and prioritised their spending,” he says. “They lead frugal lives on the edge and are in dire need of help.” With doors of houses shut due to fear, their earnings through fortune telling had taken a beating. With no public participation in festivals and the biggest chithrai thiruvizha going on sans crowds inside the Meenakshi Temple now, their goods have also remained unsold. “To make ends meet, the Narikuravars change their small-time businesses according to the season, location, their skills and peoples’ interest,” says Akiba. Due to the migratory nature of their livelihood, the Narikuravars do not have the mandatory ID cards that enables the poor to draw benefits from government schemes for free ration and other supplies. While many took to begging on Madurai streets during the lockdown, Akiba arranged food for them. “If we did not get a sponsor, we cooked at home and fed them,” she said. When the lockdown was relaxed, many Narikuravars returned to Sakkimangalam. They did not, however, have essentials like water, soap and sanitisers. Two days ago, Akiba received a distress call from members of the sattai adi thozhilaalargal (the whip lashers). Listed as a corona warrior by the police, she was able to rush with sacks of rice, dal and other essentials in the volunteer car. Though she is fasting for Ramzan, she carried on. “When I felt dehydrated, I simply poured a bottle of water over myself. I know the Narikuravars are facing severe hardship. Living in cities, we reach out only to those who are near and visible to us. The marginalised, who are also buckling under pandemic, are neglected.”  Their livelihood includes making bead ornaments, telling fortunes, pachai kuthu (tattooing) and hunting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/surviving-on-the-sidelines/article34445570.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||With love, from Italy||Creatures of the sea morphing into humans to dwell on land? At first glance, Pixar film Luca seems to be Italy’s answer to The Little Mermaid , but this upcoming release goes deeper — pun intended — than that. For director Enrico Casarosa, it is an amalgam of an empowering childhood friendship, Italian folklore and inspired Pixar magic.  Luca follows two boys — titular character Luca (Jacob Tremblay) and Alberto (Jack Dylan Glazer) — emerging from the sea and then turning into humans. Subsequently, they enjoy a memorable ‘human’ summer in a fictional quaint town, Portorosso, on the Italian Riviera. The film is the baby of Casarosa, a storyboard-turned-director who has worked on Coco , Up , and short film La Luna . During a virtual interaction , MetroPlus spoke with the makers of Luca — production designer Daniela Strijleva, animation supervisor Michael Venturini, visual effects supervisor Jon Reisch, character supervisors Beth Albright and Sajan Skaria, along with Casarosa — on characterisation, visual nostalgia and storytelling. Monsters and memories  Luca is centred on unforgettable friendships, fitting in, culture shock, and the concept of home. Casarosa was inspired to tell the story of Luca because he had his own ‘Alberto’ growing up, a friend upon whom he relied and who was adventurous; he even brought a pet python to school! So, why sea monsters? Genoa-born Casarosa was fascinated with sea monsters growing up and it worked its way into his lyrical storytelling. Children were forbidden to play near the shores of the Italian Riviera and were warned of kid-snatching monsters. For Luca , Casarosa turns the concept on its head and says, “We hope that sea monster could be a metaphor for that moment where you feel odd, like being a teen or pre-teen.” Grinning, Casarosa admits he also did a deep dive into other mythologies and their monster folklore. “I was always fascinated by changelings being able to look human; for example, in Japanese folklore, kitsune foxes, and in Irish folklore, the selkies. The ‘more than meets the eye’ is the draw.” Integrate these myths with the familiar visuals of Hayao Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli films (such as Spirited Away ) and Aardman films such as Wallace and Gromit , and Luca was born. For many of us, watching Luca is as close to Italy we will get in 2021. The team had a blast creating Portorosso, says production designer Strijleva ( Coco ). Back when travel was a thing, the makers travelled to the Cinque Terre for research. Months later, Portorosso would become a love letter to the Liguria region, focussing on the rich foods and earthly architecture of the 1950s and ’60s. Strijleva points out “while these production trips were exciting to see Enrico’s hometowns through his eyes, it was meeting the people who were kids in the 1950s and ’60s, and them talking about the energies of these places back then. It’s a huge responsibility to work with people in this authentic way, to help audiences inhabit that world.” The vibrancy of Luca was a focal point for animation supervisor Venturini who explains they watched not just films under the Disney umbrella but those out of it as well as “we don’t want to be repetitive but rather progressive”. He adds, “It’s a playful challenge, as with Luca , we also focussed on the past. With Enrico and his youth, he was influenced artistically by certain styles where there were certain technological limitations being two-dimensional animations, and we were trying to bring that into the modern era to create something specific and unique.” Predictably, Luca has a lot of water in it. So much so, that it became its own character. Visual effects supervisor Reisch says finding the “expressive language” of the water in Luca was “the biggest challenge, especially taking the cutting-edge technology to create a simplified elegance that Enrico wanted. We looked at it as a children’s storybook with these stylised shape language.” Characterisation was powerful in ensuring the people of Portorosa had their own soul. Character supervisor Skaria says they analysed the people of Cinque Terre in their walk, their gestures while talking, the way they lounged around, even the way they ate — and they had to make this come across on screen naturally. Albright adds, “We also were really interested in specificity in background characters. In a lot of animated movies, background characters do not require this. But in this small town, we took the time to design these individuals who may have their own stories. This was really important to Enrico and art director Deanna Marsigliese.” Limitation as power ‘Limitation’ was a key concept for Venturini and his team, who says technology can be so powerful and limitless that one has to self-impose limitations to render a specific look. He explains, “When we looked at old films, we realised there’s a style to Studio Ghibli films because they animate physicality with fewer drawings and less information. It is more caricature, so we had to bring that forward with Pixar technology. We had to stop ourselves to avoid falling back into what comes easily to us, we had to take the harder path with Luca .” Strijleva concludes, “When you have these parameters, you get thinking in how to use artistry to challenge the technology. When you simplify these different elements to get to the essence of a story, it shapes how audiences see these places — however fictional — differently. And Luca is about embracing difference.” Luca streams on Disney+Hotstar Premium from June 18.   For many of us, watching Luca is as close to Italy we will get in 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/with-love-from-italy/article34445576.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The real power||Megnath hears about Hanuman’s perseverance and is even more motivated to learn about flight controls.  Ravana: Son, flight techniques will help you fly these machines. But you must gain more knowledge become stronger and better than me.  Megnath: How? Who will teach me what you don’t know?  Ravana: There are four beings who are the greatest in the universe. There is much you can gain from them.  Megnath: Who are they?  Ravana: Lord Brahma, the creator of the Universe; Lord Vishnu, who protects it; Lord Shiva, the one who destroys all that is unwanted; and... Ravana hesitates...  Megnath: Who is the fourth, Dad?  Ravana: I always believed that Shiva is the strongest being until I realised there is someone more powerful than him — his wife Goddess Kali.  Megnath: Women are truly strong, Dad! Do you know that a normal mortal body can bear only 45 del (units) of pain but, during childbirth, a woman feels up to 57 del of pain?  Ravana: It’s incredible! ***  Megnath: I will start gaining knowledge from these four gods. But what should I learn from them?  Ravana: Something that will make you the most powerful living being — the technologies behind their powerful weapons.  Megnath: Oh! What are those?  Ravana: From Vishnu learn about the Agni astra (guns) — the weapon which can destroy one person instantly, and Narayana astra (missiles), which can destroy a whole army in an instant. From Brahma, learn about the Brahma astra (nuclear fission bombs). From Shiva get the Pasupata astra (nuclear fusion bombs).  Megnath: Daddy, what about Kali?  Ravana: I am yet to discover the secret of her strength. Hopefully, we will find out soon.  Megnath: Okay, Dad. By the way, I have seen guns and missiles. But what are Brahma astra and Pasupata astra?  Ravana: Brahma astra is a nuclear fission bomb. It’s a way of producing high amounts of energy by splitting a heavy nucleus into two lighter nuclei.  Megnath: Isn’t a nucleus the centre of an atom?  Ravana: That’s right. It is the small, dense region that contains protons and neutrons. The outer shell has the electrons.  Megnath: What is nuclear fusion?  Ravana: Fusion is the opposite of fission. It means to combine two light nuclei to create high energy.  Megnath: I am confused. How can splitting and combining nuclei create so much destructive energy?  Ravana: That’s the beauty of physics. By the way, your body is made up of 7 octillion atoms. An octillion is 7 followed by 27 zeros. Imagine, how much energy you have!  Megnath: Wow! But, if both fission and fusion produce such destructive energy, why should I learn about them?  Ravana: I only asked you to learn about them; not use the knowledge for destructive purposes. You can use this science to create something constructive like how Lord Brahma created humans with 7 octillion atoms of energy.  Megnath: I understand.  Ravana: Don’t ever think that having destructive weapons will make you powerful. Many of our ancestors failed because of that assumption. Being constructive will makes you more powerful. So, use the knowledge you gain for constructive purposes only.  Megnath: You totally changed my perspective, Dad! Technology and knowledge can make people stronger and this, in turn, powers a nation’s growth and subsequently that of the entire world and human race. This is the real meaning of becoming strong! Ravana is surprised by Megnath’s ability to understand and process the learning he receives. Megnath starts to pray to gods to gain knowledge. But he doesn’t know that Goddess Kali is going to bless him with an unknown weapon that will make him the most powerful warrior in Treta Yuga!  To be continued   The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   “...your body is made up of 7 octillion atoms. So imagine, how much energy you have!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-real-power/article34446196.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity to the fore||3.Swaranjali Shashikant Karekar,Class 4, Divine Providence Convent High School, Belagavi, Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/creativity-to-the-fore/article34446215.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bookish revolution||Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg was born in Mainz, Germany around 1400 CE. Johannes had always been fascinated by books, then produced by woodblocks — an expensive, time-consuming method. So he worked on making a “type” with smaller/individual characters that could be cast easily, was adaptable and affordable. The printing press he developed first brought out the ‘Forty-two line Bible.’ In his lifetime, Gutenberg made no money, and even lost his eyesight later in life. He died in 1468, little knowing he had changed the world immeasurably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/bookish-revolution/article34446165.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Grandma to the rescue||Last week, my grandma’s mobile phone was stolen. She was at the vegetable market when a young boy approached her in tears saying he couldn’t find his mother. Grandma gave him her phone to make a call; but he took it and disappeared into the crowd before she could react. My father and I took grandma to the police station to lodge a complaint. “This seems to be the work of a new gang training children to steal mobile phones from women,” said the inspector. “There was another incident in the park too. The gang chooses places without CCTV cameras.” At the park My father bought a new phone for grandma. The next day, I went to the Clock Tower Park opposite my house. My friend Ajay and his grandma were there and I warned her not to give her mobile phone to any weeping kids. She agreed and went off on her walk while Ajay and I played basketball. Suddenly, we heard her shouting, “Catch that boy!” Ajay and I ran to the park’s entrance gate. There was my grandma at the park entrance holding the boy’s hand tightly. Ajay and I caught the boy. A little girl stood crying. Ajay’s grandma said she had received a video call from my grandma while she was walking. So she sat at a park bench to talk. She heard a girl crying aloud and went to check if she was okay. But she did not cut the video call and was holding the phone in such a way that my grandma could see another face — it was the boy who stole her mobile phone at the vegetable market! Immediately, my grandma rushed from our home to the park. In the meantime, at the park, the boy had told Ajay’s grandma that his sister was hurt and asked for her phone to call his mother. “I forgot Rohit’s warning,” grandma said. The boy took the phone and the two kids began to run when my grandma caught him. The truth The kids, Sriram and Ratna, said that their parents had died in an accident and their uncle and aunt trained them to steal mobile phones. They would be beaten if they refused. The uncle and aunt were arrested. The inspector got Sriram and Ratna admitted into an orphanage. We visited them one weekend. Sriram told my grandma he was glad she caught him that day; otherwise, his sister and he would not have been rescued from their life of crime.  I warned Ajay’s grandma not to give her mobile phone to any weeping kids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/grandma-to-the-rescue/article34446191.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||For the foodies||Have you ever wondered what the first meal on the Moon was? Or the last one on the Titanic ? Was a stuffed turkey actually part of the first Thanksgiving dinner, and did Queen Marie Antoinette really say, “Let them eat cake!” during the French Revolution? Take a trip back in time to 15 important events in the past on the WayBack App with trivia-crazy Siya and budding chef Sam. Discover a secret ingredient in Sir Edmund Hillary’s Camp IX tent just before he reached the top of Mt. Everest; take a peek into the royal court at Calicut as explorer Vasco da Gama spices up the proceedings; sniff the salt in the air on the Dandi March with Gandhiji…and get a taste of history like never before. As you savour the real flavour of these adventures, try out the yummy, easy recipes inspired by these key historical moments, sprinkled throughout the book. Superfoods for Superheroes features 10 fun stories about a little boy (who loves superheroes!) who discovers the surprising superpowers of everyday foods. Each illustrated story is followed by fun facts about the superfood and a kid-friendly recipe. The book aims to help children make healthier food choices, educate families about the power of kid-friendly superfoods, create a positive and meaningful dialogue around healthy eating, break out of the typical informational nature of the health-food category and create an interesting narrative that puts the child at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/for-the-foodies/article34446200.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Let's play a game||ACROSS  1. Use a racquet to hit a shuttlecock (9) 6. Poker, Rummy, Bluff are all ____ games (4) 7. Pass the baton to the next runner (5) 8. Use a club to hit a ball on the green (4) 9. Roll this and move your pawn forward (3) 11. Toddlers love the ___pit (4) 14. Gold, silver or bronze? (5) 15. Games period in school, for short (2) 16. A taut, stretched fabric that you jump on (9) 19. The player with the bat (6) 20. Kick the football into this (4)  DOWN  1. Monopoly, Ludo, Scrabble are all ____ games (5) 2. ___ball, game where you avoid the ball (5) 3. Gun with foam bullets (4) 4. A skateboard stunt move (5) 5. You go here to workout (3) 10. Chess originated in this country (5) 11. A fielding position in cricket (4) 12. Springing off a board into water (6) 13. Fencing sword (4) 14. Contest (5) 17. Practise yoga on this (3) 18. You row with this (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lets-play-a-game/article34446172.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Do ants sleep?   It is often assumed that ants do not sleep. When we watch them, they are always moving and working hard to help their queen survive. But, contrary to what you see, they do sleep. However, their sleeping patterns are different from humans. They have a cyclical resting period pattern. Worker ants take about 250 tiny power naps that last about a minute on an average through the day and night. The queen, on the other hand, sleeps for about six minutes, 90 times through 24 hours. The queen also lives 100 times longer than the worker ants.  What doesthe ‘x’ in ‘x-ray’ mean?   In 1885, a German physicist, Wilhelm Roentgen, discovered a new form of radiation. At the time, he didn’t know what it was, so he called it X-radiation, so in short it became known as ‘x-ray’ instead. Over time, x-rays have been used in many fields, especially in medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article34446161.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||How did he change the world?||Earlier, only big institutions like the Church and monarchy, and rich nobles could afford the production of books. Gutenberg’s many innovations led to a new way to print books that was quick, simple, and affordable. The machine he developed remained unchanged for 500 years until the steam-powered press came along! Now more books could be produced and this people to read, to think on their own, to have ideas and start experimenting. This ‘revolution’ in printing played an important role in the European Renaissance of the 15-17th centuries. The spread of knowledge was now unstoppable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/how-did-he-change-the-world/article34446167.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Which was the first book printed?||Gutenberg printed the ‘Forty-two line Bible’ in the 1450s, but the earliest book is almost 1300 years old, and is an example of woodblock printing. The Chinese book, Diamond Sutra , a text of Mahayana Buddhism, was collected first around the 4-5 th centuries CE, and printed in 868 CE. It is now at the British Library. A Chinese official, Bi (or Pi) Sheng invented ‘movable type’ in the 11th century CE. He used clay to form individual characters. These were then baked in a kiln, placed in an iron frame and again warmed. In 1377 CE, this was used in Korea to produce the ‘Jikji,’ a collection of thoughts based on Zen Buddhism, 75 years before Gutenberg produced his Bible in Mainz, Germany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/which-was-the-first-book-printed/article34446169.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34446157.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34446176.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A jugalbandi with life||As the pandemic continues to take away lives, the world of Hindustani classical music suffered another colossal loss with the passing away of Pt. Rajan Mishra. A stalwart of the Benaras gharana, his lifelong jugalbandi with younger brother Pt. Sajan Mishra unveiled several innovative idioms within the traditional khayal gayaki. Enthralling audiences across the globe for over half a century, the maestro is remembered as a charismatic performer, affectionate guru, devoted friend and a true artiste whose generosity embraced all generations. Pune-based veteran vocalist, Suhas Vyas, who shared over 40 years of friendship with the late musician, says, “The first thought that came to my mind was how his brother must be feeling. They have spent every moment of their musical journey together — they were one soul in two bodies.” Jokes and generosity Remembering numerous instances when they visited each other in Delhi, Pune, Benaras and Mumbai, Vyas recalls, “The moment he entered a room, he would light it up with his remarkable sense of humour and joviality. He had this rare quality of putting anybody at ease instantly. If there was a glitch before a performance and people around were fretting, he would say something funny and before you knew it, everyone would be laughing and relaxed.” Jaipur-based slide guitar artiste Salil Bhatt also talks about this quality of Pt. Rajan Mishra. “The connect between our families spans four generations. My father (Pt. Vishwa Mohan Bhatt) and Pt. Rajan were close friends. I remember the many interesting discussions on music whenever they met and if there was a cricket match being telecast, then nothing else mattered.” Pt. Rajan Mishra hailed from a musical family in Benaras that defined the khayal gayaki of the gharana across several generations. He had rigorously trained under his father Pt. Hanuman Mishra, uncle Pt. Gopal Mishra, and was also a gandabandh disciple of his grand-uncle Pt. Bade Ramdas. Reflecting on his musicianship, Vyas says, “He was blessed to have received such great taleem , but that was just the foundation. Over the years, he developed a style of raga presentation that was deeply immersive. He could gauge the audience, engage them and take them along, as he and his brother unfolded the raga. His artistry included his expressions and gestures. This made his performances mesmerising.” Despite being a busy performer and guru, Pt. Mishra made it a point to be present at the performances of his friends and also at important moments in their life. “Most artistes these days tend to be self-absorbed,” says Vyas, “but Rajan always encouraged other artistes. I remember his reassuring presence at all my concerts in Delhi; he would turn up even if he had to alter his concert schedule. That kind of camaraderie and appreciation is something only a true artiste and friend can offer." His generosity and compassion had a profound impact on a younger generation of musicians. Ajay Joglekar accompanied the brothers on the harmonium at several concerts. Reminiscing about his first performance with them as a youngster, he says, “It was in 1991. I was nervous and overawed, they were star musicians I had grown up listening to, and to accompany them was overwhelming. Pt. Rajan Mishra immediately sensed my anxiety in the greenroom. He asked me to sit with him and gently reassured me. He also gave me the most important lesson of accompaniment — instead of being worried about how I would perform, he suggested I just listen intently on stage, and the musical movements would automatically follow.” Joglekar points out that his music also carried the same spirit of generosity and togetherness. “He considered music-making as a painting we all make together on stage, and believed that just as we tune our instruments, we need to be tuned to each other.” Mutual understanding The perfect rapport between Rajan and Sajan emerged as the striking feature of their musical journey, a jugalbandi that also defined their life off stage. Interviewing them for a radio show in 2004, I was struck by their ability to complete each other’s sentences, just as they rounded off each other’s musical phrases during performances. Describing this understanding, Pt. Rajan Mishra had said, “This is possible only if there’s respect between two people. We are two individuals. We sing together but we have never made our singing competitive. We love each other; we appreciate each other’s singing. When this (mutual appreciation and love) reaches its zenith, we emerge as one soul.” Nodding gently, Pt. Sajan Mishra had added, “We are two different people with different voice textures, yet we reach out to listeners as one voice.” From Benaras to Delhi Brought up in Benaras, the brothers started performing together from their early days, first in temples, and later in music festivals and concerts. Their first major concert was in 1968 in Sankatmochan temple in Benaras. In 1973, their uncle Pt. Gopal Mishra called them to Delhi for a radio audition. Their concert was broadcast on All India Radio and soon they started receiving several invitations and shifted to Delhi. Pt. L.K. Pandit, Delhi-based senior vocalist of Gwalior gharana, remembers meeting them as young musicians at the radio station. “Their repertoire of khayals was amazing and their jugalbandi remains unparalleled.” Benaras is mostly known for thumri, dadra and other allied forms. To change this perception, the brothers decided early in their journey to focus on the Benaras gharana khayal and present its many facets. Meeting them again in 2008 just before a concert with Holi around the corner, I requested them to present a hori or thumri. Pt. Rajan Mishra laughed and said, “We often get such requests, but we don’t sing thumri on stage because people think in Benaras only thumri is sung. We want to project our gharana’s many vocal and instrumental styles.” Prolific composer Their multi-faceted approach to vocalism also reflects in the Benaras style’s affinity for the literary and emotional content of bandishes. A lesser-known fact about Pt. Rajan Mishra was his love for writing and composing bandishes. Senior disciple and Ahmedabad-based vocalist Viraj Amar has done her doctoral research on the compositions written by her guru. “He loved poetry. All his compositions are a beautiful combination of emotional expression and layakari. In his performance, the kehene ka andaaz and play with words was enthralling." Remembering his composition in raga Maru Bihag, ‘Sajan bole re koyalia’, Mumbai-based vocalist and guru-behen Tulika Ghosh says, “He was a voracious reader, that’s why he was so attached to the sahitya of the composition.” Ghosh learnt in the Benaras gurukul system and remembers their daily schedule where his father (their guru) would conduct their classes from 5 a.m. “His music had immense tehraav . He could express the same phrase in so many different ways, giving it a different flavour each time. The elements of unpredictability in his presentation made it absolutely riveting and memorable.” After a long string of performances, the family would often retreat to the mountains. Love for nature also inspired the brothers to build a gurukul in Dehradun besides the one in Benaras. Remembered as a deeply affectionate and encouraging guru, the legacy of Pt. Rajan Mishra resounds with the possibilities of compassionate music, forever in a jugalbandi with life.  The author is a Delhi-based arts researcher and writer.   His music had immense tehraav . He could express the same phrase in so many different ways, giving it a different flavour each time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-jugalbandi-with-life/article34445876.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The river song||Rivers are exemplars of life. Indian culture popularly refers to water as amritham or nectar. But across the world, and closer home, rivers are under threat. Why are rivers so important? And what are we doing to protect them? To promote awareness on river conservation, the International Centre for Clean Water (ICCW), IIT Madras, has launched a six-minute music video. Released on Earth Day, April 22, as part of ICCW’s second anniversary celebrations, the music video showcases the beauty and might of rivers across the country as they originate from the mountains and flow through various landscapes. The video uploaded on the IIT Madras YouTube channel has already garnered more than 50,000 views and continues to draw people’s attention. Bombay Jayashri with son Amrit Ramnath and Kaushiki Chakraborty with son Rishith Desikan are the lead singers, with a chorus featuring Global IIT Madras alumni and other fellow singers. The music video is conceived and created by India-American musician Dr. Kanniks Kannikeswaran, a former student of the institution, and it is directed by music producer Sai Shravanam. Set in ragas Yamuna Kalyani and Kiravani, the lyrics include the names of 51 Indian rivers. Music with a message The idea was sparked during the 1984 batch reunion in January 2020. “I discussed with E. Nandakumar, CEO, ICCW,” says Kannikeswaran, a pioneer in the Indian-American choral movement, who has many musical theatre productions and choral symphonies based on ragas to his credit. “We discussed it with T. Pradeep, professor in-charge, ICCW, who suggested the video could focus on contamination and the need to preserve rivers,” says Kannikeswaran. Initially, the project was conceived as an offline production, but the pandemic ruled that out. The project was planned along the lines of the famous national integration song, ‘Mile Sur Mera Tumhara,’ which brought together singers from various parts of the country. The opening lines of the song are inspired by a Sanskrit sloka that mentions seven major rivers of India — Ganga, Yamuna, Sindhu, Cauvery, Narmada, Godavari and Saraswathi. “When I started composing, the lyrics fell into the seven-beat cycle (Mishra Chapu) and the tune too fell into place. The whole production flowed smoothly like the rivers,” he says. “To highlight the issue of river contamination and pollution, I used raga Kiravani, a minor scale in Western music. A line from Silapadhikaram, ‘Nadandhai vazhi’, has been used to strike a note of hope in the end. Ode to Mother Earth “Civilizations have grown on river banks. This is a moment when we all need to come together to pay tribute to earth,” says well-known vocalist Bombay Jayashri. “It is the first time that Amrit and I are singing together in a production. When I first heard the song, I felt that the lyrics and ragas merged so well that I instantly connected with the idea,” she adds. “Rivers are a crucial link to our past,” says Shravanam. Speaking about the collaborative project, he says, “I was overwhelmed to be a part of it and wanted it to connect generations and geographies.” ICCW, which works towards making India water-secure, is coming up with another music video, ‘Monsoons of India’, to celebrate rains and to create awareness around preserving rainwater. Featuring eminent singers Ranjani- Gayatri and Ajoy Chakrabarty, the song is set on ragas Amritavarshini and Miyan Ki Malhar. The video will be released in June.  The Chennai-based author writes on Carnatic music.   The opening lines are inspired by a Sanskrit sloka that mentions the seven rivers: Ganga, Yamuna, Sindhu, Cauvery, Narmada, Godavari and Saraswathi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-river-song/article34445885.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A petitioner in Krishna’s court||The Kathakali plays composed between the 17th and early 20th centuries with stories drawn from the epics deal with the myriad mortal sentiments, interspersed with divine interventions. Some are easily comprehensible, even to the uninitiated. One such play is Mandavappally Ittiraricha Menon’s Santhanagopalam , which unfolds the anguish of a Brahmin who walks into Dwaraka with the corpse of his newborn son, lamenting his fate and presenting his grievances to Krishna. It is quite unusual to have a Brahmin, that too with semi-realistic facial make-up and simple costume, become an aadyaavasaana (principal) character in a Kathakali play, in which Arjuna usually plays a secondary role. The entry of the Brahmin is marked by five slow-tempo kitathikithimtham (a distinctly choreographed component of aangikaabhinaya for a character to establish himself on stage). For the late maestro, Kalamandalam Padmanabhan Nair, the number of the kitathikithimtham was also an indicator of the distance travelled by the character. With the Brahmin’s character — the protagonist — devoid of the spectacular aura that aharya (make-up and costume) generally gives the nayakas (heroes) and pratinayakas (anti-heroes) in Kathakali, it takes theatrical brilliance from the actor to portray the role convincingly.  A recent performance of the play at Kunnamkulam turned out to be a delectable experience. Peesappilly Rajeev, an imaginative actor with a penchant for dramatic overtones, played the grief-stricken Brahmin with his characteristic thanmayeebhava (identification), which compelled the spectators to empathise with the character’s emotional turbulence. The Brahmin’s outbursts, alongside Krishna’s detachment — excellently enacted by Adithyan, a talented young actor — carried an unusual aesthetic profundity. The versatile Kalamandalam Shanmukhan convincingly portrayed the shifting moods of Arjuna, who promises to protect the Brahmin’s next child but fails miserably to keep his word. Right from the days of Mankulam Vishnu Namboodiri as the Brahmin and the late legend, Kalamandalam Krishnan Nair, as Arjuna, the discourse between the two characters has been protracted. The Brahmin insists on promises, sworn in the name of a host of luminaries including Krishna, for protection for his next child; a visibly exasperated Arjuna refuses all such suggestions, before eventually giving in. These prolonged dialogues are now a thing of the past; Rajeev and Shanmukhan truncated the segment, much to the relief of the audience. Rajeev effectively expressed the anger of the Brahmin, and in . the final scene, when he comes across all his 10 children, it was touching to see his frustration, anger and anguish give way to a deep sense of repentance and jubilation in front of Krishna and Arjuna. All the slokas and the padams in the play require emotive singing. Kalamandalam Babu Namboodiri, supported by Kalamandalam Vinod, sang every padam poignantly. The Brahmin’s very first padam , ‘Haa! haa! karomi!’ is in a deshi raga, Khandaram, the notes of which serve to augment the character’s anguish.  The singers did not change ragas in the key padams , a consolation for conservative viewers. Kalanilayam Udayan Namboodiri, an acclaimed Thayambaka soloist, had difficulty in accompanying the kalasams (dance segments), especially those of Arjuna. However, Kalamandalam Rajnarayanan’s apposite strokes on the maddalam more than offset the occasional shortcomings in the melam. Raaga, an educational and arts organisation based in Florida, in association with Kunnamkulam Kathakali Club, staged the play at Bethany English School’s open-air auditorium. A video recording with English subtitles is to be screened in the U.S shortly for an international audience.  The Kerala-based writer is a music and dance critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-petitioner-in-krishnas-court/article34445900.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||From the ghats of the Ganga||Pt. Rajan Mishra’s music had a universal appeal but his heart belonged to Benaras. He enjoyed performing at renowned global venues but longed to return to his ancestral home in Kabir Chaura. ‘Swarangan, Padma Bhushan Rajan Sajan Mishra’ reads the black marble name plate outside the brothers’ large renovated house in one of the many narrow lanes of the Kalakar Colony. Though the brothers are not the only musicians and the only Mishras living here, they definitely are the star attraction of the colony that birthed the Benaras gharana. The stalwarts, who took the gharana to great heights, established their gurukul here, which has groomed several musicians, who have in turn further explored the gharana’s distinct gayaki. During a visit to Benaras in November 2018, I spent an entire warm winter morning walking through this unique mohalla that houses the residences of musicians and dancers, the keepers of this ancient city’s cultural heritage. The sound of ghungroo and tabla, the music of harmonium, sitar and sarangi, and voices singing classical notes echo through the street. Inspiring musical journey Young Hindustani vocalists and brothers Rahul and Rohit Mishra, who are the grandsons of sarangi tabla exponent Pt. Sharda Sahai, say the musical journey of Pt. Rajan Sajan Mishra serves as an inspiration to the new generation of musicians living in the colony. “Though they moved to Delhi and travelled the world, their music continues to be imbued with the spirit of Benaras.” To my sheer joy and surprise, as I passed by their house, I spotted them standing in the spacious portico dressed impeccably in silk dhoti and kurta. I walked towards the gate and introduced myself. They responded with a warm namaskar and apologised for not being able to invite me in since they were in a hurry to reach the Banaras Hindu University to receive an honorary doctorate. Before leaving, Pt. Rajan Mishra said, “ Phir se kabhi zaroor aayiega yahan. Banarasi chai par charcha hogi.” (but do visit sometime again, we can talk over a cup of Banarasi chai). In December 2018, when I met Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra before their performance at Kalakshetra, Chennai, they spoke about how apart from training, it’s the mahaul (ambience) they grew up in that shaped their artistic sensibilities. “At Kabir Chaura, we were surrounded by illustrious musicians, whose discussions and debates on music were part of our daily riyaaz . As young boys, while playing outside, we always heard someone singing or playing an instrument. The sights, sounds and every moment spent there during childhood continue to define my art,” said Pt. Rajan Mishra. Childhood outings meant going to the Sankat Mochan temple to listen to maestros performing or sitting on the ghats of Ganga with friends watching birds, boats, sadhus and pilgrims. “Ganga has been a companion both in life and art. We used to share our woes and dreams with the river. We often practised a bandish standing on its banks. Going down and climbing up the steps of the ghats felt like scaling the high and low notes. The spiritual aura of the city is what makes Benaras gharana’s music an immersive experience. There is no need to innovate, you just have soak in the bhakti,” said Pt. Rajan Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/from-the-ghats-of-the-ganga/article34445872.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I’m an incurable romantic ’||Whether as the orthodox woman in Edhir Neechal , a night-club singer in Pudhiya Paravai or a socialite in Thillu Mullu , ‘Sowcar’ Janaki could add a distinct touch to the roles she essayed. She has portrayed many strong characters and was paired alongside some of the leading heroes of Tamil and Telugu cinema of the time. Janaki made her debut in the L.V. Prasad-directed Telugu film Shavukaru , released on April 1, 1950. At that time MGR’s wife V.N. Janaki was already an established actor, hence the 17-year-old débutante was referred to as ‘Sowcar’ Janaki, a name that stuck with her through a 70-year career that saw her play everything, from protagonist to brief cameos, in nearly 400 films in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi.  Sowcar Janaki, who turns 90 this year, lives alone in Bengaluru but stays connected with family and friends through email, WhatsApp, and video calls. In fact, she apologises for not being tech-savvy enough to use Zoom call for this interview! Janaki says her 90th birthday doesn’t hold any special significance for her, especially in these testing times.“Everyone’s health is more important than my birthday celebrations,” she says.  “I chose to act not because it interested me; it was merely a means of livelihood,” says Janaki, recalling the day when she landed at B.N. Reddy’s office in 1949, infant in arms and husband in tow, to ask him for a role. “When I was barely 12 or 13, years old, B.N. Reddy had heard my voice on radio and offered me a chance to act in his films. When I checked with my parents, they had panicked and got me married,” laughs Janaki. Her fluency in several languages, including English, always bewildered the industry, a gift she attributes to her chemical engineer father. “Every morning, he would make us read The Hindu aloud, often correcting our pronunciation and intonation. I would also listen to BBC keenly,” says Janaki. She sat for her Matriculation examination when she was pregnant and passed it in the first division. Janaki’s early married life was fraught with difficulties, especially after her husband quit his job and they faced financial difficulties. After convincing her husband that she needed to work to support the family, she approached B.N. Reddy to accept his earlier offer. He suggested Janaki’s name for the Telugu film Shavukaru, made by his brother B. Nagi Reddy and Chakrapani, of the newly launched Vijaya Vauhini Studios. After a screen test, Janaki was selected to play the female lead, opposite N.T. Ramarao. Tamil entry In 1952, Janaki forayed into Tamil cinema with T.R. Sundaram’s Valayapathi , a story based on one of the five classics of Sangam literature. There was no looking back after that. She essayed a wide range of roles – negative, humorous, naïve. “I always loved to play emotionally charged roles,” she says with a laugh. Only twice in her career, Janaki recalls having asked directors for a role. First, for her début, and second, for a role in the Tamil remake of Meena Kumari’s Phool aur Pathar . “ Oli Vilakku was finalised with MGR and Jayalalitha reprising the roles of Dharmendra and Sashikala. Someone suggested I call up and ask MGR to cast me in Meena Kumari’s role. With some hesitation, I did so. To my surprise, he immediately agreed.” “I got to do more satisfying projects in Tamil,” says Janaki, saying the Telugu industry did not recognise her talent. The veteran’s latest outing was the Karthi-Jyotika-starrer Thambi in 2019.  Two films that Janaki holds close to her heart are director K. Balchander’s Iru Kodugal (1969) and Kaviya Thalaivi (1970). “Suchitra Sen played the dual role of mother-daughter in the Bengali original and I produced Kaviya… I consider the film as one of my biggest achievements. Iru Kodugal was again a powerful role, remade in Telugu as Collector Janaki , with Jamuna in the title role,” she says wryly. Her roles in Rajnikanth-starrer Thillu-Mullu (Hrishikesh Mukherjee’s Golmaal ), and as Chilakamma, speaking in Srikakulam dialect in Samsaram oka Chadarangam, were much talked about for her great comic sense. Culinary passions Janaki’s culinary skills are legendary. She is known for the lunches and dinners she would host at her palatial home in Chennai. At a time when Sanjeev Kapoor’s Khana Khazana was the only cookery show on television in the mid-90s, Janaki hosted a cookery show called Ruchi-Abhiruchi, spread over 30 segments, on Gemini TV. However, her dream of opening an Indian restaurant in California did not take off. “My children discouraged me, probably they thought it wasn’t becoming for a celebrity to run a restaurant,” she says. However, an opportunity did come her way when she stumbled upon an announcement in The Hindu about the popular restaurant Coconut Grove on Harrington Road being shut down. “I jumped at the chance and took the place on lease for three years between 1992 and 1995. Within the next six months, there wasn’t anybody who had not eaten at my Coconut Grove. I would prepare some 25 dishes every day with a staff of 50 to 60 chefs. I would procure fresh fish from Marina beach. Those three years were enough for me to prove a point to my children,” she says. Separated from her husband after their children got married, Janaki says there was a void between them. “I didn’t spend much time with my husband. When I get home from shooting, there was nobody to talk to about my films or my work. I was just a mother. I’ve led a lonely life,” she says, stoically but with a touch of melancholy. “Today, I have no responsibilities,” she says, confessing to being an incurable romantic, in love with nature now. “Life is uncertain. You have to exit when the curtain is down. Be prepared and go peacefully, that’s my only wish,” says the stalwart.  Janaki’s culinary skills are legendary. She is known for the lunches and dinners she would host at her palatial home in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/im-an-incurable-romantic/article34445866.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The fabric of home||Woven into the warp and weft of each white and gold mundum-neriyathum (traditional garment worn by women in Kerala) is the story of weavers and the beauty of their craft. The threads of the garment also hold within them memories of festivals and celebrations and of the many women who have worn them and still wear them. ‘Lokame Tharavadu’ (the world is one family) at Alappuzha, curated by artist and Kochi Biennale Foundation president Bose Krishnamachari, and featuring the works of 267 artists, including 56 women, from 15 countries, who trace their roots to Kerala, is considered one of the biggest art events in India. At the show, being held at multiple venues in Alappuzha, Mumbai-based independent artist Lakshmi Madhavan’s art installation, ‘Hanging by a thread’, impeccably ties up art with life. Working on the the theme of ‘home,’ her work is a tribute to her paternal grandmother, Sathyabhama. “Home for me lay in the folds of mother’s crisp mundum-neriyathum with its faint aroma of starch. This period of lockdown and social isolation have brought into sharp focus the idea of a space called home — a safe space and a comfort zone. My grandmother, who lives in Vadakara, Kozhikode, offered me that space and comfort. Widowed at an early age, she only wore the settu mundu. And she was specific about the colour and width of the kara and the kasavu,” says Lakshmi. Exploring issues of identity Through the work, Lakshmi has also tried to explore the issues of identity, heritage, culture and space, something she would want to pass on to her two-year-old son. Many of her explorations find expression in her installation at the Port Museum. The colours, texture and lettering encapsulate memories and emotions. Six 10-feet long panels of kasavu cloth hanging on the wall have English and Malayalam words, created with golden thread, affixed to them. An heirloom handloom piece, given to her by her grandmother, occupies pride of place. “Around 10,000 letters make up words and sentences that resonate with the conversations I have had with my grandmother.” Having decided on how she would want her art work to be, Lakshmi had a tough time finding weavers to custom-make the panel. Balaramapuram in Thiruvananthapuram is one of the oldest weaving centres in Kerala, famous for its kasavu-edged cloth. “I decided to get the panels woven there. Phone conversations proved futile. Finally, with less than three months to go for the show, I decided to visit Balaramapuram and meet the weavers,” says Lakshmi. Although many of the weavers found it difficult to negotiate the looped and rounded letters of the Malayalam alphabet on the loom, Lakshmi refused to give up on her concept. Finally, she met a master weaver who “understood how passionate I was about the project. He was willing to go the extra mile.” Once the panels were ready, Lakshmi spent more than 10 hours each day for nearly a month at her studio in Mumbai to create the words that embellish them. The response has been heartening. While some viewers found it resonating with their memories of home, some felt it captures the essence of the Malayali woman, who is caught between patriarchy and the matrilineal system of inheritance. Mentored by contemporary artist Jitish Kallat, Lakshmi has worked with German artist Bernhard Martin at the Summer Academy in Salzburg and French artist Nicolas Menard in Paris. Lakshmi has exhibited in Mumbai, Kochi, Salzburg, Copenhagen. Her work, ‘I need some air’, was awarded the best installation at Kala Ghoda Arts Festival, 2018. The exhibition is open till June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-fabric-of-home/article34445894.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The custodian of KVN’s legacy||Our conversation begins with a disclaimer: I tell Padma Narayanaswamy in the little Tamil I know that I will speak to her mostly in English. “I can’t converse fluently in English though I did have my early education in a convent,” she tells me, but proceeds to speak impeccable English for the next 90 minutes, with the occasional use of Tamil words. Padma Narayanaswamy, fondly known as ‘Padma mami’, is wife of the legendary Carnatic vocalist, the late Palghat K.V. Narayanaswamy, teacher and custodian of the KVN school of music. She turned 80 on April 7. Known more as KVN’s constant companion and co-performer, Padma assisted him in his teaching assignments at universities abroad and collaborated closely as a co-composer. Her music is about everything that was taught to her, enriched by her own thought and understanding. “There was no music in my family, but I was extremely passionate about it. My father had too much confidence in me, he thought I would become greater than MS and Ariyakudi,” she laughs. However, it was her sister Neela Chakravarthy, a scientist at BARC, who supported her most. She moved from Secunderabad to Chennai, learnt from K.V. Narayanaswamy, and later joined the Central College of Carnatic Music, Madras, where she also had the opportunity to learn from the great Musiri Subramania Iyer. “I got a government scholarship (1964-68) and studied under Musiri sir. It was not easy — neither music nor life. But nothing seemed greater than music.” Padma recalls how after her marriage to KVN, she would send away the children to school and lock herself in a room and practise till evening. “KVN would knock at times and ask me to repeat what I was singing. He would tell me what needed improvement,” she says. “I constantly thought about music. When KVN would teach his students, I too would listen and absorb everything. Even now, I live each day with the music of KVN and other great masters.” Though she did nurture greater musical ambitions, she has no regrets. An active teacher today, she spends most part of the day training young enthusiasts and conducts classes on Skype for overseas students. With a flair for Pallavis, Padma has a fine sense of laya and rare insights into the form. But was she ever taught to sing a Pallavi? “Musiri sir once sang a Pallavi to me. I used to observe KVN sing in his kutcheris and during classes at home. I was also very attentive to the inimitable Palghat Mani Iyer’s treatment of laya. I practised very hard. After some years, I gathered the courage to sing a Pallavi before KVN. That is when he realised I was watching and imbibing everything.” Music, says Padma, is like a ‘temple gopuram’. “KVN used to say you can explore, move around in the layers, but as you reach the pinnacle, you should be focussed,” she recalls. “For me, song is worship. You don’t have to go to the temple.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-custodian-of-kvns-legacy/article34445888.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||Ramamangalam in Ernakulam district is the hub of Sopana Sangeetham and the esoteric art of Kerala percussion. This can possibly be because the village is inhabited mostly by members of the Marar community, for whom Sopana Sangeetham and percussion are traditional vocations. The much sought-after ensemble of Panchavadyam is believed to have originated here, and the precursor of Panchavadyam, Parishavadyam, is also presented only by artistes from Ramamangalam even today. The village is especially known for a primordial musical instrument called Kudukka Vina, a single-string instrument made of coconut shells and played with a thin stick. At the lower end is a full shell, called the ‘Kudukka’, while the other end has a half shell covered with leather, called ‘Kitaram,’ which is placed on the shoulder and serves as a resonator. A single metallic string is held taut between these ends. The tension of the string is varied, thereby producing different swaras, even as the string is vibrated by striking it with an ‘eerkkil’ (rib of the coconut palm leaf). Regular practice enables a novice to produce swaras of much purity. Rajendra Marar’s revival project The credit for reconstructing the extinct Kudukka Vina goes to Ooramana Rajendra Marar, an authority on both sopana sangeetham and percussion art. According to him, Kudukka Vina was common in the Marar homes of Ramamangalam centuries ago, but it gradually disappeared with the emergence of new musical instruments and also because the instrument was difficult to master. As a child, Rajendra Marar had heard about the instrument from his father. But it was his uncle Olikkal Prabhakara Kurup, who provided him with more details, as he remembered an old Marar playing the Kudukka Vina. Rajendra Marar’s attempts to create one based on the descriptions from his uncle were not a success. Later, his guru Vadakkedathu Appu Marar threw more light on the instrument and this time Rajendar Marar’s attempts worked. The piece he constructed to his guru’s specifications produced pure nada. Rajendra Marar shared his success with his other teacher, Guru Trikampuram Krishnankutty Marar, who was equally interested in reviving the instrument. Rajendra Marar presented his Vina to him. First Kudukka Vina concert In1986, Krishnankutty Marar, an artiste endowed with exceptional dexterity in music and rhythms, presented a Kudukka Vina concert at the Perumthrikkovil Temple festival in Ramamangalam. Accompanied by violin and mridangam, the concert was a path-breaking one in the history of music, and Krishnankutty Marar became the ambassador of Kudukka Vina, invited to present concerts at many places. Rajendra Marar had his first concert later, at Alpara Temple in Perumbavoor. In 2015, with a view to popularise the rare instrument, a three-day workshop on the craft of constructing and playing the instrument was conducted by Rajendra Marar at Shatkala Govinda Marar Smaraka Kala Samithy. This helped to make Kudukka Vina more familiar among music buffs, and now there are quite a few artistes capable of presenting concerts. Since the notes from the Kudukka Vina are feeble in intensity and difficult to sustain, many artistes have started affixing an electronic pick-up to the instrument. Simulators for practising percussion instruments are common — Pulimutti for Chenda, Sravanappalaka for Maddalam and Kayetha for Edakka. And the Kudukka Vina is an additional simulator for the Edakka, for producing swaras. It demands regular practice for the swaras to be pure. Perhaps Kudukka Vina is the only stringed instrument in which the string tension is varied to produce swaras, while in all other cases, it is the length of the vibrating string that is varied. One cannot expect the Kudukka Vina to gain the popularity of a violin, but the vintage instrument is a unique tribute to the power of simple music.   The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.   Kudukka Vina was common in the Marar homes of Ramamangalam centuries ago, but it gradually disappeared with the emergence of new musical instruments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/back-from-the-brink/article34445897.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The scene stealer||Remember the ‘Sutta Pazham’ scene from Gemini’s 1953 film Avvaiyar ? To many it remains the iconic moment in the movie. While it is true that K.B. Sundarambal largely carried the film, its success also had much to do with S.S. Vasan keeping a finger on the public pulse when it came to production values and pre-release publicity. The ‘Sutta Pazham’ scene, which lasts all of ten minutes, however, belonged entirely to P.N. Kumar, who played the role of Balamurugan in it. He, in fact, greatly influenced the way the youthful South Indian deity would be depicted thereafter in films, calendar art and statuary. Born in August 1940 to P.S. Narayanan and Lakshmi at No 3, East Chitrakulam Street, Mylapore, Kumar was influenced significantly by his maternal grandfather, the famed Tamil science writer, P.N. Appuswami. He studied at Children’s Garden School and later at P.S. High School. In 1950, he enrolled at Besant Theosophical School, Adyar, when his grandfather moved to the then newly established Gandhi Nagar colony. Training in dance Kumar was inspired to pursue Bharatanatyam after seeing a performance by Rukmini Devi Arundale at Rasika Ranjani Sabha in Mylapore in the 1940s. “He used to dance all the time, with the correct steps and araimandi posture, and had a perfect sense of timing,” says his sister Dr. P.N. Aruna. Noticing this, Appuswami arranged for his formal training in dance under Picchai, a niece of the redoubtable Mylapore Gowri Ammal, the last hereditary devadasi of the Kapaliswarar Temple, who taught Rukmini Devi, Balasaraswathi and Vyjayanthimala among others. Appuswami’s house also echoed with music, with T.L. Venkatarama Iyer teaching Dikshitar kritis. Soon Kumar could sing well and also play several instruments. His acting skills were noticed by scholars such as Dr. V. Raghavan, who regularly featured him in the productions of the Samskrta Ranga, which staged classical plays in Sanskrit. His performance as Malavika in Kalidasa’s Malavika Agnimitram , in particular, came in for great appreciation. V.C. Gopalratnam got him to act in the plays of the Suguna Vilasa Sabha as well. Lakshmana Aiyar, a talent scout for All India Radio, obtained permission from Kumar’s grandfather to have him act in a radio play and when it was broadcast, S.S. Vasan heard it and was impressed. Gemini’s Avvaiyar was many years in the making. At the time of the radio play, the family was still in Mylapore. Vasan came calling and convinced Appuswami to allow Kumar to act as Murugan in the film. The responsibility of ferrying him every day to the shoot and bringing him back was entrusted to R. Ganesh, who was then a Gemini staffer and had a role as Deivigan, a prince, in the same film. ‘Gemini’ Ganesh, as he would later come to be known, fulfilled his responsibility faithfully, and became a close family friend. Kalakshetra productions After Avvaiyar hit the screens in 1953, Kumar received offers to act from studio houses such as AVM and Vijaya Vauhini, but his grandmother decided that one film was enough. The boy had to get serious about education. While at Besant School, he studied dance at Kalakshetra under teachers such as Rukmini Devi, Sarada Hoffman and Jayalakshmi. He graduated to performing roles in Kalakshetra’s productions, playing Lord Rama. Because of a resemblance between the two, the role of the child Rama was then entrusted to V.P. Dhananjayan, who later became a well-known dancer and guru. The performance also featured Rama Ravi and Shanta (Dhananjayan), as the young Lava and Kusa. On completing school, Kumar enrolled at Vivekananda College, where he was a regular in plays and competitions, routinely winning prizes. The scholar Anna (Subramaniam), who was associated with Ramakrishna Mission, got him to act in plays and participate in oratorical contests. His ability to read three languages and his eidetic memory helped greatly in these assignments. It was no wonder therefore that on graduating and taking up a job in the private sector, Kumar became a part of Cho Ramaswami’s Viveka Fine Arts and acted in several plays. “He was a quiet person who excelled in female roles,” says ‘Burma’ Shankar, a regular in the same troupe. “The audience welcomed him and before the arrival of Sukumari and a couple of other actresses, he was our mainstay for women’s roles.” In his later years, Kumar immersed himself in books and the arts. He passed away on April 9. It was a long life, mostly in the shadows in the latter part, but his talent in dance and acting deserve commemoration. And he lives on as Balamurugan.  The Chennai-based historian   writes on music and culture.   After Avvaiyar , Kumar received offers to act from studio houses such as AVM and Vijaya Vauhini, but his grandmother decided that one film was enough||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-scene-stealer/article34445858.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||An eclectic collection||The ARTery is dedicating its recently inaugurated Svatantra 2021 festival to the late violinist Prof. T.N. Krishnan. Professionally recorded, hour-long concerts by several recognised artistes will be released every fortnight for about 15 Sundays, culminating with Krishnan’s first death anniversary in November. Ramanathan Iyer, who has curated the series, says, “ each performance will feature one major piece – it could be a kriti, a varnam, a pallavi. The pieces are painstakingly selected to showcase as much variety as possible across banis, composers, ragas, etc. They will be presented by vocal and instrumental artistes, representing different styles, with careful attention paid to ensure that not only are the compositions highlighted but the beauty of the instruments as well.” Major compositions rendered in detail were the mainstay of yesteryear concerts, something Ramanathan is trying to revisit. From 2013 to 2018, Svatantra was an annual festival organised around Independence Day, hence the title. “It could not take place in 2019 due to a lack of sponsors, but in January 2020, it was held in Thiruvananthapuram in memory of my father. It was the first time the event was not backed by corporate sponsorship. So it is with this edition too.” Impressive line up The curtainraiser last Sunday featured a violin recital by Charumathi Raghuraman, one of Krishnan’s leading students. Anantha R. Krishnan accompanied her on the mridangam with G. Chandrasekara Sharma on the ghatam. Anantha’s first concert as a young boy was with Krishnan, and Chandrasekara Sharma has played with the doyen on many occasions. Other artistes lined up include Palghat R. Ramprasad, Jayanthi Kumaresh, Ramakrishnan Murthy, Amritha Murali, Anil Srinivasan, and S. Sowmya. Others will be scheduled in due course. The concerts will be available for free. All the concerts are recorded at The ARTery’s venue in Royapettah, a heritage home redone specifically to facilitate recordings and live, unplugged performances. The programmes will be aired on The ARTery’s Facebook page and YouTube channel at 7.30 p.m. on alternate Sundays, with the next episode on May 9. The author writes on classical music and musicians.   Each performance will feature one major piece – it could be a kriti, a varnam, a pallavi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-eclectic-collection/article34445890.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Blend of classical dance and contemporary music||Chennai-based Indo-Classical-Contemporary group Gandiva, founded by Kavya Muralidaran, Sai Vignesh, and the late Navin Shankar, has released its fourth video titled ‘Thillana’. Composed by senior Bharatanatyam dancer-teacher Madurai R. Muralidaran, and choreographed by Kavya Muralidaran, the video also features Sai Vignesh on vocals, and the young dancers of Gandiva/VivRtti Dance Company. The music is by Navin Shankar and Balaji Gopinath. The video has been shot by Nivetha Baskaran, Vignesh and Jagan Aravind. Cinematography is by Satish and editing by Kavya Muralidaran. The orchestra also includes Sumesh Narayanan (mridangam), Thirucherai Karthik (violin) and Kuberan (drums). ‘Thillana’ can be watched on Gandiva’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/blend-of-classical-dance-and-contemporary-music/article34445878.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Vasant Utsav dance festival||Saraswathi Educational Cultural and Charitable Trust will present the 18th edition of Vasant Utsav Festival of Dance at Kapaleeswarar Temple in Mylapore, from May 3 to 14. The ten-day event will be streamed live on Tikkl.com. Eminent dancers and students of well-known dance schools will perform at the festival, which showcases myriad dance forms such as Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, Odissi and Kathak. There will be no performances on May 4 and 11 due to the lockdown. The festival will begin with the Bharatanatyam performance of Binesh Mahadevan and students of Akshaya Arts (May 3, 6.30 p.m.) followed by Kuchipudi Art Academy’s group performance.  The festival is supported by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, the South Zone Culture Centre, Thanjavur, the Ministry of Culture, the State Department of Art and Culture, and Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/vasant-utsav-dance-festival/article34445881.ece
30 April 2021||April 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Puvanur Ramamurthy tribute event||Puvanur Legacy Trust, founded in memory of musician Puvanur N. Ramamurthy, celebrated its second anniversary recently at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Mylapore. Documentaries on Puvanur Ramamurthy and mridangam maestro Palghat Mani Iyer, titles for musicians, and a special concert marked the event that began with guruvandanam. K.N. Ramaswamy, director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, presided over the function. Mridangist Madirimangalam Swaminathan was the chief guest. While the Trust honoured senior mridangam vidwans Thanjavur R. Ramdoss and Thanjavur R. Kumar with the ‘Paramananda Nadha Rakshaka’ title, Sunil Gargyan was given the ‘Lavanya Gayaka Nipuna’ title, Vittal Rangan with ‘Lavanya Sruti Nipuna’ and Akshay Ananthapadmanabhan, ‘Lavanya Laya Nipuna.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/puvanur-ramamurthy-tribute-event/article34445879.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||Raise Capital’s daily quota of oxygen, Sisodia to Goyal||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday wrote to Union Minister Piyush Goyal, requesting him to increase the medical oxygen allotted to Delhi to 976 MT a day from the current 490 MT. Mr. Sisodia also said currently Delhi is not even getting its allotted share of 490 MT a day. “The people and the Government of NCT of Delhi will be extremely grateful to the Government of India if it can kindly increase the allocation from the present 490 MT per day to 976 MT per day, preferably from nearby oxygen plants, reducing the turnaround time,” Mr. Sisodia wrote to Goyal. ‘Beds not functional’ He said 5,000 beds are ready at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur but only 300 are functional due to shortage of oxygen. Similarly, 1,000 beds at Sant Nirankari Mission and 1,500 at Sawan Kripal Ruhani Mission are ready but these also cannot be made functional due to an oxygen shortage, he added. The additional oxygen allocation is urgently required to prevent the impending medical crisis, he said, adding: “It is also our humble request to provide transport infrastructure, including railways and tankers, for the additional allocation since Delhi is a non-industrial State and accordingly, does not have its own infrastructure.” The Delhi government will work in close coordination with the Centre and other States to overcome the present “crisis”, especially in augmenting the transport infrastructure of medical oxygen, the Minister said. “Kindly allocate the additional requirements on humanitarian grounds in this hour of an unprecedented health crisis,” Mr. Sisodia said in the letter. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday said as per the Central government’s own formula, the appropriate amount of oxygen required for hospitals in Delhi is 976 MT. “Against this requirement, Delhi has been allocated only 490 MT of oxygen, and the actual quantity received is even lesser at 400 MT. On behalf of the people of Delhi, I request the Centre to show the same magnanimity and large-heartedness when dealing with the demand of oxygen put forward by Delhi,” Mr. Chadha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/raise-capitals-daily-quota-of-oxygen-sisodia-to-goyal/article34445593.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||More powers to L-G: bureaucrats express varied opinions on new Act||After the Ministry of Home Affairs issued a gazette notification on Wednesday stating that the provisions of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 would be deemed to have come into effect from April 27, The Hindu spoke to former bureaucrats on the development. The bureaucrats, who served in various capacities over careers spanning decades as part of Delhi’s administration, expressed opinions ranging from it being a move in the right direction given the current challenge posed by the pandemic to questioning its timing due to its inherent potential to trigger a confrontation between elected representatives rendered powerless in one stroke and an unelected appointee chosen by the Centre. The Act gives the Lieutenant-Governor more teeth compared to the CM in administering the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-powers-to-l-g-bureaucrats-express-varied-opinions-on-new-act/article34445590.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||City sees highest number of daily COVID-19 deaths||Delhi reported 395 deaths in 24 hours — the highest since the beginning of the pandemic — taking the total number of deaths to 15,772, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 24,235 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 11,22,286. A total of 73,851 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. The positivity of new cases was 32.82%. This means more than 35 out of 100 people taking the test are now COVID-19 positive. Of the total cases, 10,08,537 people have recovered and there are 97,977 active cases. Out of the total 20,870 beds for COVID-19 treatment, only 5.3% were vacant at 11 p.m. Also, only 11 ICU beds were vacant. The Delhi government on Thursday issued an order for setting up of a 500-bed COVID facilities near LNJP Hospital and GTB Hospital.  LNJP nurse dies A nurse working in LNJP Hospital died due to COVID-19 on Thursday — the third nurse to die in as many days, according to Delhi State Hospitals Nurses Union (LNH).The deceased, Raj Kumar Aggarwal, 35 is survived by wife and two children aged 10 and 8 years. Commenting on errors in Wednesday’s bulletin, Satyendar Jain, said: “The bulletin was correct, but the only mistake was in the cumulative total. It was supposed to be added to the previous day number, instead was mistakenly added to the day before yesterday’s numbers. It has been rectified and disseminated.” The government later issued a revised bulletin on Thursday morning, in which the figures were corrected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-highest-number-of-daily-covid-19-deaths/article34445967.ece
30 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘Submit report on roll-out of vaccination programme’||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has sought a report from Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on preparedness to roll out vaccination programme for people above 18 years of age in the Capital on an urgent basis, sources said. They also said the Chief Secretary was likely to submit the report by Friday evening. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also convened a meeting on Thursday on the vaccination drive in Delhi. CM made plan The government said Mr. Kejriwal prepared a plan to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 3 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/submit-report-on-roll-out-of-vaccination-programme/article34445589.ece
30 April 2021||oida,||COVID-19 toll crosses 200 in U.P.’s Gautam Buddha Nagar||With 11 more fatalities, the toll from COVID-19 surged past the 200-mark in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddha Nagar on Thursday while the infection count exceeded 40,000 with 1,478 new cases, according to official data. The district's death toll now stands at 202 while the overall cases at 40,002 even as the number of active patients climbed to 8,130, according to the figures released by the U.P. Health Department for a 24-hour period. Also, 545 patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 31,670 in the district, the fifth highest in the State, it showed. Gautam Buddha Nagar now has a death toll of 202 with a mortality rate of 0.50%. The recovery rate of patients reached 79.17% from 80.80% the previous day, the statistics showed.  Active cases in State Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in U.P. reached 3,09,237 from 3,00,041 on Wednesday as the overall recoveries climbed to 8,96,477 and the death toll surged to 12,238 on Thursday, the data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-toll-crosses-200-in-ups-gautam-buddha-nagar/article34445591.ece
30 April 2021||Gurugram,||Honda announces 15-day halt in production operations||Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. (HMSI) on Thursday announced a temporary 15-day halt of its production operations across its all four plants from May 1 in view of the surge in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/honda-announces-15-day-halt-in-production-operations/article34445587.ece
