01-05-2021||Calcutta||Police to guard government vaccination centres from May 1||Police will be present outside government vaccination centres from May 1 to manage queues. Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra on Friday instructed all police stations to prevent law and order problems and panic at vaccination centres, said a police officer. Metro reported on Friday that the state health secretary had written to the Calcutta police commissioner on Thursday saying the “peaceful ambience” at vaccination centres “is turning tense” because of the “ignited demand for vaccination” and requested police presence at those sites. Hundreds of Calcuttans are queuing up for hours every day at government vaccination centres but only a few are getting the jab as the supply runs low. That at times triggers panic and discontent among potential recipients, often resulting in agitation. Apart from hospitals, Covid jabs are being administered at more than 150 clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Over the past two days, several law and order problems were reported from the city resulting from shortage of doses. The police fear the problem would further intensify from Saturday as people aged between 18 and 44 may turn up for vaccination. “Till now people of age 45 years or older are eligible for vaccines…. Across the country people above 18 years will become eligible for the shot on May 1. Though in Bengal, vaccination of people between 18 and 44 years will start on May 5, there is a high possibility that many will start queuing from May 1,” said an officer in the south division. Police officers said that if need be, they would announce through loudhailers unavailability of doses. “We will also try to coordinate with the local administrators and civic officials to estimate the number of doses that will be available at each centre on a particular day so that we can start making announcements accordingly,” said an officer in a central Calcutta police station. The police said in the majority of the places where vaccines were administered, people were queuing up from early morning or the night before. By the time the centres open, a hundred people have joined the queue. “Only the first few people are getting the jab because of low availability of doses. And they get to know only in the morning. This creates a lot of confusion and discontent,” said an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||City may get rain, thunderstorms between May 2 and 6||The city is likely to get rain and thunderstorms between May 2 and 6, a Met official said, raising hopes of a brief respite from a prolonged heat spell. The city has had just a single squall and not a single Nor’wester in April, making the start of summer uncomfortably hot. A trough of low pressure is likely to trigger the rain and thunderstorms. “Under the influence of the system, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas experienced gusts of wind on Friday night. The intensity of the winds will go up in the coming days,” said a Met official. “A cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh has led to the formation of a trough of low pressure…. The system is moving towards Bengal and will draw significant moisture from the Bay. As a result, enhanced thunderstorm activity is likely over Bengal during May 2-6,” read a statement issued by the Met department on Friday evening. The rain is likely to be accompanied by gusts of wind blowing at over 50kmph, the statement said. “Normally, the period between end-March and the middle of June is known as the period of Nor’westers. There are about eight to nine Nor'westers every season. But this year it has been unusually dry,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||State government-owned building to be converted into Covid facility||Uttirna, a state government-owned six-storey building with an open-air theatre on Alipore Road, will be converted into a facility where Covid patients who have recovered from critical illness will be treated with medicines and oxygen till their condition stabilises. The health department decided on Friday that Covid patients at Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital will be shifted to Uttirna after they recover from severe illness as part of the “step down” treatment protocol. “There will be arrangements for continuous oxygen supply. A team of doctors and nurses from SSKM Hospital will visit these patients twice a day,” said an official of the health department. The cultural complex —which has guest rooms, dormitories and a 10,000sq ft office space — now functions as a safe home for Covid-19 patients under the supervision of Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. On Friday, 30 asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid patients were under observation at Uttirna. Five patients were shifted to hospital after their condition deteriorated. “Uttirna can accommodate 250 patients, following their recovery from serious illness. Once their conditions stabilise with medicines and oxygen, they will be shifted to safe rooms where they will stay for a few more days before returning home,” said a senior official of the health department. “Work on creating an oxygen supply station at Uttirna will start this week and be completed by May 7. The second and third floors of the building will house the safe home. The remaining floors will be set aside for patients from Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital,” said Satyarup Siddhanta, of Covid Care Network. Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, a Covid treatment facility, has been readied to treat critical patients who have complaints of multi-organ dysfunction following coronavirus infection. Health department officials on Friday requested the heads of all departments at SSKM to draw up teams of doctors and nurses who will visit the patients at Uttirna. Besides creating more facilities, the health department has asked the superintendents of all medical colleges and hospitals, particularly the ones in Calcutta, to ensure no patient with severe breathing distress is refused treatment. There have been complaints that some hospitals have been refusing patients with breathing distress because they could not produce a Covid test result. “The hospitals have been told that if there aren’t any beds in the Covid wards, these patients will have to be admitted to SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) wards and made to undergo the rapid antigen test (for Covid),” said G.K. Dhali, the head of the department of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital and the state’s coordinator for management and containment of Covid-19 cases.  “If a hospital is unable to provide a bed to such a patient, it will refer the patient to another hospital where there is a confirmed bed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council asks schools to provide average marks of IX and X||The ICSE council has asked schools to provide the average marks of subjects scored by the 2021 Class X candidates in Classes IX and X school exams. The council has cancelled the ICSE (Class X) board exam and has initiated the process of “collating and collecting data” for ICSE 2021 candidates On Thursday, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) sent a circular to the heads of schools with candidates for the ICSE examination. “...the CISCE is in the process of collating and collecting data, which will be required from all our schools. Therefore, you are requested to provide the following information of the candidates registered & confirmed for the ICSE Year 2021 Examination: 1. The average marks of papers/subjects scored by the concerned candidates in the examinations conducted by the school at Class IX level for the academic year 2019-20. (In percentage form/out of 100) 2. The average marks of papers/subjects scored by the concerned candidates in the examinations conducted by the school at Class X level for the academic year 2020-21. (In percentage form/out of 100),” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, in the circular. In the circular, the council has also mentioned that the average marks of papers/subjects have to be submitted online, “through the internal assessment module on the careers portal”. Schools have been asked to submit the consolidated mark sheets of Class IX and X from the school records to corroborate the marks given on the careers portal, the council said. The documents have to be authenticated, and then stamped, dated and signed by the head of the school, it added. The internal assessment module has been activated from April 30. Schools have to upload the consolidated mark sheets by May 15. In states where there is “a total lockdown,” the schools must submit the data by May 22. For any candidate who took a transfer from one ICSE school to another, the average marks of Class IX or the Class IX report card of the candidate has to be sourced from the previous school. “Any delay in the submission of the above information will subsequently affect the processing and cause a delay in the declaration of the ICSE Year 2021 results,” Arathoon has said in the circular. The council had cancelled the ICSE examination on April 19 given the “worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country”. Several school heads said they would collate the data next week after internal meetings. All schools could conduct in-person exams for Class IX before the institutions closed in March 2020 because of the pandemic. For Class X, the schools had to take online examinations. Many schools could not conduct full length papers for the students. On February 12, the state government allowed schools to reopen for in-person classes. Following which some schools conducted pre-boards on the campus while others continued with the online exams or gave students the option to choose between online and offline exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private healthcare facilities keep vaccination on hold||Thousands of people queued up outside Covid vaccination centres in the city on Friday. Many had their second doses scheduled in the next four-five days. They queued up on Friday fearing that doses would become even scarcer later. Private hospitals have had to return all their vaccine stock to the government. They will have to procure fresh stocks from the manufacturers at new rates from May 1. The change has led to a situation where private facilities may not have any doses to offer at least for the next few days. Metro tried to find answers to questions that are haunting potential vaccine recipients. Will private hospitals continue to administer Covid vaccines Saturday onwards?
No, private healthcare facilities are left with no doses after Friday as they had to return all their stock to the state health department at the end of the day’s vaccination session. The Centre has announced that private Covid vaccination centres will have to procure doses directly from the manufacturers from May 1. All private healthcare facilities have kept Covid vaccination on hold. I have my second dose scheduled in the next few days? What if private hospitals do not resume vaccination by then?
Officials of most private hospitals asked all recipients who have their second doses scheduled in the next few days to wait. The recipients were advised to contact the hospitals after a couple of days at least. Once doses are available again, the private hospitals will restart inoculation. “We have suspended vaccination on Saturday and Sunday. We hope some clarity will emerge by then about when we will get doses. We will be able to make any commitment only after we are sure about getting vaccines,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. I am in the 18-44 age group? When can I get my vaccine at a private hospital?
Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start on May 5. Officials of private hospitals said they hoped they would get clarity by then and will inform potential recipients accordingly. I am above 45 years, but yet to take the first dose. What do I do?
Like those who are scheduled to get their second dose, those above 45 willing to get the first dose at a private hospital have to wait till the hospitals resume inoculation. They can, however, visit a government-run vaccination centre. Is it true that all vaccination centres are giving priority to second dose recipients? 
Yes. “As the supply is irregular, we will prioritise second dose recipients,” said a state government official. Why are private hospitals suddenly unable to vaccinate?
The Centre has announced that from May 1 all private hospitals have to procure their doses directly from the vaccine manufacturers. But several private hospitals have said they have not received any commitment from the manufacturers about when they will be able to supply doses to them. Since they do not have any stock left, the private hospitals have been forced to stop vaccination for the time being. At a meeting with the state health department, officials of several private hospitals have requested the department to procure vaccines from the manufacturers on their behalf. The state has written to the Centre asking if it can do so. Officials of some private hospitals said they did not expect any development on procurement of vaccines for private hospitals till the Assembly election results are announced on Sunday. Will government-run hospitals continue inoculation during this time?
Yes, government hospitals and two health clinics in each of the 16 boroughs of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will inoculate on Saturday. No vaccination session will be held at most government-run Covid vaccination centres on Sunday. I took my first dose at a private facility. Can I take my second dose at a government facility?
Yes. Will the doses remain free for everyone at government-run Covid vaccination centres from May?
An official at SSKM Hospital who is managing the vaccination at the hospital said they had not yet received any instruction from the state health department on whether people in the 18-44 age group would be vaccinated for free. Those who are 45 or older will not have to pay for the shot, the official said. However, it is likely that government-run centres will continue to vaccinate everyone for free. If I wait for a few days and take my second dose at a private facility, what will be the price of the dose?
The Serum Institute of India has announced that it will sell each dose of Covishield to private hospitals at Rs 600. Bharat Biotech has announced that it will sell each dose of Covaxin at Rs 1,200 to private units. The price of each dose at private hospitals will be over and above the rate charged by the respective manufacturers. Has the government set any cap on how much a private healthcare facility can charge above the cost price of the vaccine?
No.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Doctors and nurses catch Covid despite being fully vaccinated||A number of doctors and nurses have contracted Covid despite being fully vaccinated against the disease, a trend that will only intensify the crisis in Covid management unless corrective measures are immediately taken. Public health experts and hospital officials said unless a pool of doctors from all fields is created, the crisis of medical personnel would be as severe as that of Covid beds. At all three hospitals of the AMRI group in Calcutta, about 70 healthcare personnel, including junior doctors and nurses, are down with Covid. At Peerless Hospital, at least four senior doctors, including two critical care specialists, have been infected with the coronavirus despite taking both jabs. Several other hospitals are facing the problem, too. “If we can't expand the pool of doctors and nurses, then the existing number of Covid beds will actually come down because there won’t be enough people to treat patients,” said Devi Shetty, the founder and chairman of Narayana Health. “There are 1.4 lakh doctors who have finished their internships and are preparing for examinations for courses like MD and MS. Similarly, around two lakh nurses across India have completed their training and are now preparing for the examinations. If this fresh workforce is incorporated in the Covid healthcare system by offering incentives of marks in exams, the problem can be solved,” said Shetty. He also feels there should be a mobile team of doctors and nurses under one central agency. The team will move to places where the incidence of Covid is high. Narayana Health’s flagship unit in Calcutta, the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, is approaching doctors from various disciplines to join Covid treatment following the rise in the number of beds for patients suffering from the disease. “As the number of Covid patients swells in the hospital, it is imperative on the part of the unit to expand the team of consultants taking care of the patients…. Consultants from cardiology, anesthesia, neurology, pulmonology, internal and emergency medicine have joined hands in the mission of fighting the pandemic,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health. Doctors treating Covid patients said their workload was mounting by the day. Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya used to have around 20 patients admitted under him during the peak of the epidemic last year. On Friday, he had 29 patients admitted under him and the number is going up. “Hospitals are increasing the number of Covid beds, but this is leading to a shortage of trained critical care doctors. If doctors working in general wards were trained under a senior doctor in the critical care unit, then this shortage could have been managed. If the senior doctor gets infected by the virus, then the junior doctor could have managed. But now, because of lack of such planning, the crisis is being felt,” said Bhattacharya. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said consultants from other fields might refuse to treat Covid patients and the hospital could not force them to do so as they are not full-time employees. “The Medical Council of India should come out with an advisory that all doctors should treat Covid patients if required  Otherwise, the increasing pressure on the existing team of doctors would lead to their losing patience and energy and that will affect the treatment,” said Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Higher secondary examinations will be held as scheduled in June||The higher secondary examinations will be held as scheduled in June, the state council of HS education said in a notice to the heads of all institutions on Friday. Unlike other years, the candidates will write their papers at their respective schools, the council has said. The council has cancelled the annual examinations of Class XI and the heads of all institutions have been requested to promote all students to Class XII. “...the Higher Secondary examination will be conducted as per schedule published earlier,” read a notice issued on Friday by the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, Mahua Das. The examination is scheduled from June 15 till July 2. “The Covid situation will be closely monitored and any further decision or change in this regard will be informed beforehand to all,” Das said in the notice. “For Higher Secondary Examination 2021, the HS examinees will appear for the examination at their own Institution (Home Venue) and please note that, the examination timings will be 12 noon to 3.15pm in place of 10am to 1.15pm.” Usually, higher secondary candidates of one school write their papers at a different school. The Class XI annual examinations, for which the council sends question papers, are held in the second half on the days the HS exams are held. Since the Class XI exams have been cancelled, the timings for Class XII exams could be changed, the head of an institution said. The council in the notice has said that the topics in the reduced syllabus of Class XI should be completed within the “first quarter of Class XII”. “Since college admission is largely dependent on the Class XII marks, the board is trying to conduct the school-leaving exams,” the head of another school said. The CBSE and ICSE council both have deferred their Class XII board exams, which were to be held in May, because of the pandemic. The new dates will be announced once the authorities review the situation in the first week of June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Former IIT students seek action against associate professor for verbally abusing students ||Over 1,000 former students of several IITs have written to the IIT Kharagpur director seeking strong action against an associate professor of social science and humanities who allegedly verbally abused students from disadvantaged categories during an online class last week. The letter mailed to the IIT Kharagpur director, V.K. Tewari, on Thursday evening said: “We, the alumni of IITs, are disgusted and shocked by professor (the name of the teacher) abusive behaviour towards her student in English class, many of whom belong to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Horrifying videos of her abuse may be seen here (a Twitter link) where she is heard shouting expletives at and humiliating her students.” Repeated calls and text messages to director Tewari and the accused teacher went unanswered. The alumni have said the institute must take strong punitive action against the teacher. Apart from former students from the country’s oldest IIT, alumni from the IITs in Mumbai, Madras, Kanpur, Guwahati, Delhi, Gandhinagar, Roorkee, Varanasi, Dhanbad, Indore have signed the letter. “IITs are always notoriously hostile to Dalit, Adivasi and backward caste students. It is evident from the video that (the teacher’s name) is a habitual offender and believes her casteism and abuse will go uncensured. We cannot allow this,” they have written. The teacher was allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents apparently for not standing up when the national anthem was being played during an online class last week. In a purported video she allegedly called the students “bloody b*******”. IIT Kharagpur alumnus Rahul Banerjee, who works with Chhattisgarh’s Bhil Adivasis and Dalits and is a signatory to the letter, told Metro that even when he was studying BTech in the ‘80s, he sensed “a lack of empathy among the teachers and students towards those coming from disadvantaged categories”. “I remember taking classes for these underprivileged students as they sometimes could not cope with the course. IITs have always lacked an inclusive approach that could help these underprivileged students to mainstream themselves. In fact, the preparatory course was devised by the IITs to fill the void. But now in the preparatory course itself these students are being dehumanised,” said Banerjee, who graduated in 1983. “Why does the national anthem have to be played at all during a class?” he asked. Indrajit Dutta, who graduated from IIT Kharagpur in 1977 and was in the same batch as director Tewari, said: “This casteist approach existed among students and teachers throughout. But it was not so glaring as it is now.... What has happened is shameful,” said Dutta, a signatory. Complaints of casteist abuse towards students have arisen from IIT Bombay and IIT Madras as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Residents fail to get Covid-19 vaccines after waiting for hours in Salt Lake||Hundreds of people from Rajarhat, Salt Lake, Baguiati, Dum Dum and other places who had gone to two vaccination centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Friday did not get the Covid shot as neither had any doses. Many who had gone to the Salt Lake sub-divisional hospital near City Centre, too, did not get the shot because they had run out of doses. At all three centres, arguments among those who waited for hours to receive the shot and hospital authorities broke out because the officials could not say when they would receive a supply of vaccine doses. The gates of the hospital opened around 10am and the authorities asked the people to wait till doses arrived. Soham Chakraborty, who had gone to the vaccine centre with his mother, said he had queued up at 3.30am to ensure that she got the jab. After waiting for over eight hours, no hospital official was there to tell them when the process would start, he said. “There was a huge crowd and sometime after midday, we started looking for officials. Then someone came from inside the building and said there were no doses,” said Chakraborty. The situation was similar at a Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation-run vaccine centre in Narayanpur. An official of the civic body’s health department said they had no option but to keep operations suspended as both centres had not received their daily quota of vaccines. “We could not announce earlier that vaccination would be suspended as we did not get any information that we will not get any vaccines,” the official said. Many had turned up at Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital as well. Preyashi Sahu, who had gone with her parents for their first dose, said that they waited for hours but did not get the shots. They asked the officials what the matter was. “They told us that it will not be possible to administer vaccines today and asked us to leave,” she said. An official of the hospital said that they could only administer a few second doses on Friday. “We waited to get the vaccine supply but when we did not, we put up a notice informing everyone that no first doses will be administered on Friday. However, by then a large crowd had gathered,” said the official. Bengal on Friday recorded 17,411 new infections, 96 deaths and 12,885 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.13 lakh. Of the 89 deaths, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 20 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,924 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,932.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
