02-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: EC issues Covid guidelines for 11 counting centres||The counting of votes of 16 Assembly constituencies in and around Calcutta will be carried out at 11 counting centres in the city on Sunday.  The Election Commission of India has issued a set of guidelines for maintaining Covid-19 protocol at the counting centres. Here is the detail of the restrictions and arrangements at the city counting centres: Counting starts at: 8am List of counting centres in Calcutta and the respective Assembly constituencies whose votes will be counted there: ⚫ Netaji Indoor Stadium: Chowringhee, Entally, Beleghata, Jorasanko and Shyampukur Assembly constituencies ⚫ Dinabandhu Andrew’s College: Jadavpur Assembly constituency ⚫ Hastings House Complex: Tollygunge Assembly constituency ⚫ David Hare Training College: Ballygunge Assembly constituency ⚫ Ballygunge Government High School: Rashbehari Assembly constituency ⚫ Shakhawat memorial Government Girls Higher Secondary School: Bhowanipore Assembly constituency ⚫ St Thomas Boys High School: Kolkata Port Assembly constituency ⚫ Gitanjali Stadium: Kasba Assembly constituency ⚫ Bratachari Vidyashram Higher Secondary School: Behala (East) Assembly constituency ⚫ Vivekananda College: Behala (West) Assembly constituency ⚫ Rabindra Bharati University: Maniktala and Cossipore-Belgachia Assembly constituencies. Covid-19 Protocol at the counting centres on May 2: ⚫ No candidate or agent or counting officials will be allowed inside the counting centres without producing negative reports for RT-PCR/Rapid Antigen Test or certificate of two doses of vaccination against Covid-19 ⚫ No one, including political party cadres, will be allowed within the 100-metre periphery of the counting centres. The 100-metre no-entry zone will be demarcated ⚫ Public gathering will not be allowed even outside the 100 metres of the counting centres ⚫ No one having fever or Covid-19-like symptoms will be allowed inside the counting centre. ⚫ Not more than two persons will be allowed to accompany the winning candidates to receive the certificate from the returning officer ⚫ Mask and use of hand sanitisers will be mandatory ⚫ No victory procession shall be allowed outside the counting centres. Police arrangements ⚫ Police will barricade the 100-metre zone around counting centres ⚫ Only those with cards issued by the ECI will be allowed inside the centres ⚫ No electronic gadgets mobile phones, cameras and tripods will be allowed inside the counting centres ⚫ The outer periphery, outside the 100-metre zone, will be manned by city police while the inner ring, just outside the entrance of the counting centres, will be manned by the central forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: St Xavier’s College to remain closed till May 9||St Xavier’s College will remain closed at least till May 9 because of the pandemic. Till April 30 the students were allowed to visit college offices for urgent works like collecting marksheets, degree certificates, letters of  recommendation, character certificates, getting the attestation done during the office hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays. To facilitate this all offices were functioning with 30 per cent staff strength. Visitors were also being allowed entry. Principal Father Dominic Savio said they had decided to close the college to all visitors for some time. “It is being feared that the situation will further worsen in May. Nobody should venture out and expose themselves to any kind of assembly at a time when the cases could peak. We will review the situation,” said Father Dominic Savio. The college has been closed for in-person classes from March last year as a precaution against Covid. “All offices, labs, libraries and other facilities will remain shut. The decision to reopen the college after May 9 will be taken according to how the situation develops at that time,” says the notice. St Xavier’s College has brought forward the last day of classes for arts and science students to May 10 from May 20 and deferred the online examinations due in May “in order to give some breathing space to the students in the present Covid-situation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal partial lockdown: No bar on grocery stores,  cap on gathering ||The 7am-10am and 3pm-5pm windows of opening hours applicable to bazaars and haats are applicable for all “retail and stand-alone” shops, a state government notification said on Saturday. “Outlets providing services related to health care, electricity, telecom, transport, grocery, sweets, meat shops and milk supply” have been kept out of the embargo. The Bengal government ordered malls, cinemas, bars and restaurants indefinitely closed from Friday evening. Bazaars and haats can stay open “only during 7-10am and 3-5pm”, a notification from the chief secretary said. The Saturday notice also put a cap of 50 persons on marriage and other social gatherings. Snippets from the city on the first day of the renewed curbs. Markets Considerable rush was spotted in Maniktala and Gariahat market even after 10am. Several people who came for buying fruits, vegetables and meat, claimed they were not aware of the curb. Police officers used loudhailers inside marketplaces to announce the government’s restrictions. Senior police officers said all the police stations have been instructed to communicate with the local market associations and convey the new timings that were announced by the state government on Friday evening. “It will take a day or two for people to understand and follow the pattern. The biggest challenge will be to maintain social distancing when the markets will open only for two hours in morning and afternoon,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Restaurants The restaurants were shut for visitors. Some had posters pasted on their walls saying “only takeaway and online orders”. A fear of a prolonged lockdown like last year, lurked in the minds of restaurateurs and people who work there. “This (partial lockdown) was inevitable, the way cases were going up. I could see this coming. Business had started dipping since the second week of April. Naturally, there is fear of a sustained shutdown among the workers,” said a Park Street restaurateur. The owner of another restaurant in south Calcutta said he would send workers from other states on a “paid leave for 10-12 days”. The restaurant owners said they will bleed again if the shutdown continued for over a month. Malls The groceries sections of the Spencer’s hypermarkets were open at malls, which otherwise wore a deserted look. “The groceries sections will continue to remain open according to normal business hours. The delivery system is also in operation,” said an official of Spencer’s. Around 12.15pm, the only persons in multiple floors of the sprawling South City Mall were guards and employees of some stores. “They had come for internal operations in the wake of the state government order,” said an official of the mall. The malls had also been witnessing a dip in footfall over the past month. “The Bengali New Year footfall was also on the lower side. But post April 15, the footfall dropped sharply,” said an official of a mall in south Calcutta. Liquor stores Standalone liquor shops can carry on with sales from 7-10am and 3-5pm, an excise official said. But most store owners said shops were unlikely to start business before 9am. “The 3pm to 5pm slot is what we are looking at for business,” said the owner of a store in central Calcutta. The online delivery of booze will, however, continue throughout the day. “Even if shops are shut for off-counter sale, the delivery partners will be able to come and pick up orders,” said the owner of a liquor store in south Calcutta. Hawkers Many hawkers in Gariahat had kept their stalls opened well beyond 10am. According to the chief secretary’s notification, standalone shops were expected to follow the two windows (7am to 1am and 3pm to 5pm) of bazaars and haats. From 11.30am, cops from Gariahat police station used hailers to urge the traders to shut shop. By 12.30pm, the stalls were shut. An officer said Saturday was the first day of the curbs and the police wanted to raise awareness among the traders. “The enforcement will be stricter in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Can’t evict patients who test positive during their stay, hospitals told||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has said all private hospitals are “duty-bound” to treat any non-Covid patient admitted to their hospitals, who subsequently test positive for Covid-19, during their stay at the hospital. In an audio message posted on a Whatsapp group of private hospitals on Friday, the commission’s chairperson, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, said he had come to know about a case where a patient’s family was asked to shift the patient to another hospital after the patient tested positive for Covid-19. The patient had been admitted with other ailments and was not Covid positive during the admission. “A patient was under treatment in a private health sector receiving treatment for non-Covid disease. In course of treatment, he developed Covid symptoms and was ultimately found to be positive. The hospital is refusing to extend their help to the patient and has asked the patient party to take the patient to some other set-up,” the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission chairperson, said in the audio message. According to the audio message, the hospital group that refused to treat the patient has more than one hospital in the city. “It is the duty of the hospital to see that the patient is cured. Patient is admitted in your hospital. You have other set-up which is catering the needs of Covid patients. Hence, it is your duty to see that the patient is treated. If it is not possible in your establishment shift to your other branch, get him treated for Covid and take him back for other treatment. But you cannot say take your patient back. This is wrong,” Banerjee said in the message. Banerjee later told Metro on Saturday that there was a system for the government hospitals under which anyone, who was admitted with some other ailments and tested positive later in a government-run hospital, was shifted to a Covid hospital run by the government.  After getting cured the patient was taken back to the first hospital for treatment of the other ailment. “Suppose someone tested positive for Covid-19 at SSKM Hospital, where he was admitted for treatment of some ailment. During his stay at SSKM the person tested positive. SSKM would send the patient to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital for treatment of Covid. When the person recovers from Covid, SSKM Hospital would bring him back to treat the other ailment,” Banerjee said. The chairperson also said if a private hospital did not have Covid treatment facilities then it must arrange for the person’s hospitalisation in a hospital where Covid patients were treated. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury acknowledged the problem of refusal by some hospitals to treat patients who had tested positive for Covid while they were undergoing treatment for other diseases in these hospitals. “I came to know of a patient who was almost forcibly sent out of a hospital because the patient had tested positive for Covid. This cannot be done. This is a problem encountered by many,” he said. Chowdhury, too, said it was responsibility of the hospital to treat the patient. “The hospital has to treat the patient or ensure the patient’s admission in another hospital where necessary care for patient can be given,” he said. Several complaints of hospitals refusing to treat any patient who tested positive for Covid had emerged during the first wave of the pandemic last year. The commission had also asked private hospitals at that time to treat a Covid patient or take responsibility to shift the patient to a hospital where such patients were treated. Covid facility The youth hostel inside the Salt Lake stadium is being converted into a 250-bed Covid facility and operations will start from Monday, an official of the stadium said. The stadium's youth hostel will function as a satellite unit of the AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake and operations have been planned on a PPP model.  Surojit Roy the CEO of the Salt Lake stadium said that the existing facilities at the youth hostel that has large dormitories which are being retrofitted to accommodate Covid-19 patients. Piped oxygen lines are also being installed, the official said. An official of the AMRI Hospitals, said that they will begin operations in a phased manner. "From Monday we will have 50 functional beds. The location is also ideal for us as our hospital is located right opposite," said the official. All 250 beds are expected to be functional by next week, the official said. Once functional the Salt Lake Stadium would be the third stadium in West Bengal to double up as a health centre. The renowned Eden Gardens had served as a safe house for police personnel while the newly built Kishore Bharati Krirangan continues to is a Covid-19 centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIT Kharagpur announces interim semester break for first-year students ||IIT Kharagpur has announced an interim semester break for the first-year students because of the increasing severity of the pandemic. As Covid-19 cases continued to surge, a section of students is “stressed” and not being able to “concentrate on online lectures, tests and assignments”. A Facebook post by the institute’s director V. K. Tewari on Saturday says: “A semester break for first-year undergraduate students will be given from 1st May to 16th May. No classes and tests will be held for first-year students during this period”. The spring semester started from March 30. First-year spring semester will end in the first week of July, instead of the last week of June following the introduction of the interim break. According to an official of the institute, family members of many first-year students got affected following the fresh wave of Covid and this posed challenges to the students in coping up with their academics. “They have said in their appeals to the authorities that their learning abilities are getting severely impacted due to the current scenario,” said the official. The students, he said, felt that an interim break in the semester might give some relief and provide them time to consolidate things until the medical situation was stable. Some of the teachers have also tested positive. At IIT, the stay on the recall of the research scholars has been extended for another fortnight. In mid April, the recall was stayed till early May because of the pandemic situation on the campus and across the country. Repeated calls to director Tewari went unanswered. St Xavier’s College had earlier this week deferred all online semester exams “given the increasing gravity of the pandemic situation” that has led to a scenario where students are struggling “to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
