03-05-2021||Calcutta||Mamata to be sworn-in as CM again on May 5||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee will be sworn-in as West Bengal chief minister for a third straight term on Wednesday, after she spearheaded her party to a ramarkable victory in the assembly polls. She called on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan and resigned as the chief minister, as is the practice, before she is administered the oath of office and secrecy again. She will continue to function in caretaker capacity till then. Earlier Monday, she addressed a press conference where she spoke of a “collective fight” by the opposition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, but underscored combating the Covid-19 crisis should be the first priority. “I am just a street fighter. I can boost the morale of the people so that we can fight a strong fight against the BJP. One cannot do everything alone and it should be a collective effort. “If collectively we can take a decision, together we can fight the battle of 2024. But first let us fight this Covid crisis and then we will decide on this. Now is not the time,” she said, responding to a question about her role in the 2024 general elections. Later, the newly elected MLAs of the TMC met and unanimously chose her the leader of the legislature party, before she called on the governor to stake claim to form the government. Banerjee, who lost from Nandigram despite the astounding TMC victory, can be sworn-in as the chief minister but will have to get elected to the assembly within six months of assuming office. “CM @MamataOfficial called on me and submitted her resignation as CM and the same has been accepted. She has been requested to continue till alternative arrangements are made,” Dhankhar tweeted after Banerjee tendered her resignation. The oath-taking ceremony will be a low-key affair due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. “Taking note of communication @AITCofficial electing @MamataOfficial as leader of 17th WB Legislative Assembly have invited her to take oath of office of Chief Minister on May 5 at 10.45 am at Raj Bhawan. In view of current Covid situation function will be with limited audience,” he tweeted. During her media interaction, Banerjee again demanded that every citizen of the country should be given free vaccines by the Centre. “They are sending vaccine and oxygen to two-three states. Why so? Every state should get its due. I have heard that in Gujarat, vaccine is being given from the BJP party office. Do they (BJP) have any expertise in giving vaccines?” she claimed. Banerjee also claimed that the Left, which ruled the state for 34 years on the trot, was unable to get back the votes that it had lost to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, leading to its further downfall. “I may have political differences with them (Left) but I did not want to see them getting zero. It would have been better if they got the votes back from the BJP. They favoured the BJP so much that they became a signboard. They need to think about this. Dipankar Bhattacharya (CPIM-L) did not do this,” she said. The chief minister said she did not get the customary call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on her victory in the elections. “This is the first time I saw a prime minister not calling. It is ok, he may be busy. I did not take it in sentiment,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: We tried to wean those swayed by BJP blitz||Kasturi Basu, activist and documentary filmmaker, is one of the founders of the “No Vote to BJP campaign”. Over the past four months, the campaign has reached various districts of Bengal, organising meetings, performing skits, distributing pamphlets and putting up posters with one clarion call — “vote any party you want but the BJP”. Basu writes about her experience of the “past four months on the beaten track with a slogan and zeitgeist of our times”. The warmest message came from Punjab as the poll results were being declared. A picture and a message of the indefatigable farmers at the Singhu border, distributing sweets and lighting candles to celebrate a resounding defeat of the BJP in the Assembly polls in Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. It held out a significant message for the “No Vote To BJP” campaign in Bengal, a people’s movement I have been part of for the past four months, along with hundreds of fellow citizens. It carried a message of “What is to be Done”, particularly for the upcoming electoral battles in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. It was also a message for the rest of India, which had been watching closely the bitterly contested Bengal polls where a fascist Centre with all its might had launched an arrogant bid for taking over Bengal, with a macho slogan “Ebaar Bangla, Parle Samla”! For many of us, we saw our role in the “No Vote to BJP” campaign as an extension of our involvement in the fierce movement against the NRC-NPR-CAA matrix in Bengal. The crime against humanity that’s the Assam NRC had shaken us from our stupor during the Modi 1.0 regime. Then, the passing of the CAA 2019, together with the already-draconian CAA 2003, and the declaration of the NPR process, pulled the last trigger. Perhaps the Modi-Shah-RSS combine had not anticipated that their reckless moves would end up mobilising thousands of determined activists during the Modi 2.0 era to stand up decisively against the oppressive citizenship matrix. As the regime in Delhi stayed arrogant about not budging from their citizenship restructuring project, at the core of my heart I felt that the Bengal polls were a kind of referendum on the matter. As much as they were a referendum against the farm bills, the labour code, the massive disinvestment of the public sector and the New Education Policy 2020. So, we began the campaign and set out on a journey for four months. It was a first for me. No Vote to BJP – Endorse anyone but throw out the fascists – was our central slogan. The slogan was intended to strike a chord with the people who were never loyal or traditional BJP supporters, but those who had been blown over by the blitz of the BJP campaign and voted for the party in 2019. Through our campaign we tried to persuade, reason and talk to these fellow citizens, to wean them away from the influence of the BJP. Our campaign toolkit included direct mass contact in 19 districts of Bengal, through a couple of hundred street corner meetings, district-wise mobile campaigns on tableaus, auto-rickshaws and totos, about a dozen rallies and some door-to-door campaigning. The red and white poster with “BJP ke Ektio Vote Noy” written over it was soon all over the place, along with other posters from the campaign, highlighting issues of life, dignity and livelihood – reasons for rejecting the fascist party in the fray. Often, in the dead of the night we would receive disapproving and even threatening phone calls from unknown numbers, asking us to discontinue the campaign. But mostly, it was people calling enthusiastically, wishing to join the campaign. Our friends sometimes got heckled, attacked and stopped from campaigning by the BJP and RSS workers. I can recall instances in Raniganj, Ashoknagar, Bolpur and Murshidabad. Among the anti-BJP parties in the fray, the TMC was expectedly welcoming of our campaign, and so was a section of the CPM workers who have their ear to the ground. Unfortunately, the CPM leadership remained cold and indifferent to it, with several of their most ardent supporters turning openly hostile to the campaign and attacking it virulently on social media. I think it was a mistake on their part which they may re-evaluate. The TMC turned out to be the biggest beneficiary of this, possibly as they stood the strongest chance to rout the BJP electorally. As for our campaign, there is no stopping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Our aim was to present result sheet of fascist force||A music video created by some of Bengal’s young artistes warned people against the politics of hate ahead of the Assembly elections. Titled Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gaan (Our song in our way), the video has had 6 million views since its release on March 24. Actor Riddhi Sen, 22, had collaborated with friends and colleagues Rwitobroto Mukherjee and Surangana Bandyopadhyay, for the project. Sen writes on what prodded him to take a stand. Our country is going through one of the darkest times because of the uncontrollable second wave of Covid-19. Thousands are gasping for breath, hospital beds are full, crematoriums are awake through the night. Courts have held the central government responsible for bringing this on and the roots for this crisis lie long back. The coronavirus has exposed a flawed system like never before. It exposed the government’s lack of efficiency to handle a health emergency. Instead of strengthening our health-care system and our economy, thousands of crores were spent to buy a jet for our respected Prime Minister’s foreign travels. Crores were spent on building a statue and temple and in arranging a jamboree to please the then US President; not to mention demonetisation that had set our economy back by years. Amid such a crisis, the suppression of dissent by brute force, arrest of activists, increasing violence on Muslims, Dalits and women, rampaging the social media by the IT cell’s shadow warriors and spending money like water on Bengal elections reflected one thing - this central government did not care about citizens. Just like symptoms of Covid-19, there are symptoms of fascism, provided by history. January 2021 onwards, Bengal saw many of them. Polarisation became Bengal’s political narrative, shamelessly. During such a time (actor) Anirban Bhattacharya wrote the lyrics of Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gan. The music was composed by Subhadeep Guha. The song rang a bell inside us. We all felt the urge to voice the fact that loving one’s country doesn’t mean that one loses the power to dissent.  In 1861, Abraham Lincoln said in his inaugural address: “When people shall grow weary of their constitutional right, to amend their government, they shall exert their revolutionary right, to dismember and overthrow that government.” This is the power of democracy. Before the pandemic, in 2020, we all took part in a performance which we named Chorus 2020, which happened at Nazrul Manch, where many artistes came together to take a stand against this fascist government. The idea of a “civil society” had started fading away in people’s minds. We need to understand, in order to voice one’s political opinion and to work for people, one doesn’t need to subscribe to a particular political party, we underestimate the power of a citizen, who silently records everything. The sheer passion of the song drove me and my colleagues and friends to come up with the idea of a music video, under the supervision of Parambrata Chattopadhyay. While writing the screenplay for the music video, me, Rwitobroto and Surangana’s idea was to present a result sheet in front of the audience, the result sheet of what the fascist force has done to India in the last few years. The BJP created a perception that they were coming to power in Bengal. Their tools were false propaganda, money and the media. Our idea in this music video was to unravel this false perspective, so people could see through. We are indebted to all those people who lent their hand in making this music video. Yes, we had fears, we were all aware of the risks. But the word “risk” becomes irrelevant in a situation where our country is. Like Abbie Hoffman (played by Sacha Baron Cohen) in the film The Trial of Chicago Seven says in a scene where he is put on trial for protesting the Vietnam war: “Give me a moment, will you friend?”, he tells the prosecutor. “I’ve never been put on trial for my thoughts before.” For the first time our country witnessed people being put on trial for their thoughts. Our deepest respect to each and everyone who resisted the fascist force, starting from the ‘No Vote to BJP campaign’ to hundreds of people in our city screaming “No NRC, No CAA” in unison. Our song played a small part in a long resistance which needs to continue. Because Bengal believes in what Tagore said: “Neither the colourless vagueness of cosmopolitanism, nor the fierce self-idolatry of nation-worship, is the goal of human history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Resistance to BJP’s attempt to murder democracy||A music video released on April 3 by some of the city’s young musicians urged voters of Bengal to be “hushiyar (beware)” because the seeds of hatred being sown ahead of the elections could have telling consequences for a long time. Swadesh Misra, a city-based writer, wrote the lyrics and the song was sung by the band Fiddler’s Green. Mishra and Samantak Sinha, the vocalist of the band, share their experiences of being part of the battle against majoritarianism. As an Indian citizen and an artist, I have never been able to support the activities of the BJP. Supporting the party’s politics of polarisation was out of question. I had a spontaneous inner calling to protest the attempts to create a rift between people on the basis of religion. I felt an urge to take a stand against a party that defiled democracy in the name of fake nationalism. I could see people around me in deep distress — migrant workers to farmers, women, students and people from the minority communities. The BJP’s ‘one language, one nation, one government’ policy hurt India’s federal structure. The policy had hurt regional language-driven identitie The BJP’s “one language, one nation, one government” policy hurts India’s federal structure. The cadres of the party, acting at the behest of corporate players, doped the citizenry on the opium of religion. The need to raise our voices against this vicious political atmosphere was imperative. I wanted to speak out myself. I was inspired by many others. None of us is above politics. A time comes when you have to take a side. I was certain about my stand. At such a time, I came across Samantak Sinha, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and other like-minded people. They asked me to write a song. The Fiddler’s Green band became one with the song and took it to another level. They took the song to a larger audience. A victory in Bengal would have come as a big shot in the arm for the BJP’s sinister ploy to rebuild India on the basis of religion. Bengal was the bird’s eye for the BJP. But the stand of Bengal’s people has come as a resistance to the BJP’s attempts to kill democracy. The party has had a major embarrassment after the poll drubbing. But the fight is not over yet. We have to cleanse the country of the ideology of majoritarianism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Bhowanipore residents vote to keep cosmopolitanism intact||This constituency has voted to keep its cosmopolitanism and heterogeneity intact, residents said on Sunday while reacting to Trinamul’s victory from the seat by around 30,000 votes. Local Trinamul workers and leaders are known to residents of all pockets of Bhowanipore, a fact that evoked confidence among voters to vote for the party, many residents said. BJP’s workers can be seen working in only a handful of places. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, two-time MLA from Bhowanipore, did not contest from the seat this time. The BJP had used much of its resources in its attempt to win the seat in Mamata’s backyard. The chief minister is a voter in the constituency. Union home minister Amit Shah had himself campaigned for the BJP candidate from Bhowanipore, Rudranil Ghosh. “The kind of margin by which Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has won from Bhowanipore shows that people of all religions, castes and communities have voted for Trinamul. It would not have been possible to win by such a huge margin if everyone did not vote for Trinamul,” said Deepak Bharti, a state government employee and a resident of Chakraberia. Mamata had repeatedly mentioned in her campaigns how a group of BJP leaders, outsiders without any knowledge of Bengal’s culture and society, were coming to the state to campaign. Wednesday’s election results 
suggested that Bengal’s voters agreed with what she had said, residents pointed out. Vicky Shaw, a real estate consultant who lives near Debendra Ghosh Road, said the BJP’s ploy to divide communities had failed in Bhowanipore and also across Bengal. “People will only vote for those who worked for them. People have seen how local Trinamul workers and leaders helped the families who were quarantined because of Covid. The poor people in slums received benefits from the government when their homes were damaged by Amphan. The ploy to divide people on religious lines did not work. People voted for those who stood by them in difficult times,” said Shaw. A resident of Bakulbagan, who works for a multinational IT company, too, said Trinamul leaders were visible in the area. But he did not know of any BJP worker in their neighbourhood. “Bhowanipore is a Trinamul bastion. I knew the party would win from here,” the 50-year-old man said. A constituency that has among its voters Bengalis, Marwaris, Gujaratis, Sikhs and Sindhis, among others, did not go for any division on community lines. Trinamul candidate Chattopadhyay called Bhowanipore a “mini-India”. He said he believed people of all communities had voted for him. “If Trinamul did not receive votes from a lot of non-Bengalis, we would not have been able to achieve this result,” Chattopadhyay, 77, told Metro on Sunday evening. Trinamul’s victory margin in Bhowanipore has improved compared with the 2019 parliamentary elections and the 2016 Assembly polls. Mamata defeated her nearest rival – Left-Congress combine’s Deepa Das Munshi – by 25,301 votes in the 2016 elections. But in the 2019 parliamentary elections, Trinamul suffered a blow in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, where Trinamul’s Mala Roy was ahead of the BJP’s Chandra Kumar Bose by only 3,168 votes. Roy went on to win the Calcutta South constituency. “I have always lived in Bhowanipore. This time Mamata gave me the opportunity to contest the elections from a place where I have lived all my life,” Chattopadhyay said. Among Bhowanipore’s residents is a sizeable number of Sikhs. “I think almost all Sikhs have voted against the BJP, and for Trinamul. Many of the Sikhs who live here have continuously organised rallies in Calcutta in support of the farmers’ movement. They were angry with the BJP,” said Hardeep Singh, a property consultant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Thousands of Trinamul Congress supporters violate Covid norms||The result day started with strict vigil by law agencies at counting centres in Calcutta to ensure that all Covid protocols were followed. But it ended with non-compliance as thousands of Trinamul supporters stepped out to celebrate their party’s victory, in violation of Covid norms. People were seen dancing on roads, smearing one another with colours and playing  football, many of them without masks. Police tried to disperse the crowd by making announcements through loudhailers but could do little to enforce the restrictions imposed by the election commission on victory rallies or gatherings. In the afternoon, the commission asked the chief secretary to ensure compliance with the Covid norms. It also directed the state administration to suspend the officers in charge of the police stations of the areas where violations were cited. No one was suspended till Sunday evening, said state government officials. “We are trying our best to make people understand that so much mingling without masks could be dangerous,” said an officer of Hare Street police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: TMC supporters celebrate party's victory on Zakaria Street||Celebrations look different in times of Covid. Zakaria Street was celebrating nonetheless on Sunday evening after a long day glued to TV screens. The familiar celebratory Ramazan market on Zakaria Street was missing. Gone was the inviting aroma of haleem and kebabs. But young men and women gathered after the iftar. They congratulated one another on the Bengal result. Sweets were distributed. Some of them burst firecrackers but stopped soon after some elders said the smoke could cause problems for Covid patients in home isolation. “Our happiness knows no bounds today but we shouldn’t take chances with Covid,” a young man said. “Today is one of the happiest days of my life. I have sent messages to many Hindu friends saying thank you,” said Abdur Rahman, 33, a Zakaria Street resident. A 60-year-old man, who usually sells sewai and sheermal on Zakaria Street, said the Bengal vote results reasserted Muslims’ as equal citizens on this land. Many people on Zakaria Street and neighbouring areas, who woke up before 4am for sehri and namaaz, did not go back to sleep after that on Sunday. They remained awake and closely followed news of the election results. But at the end of the day, the anxious and tedious wait paid off. After iftar, residents came out, congratulating one another and distributing sweets to celebrate the BJP’s defeat. Many residents had told this newspaper in the run up to the Assembly elections that they were pained by the rise in Hindutva politics in the country over the past few years. But in the same vein, they had also said they were confident that the politics of polarisation would not work in Bengal. They had ample trust in their Bengali Hindu brethren and the secular fabric of Bengal. The Sunday results vindicated that trust. Rahman owns a gym near Ram Mandir in central Calcutta. Many of his regular patrons are Hindus. “I go to Hindu friends’ places during the Puja. They come to my house during Id,” said Rahman, a fourth-generation resident on Zakaria Street. A number of residents said the aggressive BJP campaign was unnerving. “No BJP leader bothered to knock on our doors in their campaign trail. But at rallies and roadshows, they kept targeting us and calling us names,” said Ajmal Khan, 28. “But our elders kept reassuring us that Bengal would give a befitting reply to the BJP. That is what happened.” Trinamul’s Vivek Gupta won Jorasanko — Zakaria Street is part of that constituency - after trailing the BJP’s Meena Devi Purohit for a long time. Some traders who shut their stalls gathered in front of Nakhoda Mosque after it was certain that the BJP was losing Bengal. “If the BJP won Bengal, then we would have felt homeless in our own state. But this verdict shows we are also citizens of this very land. We want to thank our Hindu brothers for letting this happen,” said the 60-year-old man, who sells sewai and sheermal. “I had told you so,” was the first thing that Muhammad Mahmood told this newspaper after the results on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Fascism is to be smashed||An old saying goes like this — fascism is not to be debated, it is to be smashed. Our protest, our song, stems from this premise. Whenever a regime interferes in people’s personal liberties, whenever a regime starts deciding what people will eat, wear, sing and listen to; we will come together, stand up in protest. My art form is my medium of protest. Whenever there is any attack of personal liberties, irrespective of whoever in power is doing that, we will protest against that power. We were prepared for a possible backlash by members of the Right-wing ecosystem’s online army after the song was released. We have been doing songs of protest against CAA-NRC-NPR combine. In January 2020, we had composed a song in support of the protesting students at Jawaharlal Nehru University. We want our songs to be our tools of protest. Even if the songs reach some people, they will take it forward and spread the message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal records 17,515 new Covid infections, 92 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 17,515 new Covid infections, 92 deaths and 15,587 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.18 lakh. Of the 92 deaths, 23 were reported from Calcutta and 29 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,935 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,942. Remdesivir arrest Police have arrested a man with 18 vials of remdesivir -  a medicine used to treat Covid. Remdesivir has been in short supply in the city, prompting many to make efforts to procure it at a premium. Jay Ashutosh Mittal, 39, a resident of Bangur Avenue, had apparently stocked 18 vials of the medicine under the trade name Remcor 100 at a Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road address, the police said. Jay had put up advertisements for the stock on social media and was about to sell the medicine at a much higher rate than the original price, the police said. A case has been registered at Park Street police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: How Covid changed the counting process||From a counting centre at Bidhannagar College, a polling official recounted how different Sunday’s proceedings were compared to pre-Covid times. The Telegraph spoke to Bidyut Pal, a polling official at the centre where votes of three Assembly segments — Bidhannagar, New Town-Rajarhat and Rajarhat-Gopalpur — were counted. The whole counting process was different and challenging this time. Nearly all my colleagues were wearing face masks inside the centre. We could barely hear each other while calling out the number of votes counted. We had to keep telling each other the number of votes counted from each table and despite our best efforts and shouting, it was muffled and often led to confusion. To add to our worries, the counting agents fielded from different political parties, too, could not hear us and were leaning close. We had to tell them to maintain distance but they said they could not hear us. I also had to tell some colleagues as well as the agents to wear masks properly. I have a family at home and don’t want to get Covid. We got a mask, face shield and sanitisers as soon as we reported for duty at the counting centre. The number of people inside the centre was much less compared to other years. My table had only three agents of political parties; earlier, there would be seven or eight. I feel, given the situation, the process could have been streamed online real-time and protests or challenges by any political party could be registered online. This would have reduced the number of people inside the centre. When we stepped outside during a break, I saw many without masks and it was quite scary. I hope that I don’t get Covid as I was on duty during the elections as well. I took all the precautions but I am still worried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Women vote against male aggression||A group of misogynist men trying to heckle, ridicule and insult one woman made many other women of Bengal decide who they wanted to vote for, several of them said after the election results on Sunday evening. The insult to chief minister Mamata Banerjee was an insult to all women and we voted against that male aggression, many women said after the landslide verdict for the Trinamul Congress. “If you are ridiculing a woman then we women have shown you the way and proved that you cannot suppress women’s voices,” said Ashya Khatoon, a 26-year-old an engineering student. Some women Metro spoke to referred to BJP state president Dilip Ghosh apparently suggesting chief minister Mamata wear bermuda shorts to display her injured leg. The Telegraph had reported Trinamul leaders raising their concern at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tone when calling Mamata “Didi o Didi”. From a 74-year-old woman in Behala to a middle-aged schoolteacher in Sinthee, many said they went out to vote in this election, amid a raging pandemic, because every vote mattered and they wanted to do their bit to stand with Mamata. “Some leaders were mocking her — is that the way to conduct oneself and talk about a woman?” said economics teacher Joeeta Basu. Ankita Sharma, 25, said: “In politics, it is expected that one would pull the other’s leg, but not bend so low to insult someone.” “We need women leaders who understand women’s rights and issues. When we talk about equality, we have to practise it, too,” said Khatoon. At 74, Tanima Roy Choudhury, too, felt she had to do what was in her power to stand with Mamata. “Amar khomota hocche ekta vote (my power is one vote and that is what I exercised),” Roy Choudhury, who voted after 15 years, said. “It is also in my own interest that I stood up for Mamata Banerjee,” she said. Many women described the feeling of “relief” after Trinamul’s victory. “I am happy I will be able to wear my shorts, eat pork and beef and travel alone,” said Priyanka Kar, in her mid-30s. Kar, who works at a cement manufacturing company, has to travel to the districts for close to 15 days a month. She commutes on trains and buses and felt if the BJP came to power, she would have felt insecure.
Kar, who grew up in Jalpaiguri, said it was also important to her that Mamata addresses women’s issues and tries to empower women. “My aunt who lived in a village a few kilometers from Jalpaiguri had to give up studies because of the long distance between the school and her house. Giving cycles to girls has helped many cover such distances and not quit studies,” she said. For several others, the reason to vote for Trinamul was to fight against the divisive politics of the BJP. “As a leader you cannot discriminate between your people,” said Khatoon. Bengal’s “inclusive nature” was being threatened and a rift was being created not just amongst different religions but amongst people. “We are here since my grandmother’s time and we have had Bengali friends. Now, a rift has been generated in the minds of the people — a rift between Bengalis and non-Bengalis. We, as people of Bengal, fought against it,” said Ankita Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Contrasting images from Trinamul Congress and BJP camps ||In the Bengal BJP headquarters in central Calcutta, there were altogether five men, huddled in front of a TV screen, around 1.30pm. As the numbers flashed, one of them told his party colleagues “110-115 will at least save some of our maan-samman (pride)”. The BJP was then leading in 90 seats. “110-115” was a distant dream. Trinamul offices looked just the opposite, often scarily so because of lack of Covid hygiene. At a Trinamul office in south Calcutta, workers were confused whether celebrations were in order given that Mamata Banerjee was trailing in Nandigram. With every new lead, there were loud cheers and then the conversation again veered towards Mamata. Krishna Dasgupta cried out: “Ish! Didi akhono pichhiye. Ki je hawbe (Oh! Didi is still trailing. What now?)” Not too far away from the Naktala Trinamul office, the doors at the BJP and CPM offices had padlocks hanging from them. In Adi Naktala, the BJP has an office for the Tollygunge area. On Sunday, the office remained shut. The CPM office, opposite Krishnu Dey Sarani, did not open as well. “By this time on other Sundays, there are many here,” said an elderly person across the road. Around the time the BJP leads were hovering around 100, the discussion in the Trinamul camp was how much money the BJP could spend to make up for the deficit. Then the TV ticker showed the BJP was down to 98 and Sumita Dam, the outgoing Trinamul councillor of Ward . 100, thumped the table in front of her in celebration. Then flashed a ticker “Egiye baamera (the Left are leading)” and there was a loud and collective expression of disbelief. Someone in the room then pointed out that the news was of Kerala. Across small Trinamul offices, PK (Prashant Kishore), often unmentionable within the ranks, had emerged a hero. “He was the one who said the BJP would not cross three digits. He was right,” said a young man. The arrangements in the BJP election office at Hastings were grand. Biggies like the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and IT cell chief Amit Malviya were supposed to brief the media. But things were not proceeding as expected. Only middle-rung state leaders are here, said a party source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Sweet shops rush to supply ‘khela hobe’ mishti||Like many in Bengal, sweet shop owners in the city, too, had not prepared for Sunday’s avalanche. The sweet sellers had thought it would be a dull verdict day in terms of business because of Covid restrictions and the possibility of a close  contest. This turned upside down from late afternoon. As it became clear Mamata Banerjee was headed for a landslide win, orders for traditional sweets started pouring in and sellers with many decades of experience scrambled to change plans. Some who had prepared a mix of saffron-coloured sweets, lamented their call. They had to keep those items aside to make way for traditional Bengali mishti. “We would usually keep around four kilos of sandesh ready. By evening, the volume of orders was double that and we had to bring sankh sandesh from our two other centres,” said Nilanjan Ghosh of Mithai, near Park Circus. 
“Given the madness for Bengali sandesh that we witnessed, on Monday I guess we will have to keep around 15 kilos ready.” Several shop owners said they had no idea there would be such a sudden surge in demand. “We had kept rasogollas decorated in a one big glass jar. Late in the afternoon, a buyer came looking for several such jars. Unable to find many, he picked up the one that was kept as a showpiece and went away,” said Dhiman Das of KC Das. “From Monday, we have decided to step up our production of rasogollas and other traditional Bengali sweets.” The landmark KC Das store at Esplanade was a favourite destination for BJP leaders every time Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah came to Bengal to campaign. On Sunday, none of those leaders turned up at the shop. Sunday was quite different from the 2016 result day when several Trinamul leaders had placed orders with some of the city’s traditional sweetmeat shops in advance. “We have not been scaling up our production since there aren’t too many buyers these days and it is difficult to preserve mishti made from chhana,” said Partha Nandy of Girish Chandra Dey and Nakur Chandra Nandy, the sweet shop in north Calcutta that has been in the business since 1844. “On Sunday, the orders started pouring in from late afternoon, specifically for our old varieties of sandesh like Jalbhora and Manohara,” he said. A few others who had prepared mishti of both saffron and green hues ended up moving the former away from their racks. “We had to keep the orange-coloured mishti items aside. The popular picks were the ones that had ‘khela hobe’ or the Trinamul symbol on them,” said Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick. “Most sweet shop owners were not ready for this sudden demand.” Over the next few days, as celebrations continue, most sweet shop owners said they hoped to do better business than during Bengali New Year. Abir (gulal) sellers had not expected such a twist either. From their stock of saffron and green abir, only one colour sold out. “In just an hour, I sold over four kilos of green abir,” said Rohit Shaw in Burrabazar’s Pagaya Patti. It was no different across parts of Gariahat, Tollygunge, Kalighat, Maniktala and Dum Dum when shops opened briefly in keeping with the Covid restrictions. “I had stocked around three kilos of saffron abir. It remained unsold,” said Shibu Maity of Kasba. “But the entire stock of green was sold.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
