04-05-2021||Calcutta||Covishield supply to arrive after 3 weeks in Bengal: Official||A senior official of the Bengal government said on Monday it could take at least three weeks for fresh doses of Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines in use in India, to arrive in Bengal and those would only be for government facilities. “The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has informally told us that it would not be able to supply fresh doses to Bengal at least before three weeks. And these fresh doses are for government-run vaccine centres,” the official said. A state health department official said about 50 lakh people were awaiting the second dose of Covishield across Bengal. Many of them have their doses due in the next few weeks. According to the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, private hospitals in Calcutta need at least three lakh doses in May to complete the vaccination of those who have taken their first dose at the private facilities. “Which means people who have taken Covishield as the first dose will have to wait beyond eight weeks for the second,” said the government official. The Centre and health experts have said people who have taken Covishield as the first dose should take the second jab between six and eight weeks of the first. Bharat Biotech — which manufacturers Covaxin, the other Covid vaccine being used in India — has promised the state government about 1.5 lakh doses in a day or two but that would be far from adequate, an official said. On Monday, till around 9pm, about 1.75 lakh people were vaccinated at government facilities in the state, the health department said. Among the recipients, only 18,500 got the first dose. The Centre had announced last month that from May 1, the states and private vaccination centres would have to procure Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers. All private hospitals in Calcutta have suspended vaccination because of lack of stocks. The hospitals did not administer any jab on Monday and some put up notices announcing suspension of the drive for an indefinite period. The private hospitals on Monday sent requisition for vaccine doses to the state health department, filling in formatted forms. State health department sources said the private hospitals had asked for at least three lakh doses for those who were awaiting their second jab and one crore for those who will get their first dose. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has submitted a demand of around 8,000 doses for May. The hospital has run out of stocks and did not conduct any vaccination since May 1. “As advised, we filled in the template specifying the requirement of vials for the beneficiaries entitled for the second dose till May 31, amounting to 8,000 doses of both vaccines. We have also mentioned our requirements for phase 3 of the vaccination for the next three months, ending July 21, of around 34,000 doses. We have been assured of further guidance in a short period by the state government,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has submitted a demand of around 600 daily doses, said an official. Peerless Hospital has submitted a demand of around 50,000 doses for the coming three months. “We have been unable to conduct the vaccination drive since May 1 and are awaiting response from the state government. At the same time, we are also in touch with the manufacturers of the vaccines for direct procurement but there has been no response. Many people are calling up to find out when we will resume vaccination,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said the hospital wrote to the manufacturers on Monday, too. “We have 3,000 second doses pending in May,” said Mitra. A senior state health department official said they were in talks with the Centre regarding procurement of vaccines for private hospitals but there has been no response yet. “We have also given the option to private hospitals to pay directly to the manufacturers and we would allow them to use our cold chain network for distribution and storage. But the vaccines are not available and so everything is at a standstill,”said the official. Bengal on Monday recorded 17,501 new infections, 98 deaths and 15,937 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.19 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Haj House turns into Covid unit||Haj House near Kaikhali has been converted into a satellite Covid-19 facility of Charnock Hospital. The centre on VIP Road has 90 beds, 50 of which are intensive care unit beds, an official of the hospital said. “The bed count is set to go up to 300. The satellite unit is being run on a private-public partnership in association with the state government’s health department,” the official said. All beds at the unit have piped oxygen lines. Apart from that, ventilators, BiPAP equipment for ICU beds as well as a CT-scan unit are operational there. “The satellite centre has dedicated ambulances, run in coordination with the health department,” the Charnock official said. Prashant Sharma, the managing director of Charnock Hospital, said the VIP Road unit would use oxygen cylinders till an oxygen plant was set up. “We have requested the state government for support,” he said. Sharma said they had tied up with a city-based group of entrepreneurs who would help them financially to buy medical equipment. “They have promised us equipment worth Rs 3 crore,” he said. The private hospital, located off VIP Road near the airport, is the third facility in the city after Medica Superspecialty Hospital and AMRI Hospitals to take up a government-run establishment and convert it into a satellite unit for Covid patients. The state government has asked private hospitals to open satellite units for Covid patients with mild or moderate symptoms so the hospitals could accommodate more critical patients. Medica has set up a unit at Kishore Bharati Stadium. The Salt Lake branch of AMRI Hospitals has started operating a satellite Covid-19 unit inside the Salt Lake stadium. A portion of the stadium’s youth hostel that has large dormitories have been retrofitted to accommodate Covid-19 patients. “Piped oxygen lines have already been installed,” said Surojit Roy, the CEO of the Salt Lake stadium. “The location is ideal for us as our hospital is located right opposite. All 250 beds are expected to start functioning in a few days,” an AMRI official said. The state government has invited private hospitals and nursing homes to convert government facilities such as stadiums, large halls and community centres into satellite facilities for patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Crunch hits response to JU appeal for funds||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das’s appeal for funds to buy devices and data packs to bridge the digital divide among students has received a poor response so far. University officials blamed this on the Covid-induced financial distress that usual donors are going through in the second wave of the pandemic. On April 13, Das had appealed to “members of the extended university community” to “donate generously” to enable the university to address the digital divide affecting a large section of students at a time when classes are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid. Till May 3, only Rs 80,500 has been raised — an amount much lower than the collection during a similar drive last August. When Das had first called for a fundraising drive on August 20 for a similar mission, around Rs 12 lakh was raised in three weeks, said a university official who was part of a panel overseeing the drive. The official told The Telegraph on Monday that so far, they had received 15 appeals from the university’s employees for deduction from their salary, translating into a contribution totalling around Rs 60,000. “We have got direct deposits to JU bank accounts from the alumni and benevolent individuals totalling Rs 20,500. Compared to last year, the corpus does not look impressive,” he said. Last year, JU had managed to build up a corpus of over Rs 21 lakh in a month. The money was used to buy smartphones and data packs for the students. “We don’t see that happening this year,” said the official. An alumnus who had made a substantial contribution last year said that the fear of a medical emergency was preventing him from pitching in this time. “The situation has worsened from what it was last year. We all are more concerned about saving as much as possible in case the health scare strikes us. This is coming in the way of making a fresh contribution,” he said. A JU alumna who taught at the university for 36 years had donated Rs 5 lakh in September last year. But this year, the university is yet to receive any such generous contributions. “The contribution so far has not been up to the mark. I guess everybody is going through financial distress amid the pandemic. This has to be appreciated as well,” said Das. A teacher of the university who was involved in the fundraising drive last year said this time they were hesitating to approach people for donations because financial constraints had impacted everyone. “Last year, I had personally reached out to many of my batchmates who work in senior positions of companies for contributions. They responded to my appeals. Had the situation improved or remained stable, I would have thought about approaching them again. But many of them are fearing they might suffer a pay cut or loss of job,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals increase Covid beds but inadequate as cases surge||Private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid beds but the long list of patients waiting to get admitted still continues. The increase in the number of Covid beds is proving to be inadequate and many patients with oxygen saturation levels below 90 are struggling to find beds, officials across hospitals said. Belle Vue Clinic had a waiting list of 46 patients on Monday evening; Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, is generally having a waiting list of about 30 patients; Peerless Hospital had a waiting list of 70 on Monday; while AMRI Hospitals has a waiting list of about 15 patients at each of its three units in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. Officials at many hospitals said they would be able to further increase their Covid bed count only after some non-Covid patients are discharged. “We have 234 Covid beds, including 46 critical care beds. But all are occupied. We have a waiting list of 46 patients as of Monday evening,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. “When a patient’s family calls, we are taking down their contact details and trying to assess the seriousness of the patient. Whenever we have a bed vacant, we are calling them back to inform them about the vacancy.” AMRI Hospitals has 408 Covid beds, 160 of which are critical care beds. All beds were occupied on Monday, said an official. All 253 Covid beds at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 130 beds at Fortis Hospital Anandapur, 179 beds at Ruby General Hospital and 165 beds at Peerless Hospital were occupied on Monday. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said they would further add to their Covid beds but were waiting for non-Covid patients to be discharged. “Once all patients in a ward are discharged, we would convert it into a Covid ward. We have to wait till all non-Covid patients in a ward are discharged,” Mitra said. The scarcity of beds is delaying admission of many patients with very low oxygen saturation levels. A 67-year-old resident from Calcutta’s northern fringes with an oxygen saturation level below 90 had been trying to get a bed at a private hospital since Sunday evening. After attempts at several hospitals, the patient was waiting to get admitted at a private hospital on Monday evening. Several hospitals are shifting Covid patients who are doing well to satellite facilities to free hospital beds for more serious patients. “A Covid patient who has recuperated is being sent to the satellite facility to stay under observation before being discharged. This is allowing us to admit a more critical patient in our hospital,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The group, he said, has set up about 200 Covid beds at its units in Howrah and Barasat. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has issued an advisory asking all private hospitals to reserve at least 60 per cent of their beds for Covid patients. Several hospitals have already set aside 60 per cent or even more beds for such patients but that has not been able to ease the crisis. Subhasish Datta, the head of operations at Ruby General Hospital, said he felt that the demand was about 2.5 times more than the beds available. “From the number of calls we are getting from Covid patients who want to get admitted, it seems the demand is about 2.5 times the number of beds we have. We are trying to arrange for consultation over the phone till a patient gets a bed,” Datta said. He said the hospital was also asking Covid patients who were not being able to do CT scans elsewhere to get the scan done at Ruby.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||JU decides to keep emergency services open ||Jadavpur University has decided to keep only departments providing emergency services, like audit and accounts and maintenance, open till May 7 with bare minimum staff because of the pandemic. The university on April 23 had announced the closure of the campus exempting the emergency services till May 3. The closure was extended till Friday on May 3. The university had in mid April announced that all sections, departments and schools will remain open for only two or three days a week with skeleton staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Fewer Metro trains from May 6, zoo shut||From Thursday, Metro Railway will run 216 trains every weekday, further down from the current fleet of 238 trains, an official said. The Metro daily passenger count, which had touched 1.8 lakh in March, has been hovering just over one lakh over the past few days. The first trains will leave the terminal stations at 7.30am, instead of 7.20am. The last trains will leave at 8.48pm from Dakshineswar and 9pm from Dum Dum and New Garia, respectively. On Saturday, there will be 216 trains, instead of 218. On Sunday, 98 trains will run instead of 100. Zoo shut All the zoos and parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the state will be shut for visitors with “immediate effect”, said a notice from the state government on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Storybooks at kids’ doorstep||Rick Riordan, Enid Blyton and J.K. Rowling — Class V student Annanmay Daga has several favourite authors. And he knows how to involve his friends in the game of reading books. The La Martiniere for Boys student and his booklover friends make a point of sharing books and discuss the latest fictions they read. To push other children like him to up their reading habit, Annanmay and his sister have contributed some of their favourite classics, fairytales and non-fiction to a new online library that got started recently. Thanks to the contributions of several children, an online library for children — Forever Booked — was born in the run-up to World Book Day on April 23. A venture of three mothers-turned entrepreneurs, the library aims to deliver books at the doorstep of young booklovers in the city. “Most of us have books that our children have outgrown. Some have storage problem at home. Instead of the books gathering dust or getting dog-eared, we want others to read and enjoy them. We took two months to pass the word around and collect books from our friends which included both fiction and non-fiction. Finally, Forever Booked opened doors with 3,000 books, and it’s counting,” said Bali Sanghvi, who, along with Richa Daga and Neha Bhatnagar, initiated the project. The library caters to children right from Kindergarten to young adults and offers unlimited exchange facility for avid readers. “Our collection ranges from classics to popular writers and even comics such as Amar Chitra Katha. Since they are contributed by students, new readers can connect with them. Young readers are also invited to share their experiences and recommendations to help new members,” said Bhatnagar. The members can either log in with their registration numbers and add the selected books to cart, after going through an online catalogue, or they can directly WhatsApp for the requested books with their catelogue numbers. The news comes as a boon to many students, who are tired of staying at home since past year. Class V student Tashvi G hopes to complete the Percy Jackson series with her early bird membership. “I have read a few from my brother’s collection. The rest I can borrow from this library,” said The Heritage student, who hopes to contribute some books too. “How many books can I buy for her? We have a transferable job and storage is a problem. There are not many libraries in the city that are dedicated to children. I found the collection here quite extensive with authors ranging from various countries,” said Tashvi’s mother Neetika Vijay Kumar. The library also aims to promote physical reading at a time when children are engrossed in the virtual spaces and screen-times. “I miss my friends, school and all the singing and dancing. But books are fun. They make me happy,” said Class I student Parshv Lakhani, a fan of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. His mother hopes the new membership will keep him better occupied. The library plans to hold live storytelling sessions online and organise a virtual book club shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Shot to fame within frame||At the age of four, he took his father’s DSLR to take a few snaps in Santiniketan. That’s how it all began for the 19-year-old Pubarun Basu, who recently became the Youth Photographer of the Year at Sony World Photography Awards. The competition, organised by the World Photography Organisation, was meant for the age group of 12 to 19 years. A South Point High School alumnus, Pubarun won the award for his image No Escape from Reality, clicked inside his bedroom during the lockdown. In the photo, the shadows of railings projected onto curtains create an illusion of cage bars from behind which a pair of hands are seen as if trying to break through. The illusion of shadows and the gesture of hands convey a sense of entrapment shared by so many in the past year. “It’s an honour to be adjudged the Youth Photographer of the Year. In the contest, I could see some extraordinary snapshots taken by my fellow competitors from around the world,” said Pubarun, who is pursuing English honours at The Bhawanipur Education Society College. The World Photography Organisation, based in London, has been holding the contest for the last 14 years. There are four categories — Professional, Open, Student and Youth. In the Youth one, the budding shutterbugs can submit one photograph every month from July to December, and the organisation announces a winner at the end of every month. Then all the six winners vie for the Youth Photographer of the Year award that is announced in April the following year. This time, all the four categories received more than three lakh photographs. Pubarun was never formally trained in photography. His father Pranab Basu is both his teacher and inspiration. “I’m privileged to have a brilliant photographer in my family — my father. He never taught me formally but gave advice regarding exposure, framing, manual settings and so on,” he said. Incidentally, Basu is a professional photographer. He feels: “It is quite difficult to gain appreciation out of a conceptual body of work. Hence, it fills me with pleasure to see Pubarun’s creativity receiving so much love from all over the world.” As a tiny tot, Pubarun had once clicked a few photos of kalabou snan, a Durga Puja ritual, at Bagbazar Ghat near his residence. On seeing those, Pranab bought him a point-and-shoot camera. Initially, Pubarun used to take birds’ photos with it. In school, too, Pubarun used to cover all the events. While studying in Class IX, he got access to his father's high-end cameras. Later, he started clicking photos while taking an evening stroll. “There are plenty of subjects to capture — setting sun on the Hooghly river, tramlines, rail tracks, north Calcutta lanes — all fascinating moments,” said Pubarun, who wants to do masters in fine arts abroad. At 15, Pubarun got an entry into an online National Geographic community. Though it doesn’t allow anyone below 18 as a member, his case was exceptional. His 13 photographs were selected as Editor’s Favourite in the community in a single year. “It was my first achievement. I was overwhelmed to see my photographs getting selected by a community so esteemed,” he said. A couple of Pubarun’s photographs were also published in the Daily Dozen, an online forum of National Geographic, in 2018. The BBC also published his photograph online as Reader’s Picture of the Year 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Club Library Virtual Event organises a programme titled ‘Why Do I Love Thee’||Bengal Club members and their guests attended a programme virtually to remember the bard who was born in April 1564. At the Bengal Club Library Virtual Event on Friday, titled ‘Why Do I Love Thee’, participants pondered over how 457 years later, Shakespeare continues to be taught, discussed and performed. Anchored by Julie Banerjee Mehta, the evening saw Shormishtha Panja of Delhi University show the attendees some celebrated Shakespeare production posters, illustrations and paintings. Jadavpur University’s Dayita Majumder talked about how Shakespeare’s sonnets — published in 1609, which incidentally was the year of the plague — were a departure from the established form and structure of sonnets prevalent then. Diganta Chowdhury and Aneesha Seth sang the Willow Song from Othello, while Keshav Roy’s recorded performance from Othello and Hamlet riveted all. Club members showed off their Shakespearana as Sandip Chatterjee did a Shylock while Sumit Ray did the witches. Chaitali Moitra read from Twelfth Night and Monojit Dasgupta recorded the Seven Ages of Man. The evening ended with Sandip Chatterjee and Julie Mehta doing a scene from King Lear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Modern High School for Girls begin support group for senior students||Modern High School for Girls has started a peer support group for senior students where they can talk to their friends and share their anxieties. The group was started in October last year and has continued in the new academic session. The idea is for the girls to get a “free space to express themselves” and be hand-held by peers without the constant presence of supervising adults or teachers, the school said. The group, for students of Classes IX to XII, meets online twice a week. In the sessions, the students have discussed academic stress and online class, bereavement in the family, career choices, missing school and wanting to meet friends. Teachers, too, can play a role. They can be advisors to guide the students when they seek their support. “Children in the presence of peers express themselves freely, they can confide in and understand each other. They approach adults (teachers) when they know they need to seek their help but not have them breathing down their neck at all times,” said Devi Kar, the director of the school. Some students have been trained by young people who work in the field of peer support, a school official said. There is a group of student volunteers that conducts the sessions and they “prioritise anonymity”, a student said. “We encourage open and frank conversations and primarily focus on talking. We let people speak out. Some of them talk about conflicts between parents or death in the family during the pandemic leading to sleepless nights. We do not preach or prescribe what they could do but suggest certain things that can be helpful,” said Srijoni Mitra, a Class XII student volunteer. The advisor to the peer support group, Reena Sen, who is also a consultant of the school, said that “real empathy comes from peers”. “All schools are dealing with adolescents but this is a huge step forward. No matter how invested adults are in the lives of children, real empathy comes from peers. As an adult, I try to be kind and compassionate to them but I am not in their shoes,” said Sen. Challenges in the present pandemic are different from what many adults have gone through during their teenage years, Sen added. Debadrita Basu, a Class XII student volunteer, said “we give four or five suggestions”. “They come back to us and tell us if it has worked and if the situation worsens, we go to our advisor and she guides us. On some occasions parents are also involved,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police drops Pamela Goswami’s name in cocaine case||Calcutta police dropped the names of Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Dey and guard Somnath Chatterjee from the chargesheet in the cocaine case that was submitted in court on Monday. The 1,200-page chargesheet has named BJP leader Rakesh Singh as the prime accused. A departmental inquiry has been started against the officer in-charge of New Alipore police station, whom Pamela had allegedly accused of being biased when she was in custody, a senior officer at Lalbazar said. Goswami had alleged that the officer was hand in glove with Rakesh and had allegedly allowed one of his associates — Amrit Raj Singh — to flee the spot moments before cops surrounded Pamela’s car and arrested her on February 19. The chargesheet mentions eight names, including Rakesh Singh, Amrita Singh alias Sweety, who allegedly supplied cocaine to Rakesh, and Amrit Raj Singh, who had allegedly planted the cocaine in Pamela’s car. Amrit Raj is still at large. It also mentions two drug dealers, who had allegedly supplied cocaine to Sweety; Aryan Dev, who allegedly alerted the local police station (New Alipore) about the purported presence of cocaine in Pamela’s car; Suraj Kumar Shah, who was riding the scooter that allegedly helped Amrit Raj to flee the spot and another associate of Rakesh, who lived near his home. According to the submission by the cops, Rakesh had procured the cocaine through various persons, who were also arrested. Amrit Raj has been declared an absconder in the case. All eight named in the chargesheet have been charged under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. Goswami, a secretary of the BJP’s state youth wing, and two others were arrested from NR Avenue in New Alipore on February 19 after police allegedly found 90g cocaine under the front seat of the car in which the three were travelling. While in custody, Goswami had purportedly claimed that she was offered a seat in the Assembly elections against cash by Rakesh and that she and her friend were being taken to meet a Union minister, who was in Calcutta that day, when Rakesh had planted the cocaine in the car to trap her. During the probe, the police said they had examined at least 80 witnesses before submitting the chargesheet on the 74th day from the date of Pamela’s arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Shop timings spell trouble for businesses||Many standalone shops remained shut during the 3pm to 5pm slot on Monday and ones that opened were deserted. Only bazaars and liquor stores did see some buyers turning up in the afternoon. But owners of several other stores said they were likely to shut shop for an indefinite period in the coming days. The 7am to 10am window is not of much use for them. The staff at many stores, as well as hawkers around the city, come from the fringes of Calcutta. Many take local trains to the city and back home. Opening a store at 7am is challenging. Even if they manage, there is hardly any visitor early in the morning. The manager of a menswear store in south Calcutta did not open the shop at all on Monday. The shop used to remain open from 11am to 8pm. “There is no point opening early. We are not selling essential commodities. Nobody comes before 11.30am-noon. To remain open only between 3pm and 5pm will also be futile. Two hours is too short a time to do business. Peak summer afternoons are also lean for business,” said the manager. Some of the standalone stalls in the Oberoi Grand arcade had opened during the 3pm to 5pm slot but there was hardly any visitor. The pavements on both flanks from the Gariahat intersection bore an eerie silence around 3.30pm on Monday. The pavements are usually chock-a-block with hawkers, selling everything from innerwear to melamine dishes. But on Monday, most stalls were shut in the afternoon as they were in the morning. “I come from Baruipur (in South 24-Parganas) on a train. It takes me at least 90 minutes to reach Gariahat. It is not easy for me to open at 7am. Even if I do, who will come to buy?” asked a hawker who sold women’s bags at Gariahat. “The afternoon slot is too short. Moreover, the number of women and college students is virtually zero,” said the hawker. A store in north Calcutta had sought permission to allow staff in around 2.30pm to allow the staff to be “up and running” from 3pm. But cops are said to have denied the leeway. Bazaars were busy during the morning window. In the afternoon window, only some stalls had opened. At the vegetables corner of the Gariahat market, only a couple of sellers were seen around 3.15pm. A handful of buyers were in the market. Alcohol shops, unacquainted with early morning business, are also having to tweak their schedule. A store in Alipore had opened by 7.30am on Monday. There were multiple visitors during the morning slot. A couple of visitors had dropped in on their way home from morning walks. “Two of us live nearby (in Taratala and Kidderpore). They came early and opened the store,” said an employee. At another liquor store in Kasba, there was a small queue in the afternoon, as there was one outside a store in Ballygunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
