05-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021:Through the lens of our reader Sounak Banerjee||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: NGOs struggle to raise funds to meet the needs of communities||In a rerun of last year, people’s livelihood struggle in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to NGOs struggling to raise funds to meet the needs of the communities they work with. In some areas, there are more people to provide for. Many daily wage earners have once again had to return from their places of work and many who work as domestic help are out of work because households have told them to stop coming. An organisation in Bagnan, Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra, said they were finding it difficult to raise the same amount that they had last year because the benefactors were trying to save for medical emergencies. Ek Tara, which works for education of girls, said they were finding it difficult to raise money to provide devices to children for online classes because those willing to contribute only wanted to do so for health crises. NGOs now require more money for medicines and nutritional food for children, apart from ration, because in the second wave, the spread of the infection among the communities they work with is much greater. “The infection is not restricted to the city but is spreading in the districts, too. We also have to provide them with medicines and milk along with ration this time, which means we need more funds,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, director, Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC). Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra has estimated that it requires Rs 1,20,000 to provide ration to 80 families for a period of three months. They have been able to raise Rs 20,000 so far. Raising money for health crises is not easy either. IHA Foundation that started Langar on Wheels last year and has served more than 25 lakh meals and provided dry ration to 1.12 lakh people said “the second wave is more difficult organisations like ours”. “When you start you feel 1,000 people is a big number to serve but on the ground the requirement is much more and the funds get exhausted in no time,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman, IHA Foundation. To address peoples’ medical needs, the foundation has sourced a consignment of oxygen concentrators for Covid-19 patients, which will be distributed with support from Gurdwara Behala. “Families are running from one hospital to another trying to make arrangements while patients are gasping. We want to provide them with that support till they get admission or medical help,” said Ahluwalia. The first consignment of oxygen concentrators cost Rs 10 lakh. Ahluwalia has also sent out an appeal: “We need your financial help and support to assist more and more people who are facing difficulties to survive this second wave... We humbly request you to kindly come forward and sponsor as many machines as you can in our mission to save people who are fighting for their lives.” Tanmoy Patra, the founder of Howrah Vivekanada Siksha Kendra, said regular donors were dithering to loosen their purse strings. “We raise money with the help of individual donors who are people known to us. But this time people are holding back because they are apprehensive about their own safety and the safety of their families. With the rise in infections, they are scared that they might get it too and would need the money for treatment,” said Patra. Some NGOs had stopped distributing ration since the end of last year but with the surge in cases, they are now having to “aggressively” raise funds anticipating that they might have to provide help for many more months now. “We had estimated that we would need to provide till the middle of this year but now, with the situation, we have to keep providing. There are reports of many of the parents of our children returning from other cities where they had gone for work,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the education administrator at Calcutta Rescue. As a result, there are now more people in some slums living in close contact with less distancing, an NGO head said. “The areas where we work have also swelled in terms of numbers and so, we need to raise more for the same number of families and it is difficult. For example, if there was only the mother and two children now the husband and sons have also returned who also have to be provided for,” Sister Suchiang. KMWSC also works with sex workers in Sonagachhi, one of the sectors badly hurt by the second wave, they said. “We are in constant touch with donors who are also empathetic to our cause. But one person who had given us Rs 10 lakh before is not in a position to pitch in this year and we cannot keep approaching him,” said the head of an NGO. NGO Ek Tara needs 75 devices so that children can attend online classes. The estimated amount required is Rs 7.5 lakh, which includes a year of data packs, but they are yet to raise a substantial amount. “The second wave is making these children vulnerable to not just infection but other social issues,” said Ek Tara’s associate director, Manjusmita Bagchi. The NGO has only been able to budget for one batch of around 75 students out of a group of 900 that they work with because of the lack of funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to start isolation-cum pre-hospitalisation centre for Covid patients||St Xavier’s University will start an isolation-cum pre-hospitalisation centre on its campus for people in the vicinity who test positive for Covid-19 and lack facilities to isolate at home. The facility, being set up in collaboration with Hidco, will be operational from May 10. It will have 20 beds, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, nebulisers, doctors and allied support. The university has spoken to two private hospitals for the support of doctors and medical facilities. Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of the university in New Town, said that the idea behind starting the facility was to help the poor people of the neighbourhood who face health distress. The poor villagers who stay in the neighbourhood don’t have the facilities to isolate themselves after they test positive for Covid, he said. “They stay in rooms in close proximity to each other. It would not be prudent to expect that they can maintain physical distancing in such set ups. Then, given the financial conditions, hiring facilities like oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, nebulisers, are beyond their reach. There is also a lack of information about the concept of home isolation,” Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. Most of the villagers are daily wage earners whose financial conditions have worsened in the pandemic. The vice-chancellor approached the chairman of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, Debashis Sen, with the idea of setting up the centre on Monday and sought logistical support. Sen said his office will provide all the support. The local authorities will provide the university with data on the number of positive cases in the neighbourhood, a university official said. The ground floor of the Arrupe Building — named after Fr. Arrupe — which is 3,000 sq ft in area, has been converted into the medical facility for Covid patients. The building has library and research sections that are shut because students stopped going to the campus. The students have been attending classes on digital platforms since March last year as a precaution against Covid. The university is functioning with 50 per cent staff strength. What prompted them to start this facility on the campus? “We cannot sit idle and be mute spectators to what is unfolding in our neighbourhood amid a raging pandemic. St Xavier’s University has always reached out to people in their hours of distress. At a time like this, those in our neighbourhood need a healthcare facility the most,” said Father Felix Raj. He said the university will wall off the facility for the safety of the administrative staff who go for duty. The university will deploy its own fleet of ambulances to transport the patients. Additional ambulances will be hired from private facilities. “We have a doctor on call and two trained nurses. More will be engaged from the private hospitals the university is in touch with,” an official said. G. P. Gupta, the liaison officer of the university, said that the doctors will monitor the patients’ condition and if necessary, recommend hospitalisation. “We are starting with 20 beds but have plans to add more. Our alumni association is also helping us in this endeavour,” said Father Felix Raj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University will provide ‘Internet subsidy’ to students  ||Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University in Purulia will give its students “internet subsidy” so they can attend classes on digital platforms. Students will get Rs 500 each to meet their internet expenses “considering the extra financial burden of the students in this crisis period”. The university is spending Rs 12.05 lakh from its own coffers so that 2,500 students can receive the subsidy to recharge their data packs for three months, said vice-chancellor Dipak Kar. Even semester classes started in April and will end in July. Kar said the glaringly prevalent digital divide among a large section of students of the districts prompted the university to launch the subsidy. “Starting January, we bought smartphones for around 50 students so they could attend online classes. But a survey revealed that over 40 per cent students can’t even afford data packs. All of them come from disadvantaged sections. So, we have decided to help them,” Kar told The Telegraph. Most of the students are adivasis and are from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Their parents are daily wage earners, peasants, who have been pushed into greater financial distress during the pandemic. There are areas in the district where internet connectivity does not reach. In those places, teachers conduct classes through a local community radio station. A notice issued by the university’s registrar on Monday said: “Due to the ongoing pandemic situation, students are compelled to access online classes for which they are to incur expenses towards the Internet usage. Considering the extra financial burden...” The amount will be transferred to the students’ bank accounts. In October 2020, Raiganj University in North Dinajpur had sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students. VC Kar said the teachers and staff of the university contributed funds to raise Rs 1.5 lakh to buy smartphones. “If we don’t reach out to students they will lose touch with education... It appears that classes will continue to be held digitally. We will continue with our assistance in the next semesters,’’ he said. The problem is not restricted to students of universities in the districts. “The higher education department wants classes to be held digitally but it has not released money to any state-funded university to address the issue of the digital divide. So, we have to again arrange funds on our own,’’ said a VC who did not want to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Vaccine or placebo? Two Covaxin trial participants in the dark||Two men from the city who had participated in the phase III clinical trial of Covaxin are yet to know whether they had been administered the vaccine or given a placebo, a piece of information without which they cannot decide whether they need a Covid jab now, the men said. One of the men, in his late 20s, had received the second dose in the second week of January. The other, in his late 30s, had received the second dose in early January. The youths had not sought the information earlier, but now that Covid vaccination has been opened for the 18-44 age group, they need the information. “We get calls from NICED every week. They enquire about our health. Last week, I had called the number and asked when we would get to know whether we were given the vaccine or the placebo. Now that Covid vaccination is open for people in the 18-44 age group, we need to know this. If we were given the placebo, we have to take the vaccine now,” said the younger man, a data scientist. The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) conducted the phase III clinical trial of Covaxin. The other trial participant said he had got a Covid antibody test done. “I tested positive but that does not mean I was administered the vaccine. It could be that I got infected and was asymptomatic,” he said. The younger man said his physician had told him to wait for information on the matter from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “My doctor told me that there is no evidence or data yet to suggest what will happen if someone gets vaccinated twice,” he said. NICED is a research organisation under ICMR. Shanta Dutta, the director of NICED, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that they were getting in touch with the participants who were given the placebo. “We are administering them vaccines here. They do not have to go anywhere else to get the jab,” said Dutta. “The participants can get in touch with our trial team members, whose contact numbers were given to them, to know whether they were given the vaccine or the placebo.” The two participants said they had called the numbers but did not get any clear response. Covaxin — one of the two Covid vaccines being administered in India, the other being Covishield — has been developed jointly by ICMR and Bharat Biotech, a private company in Hyderabad. In the phase III trial, which determined the efficacy of the vaccine, the participants were given two doses, similar to the actual vaccination process. While some were administered the vaccine, others were given the placebo, a solution without the contents of the vaccine. The placebo is administered to participants in a vaccine trial to understand whether those who were given the vaccine mounted a better immune response than the others. “It was a unique situation. The vaccine was given emergency use approval before all trial reports were published. This had to be done because of the exceptional situation,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, an immunologist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology in Jadavpur. “I believe that the participants of the clinical trial deserve to know whether they were administered the vaccine or the placebo, because that will determine their decision to take a vaccine against Covid. I am sure ICMR will inform the recipients of the placebo sooner or later,” said Ganguly. Case count Bengal on Tuesday recorded 17,639 new infections, 107 deaths and 16,547 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.2 lakh. Of the 107 deaths, 31 were reported from Calcutta and 33 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,914 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,954.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: City entrepreneurs lend support to fight against second wave ||Several Calcutta-based entrepreneurs have come together to lend their support to the fight against the second wave of Covid-19. Increasing the number of Covid beds and arranging medical equipment are on the immediate agenda of the group, called Entrepreneurs of Calcutta. The group of entrepreneurs has collaborated with Charnock Hospital to set up 200 beds at the satellite Covid-19 facility at Haj House near Kaikhali. The group has also collaborated with Techno India-DAMA Hospital in Salt Lake to add 100 Covid beds at the institute. “Twenty-four ICU beds will be ready by this week in the first phase. The remaining 76 should be ready by the end of this month,” said a doctor at the hospital. The Rotary Club of Calcutta Visionaries and the Kolkata Gives Foundation are supporting the project. Eighteen more beds are being set up at Anandalok Hospital in Salt Lake, said a member of the group. “The EOK is run by a group of business individuals and start-ups from the City of Joy who are bringing in agility, quick thinking, crowd funding and nimble footedness to the fight. The initiative is called Breathe Again - in which they are partnering with leading government and private hospitals and creating an additional force against the second wave of Covid-19,” said a statement issued by the forum on Tuesday. “The aim is to create a pool of 500-plus Covid beds. We are in talks with several private hospitals and charitable institutions to achieve the target,” said a member of the forum. The increase in the number of Covid beds is proving to be inadequate at hospitals across the city. The scarcity of beds is delaying admission of many patients with very low oxygen saturation levels. “Our aim is to equip the government and hospitals with secondary forces. This initiative provides the business and start-up ecosystem of Calcutta to give back to the city in this hour of need. We request more people to come forward and contribute in making this initiative a larger and more impactful success. Even a Rs 100 each contributed by residents of Calcutta will go a long way in making this crowd funding more impactful,” said Sagar Daryani, the co-founder of WOW! Momo, one of the members of the core team of the group. The core team also includes Pulak Chamaria of Infinity Group, Aditya Ladsaria, founder of Chai Break, and Amit Saraogi of Anmol Feeds, among others. The entrepreneurs are raising funds from among their own network and through crowdfunding. The team is also fast-tracking the import of 50 BiPAP ventilators through the support of the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce and a private company in Singapore. “The chamber is importing 500 BiPAP machines. We will get 50 machines for Calcutta in the first lot,” said a member of the core team. “It's been quite surreal to be part of this journey in the last few days and I'm glad that collectively the decision was taken to ramp up ICU bed capacity at multiple hospitals,” said Meghdut Roy Chowdhury of Techno India Group, a member of the entrepreneurs’ forum. “We want to use our connections and strengths in the best way possible to flatten the curve,” said Saraogi, managing director of Anmol Feeds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Election over, Calcutta Municipal Corporation board restored||The Firhad Hakim-led board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, which had been removed by the Election Commission of India in March, was reinstated by the state municipal affairs department on Tuesday. The board of administrators, which took over after the tenure of the elected civic board lapsed last year, held a meeting with all ward coordinators — the erstwhile councillors — on Tuesday afternoon. The coordinators were asked to focus on Covid containment and management. “…the board of administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation is restored,” an order issued by the secretary of the state municipal affairs department read. “It is necessary to reinstate an experienced body of persons to handle and contain the grave situation persisting due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.” The order mentioned that since the model code of conduct for elections ended on Monday, the election commission’s order ceased to exist. The poll panel’s order had said no political appointee could run the civic body of a place where elections were due. The CMC elections could not be held in 2020 despite the end of its five-year tenure because of Covid. The state government had appointed the board of administrators and vested on it all the powers of the mayoral council. The members of the board are the former mayoral council members. The board takes all important policy decisions of the civic body and has all the powers of the mayoral council. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that battling Covid will be the top priority of the third Trinamul government. Firhad Hakim, former mayor of Calcutta and chairperson of the board of administrators, spoke on similar lines at the meeting with the ward coordinators. “This is not the time to rejoice. Covid is our top priority now and all of you have to work very hard,” he said. The coordinators had played a crucial role in tackling the Covid situation in the city last year. They had acted as a bridge between residents and the state government and the CMC. Some coordinators had provided cooked and uncooked food to quarantined families last year. They had also helped conduct tests in many places where people were averse to undergo Covid tests At Tuesday’s meeting, the coordinators were told to once again get engaged in the fight against Covid. “The CMC will run 12 ambulances with oxygen facilities to shift Covid patients to hospitals or safe homes. The ward coordinators will be handed over phone numbers of officials who are in charge of the safe homes and who need to be informed if someone has to be transferred to a safe home,” said a coordinator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal govt asks Centre to provide 40 lakh vaccines for May ||The Bengal government has asked the Centre to provide 40 lakh doses of Covid vaccines for May so that all those who had taken the first dose at government and private facilities could be given the second, an official said on Tuesday. However, for now, a consignment of only five lakh doses is headed for Bengal. And the doses are meant for recipients of second jabs at government-run centres. Tens of thousands of people who have taken their first doses at private hospitals are awaiting the second jab and it's uncertain when they would actually get it because most private hospitals have suspended Covid vaccination. Many private hospitals of Calcutta have contacted the manufacturers of the two Covid vaccines being administered in India, but till Tuesday only one — Woodlands Hospital — could procure doses directly from one of the companies. Woodlands said it vaccinated 225 people in the 18-44 age group on Tuesday. “We have told the Centre that Bengal needs 40 lakh doses for second jab recipients for May. That will cover those who have received the first dose at both government and private centres. If we can vaccinate these people, then a large part of the population will be protected from Covid,” the state government official said on Tuesday. “If we get the doses, we will distribute them to government and private vaccination centres. Most hospitals have been unable to procure doses directly from the manufacturers,” said the official. State health department officials said the Centre had informed them that four lakh doses of Covishield and one lakh doses of Covaxin would be sent to Bengal on Wednesday. “But that will be used for second doses at government facilities,” said an official of the health department. The Telegraph reported on Tuesday that the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has informally told the state government that it would not be able to supply fresh doses before three weeks. In Calcutta, most private hospitals have administered Covishield as the first dose. The state on Tuesday night issued an advisory, again asking private hospitals to directly contact the manufacturers. “We can work as facilitators but the private hospitals should also try to get the doses (directly from the manufacturers),” said a health department official. Woodlands Hospital said it received doses directly from Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin. Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, said the hospital vaccinated 225 people in the 18-44 age group on Tuesday. The hospital administered only Covaxin, she said. “We had opened the booking for vaccination at 9.50pm on Monday. Within five minutes all the slots had been booked. On Tuesday, we opened bookings till May 8 and all slots were taken within 10 minutes,” she said. The hospital is charging Rs 1,500 for a dose, of which Rs 1,200 is the price of the vaccine and Rs 300 the administration charge. “We started communicating with Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute much earlier, at the beginning of the vaccination drive in January-February. We had realised that vaccination would be a very big programme and it had to be done through government hospitals, private hospitals and by directly procuring from the manufacturers. Serum Institute will give us Covishield in mid-June,” said Basu. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that vaccination for the 18-44 age group would start on May 5 in Bengal, but no order or circular has been issued by the state health department. Basu said that those who were waiting for the second doses should approach government run-Covid vaccination centres at the moment. Several other hospitals said they were yet to get any concrete response from the two manufacturers. “We have sent several communications to the two manufacturers but are yet to get any response. We have been forced to stall our vaccination drive,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Peerless Hospital has received a communication from Bharat Biotech, asking it to send its requirements. “We have asked for 34,000 doses of vaccine and are awaiting the response,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
