06-05-2021||Calcutta||Spells of rain in the city keep temperature under check||Spells of rain accompanied by gusts of wind and lightning hit the city and neighbouring areas from Wednesday afternoon, keeping the temperature under check and the weather pleasant. The wet spell, that started a couple of days ago, has been attributed by the Met office to a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and a cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and adjoining areas. On Wednesday, the sky turned dark in the afternoon. But the rain that followed was scattered. Areas like Salt Lake and Lake Town got a short but sharp spell of rain, along with frequent bouts of lightning. A little after 7pm, another spell of thunderstorm came calling, this time in the southern pockets. The Met office recorded only traces of rain at Alipore. Thunderstorms are likely in the next two days, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Fake ‘Khela Hobe’ posts under police lens||Police have started a case against several Facebook profiles and Twitter handles for allegedly morphing old purported videos with the “Khela Hobe” song and posting them as post-election celebrations in Bengal. Several social media posts containing video clips of violence in other states are being circulated as evidence of violence in Bengal, an officer said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee while addressing the media on Wednesday at Nabanna said many people were spreading rumours and fake news about violence in the state. A senior police officer at Lalbazar said the cyber cell of the city police had started a case for sedition, publishing or circulating statements or reports containing rumours or alarming news with the intent to create or promote feelings of enmity and hatred on grounds of caste and community, as well as under the Information Technology Act for circulating fake news knowingly or unknowingly on social media. The police said they would send summons to the profile holders and seek their presence at Lalbazar for examination in connection with the case. “We have also written to Facebook and Twitter identifying these posts with a request to delete them from social media platforms,” the officer said. Sources said the list of fake posts includes a video purportedly tweeted by a senior official of the social media cell of the BJP women’s wing on Tuesday. The video shows a group of people dancing with their arms raised in the air, some of them holding daggers, big knives and guns. The video has “khela hobe” as the background track. The tweet has 1,70,000 views, has been re-tweeted 595 times and has 1,180 “likes” till Wednesday evening. However, on receiving a specific complaint, Calcutta police probed the origin of the video and found that it had been posted on YouTube six months ago by an account holder named “Real Entertainment”. The video has been posted with a tagline of “gun dance WhatsApp status / gangster dance” and has 5,800 views, 71 likes and four “thumbs down” till Wednesday. Police sources said the same video was found in the instagram account of another person who had posted it almost eight months ago, on September 26, 2020. “There are several such posts that are being circulated on social media with an intention to show the law and order situation of Bengal after the elections in poor light. This is extremely dangerous as it may trigger violence and cause loss of life and property and create disharmony. Hence, we request all not to circulate any post without verifying or cross-checking its authenticity,” said a senior police officer of the rank of additional director general of police. Thousands of people, including many, who have no means or intention to verify, forward messages and videos on WhatsApp, post them on their Facebook timelines or re-tweet them without realising the consequences of spreading fake news. Calcutta police had been initiating cases and examining people who were found to be part of such activities that amount to cybercrime. Officers said strict action would be taken against people if found circulating fake news on social media that could trigger violence in the city or the state. The charges under which the case has been started, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of three years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Diagnostic laboratories violate rate cap for home collection of Covid test samples ||A number of diagnostic laboratories are charging twice or thrice the government-stipulated rate for home collection of samples for Covid tests, most of them taking advantage of the inability of the elderly and the ailing to visit a testing centre. A 44-year-old resident of Tollygunge had to pay Rs 3,400 and Rs 3,000 to two labs for the Covid RT PCR test for him and his wife. The amounts included the charges for collection of swab samples from home. The state government has stipulated that a diagnostic centre cannot charge more than Rs 950 for an RT PCR test. Laboratories are allowed to charge additional money as travelling expenses for home collection of samples, but it cannot exceed Rs 15 a kilometre. Both the laboratories that are charging more than the rates set by the government run with relatively smaller set-ups than the bigger or more reputable ones. As most of the bigger hospitals or laboratories are overwhelmed and have stopped home collection of samples, the smaller laboratories are charging exorbitant rates. “Our samples were collected from home first on April 9 by Disha Patho Centre (in Sonarpur). I had called Dr Lal Pathlabs and they assigned this laboratory to collect samples from home. The laboratory charged each of us Rs 1,700,” the man said. It was not possible for the couple to visit a testing centre as the wife is suffering from cancer. The Telegraph called the phone number provided on the receipt of Disha Patho Centre on Wednesday evening, posing as someone who wanted to get swab samples collected from home. “We will charge Rs 1,700 for home collection. We can collect the sample from your home on Tuesday,” said the man who answered the call. “We have to buy the vials and test kits from the market and the kits are very scarce,” the man said when asked why they were charging more than the government-stipulated rate. After spending the home-isolation period, the couple started enquiring about another laboratory that would collect samples from home. The report was necessary to resume the cancer treatment of the 42-year-old woman. “This time our samples were collected by SRL Diagnostics and they charged Rs 950 each. They were very professional. But the results showed that my wife was still positive for Covid. So she had to give her samples yet again,” said the man. He called a number of diagnostic labs but none agreed to collect samples from home. SRL said they could only send someone home after May 5. The man then contacted EPRO-Med Diagnostics in Park Circus. “EPRO made it clear that I had to pay Rs 3,000 but they would not provide any receipt. Since I was in a hurry I did not argue and agreed to pay the amount,” the man said. The Telegraph could not contact anyone in EPRO. None of the phone numbers of the diagnostic centre that were available on the internet worked. An official of a private hospital that conducts Covid-19 tests said the current price cap for the test, announced by the state government, is Rs 950. “Laboratories are, however, allowed to charge Rs 15 per kilometer as travelling charges for home collection of samples,” said a member of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. “No laboratory can charge more than the rates stipulated by the state government. If someone is charged more, he or she can lodge a complaint with us,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. Many elderly people, too, have faced similar experiences. An elderly couple who wanted to have their samples collected from home were asked by three diagnostic centres to shell out Rs 3,000, Rs 1,900 and Rs 1,400 for the tests. Officials of several big private hospitals said they were not in a position to collect samples from home because of the sheer number of tests they have to perform every day. Another reason is that many of the people who collect samples from home are down with Covid. Bengal on Wednesday recorded 18,102 new infections, 103 deaths and 17,073 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.21 lakh. Of the 103 deaths, 25 were reported from Calcutta and 27 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,973 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,982.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital face shortage of medical oxygen||The Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital is facing a shortage of medical oxygen, resulting from a rapid surge in the demand for the lifesaver amid an unrelenting second wave of Covid-19 infections. A senior official of the state health department admitted on Wednesday that the oxygen supply to the hospital was not enough to cater to all patients. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, called it an “unprecedented situation”. Reports of patients dying because of oxygen shortage have come from many parts of the country, but supply in the state was reported to be adequate so far. Officials of several private hospitals said they had not faced any oxygen crisis yet. The suppliers, too, have promised that there would not be any crisis. The crisis at the Calcutta National Medical College, however, is a cause of worry for health department officials. “The total oxygen supply capacity is not able to cater to all the patients in such high quantity,” Chakraborty said on Thursday evening in reply to a query whether the hospital was facing any oxygen shortage. “Mostly critical patients are admitted there and almost all require a high quantity of oxygen. It has never happened before.” Chakraborty added that the principal of the medical college had already asked the supplier to augment the capacity. “The principal has ordered the agency to add another panel to augment the capacity of oxygen supply. It may take a few days and soon we will be able to cater to more patients,” he said. Officials of several private hospitals in the city said they, too, had experienced a sharp rise in demand. “At our hospital, the storage tanks are being filled three or four times a day. Earlier, the tanks used to be refilled once daily. We have experienced a three-fold increase in demand for oxygen,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. “But as of now the private hospitals do not have any oxygen scarcity,” said Barua, who is also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. Barua added there were a limited number of containers to transport the liquid oxygen and it was not possible to suddenly increase the number. An official of a private hospital said the hospitals that get liquid oxygen and convert it into the gaseous form are unlikely to face any shortage. “There is ample supply of liquid medical oxygen. But hospitals that get oxygen in gaseous form could face a shortage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Second private hospital starts Covid jabs to 18-44 age group||A second private hospital in Calcutta has started administering Covid shots to people in the 18-44 age group as queries for vaccines flood other hospitals. Some hospitals said they were expecting to procure doses from the manufacturers in a few weeks, while others are uncertain about the dates. Most hospitals said their priorities were still second-dose recipients. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Wednesday started the vaccination drive for those between 18 and 44 years, a day after Woodlands Hospital started it. Apollo has procured Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India, said an official. “We have procured the doses from the manufacturers and have started vaccinating those between 18 and 44. We have also resumed administering the second dose to those above 45,” said an official of Apollo Gleneagles. The hospital vaccinated around 500 people on Wednesday. All private hospitals had suspended Covid vaccination on May 1 because of lack of supply. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, a body of private hospitals, had requested the state government to help procure about two crore doses from the manufacturers for them. The state government has asked the Centre to supply 40 lakh doses for May. It received only five lakh doses on Wednesday. Woodlands Hospital, which is vaccinating 250 people daily, had all its slots booked within minutes of opening appointments on the CoWIN app. “The slots are getting filled very fast. Those in the 18-44 age group are aware of the situation and keen to get vaccinated. We are going to continue with the vaccination drive now,” said Rupali Basu, the chief executive officer of Woodlands. Some other hospitals said they were in touch with both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences could resume vaccination from the second week of this month, said an official of the hospital. “We are in regular contact with Serum Institute and expect Covishield doses to arrive at our hospital by the third week of May. Talks are also on with Bharat Biotech for Covaxin and we expect a consignment by the second week of May,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. “Our priority will be the second dose for those above 45. If enough doses are available, we might simultaneously start vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group,” said Venkatesh. He said the hospital's helpline was getting around 400 calls every day. The callers want to know when vaccination of the 18-44 age group will start and administration of the second dose will resume. Many are holding the hospital responsible for the suspension of vaccination. "If we don’t get doses, how can we resume the drive," asked an official. AMRI Hospitals need 1.5 lakh doses for May, said an official of the chain. “Our priority is the second dose but we also want to start the third phase (inoculation of the 18-44 age group). We are in talks with both manufacturers but they are saying there are some delays because of issues like shortage of personnel caused by Covid," said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee always been worshipper of Thakur, Swamji and Sri Sri Ma’s ideals: Swami Suvirananda||Among the invitees at Mamata Banerjee’s swearing in at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday was Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. The monk could not make it to the event because of the Covid protocol being followed at Belur Math, the global headquarters of the order. The protocol prevents monks from stepping out of the Math premises. As chief executive of the Math and Mission, Swami Suvirananda wrote to Mamata conveying his regards and best wishes to her. Later, he spoke to The Telegraph on what he wrote and what he felt about Mamata’s election triumph. You must understand that Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission is an apolitical organisation. Since I couldn’t make it to the oath taking ceremony I decided to send her a letter. I wrote to her that I was taking the opportunity to congratulate her personally for becoming chief minister of Bengal for a third time. The letter was also a means to convey my best wishes to the chief minister. Mamata Banerjee has always been an admirer of Sri Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Sri Sarada Ma. She has been a pujari of the ideals that Thakur, Swamji and Sri Sri Ma have propounded. She speaks the language of religious harmony that Sri Ramakrishna believed in, of sarva dharma samanway. She has often said that she practises the concept of religion that Sri Ramakrishna had preached, follows what Swamiji had said about dharma and what Ma Sarada had to say about the ideals of religion. She has said that she abides by the concepts of religion that these leaders had preached. At Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, we are worshippers of the confluence of all faiths. So in a way Mamata Banerjee’s ideals of religion resonate with that of ours. In a way she subscribes to our views of inclusiveness in religion. Amader mawt miley jay (our views match). From our countless encounters and meetings with Mamata Banerjee during her visits to Belur Math, we are aware of how at a personal level she is fond of Ramakrishna Mission. She has helped Ramakrishna Mission at different times in various ways. Ramkrishna Mission fondly remembers her contributions to the cause of welfare of human beings and remains indebted to her. We pray that the blessings of Sri Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Sri Ma remain with her always and be her guiding force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||High school students turn teachers for juniors of same school||A group of high school students is conducting English language lessons for students who come from homes not as privileged as theirs but attend the same school. Class IX students of Sri Sri Academy have taken the initiative to mentor a group of students from Classes IV, V and VI in writing and speaking English because they felt “competent enough to teach and had the time to do so”. The pupils are children who do not have the same environment in their homes as their peers. The hand-holding by seniors would help them hone their English conversation and writing skills. The one-hour session every weekend that started six weeks back helps the boys and girls interact freely. The children get practice in speaking English, something that has suffered over the last one year of online classes. “During the pandemic, we had more time because activities got limited. We thought of doing this for our own juniors. We give them scope to share their poetry and art skills as well,” said Diya Shah of Class IX. The classes are conducted in groups of five or six by each senior student. “We can also clarify doubts if we want to,” said a Class VI student, who attends the sessions. Her mother said that the classes ensure that she converses in English with her seniors. “She cannot do so with anyone at home. But I see her speaking to her friends in English. Had it been left to us, we would not have been able to give her an English medium education,” said the homemaker whose husband works in a flower shop near Kalighat temple. Principal Suvina Shunglu said the idea did not come from the teachers but from eight Class IX students who wrote to her. The school had started taking in a few children from the neighbourhood from underprivileged backgrounds at the entry-level every year about eight years back. Their parents work in shops or as security guards or domestic help. “During the pandemic, we provided them with tablets so that they could attend online classes,” said Shunglu. The school gave permission to the Class IX students because they thought it a good platform to build a rapport. “A lot of inhibitions are reducing as they engage in conversation through which there is an exchange of ideas,” said Shunglu. The classes mostly focus on vocabulary games, comprehension and writing stories or essays. “Since we cannot go to school, the interaction is restricted and these students are in an environment where they cannot interact in English. As seniors, we are only helping them to write and speak in English,” said Mitadru Dasgupta, a Class IX student. “We told them in the first class we are not teachers but are here to share each other’s knowledge and we have noticed that they can speak more freely without caring about their language or grammar,” said Mitadru. Conversation in English is something completely lacking in some homes. “This interaction with senior students serves as a practice forum for them to speak and express themselves in small groups,” Shunglu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid help desk at St Xavier’s College to help patients from economically weaker sections||The St Xavier’s College Alumni Association, in collaboration with the college, has opened a Covid help desk on the campus to help families who have tested positive, especially those from economically weaker sections. The volunteers managing the help desk will arrange oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters, PPE kits, hand sanitisers and other essential commodities and provide the items to those unable to procure them. The help desk number that became operational on Wednesday is 7439955182. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college and the president of the alumni association, said: “We cannot remain quiet in this difficult situation and will have to engage ourselves in extending these services, as the main principle of our (Jesuit) education system is to act as men and women for others and this is the time to prove it.” A member of the help desk “SXCCAAhelp” said the initiative will include helping people get hospital beds, safe homes, ambulances, Covid tests, oxygen, delivery of medicines, blood and plasma donations. Sanjib Koner, the honourary secretary of the alumni association, said they received 42 calls from people seeking help on Wednesday. “We had internally circulated the number among our members and others who have engaged in humanitarian drives previously. So many calls in a day shows how serious the situation is,” Koner said. He said the family members of the patients are going to the Park Street campus to receive the aid. “If the situation demands delivery at their doorsteps, our volunteers will do that,” he said. For now, deliveries will be restricted to the vicinity of the college. An appeal from Father Savio is being sent to all alumni in India and abroad. A coordinated and comprehensive initiative called SXCCAAhelp Lifetime Lifeline project is being planned. “We need a lot of resources so that we can help as many as possible. Since economic activities have been restricted as a precaution against Covid, the financial distress is increasing among families. The poor are not in a position to bear the medical expenses,” Father Savio said. He said they were also working on a plan to turn the college’s Raghabpur campus into an isolation centre for the college students and their families who test positive for Covid. “We have plans to open the isolation centre to outsiders as well, later,” Father Savio said. A member of the alumni association said that other help would also be extended to people from marginalised communities. “Orphanages and old age homes, to a large extent, depend on donations from benevolent individuals. But the financial distress amid the pandemic is preventing many from contributing. We want to help them at the critical juncture,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Tradition, modernity on events calendar||Students of Ruby Park Public School recently celebrated Ambedkar Jayanti through an online presentation honouring his life and contribution to the Indian Constitution. Teachers told the students about Ambedkar’s early life, his milestones, political life and achievements during online classes. Students from classes VI to IX expressed themselves through writings and art and craft activities, while a few even drew sketches of him. Students also made charts on the life events of Ambedkar along with pictorial depictions of various situations when he had raised his voice against injustice and inequality. The contributions of the students were put together in a video and uploaded on the school’s Facebook page. “We pay respects to all the national leaders and celebrate the special calendar days. We try to inculcate a strong sense of awareness among the children. They should be aware of the history and what personalities like B.R. Ambedkar have done for the nation. They read about the constitution in the civics books, but they need to know what has gone into it and the man behind it. It is not only the theory that we ask our children to read but through various activities urge them to learn beyond the textbooks,” said principal Joyita Majumder. Teachers of Birla High School, Mukundapur, have started using emoticons to make students understand various kinds of sentences such as assertive, imperative, exclamatory and interrogative. Digital expression of all sorts of emotions became prominent after the introduction of emoticons. The kids enjoyed this method of learning as each time the teachers called out a sentence, the students showed the associated emoticon in the virtual class. “When teachers use activities that make learning engaging and fun, students are more willing to take part. Having fun while learning also helps students retain information better because the process is enjoyable and memorable,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Students of Hindmotor High School celebrated the essence of Poila Boisakh virtually with cultural performances reflecting the traditions. Children of pre-primary section presented various shows, while a compilation video of students from classes I to XII performing recitation, dance and songs was posted on the school’s Facebook page. Art and craft activities were also conducted for the students where they drew pictures of the Bengali culture and tradition of Poila Boisakh. “When the world is distressed by a fatal pandemic situation, we can overcome it at least mentally by our indomitable willpower which can precisely be invoked on the very advent of Bengali New Year. I wish our students to be safe and healthy and also wish we would see a new day to come very soon without much stress,” said principal Nitu Chattopadhyay. Asian International School recently organised an awareness programme to celebrate Earth Day virtually. The programme aimed to create consciousness in the young minds on ways to protect the environment. It started with a self-composed verse by Class V student Arnesh Dhara. It speaks about issues such as pollution, global warming, extinction of flora and fauna, deforestation and so on. The poem invited kids to save the planet. Then the teachers presented a dance performance and a skit. The skit took the students to the future when the Earth would be finally healing. The programme ended with a pledge taken by the students to plant more trees and minimise usage of non-biodegradable materials. “This year, the commemoration revolved around creating awareness and emphasising on five important points — recycle, reduce, reuse, reinforce and restore. The best part was the skit prepared by the teachers where they marched forward to 2080 and spoke about the current scenario. This was again to reiterate the importance of conservation of essential resources,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police hospital to be turned into a 300-bed Covid hospital soon||The Calcutta police hospital will soon be turned into a 300-bed Covid hospital in a tie-up with Medica Superspecialty Hospital, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced. Mamata visited the hospital on Wednesday, soon after taking oath at the state’s chief minister, and announced that a Covid hospital will be set up in the Calcutta police hospital building as early as possible. “We will have 300 beds for Covid treatment. This is a big hospital. Medica will do the set-up,” Mamata said, stepping out of the police hospital on Beninandan Street off Elgin Road in south Calcutta. A few days ago, the Calcutta police hospital had started administering vaccines to police personnel and families of the police force. Earlier, there were five Covid beds in the hospital exclusively for the treatment of police personnel, sources said. Till now, over 4,000 police personnel in the city have been infected with the coronavirus, of whom close to 30 died. With the new set-up, the hospital will be thrown open to the public. Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, said all 300 beds would be available to both police and non-police personnel. “It would be run completely by Medica. There would be 50 oxygen-supported beds and a facility to treat moderate to serious patients,” Roy said. Admission to the hospital will be done through Medica Superspecialty Hospital, like their private set-up, sources said. The state government has offered several of its facilities in Calcutta to big private hospitals to set up Covid treatment centres. Medica has set up a 200-bed Covid hospital at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur under the same public-private-partnership model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
