07-05-2021||Calcutta||From litter dump to theme  park ||On May 1, a day before Satyajit Ray’s birth centenary, New Town paid a picturesque tribute to the master artiste. A landscaped park was inaugurated behind City Centre 2 with Ray’s immortal literary creation, Professor Shonku, as the theme. The park, however, is not being opened to the public yet due to Covid restrictions, just as all other parks of New Town are shut. “This area is on the boundary between New Town and Rajarhat. This strip of land, measuring a bit less than two acres, was a plastic recycling zone of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC). We used to get complaints from the highrises across the road (Uttara housing complex), about the dump emitting foul smell. We spoke to BMC to shift to an adjacent space where they plan to set up a compactor and created space for the park,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority. A design competition was held some months before the lockdown last year. Landscape architect Sujoy Das of Inscape Design Studio, which won the contest, recalled how the place was a low-lying swamp which used to get inundated in monsoon. “There was land filling to raise the level by about four feet. We have been working on the park for the last two months. Quite a lot of work is still left,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Straight from the pages On stepping into the park, one comes face to face with a 10ft statue of the scientist from Giridih in the middle of a fountain. In his hand is his invention, the annihilin, a pistol that can obliterate any living thing. At his foot is his pet cat Newton. “It is made of fibre glass but we have given it a metallic bronze finish,” said Das. To the right, a composition has been created using parts of Ray’s sketches in the Shonku books. In the middle, hangs an actual clock. To the left is a partially enclosed space where scientific instruments like microscope, beaker, weighing scale etc. are placed in gaps in the wall. This represents Shonku’s laboratory. At a corner sits Bidhusekhar, his robot. The next segment has a mound which needs to be climbed to take one to an elevated meditation space next to a globe. “This is inspired by the magical sphere mentioned in Golok Rohoshyo. It will glow with white light at night, like the sphere did in the story,” Das said. One side of the mound has steps to seat over a hundred people. “One gets a panoramic view of flights landing from here,” he said. Other figures like a dinosaur and extra-terrestrial figures also abound on walking further up. A gallery space enclosed on three sides at the far end has acrylic wall paintings replicating actual sketches of Ray. A play area for children has five planets perched on stands. “A cafeteria and a toilet will come up here as will three more galleries,” Das said. Architect Partha Ranjan Das, a member of the Ray Society who was a guest at the inauguration, suggested opening a souvenir shop of Shonku  memorabilia. New Town already has a park titled Sonar Kella Udyan in Action Area 1, featuring Feluda, Jatayu and Topse in course of their desert adventure. Another park on the theme of Ray’s film Apur Sansar is also in the pipeline in the township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Solar power to light up village||Social workers from Salt Lake have installed solar power panels for villagers at Sandeshkhali in Basirhat subdivision The initiative was taken by 50 clubs of Inner Wheel, District 329, led by Inner Wheel Club of Salt Lake Down Town. The project is called Alokshikha and will produce 1.3KWP energy at Joygopalpur Youth Development Centre at Sandeshkhali.  The power will illuminate this centre, along with a destitute home and a water testing laboratory nearby. “This is the first time we are contributing to such a cause,” said district chairman Anita Ghosh, inaugurating the project. “It will help women of the area earn their livelihood and support their families. The solar energy will also reduce 1.6 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission a year, which is equivalent to planting 23 trees.” Dinabandhu Das, secretary of the youth centre where the panels got installed, said they would provide uninterrupted power to four industrial level sewing machines and multiple lights and indirectly help about 160  families. Rani Barui would be one of the beneficiaries. A mother of three, Barui is a seamstress who earns a living by stitching school uniforms and ladieswear at the centre. “Previously prolonged power cuts delayed our work as we use machines that run on electricity. Now we can work uninterrupted,” she said. Prabir Bose, who is in charge of the Amra Korbo Jai home for destitute boys, was grateful too. “Earlier we had to carry water over long distances and students could not study in the evening due to power cuts,” he said. Bacteriologist Swapan Mondal travels 34km up and down daily between Canning and Sandeshkhali to the water testing laboratory there. “In a week of five working days, not even two days can we work peacefully because of power cuts. If we stay back after hours for the supply to resume, we miss our ride home,” he said. “The solar panels are great news.” Manju Mitra, president, Inner Wheel Club of Salt Lake Down Town, felt their move would encourage others to follow in their footsteps. “This project has brought smiles to the faces of so many,” added secretary Esha Goswami. Bharati Kanjilal l“I didn’t hear the whistle blow, else I’d have come first!” said a runner, panting after the men’s 100m race. “I did come first but from behind,” said another. CK-CL Block had held their sports day this winter when Covid-19 was on the wane amidst mirth and laughter. First in the men’s race came Abhishek Paul, a young businessman. “I keep in shape by playing table tennis and badminton. Since this race was for men of all ages, the senior ones, including my father, stood ahead of the youngsters,” he said. Women had musical chairs, pot-breaking and a running race of their own. Sixty-year-old Sutapa Bhattachyya won one in her category. “I go for evening walks but ran today to assess how fit I was,” she said proudly. Of the races the kids had, it was the “sum race” that ended with telling results. Primary school students were to run, multiply two three-digit numbers and run some more with the answer sheet in their hands. Senior school students had to solve a Bodmas problem for their sum race. “Everyone ran to the finish line but I was sad to see that only two runners in both category could solve the sums correctly. We couldn’t even announce a third prize,” said Shankha Maiti, a volunteer who was checking the answers. “Interest in mathematics in dwindling but this could also be the result of a year of online classes.” The junior’s sum race was aced by Lavanya Kakarania and Jhanvi Baid. In the senior section, the winners were Shivam Mishra and Hridita Banerjee. “Mental and physical activity are both important so I like math as well as running. I come to the park daily for an hour of football and cricket,” said Shivam, a Class X student. “In fact, my elder brother Deepak played cricket today and hit a huge six!” The gentlemen’s game was played by, well, gentlemen. “I love playing cricket, even if I get a chance to play it once a year,” said Tapash Sen, who won man of the match for taking two tough catches. “This sports day was a breath of fresh air for residents who have been locked up for months. We had asked those above 80 years to give the event a miss but at least the others got to meet,” said Shanti Ranjan Paul, secretary of Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Slice of orange ice lolly||“It’s not my fault the company has stopped making green ice cream!” shouted vendor Uday Dhar to a customer over a blaring chorus of Khela Hobe playing from a “box” on a rickshaw at DA Block. The setting was the afternoon on May 2. It had become clear that Sujit Bose would be winning the election and Trinamul supporters, smeared in green abir, had gathered as close to the counting centre — Bidhannagar College — as the police would allow. “Everyone’s first request is some green-coloured ice cream but that particular lemon flavour has been discontinued by the company,” Dhar told The Telegraph Salt Lake. So those like Damini Mondal of CA Block were forced to settle for the Rs 25 watermelon cooler, that was orange for the most part but had about an inch of green at the bottom. “At least there’s some green to it. This will have to do,” she shrugged, before biting off the top. By evening, the fan following had shifted outside the college and ice cream was on the victorious party. “We’ve been waiting for hours through heat and rain to congratulate our leaders and it was very nice of the Trinamul bosses to give us free ice cream,” smiled Kajal Maity of Duttabad. She described herself as “hebby khushi” with the arrangement. But again the colour of the moment eluded them. “I know orange is the BJP colour but politics aside, the flavour tastes good. It’s soothing,” she said, taking a bite out of her orange stick. New ice cream vendors had arrived by then, reaping the good fortune. “People are reluctant to have ice cream these days in fear of catching a chill and ending up with Covid somehow. Moreover, victory marches got banned so the gathering is paltry. On any other year, I would have sold out everything by noon,” said ice cream seller Raju Nandy. “Still, thanks to the party footing the bill, many have come for the freebie and I’ve done business of about Rs 6,000. That’s a handsome amount in these dark times.” As for constant requests for green sticks, Nandy had come up with a witty reply to pacify them. “I’m handing them orange sticks and asking them to finish off BJP with every bite,” he laughed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||Victory marches were banned but several Trinamul supporters still gathered on the day of counting outside Bidhannagar College. Unlike at the rallies before the election, most of them were seen wearing masks. “I am too happy to have stayed back at home today,” said Baisakhi resident Bulbul Sen, mask slipping under her nose. “Of course, I’m scared of Covid kintu ja hobe hobe.” Sanjoy Kundu felt it wasn’t wrong for people to be out on the streets celebrating. “If people are happy it will boost immunity,” he assured. Many took off their masks to sip tea, eat ice cream, spit and blow noses. With his mask at his chin, Ashish Tiwari said they were focussed on fighting Covid. “Let us not forget that when Sujitda was hospitalised with the infection, he was still making calls and arranging beds for others,” he said. A barricade had been installed at CA Island and police personnel said the stretch was empty most of the day. “But when the candidates appear, I’m sure supporters will be tough to rein in. But anyone we see without a mask, we are warning,” he said. Here is a glimpse of a few such daredevils, who threw caution to the wind, along with the reasons they gave why their masks weren’t where they should have been. Pictures by Debasmita Bhattacharjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Talking point Nandigram in counting hall||Rajarhat New Town, unlike the adjoining Bidhannagar constituency, was not expected to be tightly contested. Tapash Chatterjee, the Trinamul Congress candidate, forged ahead from the first round itself with a lead of 4,308 votes over his nearest rival, Bhaskar Roy of the BJP, and never looked back. Around 3.15pm, when the ninth round result was being announced, the margin had stretched to 34,257. In the counting booths in Bidhannagar College, the result was a foregone conclusion. “Khela hobe?” a Trinamul agent asked his BJP counterpart at the table during a break, rubbing it further in by adding “Didi o Didi,” in the same mocking tone that the Prime Minister had used in his rallies to taunt the chief minister. The interest of the agents in the counting hall had shifted to Nandigram. This was the period when the Election Commission server had reportedly malfunctioned and no news was coming in of the battle royale. A gust was blowing outside, with promise of a shower. “Brishti hole Didi jete,” said one, as his party colleagues enthusiastically nodded in agreement. As a man walks in, others quiz him for the latest report from the adjoining building where counting was in progress for the Bidhannagar constituency. “Aat round hoyechhe, 7,191 lead,” the new entrant responded, with advice not to rejoice yet. “E toh ar Didi noy je make-up hobe,” the enquirer quipped, referring to Bidhannagar’s BJP candidate Sabyasachi Dutta who was trailing. “Nandigram ta jodi thik hoye jay…” he looked away, his voice drifting. Others nodded in silence. Soon word reached that Mamata was down by only six votes and then at one point that she had won. Some Trinamul agents broke into cries of Jai Bangla, little knowing that their joy would be short-lived. The 10th round count was announced. Chatterjee had extended his lead to 38,263 votes. Downstairs pacing while speaking on the cellphone, Bhaskar Roy, the BJP candidate, cut a forlorn figure. “Even a few months ago, he was with us,” said a Trinamul agent from Rajarhat on spotting him from the fifth floor window. Chatterjee soon entered the counting hall to take stock of the trend. “This vote is against communalism and Narendra Modi. We are taking the challenge for 2024. I have told everyone to give me cash instead of flowers so I can create a fund and start the projects I have promised before the election,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. His final margin turned out to be 56,432 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Residents’ forum buys Covid ambulance||An ambulance has been purchased by the New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a social organisation set up by New Town residents, to ferry the Covid affected. “Getting an ambulance to carry a Covid positive patient to the hospital for chest scan or some other test was proving to be a big problem. This ambulance will take care of that requirement for New Town residents,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of the forum. It is parked at a building near Tank 12 and Akankha More which till recently used to run as an NKDA vaccination centre. The ambulance has been jointly funded by BMRC Hospital of Barrackpore, whose owner is a New Town resident, and the forum. While the service is free for the underprivileged, those who can afford will be charged Rs 40 per kilometre travelled. “We will also accept donations if someone wants to give more,” Das said. It got deployed on Tuesday and made seven trips over the first two days. It can be booked by calling Arnab Banerji at 9230013001 or any NTFN volunteer. Along with the ambulance, NTFN  launched a pulse oxymeter bank on Saturday. “We are requesting residents to give us their spare oxymeters so we can lend them to affected families who do not have access to one. Last night itself, we got a call from an underprivileged family staying opposite Techno City police station. All five family members were Covid positive and one had developed breathing trouble. A volunteer from Sukhobristhi rushed with his own oxymeter after midnight and taught them how to use it,” Das recalled. Oxygen bank The forum has also bought 15 oxygen cylinders, five of which they have donated to the NKDA safe home. “One is for use in the ambulance. Two are currently with patients. The others are being kept in houses of our members spread across the township for ease of delivery in case of residents’ need,” said Das. The forum has also raised funds to purchase four oxygen concentrators. “They cost a lot more, Rs 60-65,000 each, but they do not need to be refilled,” he said. The concentrators, once they are delivered, will be placed at the NKDA safe home. “The authorities have given us a room there.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||100-plus bed Covid hospital set to open ||A 103-bed private hospital is ready to open in New Town. Ujjiban Multispeciality Hospital has come up on the road opposite Biswa Bangla Convention Centre, under the Jatragachhi bridge. It will offer Covid treatment. “We were supposed to open three months later but there is so much suffering all around due to lack of hospital beds that we took a decision to open earlier than planned,” said Prabir Mukherjee, the proprietor. The local government authorities have been offering them assistance to open. “They had some infrastructural bottleneck which we have taken care of at our own expense,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. An approach road has been built from the Major Arterial Road to within a stone’s throw of the hospital. “It was ready within five or six days after we made the request to Hidco,” said Mukherjee. Electric connection, though, was a major hurdle and supply was available finally on Wednesday. The group also runs the 56-bed Good Samaritan Hospital in Park Circus and the 100-bed Apex Clinic in Behala. Both are running as Covid treatment facilities. Ujjiban is a six-storeyed structure with basement and will extend to 450 beds. “We also want to install an oxygen plant,” Mukherjee, a resident of BL Block, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||NKDA starts oxygen camp for emergency relief||The New Town authorities have come up with an oxygen camp at its safe house at NBCC Square in Action Area III. The 11-storeyed building at the junction of the roads leading to Sukhobrishti and Hatishala started operating from Monday though no patients have yet been admitted. There will be about six seats in the parlour. “We have five oxygen cylinders, donated by New Town Forum and News and four oxygen concentrators from the health department. Technicians are being trained to operate the cylinders on Wednesday and we hope to start the facility from Thursday,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said on Tuesday. The parlour is meant for limited use by those who are suffering from slight breathlessness and drop in oxygen saturation but having no other complications. “Two hours is the recommended use time. When Covid patients are admitted to hospital, oxygen support is the first thing they are usually provided. Many are hoarding oxygen cylinders at home for fear that they might need it to get stabilised before medical help arrives. There is a crisis for oxygen in the market which is being aggravated because of this tendency. So we have kept this provision for optimal utilisation of oxygen. It is a psychological support,” he explained. It will be a walk-in facility, open round the clock, for which no charges will be levied. It will be housed on the third floor, where the safe house also operates. “Each floor at NBCC Square has three apartments. One has been fitted with 10 beds for men, another has 10 beds for women, while the third apartment will be used as oxygen camp,” he added. Only confirmed Covid positive patients, who have little or no symptom and cannot self-isolate at home, are allowed to stay in the safe house. Last year, too, the building had been used as a safe house but was shut after demand dropped. New Covid testing centre A walk-in RT PCR testing centre has been started at Gate no. 1 of Eco Park from Wednesday. “There is a dearth of testing kit in the market. But patients need tests as well as passengers who are scheduled to take flights. Even those who are doing tests are late to deliver reports, which is delaying treatment. We were talking to private laboratories. The two centres, which had set up collection centres at the New Town fair ground last year, are unable to cope with the pressure on their own facility so could not resume the service. A national diagnostic chain called Thyrocare has come forward,” said Sen. With Eco Park being shut, the ticket counter is being used as a collection cubicle. “The technician can do the collection by extending his hand from inside the counter. It is air -conditioned so the samples can be preserved,” Sen said. A collection kiosk has also been despatched from the company’s Mumbai office. The facility is open from 8am to 2pm and the charge is Rs 500. The centre, which will fly the swabs to its laboratories in other cities for tests, aims to deliver reports within 24 hours. On the first day, 84 people got themselves tested. “We can do up to 200-250 tests per day,” said an official. The drive-in testing facility run by Apollo Clinic on Smart Street is also functioning. “They can do 100 tests per day but are getting requests in multiples of that,” Sen added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Scientist enters elite US club||A US-based immunologist, with family in Salt Lake, has just been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, a prestigious institution established under a charter signed by President Abraham Lincoln in 1863. “Only the top scientists get elected here. Nobel winners in the US are all members of this academy. It is a great honour,” Sankar Ghosh tells The Telegraph Salt Lake from New York. “The academy inducts individuals from all fields of science so very few are elected from every department.” Sankar, whose parental home is in EC Block, is a professor and head of the microbiology and immunology department of Columbia University. His research is on the immune system and has been critical in the understanding of and treatment of inflammatory diseases such as arthritis, colitis and dermatitis. One of six siblings, Sankar spent his initial years in Jorhat, Assam, where both his parents — late Mahesh Chandra and Rani Ghosh — were economics professors. He then moved to Darjeeling, pursued BSc in chemistry from Ramakrishna Mission Residential College in Narendrapur and joined the biochemistry department at Ballygunge Science College for MSc in biochemistry. He ranked top of his class and received the RB Ghosh Fellowship of Calcutta University for study abroad. He moved to the US in 1982 to join Albert Einstein College of Medicine for his PhD and joined the laboratory of Nobel laureate David Baltimore at Whitehead Institute, MIT for a postdoctoral fellowship. His next stop was Yale University as an assistant professor and he has been with Columbia University since 2008. Sankar met his wife, Dola Sengupta, at Calcutta University and both went to the US for PhD together. She too has worked at Harvard Medical School and Yale and has now taken up an administrative job. “She also happens to be a great singer, specialising in Rabindrasangeet and Atulprasadi and performs at Durga puja or Rabindrajayanti celebrations here,”  he adds. Their son Shomik is a lawyer. Sankar used to come to India very often till the pandemic and besides his family, misses the sweets here. Four of his five sisters live in Salt Lake — Gayatri Ghosh in FD Block, Sunanda Ghosh in CF Block, Arundhati Chanak in FD Block and Amrita Bhandari in EC Block. All are either in the teaching or the medical line. “While we are overjoyed with our brother’s achievement, celebrations are restricted to phone calls due to Covid protocol,” says sister Sunanda, herself a retired principal of Women’s College Calcutta. “Since his research is in immunology, we would ask him about coronavirus in the initial days of the pandemic for some insights.” While Covid is not directly Sankar’s area of research, the idea behind its vaccine is. “Vaccination won’t prevent you from getting infected. It will prevent you from getting seriously ill and dying. But full protection can be achieved only after the second dose as you have to give the vaccine sufficient time to develop the antibodies,” says the 61-year-old scientist. In the US, Sankar feels the worst of Covid is over. “This is mainly because 50 to 60 per cent of the people have been vaccinated. Masks are mandatory for indoor activities, but optional for outdoor. There are no issues with hospital beds at the moment,” he adds. Sankar is concerned about the second wave in India but concedes that the population here is four times that of the US and and that money is limited too. “It’s good that President Joe Biden has pledged support to India to battle Covid.” Sankar feels budding scientists get a good foundation in India and asks students to be sincere with their work. “Columbia University is currently on a summer break and plans for the fall are still not finalised. All students, however, will have to be vaccinated. We’re not sure about getting foreign students, given the uncertainty with international travel,” says the teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||CG Block youths make short films on Covid tales||A clutch of eight short films, highlighting facets of the pandemic year, was screened in CG Block on Saturday. The cast and crew comprised youngsters staying in neighbouring slums and colonies who have been trained in the craft at Prayasam Visual Basics, the audio-visual unit of the NGO Prayasam, supported by software giant Adobe. “Every year, we organise the Bad and Beautiful Film Festival to showcase films made by our youth. Adobe, which funds the films, wanted films centred around the pandemic,” said Amlan Ganguly, the Prayasam chief. The NGO had some stories ready. “Every afternoon during the lockdown, Dada used to do a conference call with us. We discussed incidents reported in newspapers and things we saw in the colony,” said Priya Sutradhar, who made Kalratri. The film is inspired by an incident in which two people who tested positive for Covid-19 got taken away and never returned. “The rest of the family, herded into an isolation centre, never learnt what happened to them. In those days, families were not allowed to see the dead for fear of infection from the bodies,” added Ganguly. The film has Priya’s friend Monalisa Mondol play a bride the night after her wedding. Her husband has developed symptoms and she is awaiting the Covid screening report, amid conflicting emotions — fear of him testing positive, anticipation about the wedding reception and excitement of starting life with her beloved. The film ends with an in-law telling her that her husband had been taken away and asks her to pack quickly to leave for an isolation centre. Another film shows how the fear of being removed from home could cloud decisions on treatment. Monalisa’s own film Bhoy has a girl with high fever being hidden from neighbours and being medicated at home without consultation. Her condition deteriorates and by the time people get to know, she is beyond help. “Such an incident happened in our area. The girl died of medicine overdose. Later it was found that she did not have Covid,” said Monalisa, a Mahisbathan resident. A poignant tale of bereavement is told in Salim Ganguly’s Framed. A daughter gaily chats with her mother at home, planning for life beyond Covid. As the bell rings, the mother says: “Oi bodh hoy tor baba elo” and the camera moves towards the door but with unusual slowness. A man walks into the room but it is empty and on the will is framed the mother-daughter selfie that they were shown taking seconds ago. A statistic of Covid deaths scrolls on screen with the credits, leaving a chilling realisation. Relationships have also been affected in the lockdown, positively in some cases and negatively in others. Manish Chowdhury’s film Jawnoiko has a man, almost out of his mind possibly due to confinement in a single room, hallucinating about a girl he has throttled and whose body he has hidden in the house. “Such an incident took place in Patuli where a tutor killed a student for no apparent reason,” Manish said. Sujit Datta’s Ghutan is another example of lockdown-induced mental trauma. Welcome, by Abida Khatun, underlines the Covid Warriors’ harassment in their locality, as local boys taunt a nurse as “Corona didi”. In contrast, the lockdown helped Rupa Biswas forge a bond with her father, who was rarely home before. The actors in Kachher Manush are her parents. “My mother was so shy that she kept breaking into a laugh every time I rolled the camera. I made them act, promising there were no dialogues,” said the girl, who used self-composed poems as background narration. In Rahul Shaw’s Preet Na Maney Reet, lovers refuse to let a pandemic keep them apart as a migrant worker returns from the village to his ironer partner in the city as soon as the lockdown ends, despite having lost his city job. “The films were shot in a day or half as we had to submit them to Adobe by the month-end. To ensure social distancing, we had one or two actors in most stories,” says Ganguly. The films were screened in several locations over three months and audience votes taken in multiple categories. The prizes were given away recently. Manju Roy was adjudged Best Actress for her understated turn as a nurse in Welcome. Framed and Welcome got three awards each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Bidhannagar: Wrested and retained by Trinamul Congress||It was a seat which was as keenly contested as was its outcome followed. The Bidhannagar Assembly constituency saw two political heavyweights — Sujit Bose of Trinamul Congress and Sabyasachi Dutta of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — one-time party colleagues turned rivals, locking horns. Their history of mutual hostility only added spice to the recipe. Their campaigns also sometimes turned bitter, with Dutta calling the tall Bose names like “giraffe” and “camel”, deriding his educational qualification and alleging that he had unsuccessfully attempted to join the BJP, in street-corner meetings. Dutta had even claimed that the election was a “walkover” for him. Dutta’s confidence must have stemmed from the fact that the Bidhannagar segment had given the BJP a lead of 18,916 votes in the Lok Sabha election of 2019, even though the Barasat Parliamentary seat did eventually go to Trinamul, thanks to the other six segments. On the day of polling, even when Dutta was enjoying an orange ice lolly with the air of one who had the match in the bag, Bose kept insisting that voting in an Assembly election was a different ball game than that in the Parliamentary polls. “We had a deficit here even in (Lok Sabha) 2014 yet I won in 2016,” he had reminded The Telegraph Salt Lake. On May 2, 2021, it was Bose who had the last laugh, emerging victorious from the seat, beating Dutta by a margin of 7,997 votes. And he did so without the count from two malfunctioning electronic voting machines, from part no 271A and 252, which had to be ruled out. Bose’s challenge was to wipe out the Lok Sabha deficit and build on it to create a lead. The sitting MLA managed to win big from segments like Sreebhumi and Lake Town and in added areas like Sukantanagar, Mahisbathan, Khasmahal, Naobhanga etc. The biggest factor that worked in his favour was Bose’s continuous presence on the ground. “People had easy access to him, therefore they had faith in him,” said a party worker. Bose had also held multiple meetings with booth level workers, asking them specifically to help people out in the time of the pandemic. One booth-level worker said that after Cyclone Amphan, Bose’s efforts as fire and emergency supplies minister to restore normalcy by supervising the clearing of trees that had toppled over on homes and blocked driveways in Salt Lake was an abiding image in the minds of voters. The worker, who was then with Bose, recalled how an elderly couple who were trapped at home by a tree blocking their driveway in GD Block for two days, came down and hugged him. Another poll manager of Bose said that during the national lockdown, Bose had ensured that packed food reached homes of the elderly and the underprivileged. “He himself oversaw several such drives in Salt Lake and people could see from their houses what we were doing,” the man said. He arranged for free phone consultation with doctors for Covid-19 patients across the constituency by tying up with Protect the Warriors, a doctors’ association through an initiative called Sparsho. Booth-level workers too had been asked to help people down with coronavirus and Bose on occasions had himself arranged for the hospitalisation of patients. “There have been occasions when he intervened on learning that somebody had died of Covid-19 and his family members were in isolation,” said the worker. He had won the confidence of multiple clubs in his constituency. “He has had regular meetings with the clubs and he ensures that they get doles from the government every year. This has worked for us to counter the BJP undercurrent,” said a worker from Sreebhumi. He used his MLA Local Area Development Fund judiciously over his two terms, even coming out with a booklet before the election, listing out the projects he had funded in part or whole. Indeed, not a single block appears to be missing from his list of beneficiaries. Rival’s weaknesses On the other hand, many BJP workers said that Dutta, who had shifted to the BJP from Trinamul Congress in 2019, was constantly at loggerheads with older party members which also created a rift in the party’s rank and file. “Dutta behaved arrogantly with us despite the fact that he was a new entrant to the party,” said a worker. Instead of using old party hands, he entrusted his campaign to three men who too had joined the BJP recently, overlooking people who, party workers say, were better qualified to conduct elections at the booth level. A BJP worker recalled how Dutta had admonished her in public for no apparent reason. “We were sitting together when he suddenly lashed out, questioning my loyalty to the party. I told him that I had joined the BJP earlier than him but he said that it would have been better if I hadn’t. It was not only insulting but also very demoralising,” said the worker. Dutta’s speeches and statements also boomeranged in places. “We had a good base in Khasmahal and Kulipara. However, he started his campaign by saying that he would raze illegal stalls from pavements of Salt Lake and clear out slums. Most people here depend on hawking for their livelihood and that hit us hard,” said the worker. Compared to Trinamul, the BJP had started activating their workers at the ground level much later. “We had started working much later than the Trinamul Congress and had a lot of ground to cover in a short time,” said the BJP worker. Dutta’s inaccessibility and habit of speaking to people selectively were also to blame. “At times, he did not even speak to us, the ground level workers, and we got instructions from his poll managers,” said the worker. Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal’s artistes join fight against second wave of coronavirus  ||Some of Bengal’s popular artistes who had stood up against the politics of polarisation in the run up to the Assembly elections have now joined the fight against the second wave of coronavirus infections. A Covid-19 relief facility will be operational at a two-storey building near the Kamalgazi intersection of EM Bypass from Saturday, thanks to the efforts of the artistes and social workers. “For now, the facility will serve as an interim centre for Covid patients. People who need hospitalisation but are awaiting beds can be taken to the centre. They will be given oxygen and preliminary medical support while they wait for hospital beds,” said Piya Chakraborty, a social activist who is at the forefront of the project, called Citizens’ Response. The centre will be operational from Saturday. It has a capacity to keep 10 patients but will start with five beds. Chakraborty, who runs an organisation called HEDS (Health and Eco-defence Society), has collaborated with another organisation called Bangla Sanskritik Mancha for the project. Backing the initiative are Parambrata Chattopadhyay, Chakraborty’s husband and composer-singer Anupam Roy, Riddhi Sen, Rwitobroto Mukherjee and Surangana Bandyopadhyay, among others. On March 24, these people, and many other veteran and young artistes, had released a music video with the aim of warning people against the politics of hate ahead of the Assembly elections. Titled Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gaan, the video has generated over six million views. “We will increase the number of beds as soon as possible,” said actor Riddhi Sen, one of the artistes behind the project. “All of us are aware of the grim situation because of the second wave. So far, we were trying to contribute individually. But if like-minded people come together, the effort gets amplified. We have raised funds. Now we are about to start the relief centre. In the coming days, we want to start at least two more similar centres,” said Chattopadhyay. Private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid beds but the long list of patients waiting to get admitted still continues. The increase in the number of Covid beds is proving to be inadequate and many patients with oxygen saturation levels below 90 are struggling to find beds, officials across hospitals said. Chakraborty said the money raised so far came mainly through crowdfunding. “The situation is very distressing. As citizens, the least we can do is stand beside fellow citizens at a time the Union government has failed its people in handling the Covid second wave,” said Chakraborty. The interim relief facility, five minutes from the Patuli fire station, has 10 beds. Citizens’ Response has turned a neighbourhood club into the interim relief centre. A team of doctors will look after the patients once they start coming from Friday. There is enough oxygen to ensure 24X7 supply to 10 patients, said a volunteer. “The centre at Patuli is a pilot project. Another centre in Mukundapur is in the pipeline,” said Tanmoy Ghosh of Bangla Sanskritik Mancha. “Since the artistes came on board, the initiative got a lot of steam. We had a team of doctors on board. Students from Jadavpur University are also lending support in this initiative,” he said. During the lockdown in 2020, Ghosh’s organisation had prepared a database of 1,50,000 migrant workers from Bengal stuck in different states. The organisation coordinated with multiple state governments to provide the workers with food and other essential supplies. The daily operations at the Patuli centre will be managed by a group of volunteers, led by doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Safe house for Covid-19 patients at Jadavpur University main hostel||Jadavpur University has written to the state government with a proposal to turn its main hostel, behind  Jadavpur police station, into a safe house for those who test positive for Covid-19. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das wrote to health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam on Thursday saying the government can use over 6,000 sq ft of space in the hostel — comprising dining halls, dormitory, common space and playing arena — as a safe house. The hostel and the campus have been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid-19 and classes are being held on digital platforms. The decision to turn the ground floor of the hostel into a safe house facility was taken at a meeting that VC Das held virtually with teachers, officials and representatives from the students’ unions on Wednesday. Among the 13 hostels (four for girls and nine for boys), JU main hostel (for boys) is the biggest, spread over four blocks, and can house 613 students. Unlike the other hostels, it is not located on the campus. “Our students came up with the proposal of setting up a safe house. But buildings or hostels located within the campus could not be turned into medical facilities for Covid patients, considering we have staff quarters for the university employees on the campus. The campus residents might object. So, we have chosen the main hostel,” JU registrar Snehamanju Basu said. Several employees have tested positive for Covid and are admitted in hospitals or quarantined in homes. The university had decided to keep the campus shut from April 23 to May 7. The university has constituted a committee that will coordinate the execution of the safe house venture with the health department. “Jadavpur University has always stood by victims of the pandemic. We have raised funds and will continue to raise a corpus to support the students who have been hurt by the digital divide in the pandemic. We are turning one of our facilities into a safe house because it is urgently required at a time when cases are peaking,” said Das. “St Xavier’s University will soon start an isolation-cum-pre-hospitalisation centre on its campus. JU will also do its bit,” he said. An official of the health department said its concerned wing that looks after the safe house expansion programme has been asked to visit the JU main hostel and decide on the number of beds that can be set up. “The officials attached with the wing will soon inspect the hostel to find out how the facility could be used. The gesture that the university has exhibited is laudable, considering that this will inspire other institutions to follow suit. We need more safe houses as the case count is on the rise and many lack facilities to isolate themselves at their homes,” the official said. Another official of the department said that since a huge number of cases were being reported from several pockets of Jadavpur, creating a safe house in the heart of the area was crucial. M.R. Bangur Hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital, is located nearby, and it would be easier to shift a patient in case their condition worsens, a JU official said. St Xavier’s College, too, is working on a plan to turn the college’s Raghabpur campus into an isolation centre for the college students and their families who test positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||City police publicise phone number, email address of cyber cell for reporting fake news||The city police on Thursday publicised a phone number and the email address of the cyber cell of Lalbazar for reporting fake news and encouraged Calcuttans to share information related to circulation and sharing of fake news on social media. “If you have any information about FAKE NEWS, you can send an email to: cyberps@kolkatapolice.gov.in or contact land: 033-22143000,” Calcutta police tweeted on Thursday. Lalbazar issued the email address and the phone number a day after the cyber cell of the city police had started a case against several Facebook profiles and Twitter handles that had allegedly posted or circulated morphed old purported videos of celebrations with the “Khela Hobe” song and tagged them as post-election celebrations in Bengal. A senior officer at Lalbazar said the identity of the person reporting fake news would be kept confidential given the sensitivity of the complaint. “We have come across several videos on social media which show purported violence that have been tagged as post-poll violence in Bengal. Many of them are found to be old doctored videos,” said the officer. He added: “We will maintain confidentiality about the identity of the person who gives us information about any such lead. Spreading or circulating anything without verification that could catalyse unrest in society or trigger violence could attract criminal charges of sedition or sections of the information technology act. We strictly warn netizens from circulating or posting anything that could amount to this offence.” The charges lodged against a person for spreading fake news on social media and messaging services like WhatsApp could lead to a maximum punishment of three years in jail, the police said. Another officer at Lalbazar said anyone willing to share information should either call to alert about the name and details of the social media account or handle from where a suspicious content is posted or have to email the police the link of the content that is suspected to be fake. The city police have initiated legal action against the social media handles that posted and circulated a video that purportedly shows the picture of a man who lives in Noida and falsely claims that he died in post-poll violence in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||I am (still) alive, says journalist declared dead by Bengal BJP||A Calcuttan now living in Noida woke up to frantic calls from family and friends on Thursday morning because the Bengal BJP had identified him as one of those killed in alleged post-poll violence some 1,300km away at a village in north Bengal. After he shook himself out of disbelief, the 27-year-old journalist wrote on social media that he was “hale and hearty”. A purported video showing violent scenes that the BJP claimed were from Bengal and the photograph of Abhro Banerjee — identifying him as “Manik Moitra”, of Sitalkuchi village in Cooch Behar district — was in circulation. The five-minute-21-second video that was posted on Facebook by BJP West Bengal on Wednesday was shared over 1,500 times and had 4,800 “reactions” as of Thursday. “I am Abhro Banerjee, living and hale and hearty and around 1,300km away from Sitalkuchi. BJP IT Cell is now claiming I am Manik Moitra and died in Sitalkuchi. Please don’t believe these fake posts and please don’t worry. I repeat: I am (still) alive,” he wrote on his Facebook timeline. Once he called out the fake post the state BJP was forced to admit the “error.” One of Banerjee's family members wrote on Facebook: “The man in the photograph is Abhro Banerjee, a journalist and not a BJP worker and very much Alive.” Senior officers of Calcutta police said the matter had been brought to their notice and “legal action is being taken”. The video was first shown at a BJP press conference at The Westin hotel, New Town, on Wednesday in the presence of senior BJP leaders and media personnel. A senior BJP leader before showing the video at the press conference had claimed: “The ruling party is tagging many of the BJP posts as fake. But we are taking responsibility for this six-minute video. Place, time, person – we have all the authentication. If needed, we can provide that to you.” Hours after Banerjee’s post hit social media, the video was taken off the Facebook timeline of BJP West Bengal and an official statement was issued. The video of the press conference is still posted on the Facebook timeline of BJP West Bengal. The statement issued by the BJP mentioned: “The image of Mr. Abhro Banerjee was erroneously included in the video while using as article by him as a source for the content….To set the record straight, Shri Manik Moitro succumbed to his injuries in Sitalkuchi following violence instigated and inflicted by TMC members, his image has been included with this statement. May his soul rest in eternal peace.” The statement was accompanied with a purported photograph of a person lying on a stretcher with a woman standing by it. The identity of the persons in the photograph or its authenticity could not be verified independently by this paper. This is not the first time a post or advertisement published by the BJP has been allegedly found to be fake or erroneous. Two months ago, a woman living in a one-room home in Bowbazar’s Malanga Lane had found her photograph published in newspapers in an advertisement with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that claimed she had received a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The woman — later identified as Lakshmi Devi - had dismissed the claims and had said she had no idea about the advertisement. The Telegraph reported on Thursday that a senior BJP leader’s tweet containing a video of purported post-poll celebrations in Bengal, with people carrying daggers and guns, was found to be an old video by the police that had allegedly been morphed with the Khela Hobe song in the background.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Price of surgical masks soars across the city||The price of surgical masks has shot up across the city at a time the second wave of coronavirus infections is wreaking havoc. Stores are selling surgical masks for Rs 12 to Rs 17 apiece. A piece of surgical mask is being sold for Rs 19 by Apollo Pharmacy, which has outlets across the city. Many doctors are suggesting that people wear surgical masks and stop using cloth masks because some mutated forms of the virus seem more transmissible. Surgical masks are not reusable, meaning they can be worn only for a day. “These masks lose their efficiency if they get wet. They should be only worn for a day. Use a new surgical mask every day and throw it away when you are back home,” said a public health specialist. Some doctors are also suggesting that people wear a cloth mask above a surgical mask so there are no openings around the nose and the mouth. Some are even wearing two surgical masks to better protect themselves from the virus. The price surge is hitting them hard. “A friend of mine had purchased surgical masks for Rs 4 each from the fair price shop at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital last year. But when I went to the shop last week, they charged Rs 7 for each mask. The employees at the shop told me that the price first increased to Rs 6 and then to Rs 7,” said a resident of Cossipore. A Kasba resident said a surgical mask with a nose clip that could be bent for a proper fit cost Rs 12 at a store in his neighbourhood in mid-April. Before the second wave of the pandemic hit, the store sold surgical masks for Rs 10 apiece. By the end of April, the price had shot up further. “When I went to the same store in the last week of April, they were charging Rs 15 for one surgical mask. The owner told me all the stocks had exhausted and the new masks cost more,” said the man. Another south Calcutta resident said the price of surgical masks was even higher at Apollo Pharmacy outlets. “I buy masks from Apollo Pharmacy because I like the fit of their masks. But when I recently visited an Apollo Pharmacy store, they asked Rs 19 for one piece. Later I visited another store. They too were selling surgical masks for Rs 19,” the man said. An official of Apollo Pharmacy said the procurement cost of surgical masks has gone higher. “We are reviewing the price,” he said. The website of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) mentions that the maximum retail price of a two-ply and a three-ply surgical mask was fixed at Rs 8 and Rs 10, respectively. A notice on the site reads: “As per notification of 21st March, 2020 issued by Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the MRP of 2 Ply and 3 ply mask has been fixed as Rs. 8/- and Rs. 10/- each respectively.  Further, as per Gazette Notification dated 24th March, 2020 the retail price of 3 ply surgical mask containing a layer of Melt Blown non-Woven Fabric shall not be more than Rs. 16/- per piece. These prices will remain in force for a period up to 30th June, 2020.” Many Calcuttans said it was impossible for a lay person to distinguish between a three-ply mask and one with a non-woven fabric layer. “Allowing Rs 16 as the price for one piece of mask is improper at a time when the pandemic is raging. How many can afford to throw away a mask of Rs 16 every day?” wondered the Kasba resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Sharp dip in OPD footfall as trains stop||The footfall at outpatient departments of hospitals across Calcutta on Thursday was almost half of Wednesday’s and officials across hospitals attributed the sharp drop to the cancellation of suburban trains, reduction in the number of buses as well as Covid scare. The footfall of non-Covid patients has been declining since the start of the second wave of Covid infections, but the drop was maximum on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced a slew of measures to contain Covid in Bengal. The steps include cancellation of suburban trains and reduction in the number of buses and Metro trains. Peerless Hospital had around 330 patients at its OPD on Wednesday. The number was 167 on Thursday, said an official. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had around 350 patients at its OPD on Wednesday. The number fell to around 200 on Thursday. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, too, witnessed a drop in the OPD footfall by 50 per cent on Thursday, compared with Wednesday. “The OPD footfall had started picking up and almost became like it used to be during the pre-Covid period in February and March. Then we were having around 1,200 patients coming for consultations daily, including people from Bangladesh and various districts of Bengal. By April it started dipping because of the fresh surge in Covid,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. “On Thursday we received calls from 50 patients who cancelled their appointments with doctors saying they had logistical issues including cancellation of trains to come to the hospital.” At Peerless Hospital, more than 500 patients used to visit the OPDs every day about 15 days back. It started dipping since then but Thursday’s count was the lowest this year, said an official. Many OPD appointments are also being cancelled because doctors are coming down with Covid despite having taken both doses of vaccines. “On Thursday, 23 doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers at the hospital were out of action after being infected by the coronavirus,” said an official of Peerless. “Many patients cancelled their appointments today saying they would not be able to come because trains have been cancelled. Some of them would have to get their consultancy done through video calls with doctors,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Last year, too, hundreds of people suffering from non-Covid ailments were unable to go to hospital during the lockdown and even after the restrictions were lifted because train services were suspended. Once suburban trains started operating again, the footfall at the OPDs increased. However, it started dipping again from April as planned surgeries and procedures were deferred to make room for more Covid patients at hospitals. Also, many non-Covid patients started avoiding OPD for fear of contracting the coronavirus. Along with this, the cancellation of suburban trains have further dragged down the footfall. “We used to have around 500 patients daily for OPD consultations before the Covid pandemic. It was nil during last year’s lockdown. It started picking up in February and March and went up to about 250,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria. It dipped to 150 on Wednesday and 75 on Thursday. Footfall was low at government hospitals, too. At SSKM Hospital's cardiology department, around 500 patients would turn up daily for video consultation. “The number dropped to 300 and on Thursday it was around 200,” said Saroj Mondal, a cardiologist at SSKM. Doctors said they were also forced to defer surgeries and consultations as beds were fewer for non-Covid patients. A cancer patient is scheduled to undergo surgery to remove his tongue. “Most ICU beds are now occupied by Covid patients. This (cancer) patient will need ICU after the surgery. We’ll consult with relatives about whether it can be deferred,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. “It is becoming increasingly difficult to treat non-Covid patients during the second wave. Non-availability of beds in general wards and intensive care units is a major cause of concern. The majority of doctors and supporting staff are busy with Covid management,” said Mukhopadhyay. “Unless there is a significant decrease in the number of Covid cases soon, treatment of cancer and other major diseases will be badly affected. Accumulation of such a large number of cases will seriously challenge the healthcare infrastructure in the post-Covid period,” he said. Case count Bengal on Thursday recorded 18,431 new infections, 117 deaths and 17,412 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.22 lakh. Of the 117 deaths, 33 were reported from Calcutta and 36 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,887 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,922.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Racketeers  arrested for online sale of Remdesivir vials at premium||Two men have been arrested for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders and for alleged online sale of Remdesivir vials at a premium. The enforcement branch of the Calcutta police has conducted raids across parts of the city on Thursday and seized 54 empty oxygen cylinders from multiple locations that were illegally stocked. A team of the enforcement branch has also seized 19 vials of Remdesivir medicine from possession of a person who was allegedly intending to sell them at a much higher cost than their market price. “Two racketeers have been arrested for cylinder hoarding and for illegal online sale of Remdesivir. Raids were conducted by the enforcement branch across multiple locations in the city,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. The arrested duo has been booked under sections of cheating and that of the disaster management act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Crowd at bus stands across Calcutta keeps growing||Commuters wait for a bus at Gariahat. The crowd at bus stands across Calcutta kept growing during the morning and evening rush on Thursday. The number of buses was much less than usual and people jostled for space as one turned up, flouting social distancing norms. Around 1,200 private and government buses ply in Calcutta every day, said transport department officials. The number was almost 50 per cent on Thursday, a day after the state government issued a notification on transport curbs to check the surge of the virus. In the absence of local trains, the rush of office-goers was felt more as the day progressed. Around 5.30pm, at least 30 people waited for a Ruby-bound bus at the Gariahat intersection. At 6pm, scores of people tried to board a Shyambazar-bound bus at Esplanade. The absence of local trains led to a surge in the number of passengers on buses headed to Barrackpore and other places on the northern fringes and Baruipur, Sonarpur and nearby places in the south. Starting Friday, Metro Railway will run 192 trains every day from Monday to Saturday, instead of 216. The first trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am. The last trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 8pm. The last train will leave Dakshineswar at 7.48pm. On Sunday, there will be 82 trains instead of 98, the carrier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||South Point advances summer break to give children, parents and teachers respite from pandemic||South Point has decided to bring forward the summer break by a week to give children, parents and teachers some “respite” from the “raging pandemic,” at a time when there is a continuous surge in Covid cases. The school in a notice sent to parents on Thursday said the summer break would begin from May 10. The online classes will resume from May 24. “In view of the continuous surge in the number of Corona-afflicted families, and in order to provide some respite to our children, guardians and teachers from the raging pandemic, we have decided to bring forward the summer break,” said the notice from the principal. “We earnestly hope that the situation will improve soon,” the principal added. With the surge in the number of Covid cases, there are families where more than one member has been infected and others are in quarantine. Across schools, teachers are having to give substitute classes for their colleagues and in some families children are facing difficulties to attend classes in absence of adult supervision or because of lack of space. “Let us combat this pandemic with a positive frame of mind and pray for the world to heal,” said the notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department allows private hospitals to increase bed strength by 40 per cent ||The state health department has allowed private hospitals and nursing homes to increase their bed strength by up to 40 per cent to cope with the rising number of Covid patients in need of admission. Private healthcare providers will not have to deposit any fees for extra beds, the department said in a circular. “In the present scenario of resurgence of Covid-19 infections it has become necessary to increase the bed strength of all private nursing homes and hospitals to combat the present rising trend of Covid-19 positive cases,” Ajay Chakraborty, the state's director of health services, said in the notification. “In the scenario of the Covid pandemic situation and under the provision of the West Bengal Epidemic Disease Covid 19 Regulations 2020, the health and family welfare department directs all registered clinical establishments in the state to develop isolation beds for treatment of Covid 19 suspect and positive cases. As such all private nursing homes and hospitals are allowed to enhance their present sanctioned strength upto 40 per cent more as per availability of space for management of active Covid-19 cases in the same infrastructure and for that they will not have to deposit any fees for extra beds.” To ensure private healthcare institutions don’t face any hurdle, the health department has spelt out that enhancement of beds will be allowed under the existing clinical establishment licence. The institutions just need to intimate the local licensing authority. The Telegraph has reported several times how the crisis of beds has led to many critical Covid patients being turned away by hospitals. Doctors suggest that if the oxygen saturation is below 93, then a patient suffering from Covid should get admitted. But in several cases those with oxygen saturation as low as 85 are also forced to stay at home. Desperate family members search for oxygen cylinders. Several private hospitals welcomed the move saying the new decision would greatly help in battling the surge. “This is a great decision by the state health department. This is going to help in fighting the Covid situation in a big way,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital now has 241 beds, about 80 per cent of which are for Covid patients. “We have two new floors ready where we can accommodate 70 beds. We are waiting for the civic clearance, for which we applied two months back. Once it is received, we can equip the floor for Covid admissions since we don't need fresh permission from the health department,” said Tondon. A few others said it would not be possible to increase the bed strength immediately given the lack of infrastructure and personnel. “The only way to accommodate more patients is to increase the number of beds in all hospitals. However, we don't have space for such augmentation of beds, otherwise we would have taken the permission earlier,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has 360 beds, of which 175 are for Covid patients. Senior officials of the health department said the notification had been sent to the heads of all medical colleges in and around Calcutta asking them to explore ways to increase the number of beds. “We have urged all medical colleges and hospitals, including the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital, to make arrangements for accommodating more patients as early as possible,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Centre with 10 beds and piped oxygen supply being added to isolation facility in New Town||A centre with 10 beds and piped oxygen supply is being added to an existing isolation facility in New Town. Even those without Covid-19 positive reports can go to the centre if they feel breathless and get themselves checked by a medical team posted at the safe house, an official of Hidco, which manages the town’s infrastructure, said. The beds are being set up in a separate wing of the Covid-19 safe house in New Town. The centre is in a two-storey building near water tank number 12. “The facility is being set up because it is taking the township’s residents time to arrange oxygen cylinders when someone suddenly feels breathless,” the official said. “It is expected to start operations in the next couple of days.” Those headed to the centre from Salt Lake will have to take a right turn at the traffic signal just before City Centre II on the Major Arterial Road, drive for around 400m and then turn left. The building is on the main road, adjacent to a children’s park, opposite the Shrachi Greenwood Elements housing complex. Those headed to the centre from the airport via the Major Arterial Road, have to take a left at the same traffic signal after crossing City Centre II. “Anybody who has difficulty breathing can visit the centre to use the piped oxygen and be stabilised initially,”  a senior Hidco official said. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said that they took the decision to set up the centre because there has been “a scramble among residents of New Town and Salt Lake to buy or rent oxygen cylinders at home”. Sen said the idea behind the facility was that residents would not need to keep cylinders at home and the centre would act like a stabilising unit in case someone complained of breathless-ness. The safe house has trained doctors and nurses. “People who face breathlessness can come here and get oxygen under trained supervision. In case rapid medical intervention and hospitalisation is required, the family members can get the patient here and oxygen will be administered while they arrange for a hospital bed,” Sen said. “This will mitigate the need to keep such cylinders at home like many are doing because they are worried about what they will do in case somebody in the family falls sick,” he said. The Telegraph had reported in April about senior doctors guiding India’s Covid-19 response advising caution against what they viewed as panic-driven actions by some people to seek hospital beds, procure oxygen cylinders or buy vials of the antiviral drug remdesivir for patients who may not need them. Two doctors, both members of the national Covid-19 task force, had underlined that many Covid patients do not need hospital care. A scramble for beds or oxygen cylinders could deny these resources to patients who genuinely need them, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Police personnel face challenges to execute market time restrictions||Police personnel are finding it difficult to execute the market time restrictions in the city as buyers appear reluctant to leave even if the shops are trying to close down following the government order. The cancellation of local train services has reduced the number of hawkers in the markets but the police still feel the need for discipline in buyers. “We are using loudhailers to make announcements and make people aware about the market timings. Many are still reluctant to leave making pleas for their last minute shopping,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. The state government has restricted the market timings between 7am and 10am in the morning and 5pm and 7pm in the evening. On Thursday, police officers were seen making announcements at Gariahat market around 10am asking shopkeepers to close their shops. “We are ready to close out shops, but sometimes people who come to buy do not care about the time. If someone is at our shop, it is difficult to say that we are closing,” said a shopkeeper, who runs a grocery store inside Gariahat market. The average footfall at Maniktala, Gariahat, Jadu Babu’s Bazar, Lake Market and Burrabazar has decreased but it is still taking the shops a little more than the restricted timings to wrap up because buyers are crowding the markets. “The number of customers has decreased drastically in the morning. In the evening, it is even less,” said a vegetable seller in Manicktala market. Guardrails cordoning the market space were seen outside Jadu Babu Bazar to stop buyers from crossing over. Several police officers said there have been instances where people have argued that the market timings were too less and should be extended. “We are trying to make people understand that they should not loiter around in the market place unnecessarily. Elderly persons are most vulnerable,” said an officer of Gariahat police station. A senior bureaucrat said the idea behind staggered timings was to reduce the crowd at the markets and to discourage people from stepping out of their homes for things that could be obtained online as well. Unlike last year, when there was lockdown and people were allowed to step out of their homes only to refill their essentials, this year, there is no restriction on the free movement of the citizens in the city. Nobody can be stopped from coming to the market without any urgent need. “Last year, there were instances where people were caught carrying bags meant for vegetable as an excuse to step out of their homes. This time as there is no restriction on their movement, it is our appeal to all the citizens to strictly follow the government rules and step out of the market places once it is closed,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
