08-05-2021||Calcutta||When Mohan Agashe played Ghasiram in 'Sadgati'||He begged him to come and watch his play 'Ghasiram Kotwal'. Little did Mohan Agashe know that Satayjit Ray would one day ask him to play Ghasiram in Sadgati, the 50-minute telefilm Ray made in 1981 for Doordarshan. Based on Munshi Premchand’s story, Ray’s Sadgati was a searing indictment of the caste system perpetrated by upper class Hindus. Agashe paid his tribute to Ray on his birth centenary on Friday with an online talk — Elephant and the Blind Man presented by the Victoria Memorial Hall in its centenary year. Explaining the title of the talk, Agashe, a theatre and film artist, who did just this single telefilm with Ray, said: “I am fully aware that there are a lot of Bengali actors and technicians who have worked with Manikda in umpteen films. My experience with the legendary filmmaker is much shorter. So, what I shall say is my personal experience and not personal information gathered from others. Hence, my story is like the Elephant and the Blind Man.” Agashe came back from his tour with Ghasiram Kotwal from the US in 1981 and was laid down by a spine problem. He received a type-written letter from Ray offering him the role in Sadgati. He lost no time in accepting it, going at lengths to convince Ray that he had fully recovered. Agashe showed Ray’s letters on screen. He goes on to show the next letter, which was handwritten. “This shows how the relationship changed from formal to informal. These days when I agree to do a film, I get a 20-page contract. Its like a slavery contract while I got a humanistic letter from Manikda,” said Agashe. Om Puri (who plays Bhiku in Sadgati) and Agashe boarded a train from Mumbai to Raipur to shoot for the telefilm for a couple of weeks. They were to share a room too. “As Om and I were discussing how would we know who from Manikda’s team would come to meet us at the station, we saw Manikda himself standing on the platform,” said Agashe. Back at the hotel, Puri and Agashe had to sit with Ray for the sketches, costumes and trials before they were allowed to rest and next day right at seven in the morning they had to leave for shooting. “On the first day we were late by 10 minutes. Manikda did not say a thing, he just looked at his watch. We were acutely embarrassed. Next day, Om and I got ready quickly and were waiting for him from before seven. Manikda looked at us and exclaimed ‘Am I late?’ Such was the humility of the world renowned filmmaker,” said Agashe. There was never any need to ask questions to Manikda, for all the answers were there in his kheror khata. “Everyone could access the khata and Manikda had also written the storyboard. No director at that time ever wrote storyboards. He would design his shots, angles and shot divisions depending on what his actors could do for him. He would notice the strong points of his actors and design the shots accordingly. Not once did he raise his voice. Smita (Patil) was obviously his favourite and they had a good rapport,” said Agashe, who felt Ray added value to Tagore and Premchand’s works in the form of giving their works an “audio-visual literacy”. Describing how Ray would use nature as an additional character, Agashe said: “The climax was supposed to have been shot in scorching sun. But it had begun to rain. So he improvised and there you have that fantastic scene of the dead body in torrential rain, Smita crying and the Brahmin dragging it.” A lot of filmmakers have done films on caste, but here in Ray’s Sadgati, it is the culture that is the villain, not the humans, points Agashe. Dukhi has come to Ghasiram asking for an auspicious day for his daughter’s marriage. In a barter, Ghasiram asks him to split the wood in return for finding the auspicious day. “It’s a favour accepted by Dukhi, both the exploiter and the exploited have accepted the culture,” says Agashe. Later, Ghasiram’s wife feels guilty, she asks if Dukhi has eaten, to which Ghasiram asks her to give him food but she refuses saying she can’t start cooking in the heat. Later, when Dukhi dies at the Brahmin’s house, the husband and wife blame each other. “Casual comments become serious in crisis,” said Agashe. In the scene where Ghasiram goes to the chamar village to ask them to remove the body, nobody responds. While returning Ghasiram encounters the Brahmins who ask him to get the body removed for they cannot go past it to get water. “Here Manikda uses locals. In case the locals couldn’t act he had planned out a scene where he would show Ghasiram’s open umbrella and then a few other umbrellas converging on Ghasiram’s umbrella with the dialogues played out in the background and then the umbrellas would disperse. But fortunately, the locals did manage to act and the scene was shot with the local artistes pitching in,” said Agashe, showing a clip of the scene. The actor also explained how Ray would use body language to emote scenes. Ghasiram entered his own house after coming back from the chamar’s village. He emerged from the dark and saw his wife who was picking clothes from the clothesline. He exited on the left of the frame to avoid her. She followed him. He laid down on the charpoy. “Ray asked me to put my arm over my face to avoid my screen wife and her questions. When she still persisted, Ray asked me to turn my back to the wife and face the wall. This is how he shows Ghasiram’s reluctance to answer questions, frustration at the situation.” Comparing Pather Panchali with Slumdog Millionaire, the theatre personality said: “Ray showed dignity in poverty, in image, sound and dialogue. Often one would not notice the background music that he scored so carefully. It would merge with the visuals so much but only later would you realise and go back to it.” Ravi Gupta of NFDC (National Film Development Corporation), who was a friend of Agashe, told him that Ray had returned unspent amount that was sanctioned for his film to the NFDC. “In his span of career, Ravi had never seen anyone returning a sanctioned amount,” said Agashe. In Sadgati, too, Ray wrapped up his shooting a day in advance and returned one day’s expenses to Doordarshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Suspension of local trains cripples large workforce ||The suspension of local trains has crippled the large workforce who come to Calcutta from suburbs. Tens of thousands of people from the southern and northern suburbs take local trains every day to reach Calcutta, where they work as masons, plumbers, vegetable sellers, daily wage earners, domestic help and hawkers. Calcuttans are dependent on these people for their daily chores — from getting a house painted to fixing a leaked pump to procuring fresh vegetables. These people are also dependent on the city for their livelihood. The absence of local trains has left these people with three difficult options - pay through their nose to commute to Calcutta and back home, rent a place near the city and pedal their way to work and back, or sit idle at their home, often without two square meals a day. Madan Sardar, 23, lives in Taldi, the second last station in the Sealdah-Canning suburban section. Till April, he was busy painting houses in Jadavpur and Baghajatin, working for a contractor. He got work five days a week and took home around Rs 500 every day. But the suspension of local trains has brought back haunting memories of last year’s lockdown. A monthly train ticket cost Sardar Rs 185. In the absence of trains, Sardar had to travel from Taldi to Baruipur in an auto, often two autos. From Baruipur, he would take a bus to Ruby. “I had to pay exorbitant fares for the auto rides. Every day, my daily travel would cost around Rs 200,” said Sardar. The problem with a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases is that many Calcuttans are weary of letting outsiders in their homes. Repair and paint jobs are being kept on hold. Last year as well, the likes of Sardar had their work, and pay, cut drastically. “If I earn Rs 300 a day and my travelling expense runs up to Rs 200, it is a tough call to step out. But eventually, I will have to step out because I barely have any savings to pull through this lean phase,” said Sardar, who lives with his wife. His mother has recently rented a cramped one-room house in Baghajatin. She works as a domestic help in multiple houses. Her employers did not want her to travel in crowded local trains amid the surging pandemic. Sardar’s father, who used to work as a porter at Sealdah station, lives with his mother. If the auto fare is Sardar’s bane, the rising fuel price is a nightmare for Rabin Karmakar, a Baruipur resident who works with an elevator maintenance firm on Camac Street. He has to visit clients’ offices in Salt Lake and Howrah whenever there is a snag in an elevator. Before the suspension of local trains, Karmakar used to take a train till Ballygunge and then a bus to Camac Street. But now, he has to ride his bike to work. “I will have to spend at least Rs 200 on petrol every day. My company will not reimburse the full money,” said Karmakar, who lives with his father, wife and their 12-year-old son. He is the sole earning member of the family. Not everyone is able to travel to the city. Sankar Roy Karmakar works at a stall selling kurtis and dupattas on the pavement in front of Traders Assembly in Gariahat. The 60-year-old lives in Baruipur, around 25km from Gariahat. When the hawkers’ market reopened last year after the lockdown, Karmakar cycled between home and work. It took him over 90 minutes for one leg of the journey. “I am not keeping well and cannot cycle for so long every day. I don’t know how I will manage if the new curbs extend beyond a month,” he said. In 2020, local trains were suspended from March 23 to November 11. The prolonged suspension had pushed thousands of families to starvation. Free ration from charitable organisations had sustained many families. But organising the resources for a similar campaign this time is proving to be more challenging, social workers and NGOs have said. “We can only hope that the Covid numbers start dipping soon. In case of a prolonged shutdown, things are going to be worse this year,” said a Calcuttan, who runs an NGO that fed many people, including out-of-work train hawkers, last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Calcutta High Court sets up rare bench on state violence||Calcutta High Court has set up a five-judge special bench to look into the instances of violence in the aftermath of the Bengal Assembly polls and said the Centre too had the responsibility of ensuring post-result normality. The bench has been formed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. Headed by Justice Bindal, the bench also has Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar. Senior advocates said five-judge benches were usually set up to settle constitutional disputes. The last such bench was formed in Calcutta 16 years ago. “In 1985, such a bench was formed to settle whether the Left Front, which was running the government then, could call a bandh or hartal in the state. A similar bench was constituted in 2005 to settle a dispute over an education law,” said veteran lawyer Mantu Pal. On Friday, the court, acting on a PIL filed by advocate Anindya Sunder Das seeking its intervention, directed Bengal home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to file an affidavit on Monday stating the steps the state government had taken to restore normality. The court directed the government to inform it about the measures taken against those accused of murder or damaging property during the post-result violence. “The central government also has the responsibility to keep normalcy after the publication of poll results,” Justice Bindal said. The bench will sit again at 2pm on Monday to hear the petition. During Friday’s hearing, advocate-general Kishore Dutta said that killings and vandalism of political parties’ properties had taken place after the election results were declared on May 2. However, he said, the administration was then under the control of the Election Commission of India, not the state government. “But soon after taking oath of office (on May 5), the chief minister took several steps to stop the violence. In several places, the central forces have been engaged for restoration of normality. Steps are also being taken against (those) involved in the incidents. Several accused have already been arrested,” Dutta said. Later, Pal, the veteran lawyer, said: “In case of post-poll violence, a constitutional issue is involved. Till the completion of the publication of poll results, the states are kept under the control of the Election Commission (of India). How can the state take proper action against any crime during that period?” Violence has been reported from some pockets of the state in the immediate aftermath of the results. Twenty-five people are alleged to have died — 15 from the BJP, eight from Trinamul and two from the Sanyukta Morcha. After taking the oath of office, Mamata Banerjee has made a slew of administrative changes to ensure that the transfers made by the poll panel are overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira offer free tutorial to children||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will offer free tutorial to underprivileged students from Classes III to VIII, who have not been attending school since March 2020 because of Covid. Till Friday, around 6,000 students had registered for the free tutorials. “We are overwhelmed with the response. The college initially kept the registration process open till May 10. But we are doing away with the registration process seeing the demand. Any number of students can attend the classes on YouTube, the links of which will be shared. They can attend the classes live or go through recorded lectures,” said Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college. During registration, each candidate was asked to mention the profession of his or her father and the family’s annual income. Among those who enlisted, the annual family income of many is between Rs 1 and 1.05 lakh. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were discontinued on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of the pandemic. But students of Classes III to VIII have been away from schools since March 2020. Although classes are supposed to be held on digital platforms till in-person classes resume, many in the school education department admitted that academic activities had taken a hit as many teachers were unwell after attending election duty. “Many are admitted in hospital or are quarantined in safe houses. So classes have been suspended and students are losing touch with education as a consequence,” an education department official said. One official also questioned the ability of a section of teachers to adapt to the new normal. “There is a lack of initiative among teachers in government schools to take classes on digital platforms. Besides, teachers in government primary schools are not conversant with digital platform classes. In this context, the effort by Vidyamandira is laudable,” the official said. Fifty undergraduate and postgraduate students of the college who have volunteered to teach will be guided by teachers of the college. “Senior students of the college used to go to Ramakrishna Mission Jana Sikha Mandira, a unit of Saradapith, to offer free tuition to school students in the locality. Through the virtual platform we can reach out to a larger number of students,” said Swami Ekachittananda. The monk said they wanted to help underprivileged students who had been the worst victims of Covid-induced hardships. “They cannot afford to take private tuition to make up for the absence of in-person classes as financial constraints of their families have increased during the prolonged pandemic. RKM Vidyamandira as an institution has always tried to help the poor and the disadvantaged. So we are starting the free coaching classes,” the principal said. The Centre had in October last year, while congratulating the college for its ranks in the National Institutional Ranking Framework, written to Vidyamandira that it was necessary to expand the role of the college outside the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals hire doctors and nurses for Covid field units||Private hospitals that are setting up Covid field hospitals in auditoriums and stadiums are recruiting nurses and doctors and redeploying doctors from departments where the patient count has dropped to run the temporary treatment centres. The hospitals are focusing on large spaces where more than hundred beds can be set up for Covid patients, rather than opening off-site hospitals in multiple locations with only a handful of beds in each. A large space with many beds will be easier to manage as there is already a shortage of doctors, nurses and support staff. AMRI Hospitals inaugurated a 250-bed Covid field hospital at Salt Lake stadium (Yuba Bharati Krirangan) on Friday, while Medica Superspecialty Hospital has set up a 153-bed facility at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Jadavpur. The field hospitals have the infrastructure to treat moderate Covid patients, which distinguishes them from satellite facilities that are mostly meant for people with mild symptoms who do not have space at home to isolate themselves from other family members. “We have recruited 75 nurses to run the field hospital at the Salt Lake stadium. They will work in shifts. We have also recruited a few doctors. Ten doctors will remain posted at the field hospital around the clock. All the recruitments were done over the last 10 days,” said Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals. The doctors who will be stationed at the field hospital at the stadium, which has been tagged with AMRI Salt Lake, have two to five years’ experience. Senior doctors and specialists from AMRI Salt Lake will visit the field hospital, which has been set up at the Youth Hostel in the stadium complex, as and when required. The nurses who have been recruited for the field hospitals include trainees as well as experienced ones. Barua said AMRI had focused on opening field hospitals in large spaces so that many beds could be set up at one location. “There is already an acute shortage of personnel. To open a field hospital, we require nurses, doctors, technicians, housekeeping staff and maintenance staff. If we can have 250 beds at one place, it becomes easier for specialist doctors to visit and examine the patients. That is why we have decided to open field hospitals at places where a large number of beds can be set up,” he said. The Salt Lake stadium facility will have oxygen for all beds and five respiratory critical care beds. The field hospital at Kishore Bharati Stadium, run by Medica, has 153 beds, of which 103 beds are linked to the piped oxygen supply network. The centre has one ventilator. “We have been constantly recruiting doctors and nurses for the last fortnight to open the field hospital. We are also working on creating a 300-bed Covid facility at Calcutta Police Hospital (in Bhowanipore),” said Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica. “We have recruited a number of trainee nurses. We have posted them at our main hospital where they will work under the supervision of senior nurses. We have shifted some of the mid-level nurses with considerable experience to the field hospital. By doing this, we are not keeping any of the hospitals without experienced nurses,” said Roy. Medica has also asked doctors in some departments that have very few patients now —like gastroenterology and orthopaedics — to work at the field hospital. The doctors are experienced enough to handle a Covid patient and alert a specialist like a pulmonologist or a cardiologist if needed. “These are extraordinary times. Doctors, nurses and other staff are working long hours every day to cater to the huge pool of patients,” said Roy. Patients will be admitted to the field units through the respective hospitals. Officials said that depending on a patient’s condition, doctors will decide whether he or she will be admitted to the main hospital or the field unit. AMRI has also proposed to set up a field hospital at Netaji Indoor Stadium. Barua said around 200 beds could be set up at the indoor stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclists back on roads following suspension of suburban train services||Cyclists are back on roads following the suspension of suburban train services and reduction in the number of buses from Thursday. VIP Road, EM Bypass, AJC Bose Road, BT Road, Central Avenue and several other thoroughfares witnessed a large number of cyclists on Friday. Some of them pedalled 30km or more to reach their workplace and back home. The pockets of the city where the cyclists were seen included Dalhousie, Lalbazar, Bowbazar, Burrabazar and Posta. Avijit Ghosh from Agarpara, on the northern fringes, had pulled out his bicycle on Thursday after the suburban train services were suspended. On Friday, he cycled to Lalbazar covering a distance of around 16km through BT Road to reach his office, a small firm that deals with registration of land and properties. Ghosh left his office around 4.30pm, around two hours before he would usually head home. His boss did not object. “It took me around an hour and a half to reach the office. Roads were mostly empty and I felt safe not having to share space with others while coming to office,” he said. Senior police officers across traffic guards said while most of the cyclists were headed for parts of the central business district, a significant number pedalled to Rajarhat and New Town from EM Bypass, taking a shorter route through Basanti Highway. A smaller number of them from Behala, Jadavpur and Dhakuria wereeaded for industrial units around Taratala and Budge Budge. “I dropped my wife (who works as an nursing assistant at a nursing home) on the Rashbehari connector on my bicycle and then took the main thoroughfares down the Park Circus seven-point crossing and AJC Bose Road to reach Bowbazar,” said Debasish Sinha, a Kasba resident. He works at a shop selling glass frames and sunglasses. “Police have been cooperative,” he said. Till Wednesday, Sinha would take a train from Ballygunge to reach Sealdah and then walk down to Bowbazar. In June 2020, following a nod from the state cabinet, city police had issued a notification allowing cycles on small and medium roads in Calcutta to ease the hardship that people were facing in the absence of suburban and Metro trains. The order was later withdrawn after train services resumed in November. And the police re-imposed restrictions on 62 thoroughfares across the city prohibiting cyclists. On Friday, senior officers overseeing traffic movement in Lalbazar said they were yet to draw up any specific order on cyclists. But a word has been put across 25 traffic guards across the city to “go soft” on those pedalling down to the office. “We have been telling bicyclists not to violate traffic signals and almost all of them are very obedient,” said an officer of headquarter traffic guard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||CID arrests two men for spreading fake news on post-poll violence ||The state CID arrested two men on Friday for allegedly sharing videos of purported fake news related to post-poll violence in Bengal. The CID had registered a suo motu FIR after several such videos went viral on social networking sites and following complaints from netizens alleging that purported fake news was being circulated by using their photographs without their knowledge or permission, the officer said. According to the officer, they started scanning profiles from where such posts had been shared and got in touch with the social networking sites on which they had been shared. The two who have been arrested are Argha Saha and Akash Mondal, both students and members of the RSS’s students wing, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), in their colleges. According to the officer, preliminary investigations revealed that while Saha had used his own social media profile to share the videos, Mondal had created a fake profile and shared multiple fake news related to alleged post-poll violence. “The men have been arrested for sharing fake videos on social media,” said DIG CID (special) Kalyan Mukherjee. According to another officer, they then started tracking down the IP addresses from where such posts had been shared and zeroed in on the two men who had allegedly done it. Two teams from the CID had left for Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas and Deganga in North 24-Parganas in search of the accused. Saha was arrested from Sonarpur and Mondal was rounded up from Deganga, the officer said. The cellphones which they allegedly used to access the internet to share the videos have been seized, the officer said. The men have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). If convicted, they can be sent to jail for two years. The Telegraph tried to contact the BJP’s spokesperson for the Bengal unit, Samik Bhattacharya, for the party’s statement on the arrest, but he did not answer calls. He did not reply to a text message either. The BJP’s Bengal unit president, Dilip Ghosh, too, did not take calls. Nor did he reply to a text message from this newspaper. An 18-year-old youth was arrested for allegedly stocking medical oxygen cylinders without valid documents on Friday. Police have seized two filled and one empty cylinder of 10litre capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals get list of government-run vaccination centres||The state government has provided private hospitals with a list of government-run Covid vaccination centres in the city where they can send recipients of Covid vaccines who have taken their first dose at their units and are awaiting the second. A letter sent to the heads of private Covid vaccination centres on Friday had a list of 173 government-run vaccination centres. Thousands of people who took their first Covid shot at private hospitals are calling up the hospitals every day asking when they would get their second dose. All private hospitals stopped Covid vaccination on May 1, the day the new vaccination policy of the Centre took effect. In the new system, private hospitals have to procure vaccine doses directly from manufacturers. Only two private healthcare units — Woodlands Hospital and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals — have since resumed Covid vaccination. Till April, private hospitals used to procure doses from the state government. The government-run vaccination centres in the state are now mostly administering the second dose. Only a few first doses are being administered. “We have received a list of government-run Covid vaccination centres. We will pass on the list to anyone who calls us to enquire when they will get their second dose. There are 8,000 people who received their first dose at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and are now awaiting their second dose. We received hundreds of calls from such people every day,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Around 2,500 people are due to take their second dose at Peerless Hospital, 20,000 people at Medica Superspecialty Hospital and 24,000 people at the three units of AMRI Hospitals. At a meeting with some private hospitals later on Friday, senior officials of the state health department said they would soon prepare a list tagging a few government-run Covid vaccination centres to each private hospital. The hospitals can send second dose recipients to any of the tagged government-run centres. “Once we get the shorter list of tagged centres, we will WhatsApp it to people who took their first dose at our hospital. The government has promised to provide the second list in two to three days,” said an official of a private hospital. Thousands across the city are at a loss whether they would be able to get the second dose at all. The government-run centres have their own sets of recipients, who got their first doses at these centres. Potential recipients are queuing up outside government centres from early in the morning. The situation is more complicated for those who took Covaxin as their first dose. Only a handful of government-run centres – including the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital, MR Bangur Hospital, NRS Medical College and Hospital, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital – are administering Covaxin. None of the 145 vaccination centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation is administering Covaxin. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said he was disappointed that the hospital would have to ask people who got their first dose there to go other places for the second jab. “This is like failing on our commitment. Many of those who took the first dose at our hospitals have been visiting our hospital for check-ups for years,” said Mitra. Barring Woodlands and Apollo, no Covid vaccination centre in the city has yet started giving the jab to people in the 18-44 age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Botanic Garden closed indefinitely from May 10 ||Indian Botanic Garden will remain closed to all visitors, including morning walkers, indefinitely from May 10 because of the surge in Covid cases, the garden authorities said. The decision was taken on Friday by the Botanical Survey of India director, A.A. Mao. Visitors to the garden had dwindled during the normal hours, between 9am and 5pm, because of the pandemic but morning walkers continued to throng the garden from 5.30am to 7.30am. “The security guards were getting exposed to the virus. So we decided to close it,” said a senior scientist at the garden. The garden authorities had issued 5,000 passes to morning walkers. On any given day, around 3,000 walkers would visit the garden. On weekends, it would rise to 4,000, said the scientist. “The walkers would also be impatient about the screening process because it was taking time to record their temperature and ensure they were sanitising their hands and wearing masks. The time period was also limited as all walkers had to be out by 7.30am,” said the scientist. Asked when the garden would reopen, he said: “The director will take a decision when the time comes.” Bengal on Friday recorded 19,216 new infections, 112 deaths and 17,780 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.24 lakh. Of the 112 deaths, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 33 from North 24-Parganas, , the two worst hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,915 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,957.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Drunk businessman’s car mows down ragpicker, injures police constable||An alleged drunken brawl in a bar spilled onto the road when a BMW of one of the groups hit an Audi of the other and several stationary vehicles before killing a ragpicker early on Friday. The accident happened in front of Singhji’s Bar cum Restaurant on Rajdanga Main Road, not far from the Ruby crossing. The bar-cum-restaurant was operating illegally in the heart of the city, in violation of government directives. The state government has announced the closure of bars and restaurants to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state,  violation of which attracts penal sections under the disaster management act. Uday Biswas, a Calcutta police constable, who was on anti-snatching duty, was the first to reach the spot. The BMW hit him, too, before trying to flee. Biswas injured his hand and has been hospitalised. The BMW’s airbag was activated because of the collision, bringing the vehicle to a screeching halt, police said. The occupants of the Audi fled. People in the neighbourhood chased the BMW and dragged the driver, identified as Rajdeep Sharma of Narendrapur, out of the SUV and beat him up till more cops arrived and stopped them. The police have arrested three occupants of the BMW including Sharma, who runs a hotel in Salt Lake. The three have been booked under charges of murder, attempt to murder, causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder and drink driving. A murder charge was included against the BMW driver because he had deliberately crashed into the Audi and then into other vehicles before hitting the ragpicker who died, an officer said. “The person at the wheel deliberately came back with the intention to hit the Audi. He had full knowledge of what he was doing,” an officer said. Later in the evening, the police made another arrest. Sumit Agarwal was in the Audi and was allegedly involved in the drunken brawl with Sharma and his friends at the bar-cum-restaurant, the police said. Agarwal has been booked under charges of assault and causing grievous hurt. The deceased man was identified as Tapan Dey, a resident of Tiljala. From CCTV footage, the police said they found that the BMW had left the venue around 5am and returned a few minutes later to hit the Audi, which was still in front of the bar-cum-restaurant. “Investigation has revealed that Sharma and Agarwal first spent some time at Sharma’s hotel in Salt Lake and then came to Singhji’s Bar cum Restaurant where they shared a few drinks around 3am. The bar was closed but the owner had allowed them to enter the premises through a rear gate,” said an officer. The owner of the bar, Rohit Rajput, has also been arrested under sections of the disaster management act. A senior officer of the south suburban division said the details of the bar-cum-restaurant have been sent to Lalbazar with a recommendation that its license be cancelled. “The BMW was moving at a very high speed. The exact speed will be ascertained after its forensic examination,” said a senior officer in Kasba police station. The incident prompted senior officers across divisions to issue fresh instructions to all police station to ensure complete lockdown of bars and restaurants, according to the government directives. A senior police officer not attached to the probe said the local police station should have had knowledge of such activities in the area. “This is an extremely dangerous trend. If bars and restaurants are illegally kept open, it not only sets a wrong example but also beats the entire purpose of the government restrictions,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
