09-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal governor sanctions CBI prosecution of top TMC leaders||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, on a request by the CBI, sanctioned the prosecution of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, all of them ministers during the time of the alleged commission of a crime that came to light in the purported Narada sting tapes, a Raj Bhavan official said on Sunday. “Honourable governor is the competent authority to accord sanction in terms of law as he happens to be the appointing authority for such ministers in terms of Article 164 of the Constitution,” a statement issued by the officer on special duty (communication), Raj Bhavan, said. All four were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet when the tapes were allegedly made in 2014. Hakim, Mukherjee and Mitra have been re-elected as TMC MLAs in the just-concluded assembly elections, while Chatterjee, who left the TMC to join the BJP, has severed links with both the camps. The statement said that the sanction for prosecution of the four leaders was accorded by Dhankhar after the CBI had made a request and made available entire documentation relevant to the case to the honourable governor and he invoked his powers under Article 163 and 164 of the Constitution, being the competent authority to accord such sanction. The Narada sting tapes, made public before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal, were claimed to have been shot in 2014, wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of promised favours. The sting operation was allegedly conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News portal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta|| Covid-19: Calcutta’s private hospitals put their best foot forward||The Covid situation in Calcutta is more than overwhelming. A maximum number of posts on social media are either about someone looking for urgent oxygen supply, crucial medicines or someone feeling helpless due to an acute shortage of hospital beds. On Friday, Bengal recorded the highest single-day spike of 19, 216 Covid cases. As we battle the ongoing Covid crisis, both individually and collectively, private hospitals in Kolkata are putting their best foot forward. Desun Hospital has taken the initiative to set up satellite centres to treat mild and asymptomatic patients. “Our initiative aims to provide a 24x7 medical care facility to help such patients recover under the guidance of Desun’s medical team while under isolation treatment in a safe, home-like environment,” a spokesperson from the hospital said. The satellite centres will offer specialist physicians, constant monitoring by nurses and daily doctor consultations. And if required, Desun can also facilitate the shifting of patients from a hospital to the satellite centre. To make a patient’s stay more comfortable, free Wi-Fi and fooding facilities have also been arranged, as well as emergency ambulance services. The Medica Superspeciality Hospital is armed to the teeth as well. It already has 330 Covid beds in its Mukundapur facility, and is planning to expand on this front. “We have added 200 beds in Kishore Bharati Krirangan (Jadavpur Stadium) and are working on creating a 300-bed Covid facility at the Calcutta Police Hospital,” Dr Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals and Chair, FICCI Health Services Committee, said in a statement. Medica has also associated with the Priya cinema hall to set up a Covid vaccination centre. “We plan to vaccinate 1,000 beneficiaries per day. The hospital also houses the largest set up to treat severely critical Covid patients under ECMO,” Roy added. Medica has also associated with the Priya cinema hall to set up a Covid vaccination centre. “We plan to vaccinate 1,000 beneficiaries per day. The hospital also houses the largest set up to treat severely critical Covid patients under ECMO,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Residents’ Welfare Associations struggle to manage quarantine dates of residents ||Residents’ Welfare Associations across the city are finding it difficult to manage quarantine dates of residents who have tested positive for Covid. Many residents who have the infection are trying to come out of their homes after the completion of 10 days of home isolation following a new government directive. RWAs are struggling to ascertain if such patients were asymptomatic — a prerequisite for ending home isolation in 10 days. Many housings complexes — from Urbana to South City — are insisting on the 14-day quarantine and this is often inconveniencing some residents. According to a fresh government advisory on home isolation issued on April 28, 2021, “a patient in home isolation stands discharged and ends isolation after at least 10 days have passed from the onset of symptoms or from the date of sampling for asymptomatic cases and no fever for three days”. Many housing complexes are finding it difficult to ascertain if a patient in isolation is symptomatic or asymptomatic. According to the government order, “a patient who is clinically assigned a mild/ asymptomatic case by treating medical officer and has oxygen saturation of more than 94 per cent,” can be termed as “asymptomatic” and eligible for home isolation. A resident of a housing complex near Garia lodged a police complaint earlier this week against the RWA for allegedly asking her Covid-affected in-laws’ to stay in home isolation for 17 days despite the government advisory. The complainant said: “My in-laws’ are asymptomatic. Their names were mailed to all members with specific dates till when they are supposed to be quarantined. They (the RWA) were forcing them to stay in isolation for 17 days which is no longer required.” An office bearer of the RWA said: “The new directive says that the home isolation period of an asymptomatic person can end after 10 days from the onset of symptoms or from the date of sample collection. But as many residents report late to us or as these days there is a gap between onset of symptoms and collection of samples due to shortage of kits or sample collectors, it is difficult to ascertain the actual date of onset of symptoms. Hence, for the safety of the gated community as a whole, we are abiding by the earlier order that suggested 17 days of home isolation. The matter has however been resolved and we have issued the revised dates based on the 10-day calculation.” In May last year, the government had issued a directive that suggested that “patients under home isolation will end home isolation after 17 days of onset of symptoms (or date of sampling for pre-symptomatic cases) and no fever for 10 days”. In the above-mentioned case, however, the RWA was forced to roll back the ending date of the complainant’s family’s quarantine period after police intervened on Friday. To avoid this kind of confusion, Urbana and South City are sticking to the 14-day protocol, their officials said. “We are strictly following the 14-day protocol. We are counting the date from the day the resident submits the report to us. If someone makes a delay in informing us, the quarantine period starts from the day we receive information. This is to encourage timely reporting,” said an Urbana official. In South City Residency, residents are asked to stay in home isolation for a minimum period of 14 days. “Some families are very cooperative and agree to stay indoors for 17 days, too. If they are reluctant, they mandatorily have to complete at least 14 days in isolation,” said a South City official. An official of the Upohar housing complex said they were trying to convince the residents to isolate for at least 14 days despite the 10-day directive. “Most residents are listening to us because we are arranging everything at their doorsteps,” said one of the office bearers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Drugs dealers appeal to state govt to stop growing trend of 'panic buying' of medicines||Medicine and drugs dealers across Calcutta have appealed to the state government to intervene and find some way of stopping the growing trend of "panic buying" of certain medicines by a section of people leading to mismatch in demand and supply. Most of these medicines, a certain variety of antibiotics, vitamin C and multi-vitamin tablets, are sometimes being prescribed by doctors to treat asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients in home isolation. Several medicine dealers said while a physician's prescription would be for a lone family member who has tested positive, a buyer would usually end up procuring the medicines in bulk for the rest of the family members often in anticipation that many others could be taken ill. What drug dealers termed as 'panic buying' is a reflection of real fear across many homes. Several families that Metro spoke to said they had bought more than their immediate quota of medicines out of fear that they may not be able to step out in the future if any one of the members tests positive. Senior officials of the health department said there is little they could do to formulate a policy that would prevent people from buying certain medicines in bulk. "Some of these drugs including Vitamin C tablets were never on the top priority list before. The pandemic has changed it all. People are afraid," said a senior official from the Directorate of Drugs Control. "We have appealed to the clearing and forwarding agents dealing with medicines from all major pharma companies to push up their demands for Bengal so that they receive medicines in bigger numbers." Several medicine shop owners from parts of Gariahat, Shyambazar, Maniktala, Behala, Dum Dum and Jadavpur said the trend for bulk buying has been growing with every passing day as the number of Covid-19 patients continued to go up. "Several buyers are turning up and questioning us whether there is any ban on sale of some of these medicines in bulk quantity and why we wouldn't give them when they were ready to pay," said Uttam Roy, a medicine shop owner on EM Bypass near Patuli. "A few others have been coming and showing names of certain drugs that they have found on the internet and asking for multiple strips of these medicines." With some of these medicines flying off the shelves faster than their supplies would reach the shops wholesale and retail medicine dealers appealed to the health department to find a way to address this demand-supply gap. At a meeting on Friday with representatives from the health department medicine dealers requested the state government to spread awareness against what they felt was erratic hoarding of medicines. "If Calcutta requires around two lakh strips of Doxycycline in normal times, the demand has shot past the five lakh figure now," said Sankha Roy Chowdhury, president of the Bengal Chemists and Druggists Association. "The same holds true for a few other medicines including vitamin-C, vitamin-C with zinc." Across wholesale medicine hubs in Burrabazar and Bagree market, traders have been Whatsapping a list of certain medicines asking their counterparts to stock up as much as possible from the distributors to meet with the demand. "The distributors are saying they can only ask the pharma companies to increase their supplies to Bengal but they can't force their way," said Chandresh B Sanghvi, president of the association of drug dealers operating out of Mehta Building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||IMA wants Mamata Banerjee to decentralise Covid vaccination centres||The Bengal chapter of the country’s largest body of doctors has written to the chief minister to “decentralise” the Covid vaccination centres to alleviate the problems arising out of the current vaccine crisis. The Bengal unit of IMA blamed on the “stepmotherly attitude and inefficiency” of the Centre for the crisis. The letter comes at a time the pace of vaccination has slowed down because of inadequate supply. Almost all private hospitals have stopped vaccinating from May 1. People who took their first doses of Covid vaccine from private hospitals are now struggling to get their second doses. “Decentralisation of vaccination centres is probably an urgent need of the hour. As we all appreciate that due to stepmotherly attitude & inefficiency of Govt of India, there is a crisis of vaccine,” the letter to the chief minister said. “But at the same time if more centres can be opened, then the huge queues, mostly of senior citizens, from early morning, in front of the existing centres can be avoided... ” The Centre had centralised the vaccination process from the beginning, leaving little room for the states to devise their own strategy. But now that the net of people to be vaccinated has widened, the Centre has shifted the onus of procuring vaccines to the states and private hospitals, many have alleged. On Friday, the state government sent the private hospitals a list of 173 government-run vaccination centres in the city where the private hospitals can redirect those waiting to get their second doses. But most of these centres are in the Calcutta municipal area. This makes it difficult for those living outside the area who took their first doses in private hospitals. “Instead of asking people to go to any of the 173 centres, we tell them to go to any of five or six government vaccination centres,” said an official of a private hospital. Most hospitals are doing the same thing. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said the hospital was not giving the list immediately. “Once the shorter list is available, we will inform those who are left to take their jabs from our hospital,” said Mitra. There were, however, questions whether the government vaccinations centres too were having enough vaccines to administer the second doses to those coming from private hospitals. “We were getting about 70 doses in the last one week to 10 days. This is happening when we have to deal with an increased demand from second doses,” said an official of a CMC-run Covid vaccination centre in Kasba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Teen army fights Covid, verifying social media leads to help save patients’ lives||A group of teenagers has launched an initiative to authenticate leads surfacing on social media to support Covid-19 patients and ensure that they reach people in need as quickly as possible. The people driving the campaign are racing against time. Their biggest challenge is verifying if the leads — on hospital beds, oxygen suppliers and food delivery, among other things — are genuine. On most occasions, a lead gets exhausted within minutes of being posted. On some, a patient does not survive the time taken to authenticate a lead. What started in late April as a WhatsApp group of around 20 members, many of them final year students or just ex-students of Shri Shikshayatan School has now turned into a virtual platform — called Youth Fights Covid — comprising over 200 volunteers. The Facebook and Instagram profiles of the group are filled with posts on hospital beds, cab services, plasma donors and food delivery helplines. On Saturday this newspaper randomly called two numbers — one of a cab service for ferrying Covid patients to hospitals and another of a food delivery service for Covid patients. Both calls were answered in the affirmative. “We have divided our volunteers into sub groups. Each sub group is entrusted with specific subjects. One deals with hospital beds. Another deals with food delivery. Working like this improves speed and efficiency,” said Ranjini Majumdar, 18, one of the founders of the group. “Any lead we get is verified by our volunteers before being posted. Often, that means, a lead is exhausted before we can post about it. But authenticity is sacrosanct for us,” said Ranjini, a Class XII student of Shri Shikshayatan School. The volunteers are working in day and night shifts from their homes. Sahil Sarkar, 25, is one of the mentors of the group. A software engineer, Sarkar is the cousin brother of one of the co-founders of the group. “More than 100 unverified leads are generated every five minutes. They are dumped into a common pool. From there, each sub group starts filtering the leads according to the subjects they are entrusted with. The final step is posting the leads,” he said. The most challenging job is to authenticate leads on the availability of hospital beds, the volunteers said. “It is most challenging because of the critical condition of people who need hospitalisation. Every second is crucial,” said Sarkar. The time of generation is also posted along with the leads because the resource might get exhausted within moments of the post. At a time the second wave of Covid-19 has pushed India’s already frail health care system beyond its limits, social media has emerged a godsend tool. Many desperate friends and family members of infected persons have resorted to sending SOS messages on social media. Many of the appeals are being answered, thanks to several grass roots virtual networks that have sprung up when governments have failed. But as the social media is flooded with Covid-related information, many of them are false or unverified forwards. To filter useful data from the vast ocean of unverified information is priceless and it is against that backdrop that the efforts of Youth Fights Covid assumes significance. The significance is amplified when one takes into consideration that a bulk of the founders of this initiative have barely finished school. Sreshtha Basu Roy Chowdhury, 19, who has completed school from Shri Shikshayatan and is preparing for NEET, is another co-founder of the group. Sreshtha and her parents were down with Covid-19 in December 2020. Her mother needed hospitalisation. “The number of cases were on the lower side then. But we still went through a very difficult time. I can only imagine the plight of the Covid patients and their family members now, when the resources are being stretched to the extreme,” said Sreshtha. Besides sharing leads, the social media pages of Youth Fights Covid also post information of government and private sector initiatives, like a private hospital starting a Covid care facility at a stadium. “When we started, we wanted to help in whichever way possible. We felt even helping five people would mean something. Every small step helps in such a big battle. But we had no idea that our drive would assume this scale. Complete strangers have come forward to help us. It is overwhelming,” said Aatreyi Sarkar, 17, another student of Shri Shikshayatan and one of the founders of the group. Covid count Bengal on Saturday recorded 19,436 new infections, 127 deaths and 18,243 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.25 lakh. Of the 112 deaths, 34 were reported from Calcutta and 39 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospital organises vaccination drive for individuals with autism||A private hospital organised a Covid-19 vaccination drive for individuals with autism on Saturday, most of whom struggle to wait for long and get “anxious in a crowd”. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital administered the first dose of Covishield to individuals with autism in the age group of 19 to 35 years from four centres in the city that work with such persons. Waiting in a crowd, maintaining physical distance and masking up for hours is a challenge for individuals with autism, said those working with children and individuals with autism. The two-hour window saved individuals with autism and their parents or guardians the hassle of waiting in long queues. “After the government opened up the vaccination for those above 18, I wanted to get my son vaccinated. But I could not muster the courage to take him because of reports of long waiting time. I knew he would run out of patience and might take off his mask. But on Saturday the vaccination was done within an hour,” said mother Debjani Bhattacharya who accompanied her 19-year-old son. The second shot will also be administered at the hospital, the authorities said. But even among those who came on Saturday there were individuals who were resistant to take the shot. Extra effort had to be made for them, something that medical professionals said would be difficult in a regular set up. “We know that many parents are extremely anxious to make their wards wait because they tend to get impatient. The disability makes them more vulnerable to infection because it is difficult for them to comprehend and maintain the Covid safety protocols,” said Jai Ranjan Ram, a psychiatrist at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital. “If private or government centres can allot a separate time even once a week for individuals with disability, it will save them and their families a lot of hassle at a time of this crisis,” said Ram. The hospital segregated an area for their vaccination with four separate billing counters for them, under the guidance of the vice-president of the hospital, Joy Basu. Indrani Basu, the founder of Autism Society West Bengal said individuals with autism had a difficulty in comprehending or making an estimate of the time that would be required unlike individuals without disabilities. “If there is no prior information as to how long they will have to wait it is confusing for them. There should be a provision for vaccinating people with disabilities and the elderly,” she said. Indrani said there were individuals with disabilities who had tested positive for Covid-19 and the apprehension for many families was what if they had to be admitted to hospitals. “Not many hospitals are equipped to handle people with disabilities who are Covid positive. If a patient is docile they are fine but if a patient is demanding or has a challenge in communication the medical workers lack the sensitivity in taking care of them,”she added. Several families are also worried about keeping them “isolated” in case of an infection. “We live in a two-room apartment and at times both my husband and I have to go out for work. We are living in constant fear because if we get infected we will be exposing him to it,” said a mother. Indrani said many felt that people with disabilities don’t go out, so how would they get infected. “This needs to change.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||City schools to address mental health of students||Several schools in the city have decided to address the mental health of students, especially those in junior classes, as they are forced to stay indoors for a second year in a row. Many of these students are also seeing deaths and diseases at home or in close family, which is taking a toll on their well-being. Schools are structuring their timetable to include separate time slots for teachers to interact informally with the students or giving them a “break” where the students interact among themselves with no adult interference. While teachers have been asked to be in constant touch with students, schools are also taking the initiative of arranging a one-to-one with a professional, if needed. Calcutta Girls’ High School has sent a notice to parents of children in Classes II to V that if they spot any beh-avioural changes they could contact a teacher and the school would set up a parents’ session with a professional. “If they (parents) notice any defiance, trauma, viol-ence or behavioural changes in children they should immediately contact us,” said principal Basanti Biswas. The initiative by Calcutta Girls’ is to train parents to cope with the situation better. School were shut for almost a year from March last to February this year. The government allowed school to reopen from February 12 but they were closed again as case began to rise. At Loreto House, the teachers have been asked to be in constant touch with students. Parents have been notified that the “school counsellor is always available”. “Children need reassurance because there is hardly any family that is not affected by Covid,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. At Sushila Birla Girls’ School a class teacher period has been allotted every day for 20 minutes where students can “express their fears and anxieties”. La Martiniere for Girls has started a non-academic class once a week for students of Classes III, IV and V where students can to talk to their teachers. “Children are given an opportunity to meet their teachers online in small batches of five or six. They are missing out on school life and this is their little time together to talk and connect with the teacher,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. The pandemic is stretching and children are unable to go out or meet their peers. “In this situation every teacher has to be a counsellor first to understand the child,” added Sarkar. Psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji said the mental health of students should be a school’s top priority now. Heads of schools felt not just “disease in the family” but to hear about teachers being taken ill can also be upsetting. “When they see a substitute teacher taking a class they know another teacher is down with Covid-19 and it is upsetting,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Two students visit underprivileged children to celebrate their birthday||Two students in their teens have taken the initiative to visit underprivileged children and celebrate their birthday. For Yash Chirimar and Yuvraj Bansal the idea was to “celebrate a day” with children who might have just seen others celebrate but never experienced it themselves. The children are from the streets, some who do not have parents and some whose parents do not earn enough to send them to school or provide them with two square meals a day, let alone celebrate birthdays. The two students have contacted two charitable organisations — one in Bansdroni and the other in Uluberia — where they “celebrated” the birthday of the children in that particular month and treated the rest of the children. “We have always been pampered on our birthdays. But we realised many of these children do not know what happens on birthday. They do not even know when is their birthday. For some, the day they came to the NGO is their birthday,” said Yash Chirimar, a first-year BCom student. “But I feel even if they face difficulties in their life they deserve a celebration. We also want to make them feel they are important,” Chirimar added. The two started a foundation in January and they aim to visit an NGO every month to celebrate and spend time with them. They ask the NGO to provide them with a list of children who have their birthdays in that particular month. They went to Rajapur Sri Ramakrishna Ashram in Uluberia in March and  Bansdroni Palpara Poor Child Help Society the month before that. Because of the surge in Covid-19 cases one of the organisations have asked them to take a break for a few weeks before coming back. The celebration is not very grand. They take a cake and gift the birthday child with clothes and give a treat to others. “We keep a budget of Rs 1,500 for the child whose birthday it is,” said Chirimar. Even for the heads of the organisations who run these places this has been a learning experience, something that one of them said they had not thought of before. “They have opened a door for us. So far children with their parents would come to celebrate their birthday with our children but this was a novel thought,” said Asit Kumar Pramanick, the founder of Rajapur Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama. “What we would do was select one day in a year to celebrate for all of them by making payesh and arranging a better meal but this individual celebration is different,” he said. At this centre in Uluberia, the birthday celebration was of a 14-year-old boy who has been there for 10 years. Even for Chirimar and Bansal the experience was not what they had expected. Initially many of the children were “introvert” and also a little intimidated. “It was awkward in the beginning but gradually they opened up,” said Bansal, a Class XI student. “In fact one of the boys was a little sceptical to cut the cake and we told him he could do so without being scared,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: La Martiniere for Boys offers campus to Belle Vue for vaccination centre||La Martiniere for Boys has offered its campus to Belle Vue Clinic for a Covid-19 vaccination centre. This will help the hospital increase the number of Covid beds on its premises. The school has decided to give three floors in the Martin block to Belle Vue. This will enable the hospital to increase the number of beds for Covid patients by 96, authorities at Belle Vue, who were conducting the vaccination in the 7th and 8th floor of their premises, said. Belle Vue currently has 230 beds for patients with Covid-19, including 46 critical care beds. “We were administering 600 vaccines a day and with this space made available, we will be able to keep up that number and simultaneously increase our bed strength in the hospital by another 96. The government has allowed us to increase the licensed bed strength by 40 per cent,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. A Belle Vue team inspected the La Martiniere premises on Friday. “Belle Vue had requested us for space for setting up their vaccination centre. They told us that if they could shift the vaccination centre from their premises it would give them space to increase the number of beds in the hospital,” said Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools. “The bishop (Reverend Paritosh Canning) immediately agreed because it is for such a noble cause,” Dhar said. The space that the school has allotted to Belle Vue includes six classrooms and one hall in the junior department of the boys’ school. The entry and exit for the vaccination centre will be through the school’s Moira Street gate. “(For the additional beds) we are expecting permission from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation by next week and once we get that, we would take seven to 10 days to start admitting patients,” said Tondon. With the increase in Covid-19 cases, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission in a meeting with private hospitals had asked them to explore options of increasing the bed facility. Shifting the vaccination centre to a different premise was one suggestion of the commission. “We would be providing air-conditioned rooms and Wi-Fi facility because we were told that the vaccine administration requires air conditioned facility. We are doing this free of cost and when doctors are doing so much during this time this is our contribution,” said Dhar. South Point South Point School has decided to make its premises at Mandeville Gardens available for setting up a walk-in swab collection centre for RT-PCR tests. The facility will open for the public on Monday from 9.30am to 3pm and have a collection capacity of about 120 samples a day. The facility is being set up in association with South Point Ex-students’ Association and CII Young Indians Kolkata. Tests will cost Rs 500 each and reports will be available by the end of the next day. “Since classes are presently being held online, we felt this would be a good utilisation of our space that is lying vacant,” said Krishna Damani, trustee, South Point Education Society and president of the alumni association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
