10-05-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine accused held in Lucknow||Amrit Raj Singh, an aide of BJP leader Rakesh Singh, was arrested in Lucknow late on Saturday for his alleged involvement in the cocaine case that started with the arrest of another leader of the party, Pamela Goswami. Pamela’s name and that of two others, who were arrested with her in New Alipore on February 19, have been dropped from the chargesheet that was submitted in court on May 3. Police said they had found evidence that Amrit Raj had planted a bag containing cocaine inside Pamela’s car on February 19. “He kept the bag at the behest of Rakesh,” said an officer While Pamela and Rakesh were arrested, the police couldn’t trace Amrit Raj all these months. Amrit Raj fled to Nepal soon after the arrest of Pamela and Rakesh, investigating officers of Calcutta police's detective department said. He returned to the country around 10 days back and was hiding in Lucknow. Officers tracking his movement arrived at his location after several hours of search and arrested him late on Saturday. “Amrit is being brought to Calcutta on transit remand. We will interrogate him to find out more about the cocaine trade and those who are involved in the cartel,” said a senior police officer. In the 1,200-page chargesheet, the police have said Amrit Raj had collected the cocaine from Rakesh and planted it inside Pamela’s car. Soon after that, a man named Aryan Dev allegedly alerted the local police station (New Alipore) about the purported presence of cocaine in Pamela’s car. A man named Suraj Kumar Shah allegedly helped Amrit Raj flee the spot on his scooter. The police surrounded the car and arrested Pamela, her friend Prabir Dey and her guard Somnath Chatterjee before recovering 90g of cocaine from under the front seat. There were five persons in the car when the cocaine was seized, the police said. “While three were arrested, two escaped. One of the two was Amrit Raj. We have CCTV footage of someone keeping something in black polythene in the car,” an officer said. Since her arrest,  Pamela had been insisting that there were two others in her car and one of them had planted the cocaine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Rabindranath Tagore’s birthday celebrated at Xavier’s||St Xavier’s College on Sunday celebrated the birth anniversary of an alumnus who did not complete his formal education but went on to become a literary giant and one of India’s greatest icons. In the late 19th century, Rabindranath Tagore had studied briefly at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. “Rabindranath Tagore’s birth anniversary is celebrated everywhere in the world. But the humble elebration in St Xavier’s, Kolkata, on Sunday, even during the pandemic situation this year, has a different dimension. Tagore did not only study here, he was the vice-president of the institution’s alumni association for some time, presided over a fund-raising programme in the college for the flood victims in 1931, presented a rare statue of Jesus Christ to the college from his personal collection,” said a member of the association of former students of the college, which had organised the celebrations on Sunday. Floral tributes were paid to the portrait of Tagore on the campus on the occasion of his 160th birth anniversary. Playing in the background were some of his songs, which Jesuit fathers said were “especially relevant when the entire world is going through such a trying time”. The principal of the college, Father Dominic Savio, said: “We have decided to remember him on his birthday not only for paying tribute to a true Xaverian, who preached universal humanism but also to get inspiration from his writings, preaching and philosophy, particularly at this trying time”. “This is the campus of St Xavier’s, Calcutta, where Tagore used come as a student with his brother and nephew from their ancestral home at Jorasanko in north Kolkata. The poet mentioned particularly about Father Peneranda, his class teacher, that the young Rabindranath was touched by his love, care and affection and was highly inspired by the personality of Father Peneranda and some other Jesuit Fathers of St Xavier’s,” he said. “We rejoice having him here as a Xaverian and try to propagate his philosophy of universal humanism among the present students, as his preaching is highly relevant in the contemporary world,” Father Savio said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||60-year-old cyclist killed in accident near New Alipore||A 60-year-old bicyclist died after being hit by a private car near New Alipore on Sunday morning. The offending vehicle allegedly fled the spot and could not be identified till late on Sunday, police said. The bicyclist, whom the police identified as Manohar Lal Shaw, 60, a resident of SN Roy Road in Behala, was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital with multiple injuries, where he was declared dead. The accident happened around 5am on the southern slope of Jai Hind bridge, off Majerhat. The police said they were examining CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the vehicle. The police said the number of cycles on roads have increased following the suspension of local trains and reduction in the number of buses as a precaution against Covid,, but lack of dedicated lanes for cyclists have left them vulnerable to accidents. Many have opted for cycles just to avoid coming in contact with strangers in buses and autos during the pandemic. However, lack of safety gear like helmets are putting cyclists at risk. Although cycling is restricted on thoroughfares in Calcutta, the city police are allowing them so that hundreds of citizens can commute in the absence of local trains and buses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Weather report, forecast: Pleasant turn to sweaty Sunday in Calcutta||A hot and sweaty morning in the city was followed by thundershowers in the afternoon on Sunday. Dark clouds started gathering from 2pm. The showers started around an hour later, preceded by gusts of wind and accompanied by lightning. The rain turned into a mild drizzle that lasted for around an hour. But even after the rain stopped, the conditions remained overcast. The wet spell offered Calcuttans relief from heat and humidity. The temperature was around 35 degrees at 1.30pm. Around 6pm, it was 27 degrees. Not many people were out on the road. But those who were, took shelter under shades of shops dotting pavements. Many people flocked to the balconies. The Met office recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore. The city has had just a single squall and not a single Nor’wester in entire April, making the start of summer uncomfortably hot. But the start of May has been reasonably wet. Thundershowers have been interrupting sweltering heat in Calcutta over the past few days. On Wednesday afternoon, spells of rain accompanied by gusts of wind and lightning hit the city and neighbouring areas from the afternoon, keeping the temperature under check and the weather pleasant. Sunday’s showers were attributed by the Met office to a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and a cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and adjoining areas. The Met office has predicted more such thunderstorms over the next couple of days. A cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh has resulted in the formation of a trough from central India to Assam. The trough is passing over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal. A high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and the trough are combining to inject a lot of moisture into the atmosphere. “Both systems will remain effective till May 12. There is a good possibility of thunderstorms over the next few days. But since there is a lot of moisture in the atmosphere, the weather will be hot and humid when the sun is out,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: ICSE council, principals to meet over marks||The ICSE council will conduct a virtual meeting with principals on Monday to discuss an earlier circular regarding submission of the average marks of Classes IX and X and to address the concern of schools and clarify doubts, if any. “In order to address schools’ concerns, clarify doubts, check the status of schools in the states of West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim and to get a direct feedback from our heads of schools, the CISCE is organising a virtual meeting,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) in a circular addressed to heads of schools presenting candidates for the ICSE 2021 examination in these states. The council has cancelled the ICSE (Class X) board exam and in a circular on April 29 asked affiliated schools for the “average marks of Classes IX and X to be forwarded to the CISCE” through the Careers portal. The council said in the circular that the country is going through a crisis because of the “ravaging nature of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.” “Each state in the country is affected in varying degrees, some worse than the others.” The circular said the CISCE had “committed to a fair and unbiased criterion for the preparation of the ICSE Year 2021 Examination results, always keepingthe best interest of thecandidates and schools in mind.” Several schools have started the process of collating data and are concerned about the students who appeared in the pre-board examination conducted in the school and did not fare as well as their peers. “It could be unfair for students who made the effort to come to school for the exams and they should not be treated on a par with those who appeared in the online exams,” said a principal of an ICSE school. Several schools had thought of communicating this to the council and are now hoping to raise the concern during the meeting on Monday. “While calculating the marks the council should take into account that some students wrote exams in school and not from home,” said another principal. Several schools in Calcutta conducted the examination on their campuses to prepare students for an in-person board examination that was scheduled to be held from May 4. Since schools had been closed since March 2020 because of Covid, students attended online classes and appeared for exams from home. After the government allowed schools to reopen on February 12, some institutions decided to conduct the examination on campus and some of them gave students the option to choose between online and in-person exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: St Xavier’s College, Jadavpur University extend campus closure||St Xavier’s College will remain shut at least till May 15 because of the rapid spread of the coronavirus, the authorities have announced. Jadavpur University, too, has extended the closure of the campus at least May 17. St Xavier’s College decided to extend the closure, which was to continue till May 9, after an employee in the central library died of Covid on May 4. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, said employees were scared to enter the campus following the death of a colleague. “Apart from the fear factor, many of our staff have tested positive and are in home isolation. The government has imposed a partial lockdown to avoid exposure to any public place as much as possible…. So we are extending the closure,” the principal said. Although classes are being held online from March last year as a precaution against Covid, students were allowed till April 30 to visit the campus for urgent work during office hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays. With the new order coming into effect, all offices, labs, libraries and other facilities will now remain shut till May 15. The authorities will decide on reopening the college after May 15 after assessing the situation, said an official. Father Dominic Savio said one of the factors that prompted them to defer the reopening of the campus was the fact that public transport had thinned. The state government has suspended local trains and reduced the number of buses to try and contain the spread of Covid. “During a situation like this asking our staff to come to the campus will be inhuman. There is a widespread apprehension that the situation could worsen and so we thought it would be prudent to defer the reopening of the campus,” the principal said. The Raghabpur campus of the college, in South 24-Parganas, has also been shut as a precaution against Covid. The campus is likely to be turned into a safe home for the students and their family members who will test positive for Covid. A notice issued by JU on Sunday said “in view of the rising number of teachers, officers, research scholars, students and employees becoming infected by Covid 19, the university will remain closed till 17th May 2021, except for some urgent office services like Finance and Examination, if required”. The campus was closed on April 24 and was to reopen on May 10. “Laboratories will remain closed, except where continuous nurturing of living organisms and monitoring of instruments are required,” the notice says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Robin Hoods on Covid plasma mission in Calcutta||Crusaders waging a war against hunger have now joined the fight against Covid-19. The Robin Hood Army (RHA), a volunteer-based organisation which collects excess food from restaurants and distributes it to the less fortunate across the world, has started a drive to facilitate the donation and receipt of blood plasma at many cities in India, including Calcutta. The drive started late April in Calcutta, Patna, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Delhi, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Jaipur and Lucknow, among other places. Plasma collected from the blood of a person three to four weeks after his or her recovery from Covid-19 is expected to contain antiviral antibodies, said doctors. In Calcutta, there is reluctance among many Covid survivors to donate plasma, said doctors and public health activists. “As India grapples under the pressure of the second Covid-19 wave, thousands of patients are in dire need of plasma. Multiple Robin Hood Army chapters in India are running a #MissionPlasma initiative. The idea is to build a repository of eligible and willing plasma donors so that we can quickly respond to plasma requests for patients,” said Swasti Saraogi, head (expansion and growth) of the RHA. There are around 1,500 RHA volunteers in Calcutta. They have created a WhatsApp group called RHA Kolkata Covid Helpline. The requests from plasma seekers and prospective donors are being pooled in the group. “We are in constant touch with blood banks and hospitals to keep track of prospective donors and recipients. Our job is that of a facilitator. Once we authenticate a donor, our volunteers arrange for his trip to a blood bank or a government hospital where he can donate blood. A volunteer picks a donor up from his home, accompanies her/him to the centre and drops him back home,” said Syed Manjur Rahaman, a member of the Calcutta chapter of RHA and the coordinator of the plasma drive in the city. Similarly, the volunteers also facilitate receipt of plasma for a seeker. The RHA has tied up with an app cab aggregator for the rides for prospective donors and seekers between their home and blood bank or hospital. Prospective donors and seekers can also reach out to the RHA volunteers at robinhoodarmykolkata@gmail.com. They can also call at 9903856216 and 7003563060. The steps for plasma donation are as follows nThe RHA has the details of a prospective donor nIn case of a requirement, a volunteer will get in touch with a donor to check availability nOnce confirmed, all details of the donation will be shared nOnce a donor reaches a blood bank, his blood will be tested to check if antibodies are still there. If yes, his blood will be taken. Our volunteers will also help donors and seekers in the documentation process, said Rahaman. “So far, we have arranged for 11 plasma donations in Calcutta. We hope the numbers to go up substantially in the coming days,” said Saraogi. The Calcutta chapter of the RHA has also been organising blood donation camps in the city. A sharp drop in the number of blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a crisis in availability of blood in Calcutta and the rest of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: One held for hoarding oxygen cylinders in Kolkata||The enforcement branch of Calcutta police on Saturday night arrested a man for allegedly hoarding medical oxygen cylinders. Three cylinders of 10 litre capacity — two of them filled and one empty — were seized from the premises of an office named Joydeep Oxygen Services, at Gouranganagar in New Town. “The agency did not have the licence or documents needed for running a business of stocking and supplying oxygen cylinders,” said an officer of the city police. Tapas Haldar, a 40-year-old resident of Habra in North 24-Parganas, was arrested in connection with the alleged hoarding. The raid, conducted jointly by officers of Calcutta police and the Bidhannagar  commissionerate, was an outcome of an arrest on Friday. Aryan Shaw, 18, was arrested from Sinthee on Friday based on a complaint lodged with East Jadavpur police station. He was allegedly found in illegal possession of three oxygen cylinders. “We came to know from Shaw about a racket involved in illegal storage and sale of medical oxygen cylinders,” an officer said. Senior police officers said the racket was operating through advertisements on social media and WhatsApp messages. “The racketeers are claiming that they have oxygen cylinders which they are ready to let out or sell at a premium,” the officer said. According to a government notification issued recently, no one is allowed to stock or procure medical oxygen cylinders without the prescription of a medical practitioner specifying the need for oxygen. Pharmacies and licensed vendors have been barred from selling or letting out oxygen cylinders without a prescription. Violation of the directive could lead to a penal action under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Treatment trips on test trouble||The Covid rapid antigen test of a man with symptoms of the disease twice came back negative. On Sunday, his condition worsened to such an extent that he had to be admitted to the ICU of a private hospital. Another elderly man with symptoms of Covid called up several testing facilities but no one agreed to collect samples from home. Many Covid patients are becoming critical because they have to either wait for the RT-PCR test result for days or are undergoing the rapid antigen test that often throws up false negatives. Testing centres, government as well as private, are allegedly not telling people that rapid antigen test results are not confirmatory. Reports of the rapid test often lead to a false sense of safety, which result in patients’ condition becoming critical. Metro finds out the problems and the reasons. A 53-year-old resident of Kasba has been having high fever for the past week. He had undergone the rapid antigen test twice at a clinic run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. On both occasions, he tested negative. But he has been suffering from breathing distress and other Covid-19 symptoms. On Saturday night, the man's family took him to a private hospital and then to a government hospital, where he was refused admission. On Sunday morning, he was admitted to the intensive care unit of another private hospital. The guidelines issued for the rapid antigen test (RAT) mention that someone who tests negative but has symptoms of the disease should undergo the RT-PCR test, the gold standard of Covid diagnosis. But the Kasba man was not told at the CMC clinic that he should undergo the RT-PCR test. The CMC is conducting the test at 16 clinics across the city. Private diagnostic laboratories are not allowed to do the rapid antigen test, said an official of a private centre. “If a patient with Covid symptoms tests negative in the RAT and is not told to undergo the RT-PCR test, it will give a false sense of security in the patient that he is not infected with the coronavirus. That may result in the patient ignoring crucial signs that his condition is worsening,” said a doctor. The Kasba resident suffered the same plight. “After a lot of effort, he was admitted to a private hospital on Sunday. His oxygen saturation had dropped below 85,” said a family member. The reasons why most CMC clinics are doing the RAT are the paucity of RT-PCR test kits and the fact that laboratories are overwhelmed with RT-PCR samples. The CMC sends its samples to government laboratories, including the one at SSKM Hospital. “The lab at SSKM is overwhelmed. They get samples from other places, too. They are not being able to give the test results within 24 hours, which they did last year,” said a CMC official. The civic body, he said, collects about 800 RT-PCR samples every day. “There is also a shortage of testing kits. Each of the 16 clinics collecting samples for the RT-PCR test is getting only about 60 kits a day,” said the official. Some private hospitals, too, have complained about the paucity of kits. “The swab samples collected from a person are kept in the viral transport medium (VTM), a tube that has a solution. There is a crisis of VTMs. If VTMs are not abundantly available, tests will slow down,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, which conducts over 500 RT-PCR tests in a day. An official at AMRI Hospitals said they were asking people who were calling them up to enquire about the RT-PCR test to reach the hospital early. “If someone is coming towards noon, they may not get the chance to undergo the test on the same day. We are not able to do unlimited number of tests every day,” said an official of the group. AMRI, which conducts about 700 RT-PCR tests at all its three units combined, is taking at least 48 hours to deliver the result. Somnath Chatterjee, the director of Suraksha Laboratories, said they were collecting about 2,000 RT-PCR samples daily, compared with the 1,000 samples they used to collect every day at the peak of the first wave of infections last year. “The numbers have doubled. Our staff members are overstretched. What is making matters worse is that some of the most experienced and efficient employees are down with Covid. We are still trying to deliver the results within 24 to 36 hours,” said Chatterjee. Several laboratories that were collecting samples from home last year, and even in February and March, are not doing so any longer. That is inconveniencing the elderly and the ailing, who are not in a position to visit diagnostic centres and stand in a queue to get their samples collected. A 78-year-old man from Duttapukur, on the northern fringes of the city, has been trying for five days to get his swab samples collected for the RT-PCR test. He visited a clinic run by the local municipality but had to return without giving the samples because the queue was too long. “We called several diagnostic centres but none agreed to collect samples from home. His doctor then started treatment without waiting for the test,” said a family member of the septuagenarian, who also suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder. Suraksha’s Chatterjee said they were collecting samples from home but not always promptly. “If someone calls up today, we may not be able to collect samples the next day. So many of our employees tested positive for Covid. There are practical problems,” said Chatterjee. Bengal on Sunday recorded 19,441 new infections, 124 deaths and 18,454 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.26 lakh. Of the 124 deaths, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 34 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,966 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Crematoriums full, Covid victim's body remains in apartment for 19 hours||The body of an 85-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 remained in her flat at Karunamoyee Housing Estate in Salt Lake for at least 19 hours before it was removed for cremation by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, the family said. Corporation officials said the reason for the delay was crematoriums were chock-a-block with bodies. Geeta Kumari, the victim, had tested positive for the disease a few days back. She passed away on Saturday evening after suffering breathing problems, a family member said. Kumari stayed with brother Ravindra Kumar and his son and daughter-in-law, all of whom are down with Covid and are in home isolation. The family member said the elderly woman did not respond when a help entered her room on Saturday evening to check on her. “We realised around 6pm that she was no more and alerted our neighbours. We also called up the local police station for assistance,” the family member said. The family stays on the third floor of a four-storey building that has at least seven other families living across the floors. Manas Das, a neighbour, said the family had requested him around 8pm to arrange for Kumari’s cremation. Das said he immediately called up Bidhannagar East police station, where the duty officer gave him the number of a BMC official. “I was told to contact the official and request him to get the body removed and cremated. We kept calling up the number but no one answered. We then called the ward co-ordinator (Sudhir Kumar Saha), who said he was down with Covid himself and was not in a position to help us,” Das said. A neighbour then gave Das the number of another civic official. “The second official answered the call and asked us to WhatsApp him the Covid report of the victim. After we sent him the report, he said the body would be taken for cremation late at night,” Das said. But no civic team went to the flat to take away the body on Saturday night. On Sunday morning, family members as well as neighbours called up civic officials and a hearse finally arrived around 1pm. “They said all burning ghats were full of bodies and they could not find a place where Geeta Kumari could be cremated. That they said was the reason for the delay,” Das said. Ward coordinator Saha told Metro: “I am suffering from Covid. I told the family that they needed to get in touch with civic officials as the board had been dissolved.” A civic official said the bodies of Covid victims were taken to the Nimtala, Dhapa, Khardah or Panihati crematorium. “We had contacted the Nimtala burning ghat but they said they were not taking any new bodies as the electric pyres would be shut for maintenance. Officials at the Dhapa crematorium said there was a long queue of bodies. Khardah and Panihati crematoriums, too, said the same. So we had to wait till the morning…. Besides, there was no free hearse on Saturday night,” the official said. He also said they tried but failed to find a place in a morgue where the body could be kept for the night. A resident on the first floor of the building said they had to spend the night in fear as the building was not sanitised. “The civic body came and sanitised the building in the afternoon. We shut all our doors and windows after learning about the death and are living in fear now,” said the neighbour. Public health specialist Abhijit Chowdhury described the residents’ behaviour as “irrational”. “Shutting doors and windows is not required. It is very unfortunate that people are reacting in this manner,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
