11-05-2021||Calcutta||Retired schoolteacher, who taught physics for free, dies||Retired schoolteacher Subhash Chandra Kundu, who taught physics for free to needy children with merit and had become an institution by himself in North 24-Parganas’ Basirhat, died on Friday night. Kundu was 74. He had won the lifetime achievement award at The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2018. On a 2-cottah plot, Kundu had created the Tutorial Institute of Physics in 1988 and taught children from Class IX to the undergraduate level. Kundu was partially paralysed by a stroke about a decade and a half ago but that did not stop his work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||IIEST Shibpur to give tabs to students for online classes||IIEST, Shibpur, will give tabs to students who don’t have devices so they can attend classes on online platforms. For the first phase, the institute has made a list of 40 students based on their annual family income. Students whose annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh have been chosen, an official of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology said. Classes are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid since March last year, but many students have found the change difficult because of a lack of devices or data connectivity. “Since students are not present on the campus, we will send the devices through post to their residential addresses. Classes will continue to be held on digital platforms because of the prolonged run of the pandemic and we don’t want poor students to suffer for want of devices,” IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti told The Telegraph. A survey that the institute had carried out last September had revealed that a section of students at IIEST could not attend online classes in the last semester because of a lack of smart devices. The survey collected information on the students’ ability to attend the autumn semester based on their experience in the previous semester. The situation has remained the same. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ union, said the IIEST authorities should have acted on this much earlier considering that the institute’s own survey had shown that the digital divide was coming in the way of a section of students attending online classes. “Although I am glad to learn that some 40 students will receive devices, this should have been done much earlier, ideally last year. The institute had constituted a digital education hub in August last year with contribution from an alumnus. So, it is not clear why the institute took so long to give the devices,” Kumar said. “I hope more students receive such support because the number of students who encounter the digital divide is substantial.” Debrabrata Majumder, the dean of students’ affairs, said they selected the students from a pool of those who receive full tuition fee waiver because their family income is below Rs 1 lakh a year. “We have selected students from this strata because their financial condition is extremely poor. Formalities prior to sending the devices are currently being pursued.” Buying the devices has cost the institute close to Rs 6 lakh, which is being spent from the digital education hub corpus. Last year, Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from Bengal Engineering College 64 years ago, donated Rs 1 crore to his alma mater towards setting up the hub.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||‘Sanitiser’ factory raided on Ezra Street ||A chemical-manufacturing unit on Ezra Street was raided on Monday afternoon after the enforcement branch of the city police were informed that the unit was producing “hand sanitiser” without any valid papers. The police found 380 litres of some chemical from the unit that was being packaged as hand sanitiser into different containers. “We have sent samples to a lab to see if it is fit for human use. The owner has not been able to produce any document that is required to manufacture hand sanitiser,” said an officer of the enforcement branch. The chemical seized from the unit was being supplied across several outlets where it was being labelled under different names and being sold as hand sanitiser, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal health department issues guidelines on use of plasma therapy||The Bengal health department on Monday issued guidelines for the transfusion of convalescent plasma in treatment of Covid patients to prevent “inadvertent use of Covid-19 Convalescent Plasma (CCP)”. The guidelines said some “physicians are using Convalescent Plasma (CCP) without focusing on actual indications of CCP transfusion which is not in accordance with the recommendations available in the national and international publications”. Convalescent plasma, isolated from patients who have recovered from Covid-19, contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the infection. The guidelines, issued by the state’s directors of health services and director of medical education, also stated that plasma “should be transfused within 3-7 days from the onset of symptoms and not later than 10 days”. The plasma transfusion should be done only on patients who have “mild to moderate illness, classified based on respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, lung infiltration in 24-48 hours”. The objective is to “arrest disease progression and prevent the need for mechanical ventilation”, the guidelines stated. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in an advisory released in December, had warned against the indiscriminate use of plasma. But it had failed to stop the rampant use. Monday’s guidelines mentioned that convalescent plasma can be transfused “into the patients on low flow oxygen therapy or in patients on high-flow oxygen therapy requiring not more than 10L/min”. “The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-sponsored clinical trial done in Calcutta had found that plasma therapy works well on younger people. Since younger people are getting infected in more numbers, the appropriate use of plasma therapy would significantly benefit the patients,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, a doctor-turned immunologist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. Ganguly, who had led the trial, welcomed the health department’s guidelines. “There have been instances in the past where patients with severe Covid-19 symptoms, patients who have been on ventilation were also given plasma therapy. That should be stopped,” he added. There are rules for the donation of plasma by those who have recovered from Covid. “...a person who has recovered from Covid should donate the plasma between 14 and 28 days of recovery, because this is the period when the antibodies are good enough. Those who had tested positive for Covid earlier and have taken at least one dose of vaccine can donate plasma after 14 days of taking the vaccine,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, professor and head of transfusion medicine at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Bhattacharya said plasma banks might have adequate inventory if the convalescent plasma was utilised rationally. “Use of convalescent plasma requires meticulous and expert assessment in patient’s selection. Informed consent of a patient is mandatory,” he added. The guidelines also stated that convalescent plasma may be given to patients with comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, obesity, liver diseases and someone who is a smoker. “Physicians should keep in mind the possible adverse reactions of CCP transfusions. Some of them are potentially life-threatening,” it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Three safe homes for Covid patients to come up in Salt Lake and Rajarhat||Three safe homes for Covid patients are being set up by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake, Kaikhali and Bablatala in Rajarhat. The safe home in Salt Lake will be housed in the civic body-run Matri Sadan Hospital in EE Block, which also has a vaccination centre. “The hospital has a piped oxygen supply network. At least 50 beds have been earmarked for Covid-19 patients for the time being,” an official of the corporation’s health department said. The safe house in Kaikhali is being set up in a building adjacent to the Haj House, on VIP Road, where a satellite unit operated by Charnock Hospital with around 300 beds is functional. The official said the building was being converted into a safe home and an oxygen supply line was being installed. “The centre will start with around 50 beds. The bed count will go up in phases,” said Rajarhat-Gopalpur MLA Aditi Munshi, who is coordinating with corporation officials, to set up the safe home. In Rajarhat, a swimming pool complex in Bablatala is being converted into a safe house. “The swimming pool’s changing rooms are big enough to accommodate around 30 beds. We will start with around 15 beds and add more in phases. An oxygen supply line is being set up,” said another official of the Bidhannagar civic body. The safe houses will be operational within a couple of days. Asymptomatic patients who are unable to isolate themselves at home or lack a full-time caregiver can stay in these safe homes. “In some cases, patients with very mild symptoms will be accommodated, too,” said the official. “Once we identify a patient as asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and ascertain that he or she lacks space at home to stay isolated, he or she will be taken to the nearest safe home,” said the official. He said patients admitted to these safe homes would not be charged. The corporation is looking for buildings to set up more such safe homes. More than 600 new cases are being reported almost daily from the 41 wards under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Hundreds of students anxious about online entrance tests for college admissions||Hundreds of students already anxious about their school-leaving exams are getting doubly worked up over having to appear for online entrance tests for college admissions. The entrance exams are proving to be more stressful because the onus of having a stable internet connection or power backup during the selection process is on them. Any suspicious behaviour will be treated as malpractice and the application will be treated as “not selected”, a college in Bangalore has mentioned on its admit card. Students are stressed because of the uncertainty regarding the board exams, which have been postponed “indefinitely”. The hassle of online entrance exams takes away a level-playing field, some of them said. The pressure is not just  about knowing the answers in a “time-bound paper”, but ensuring that the video does not get disrupted and that there is no noise in the background. “The challenge was to answer 120 MCQs and to sit at an angle so that I was visible clearly to the invigilator. But I could not see anything except the question paper on the screen. For any communication from the invigilator, I had to keep an eye on the instructions on the chat box,” said Ruchika Gupta who appeared for an entrance test for Christ University. Students are having to make arrangements at their homes and with family members isolated or quarantined, it is difficult to find personal space for the entrance exams. “Everyday is so unpredictable. If there was some clarity about the boards it would have eased us,” Ruchika said. One student while appearing for the test received a “warning” on the screen because the AI-enabled platform had sensed a noise. “It was the doorbell and I had to show a 360-degree view of the room because the system had sensed a noise,” the examinee said. For many students, the challenge is not just focussing on the exam but to not keep “moving too much”. “I had to ensure uninterrupted connection otherwise there is a danger of the application being disqualified. It was a one-and-half hour paper during which time I had to answer 120 MCQs,” said 19-year-old Harsh Singhania, who appeared for Christ University’s BCom entrance on May 8. Christ University receives about 80,0000 applications for various courses and this is the second year that they are conducting online entrance tests, authorities said. Colleges have to ensure that students do not resort to unfair means, a concern that has been raised by teachers during online exams. “We have an AI-enabled platform and if it senses a movement or hears a voice (prompting), the examinees receive a warning on the screen. For interviews, there can be no prompting because it is one-on-one. For micro presentations, students have limited time so the chances of taking help are extremely limited,” said Anil Joseph Pinto, registrar, Christ University, Bangalore. The students have received detailed instructions on their admit cards for Christ. One of which is: “Impersonation or any suspicious behaviour (prompting by a third person or accessing notes/gadgets) will be treated as malpractice and the application will be treated as ‘Not selected’.” “It is the responsibility of the candidate to ensure that the camera, microphone, power back up and stable internet connection is available during the selection process,” reads the selection process details for micro presentations and personal interviews for the university. Many students feel such a system will put many candidates who do not have a perfect setting at home at a disadvantage. The university authorities admit the possibility but point out that it allows “significantly more people to take the test”. “When the exam was conducted in Bangalore, it would deprive a lot of people. It is more empowering now for more people to participate through the internet, it is more economical,” said Pinto. St Xavier’s College Calcutta, which conducts entrance tests for courses like BBA, Mass Communication and Animation, plans to decide about the exams by the end of the month. “There are challenges in the online entrance because we have applicants from the districts who might not get an equal advantage in an online exam. They are good students but they might not have all facilities like internet access and uninterrupted connection,” said Reverend Father  Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. Both CBSE and ISC will review the situation in the first week of June but parents and teachers said it is difficult to keep students “motivated” to study. Siddhanth Gupta, a Class XII examinee, said that he is caught between preparing for entrance tests and board exams. “If there was certainty about the boards we could focus on the entrance. This delay is making us more anxious. I have applied to a university in Sydney and they will close admission by July-August. If I don’t get my board results till then, I will have to apply in February, which would mean a delay of seven or eight months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination: Private hospitals can’t be linked to state government sites||The state government will not be able to include private hospitals as extensions of government-run Covid vaccination centres, officials said on Monday. Such inclusion would have enabled around 1.5 lakh people who have taken the first dose at private hospitals to choose between government and private facilities for their second dose, officials said on Monday. Some private hospitals in Calcutta, which had failed to procure vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers despite several attempts, had on Saturday requested the state government to continue supplying second doses to them like before and use the private units as extensions of government facilities. The private hospitals said they were receiving hundreds of calls every day from recipients whose second dose is due. Many of those callers are refusing to go to government facilities and want to wait till private hospitals procure doses. The recipients, many of whom are elderly people, apprehend they have to stand in long queues at government vaccination centres. At a meeting on Monday, the state government told the private hospitals that it would not be possible to provide doses to them because of technical reasons. Nor is it possible to treat the private hospitals as extensions of government vaccination sites. The private hospitals, which used to receive doses from the state government till April 30, have been asked to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers. However, most hospitals in Calcutta have been unable to do so. “The government of India's directive makes it impossible for us to allow private hospitals to be extensions of our sites or to supply them vaccine doses. The Centre has said private facilities will have to get the supplies from the manufacturers,” said a state government official. According to the private hospitals, around 1.5 lakh people who have taken their first dose at their vaccine clinics are awaiting their second jabs. “We had proposed to the government to allow us to be extensions of their sites to take off the burden on government facilities. However, the state government has told us it was not possible for them to supply doses to us because of technical reasons. So, now there is no solution to the problem,” said Rupak Barua, the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said AMRI Hospitals were in touch with the two Covid vaccine manufacturers —  Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, and the Serum Institute of India, the manufacturer of Covishield. “We have placed an order of one lakh doses of Covaxin. But Serum Institute is not accepting any order. The company is telling us that they have a huge pending order from the government of India,” said Barua. AMRI Hospitals has around 23,000 recipients of second dose awaiting for the jab, about 70 per cent of whom have got Covishield as the first dose. Peerless Hospital has 3,000 recipients on the waiting list. “We are getting hundreds of calls every day and most want to wait till we get doses. But we are not getting any assurance from either manufacturer about supply,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Woodlands Hospital and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals are the only two private hospitals which have procured vaccines from the manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: New Town residential complex to host jab programme for all eligible age groups||A residential complex in New Town will host an on-site Covid jab programme for all eligible age groups on Tuesday, marking a baby step towards expanding the vaccination drive in the city. About 200 residents of Siddha Pines in Rajarhat will get the jab without stepping out of their complex, courtesy an early tie-up with a private hospital. Around 800 people live in the complex, which has 645 apartments. The on-site vaccination will start on Tuesday but a few more camps will be required to cover all eligible residents. “We have been trying to facilitate on-site programmes as many citizens, including our buyers, are unwilling to travel to clinics to get the jab. They fear they will contract Covid during their long wait at clinics. An on-site vaccination drive will allay those fears,” said Sanjay Jain, the managing director of the Siddha Group. A member of the resident welfare association of Siddha Pines said they would use two banquet halls and a library for the programme. “The jab will be administered in the library and the recipients will wait in the banquet halls before and after vaccination,” said Amit Bhatt, a member of the core committee of the association. “The vaccination will take place in batches and after every batch, the entire area used for it will be sanitised,” said Manav Mehra, the president of the association. Bhatt had approached Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals towards the end of April, when he took his mother for the second dose, for holding the camp. The hospital gave its consent a few days later. An official of the state health department visited the site on Saturday evening. The residents’ association of Siddha Pines got the go-ahead from the government on Monday. Bhatt said Apollo would provide Covishield, which has been priced Rs 950 a dose. “They are charging Rs 100 a dose as convenience fee,” he added. An official at Apollo said the hospital had received requests from many large housing complexes to hold on-site programmes. As the hospital is prioritising second dose amid very tight supply — it is administering 1,000 jabs a day on an average — these programmes would roll out slowly. Private hospitals were carrying out on-site jab programmes for corporate houses before May 1, when the vaccination was restricted among people of age 45 or older. Such arrangements reduced to a trickle from May 1, when Covid vaccination was opened to everyone 18 years or older. Covid count Bengal on Monday recorded 19,445 new infections, 134 deaths and 18,675 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.26 lakh. Of the 134 deaths, 34 were reported from Calcutta and 42 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,948 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,971.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Housing society in Behala imposes penalty of Rs 5,000 for concealing Covid cases||A housing society in Behala is imposing a penalty of Rs 5,000 on residents caught concealing cases of Covid-19 infections in their family and a fine of Rs 500 on those spotted without a mask in common areas. Officials of the Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Diamond City West said they were forced to initiate the penalties as the number of Covid cases at the complex spiralled to around 70 within a few days and many families were found to have suppressed news of infection to ensure that their help — who work in multiple flats — are not prevented from entering their home. At least two residents of the complex have had to pay Rs 5,000 each for allegedly suppressing news of infections in their families. Several have been fined for not wearing masks, said RWA president Deepak Agarwal. South City Residency and Urbana have announced a fine of Rs 100 and Rs 500, respectively, for not wearing masks in common areas. “Last year, one of the residents, who is a film-maker, was verbally abused because he asked a neighbour to wear a mask. But this year people are scared. The number of violations has gone down,” said an official of the Urbana RWA. Suppressing news of Covid infection in families has emerged a bigger issue than violation of the mask mandate at many housing complexes. Officials of the Diamond City West RWA, which has close to 1,000 flats, said they had recently learnt about two families who had allegedly concealed news of their members testing positive for Covid. They are said to have suppressed the news to ensure their help are not prevented from entering their flats. “In one of the cases, we learned from a sample collector that he was collecting samples for the Covid test from the family for the second time. Then we found that a Covid patient was living in the apartment. Their domestic help was visiting their home as well as other flats in the complex,” said an official. “We confronted the family. They admitted their fault and paid the fine amount in cheque,” the official said. Guards at the complex have been asked to take photographs of residents who are seen without masks in common areas. “The photographs are circulated in the community’s WhatsApp group and a fine of Rs 500 is added to their maintenance bill,” the official said. Vendors or maids, if found without masks, are being barred from entering the complex for a week. At other housing complexes, there were cases where families had not informed the associations during the collection of samples for Covid tests and had continued with the service of their help. Several such housing societies, however, have not imposed any penalty. “Imposing a fine involves strict vigilance and fairness. If the RWA fails to impose a fine on one violator even by mistake, it creates a lot of unrest in the society. So we have not introduced any form of penalty. If we come across cases of suppression, we directly contact the families and ask them to start following the Covid protocol,” said an official of the RWA of Upohar the Condoville.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Industrial units asked to hand over oxygen cylinders||The health department is asking industrial units in Calcutta and its adjoining areas to hand over oxygen cylinders used for industrial purposes so they could be refilled with medical oxygen and supplied to hospitals. A number of hospitals are struggling to avert a shortage of medical oxygen as the supply remains erratic and the demand keeps increasing following a steady rise in the number of Covid patients. In little over a month, the state’s medical oxygen requirement has shot up from around 160-170 tonne a day to close to 470 tonne. Officials at Swasthya Bhavan said the demand was likely to reach 550 tonnes a day in the next few days. Bengal’s production capacity is around 560 tonne a day and a part of it is being sent out to other states, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to write to the Prime Minister demanding more allocation for Bengal. Another concern is a shortage of cylinders. Health department officials, along with their counterparts from district industries centres and the directorate of drug control, are taking stock of the number of cylinders that are being refilled with medical oxygen and the number of those lying with industrial units. Teams have been set up to monitor the availability of cylinders for Calcutta and the adjoining districts of North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, East and West Burdwan and Naida. The teams will visit factories, commercial plants and production units to find out the number of cylinders filled with industrial oxygen that are lying unused. The ministry of home affairs, in an order on April 25, has banned the use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes — with exemptions for a few industries engaged in emergency services — under the Disaster Management Act 2005. Health department officials said that while almost all industrial units had stopped using industrial liquid oxygen to help the nation tide over the crisis of medical oxygen, a few have not given up the cylinders. “There are some units that have their own cylinders. We are offering them a drug license so they can refill these cylinders with medical oxygen and give them to hospitals. At least 10 companies across Calcutta, Howrah, East Burdwan and Hooghly have been offered drug licences for the purpose within a day,” an official of the directorate of drug control said. “Between Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital and the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, we need around 800 cylinders of medical oxygen every day,” said a health department official. “Unpredictable supply of cylinders has made the situation extremely difficult for us.” Panic gripped officials of Ohio Hospital in New Town on Monday morning after 250 oxygen cylinders that were scheduled to reach by 7am didn't arrive. The private hospital has 50 Covid patients, with 11 in the ICU and an equal number in HDU. "The consignment finally reached us around 11 am. There is huge pressure at the refilling centre in Kalyani and hence the delay," said a senior official of the hospital. Several companies producing oxygen in Bengal said they had to cater to the national grid. The destination for medical oxygen is decided by the Centre and companies have to follow the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cathay Pacific withdraws flights from Calcutta||Cathay Pacific on Monday decided to withdraw its flights from Calcutta, the first big international airline to do so since the onset of the Covid pandemic. Cathay Dragon, the wholly-owned subsidiary of the Hong Kong-headquartered Cathay Pacific, used to operate flights between Calcutta and Hong Kong till early March 2020. The airline then suspended operations because of the Covid-related lockdown. Sources said the contracts of the Calcutta-based employees of the airline had been terminated. However, a spokesperson for the airline could not confirm it on Monday. “The Cathay Pacific Group has announced the suspension of its Kolkata route that was operating since November 2012. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a devastating impact on the aviation industry and our business,” the spokesperson said. “The group was operating five flights a week from Calcutta pre-March 2020 and has permanently suspended all international passenger commercial operations from Calcutta with immediate effect due to commercial reasons,” the spokesperson said. “However, Cathay Pacific Cargo continues to operate cargo services as per the market demand. The Group will remain agile and continue to look for opportunities to serve this route as we can, when the travel market recovers.” Calcutta is the only city in India from where Cathay has formally withdrawn. It has presence in four other cities in the country, though fights are suspended now because of the pandemic. Many passengers from Calcutta used to fly on Cathay Dragon to Hong Kong and from there to the US, Japan and Australia. “In October 2020, the Cathay Pacific Group had announced the need to create more focussed, efficient and competitive business by harnessing our strengths and a corporate restructuring ceasing Cathay Dragon’s operations,” an official of the airline wrote in a mail to tour operators of Calcutta on Monday while informing them about the decision. In October 2020, the airline had announced that as part of restructuring, Cathay Dragon ceased to operate. The aviation industry has been severely hit by the Covid pandemic as travel across the world has become restricted. In Calcutta, the number of flights has dipped sharply. In the pre-pandemic days, the city would have more than 500 flights operating daily, carrying more than 60,000 passengers on an average. The number dropped sharply last year following the onset of the pandemic but rose again to around 300 flights and 45,000 passengers daily in February and March this year, said an official at the airport. This week, the number of daily flights has come down to 134, with only seven international flights flying in and out of the airport. The daily passenger count has come down to 20,000. “The pandemic has forced many tour operators in Calcutta to close their offices, leading to hundreds losing their jobs. Now with airlines starting to withdraw, the chances of bouncing back when the situation becomes normal are slim. Many airlines, including those operating in southeast Asia, are uncertain about continuing their operations,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. He said many airlines have been unable to pay their dues to tour operators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
