12-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal govt asks hospitals to conduct rapid antigen test||The state health department on Tuesday asked all hospitals to conduct the rapid antigen test for Covid on patients arriving with symptoms of the disease but not carrying any report. The hospitals have also been told that the “sample for RT-PCR test must be taken” if the rapid test of people with Covid symptoms come back negative. In an advisory issued on Tuesday, the department acknowledged that treatment of Covid patients is getting delayed because of a delay in getting RT-PCR test results. The rapid antigen test can throw up false negatives, while the RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard in Covid diagnosis. It also mentioned that “in case of symptomatic patients with a negative RAT (rapid antigen test) result, samples for the RT-PCR test must be taken and the patient should be kept in an isolation ward”. The rules for the rapid antigen test make it clear that someone who tests positive in the RAT should be considered as positive. But someone who has symptoms of Covid-19 but tests negative in the RAT must undergo the RT-PCR test. “A person will test positive for Covid in the RAT only if he or she has a high viral load,” said Sisir Naksar, the superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital, a designated Covid hospital. The Telegraph reported on Monday that people with Covid symptoms got a false sense of security when they tested negative in the RAT. Many hospitals and diagnostic centres are not telling people undergoing the RAT that it is not a confirmatory test, unlike the RT-PCR test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Health panel highlights Covid care lapses in Calcutta||The condition of Covid patients at some government hospitals was not being monitored closely and some doctors, including seniors, were not focussing on their treatment, a panel of doctors set up by the government has said in a report. The team visited hospitals to monitor whether the protocols for the treatment of Covid-19 were being adhered to. The team came to know that at some hospitals there was no proper system of bedside monitoring of Covid patients, including their oxygen saturation levels. At a few others, doctors were not attentive enough to find out whether some critical patients required to be “stepped up” for further intensive care or “stepped down” from the existing care system. “In some cases, since the need for oxygen supply is not closely monitored, medical oxygen is being wasted. There are several cases where the patients could have been released with proper medical advice and the beds could have been utilised for accommodating other patients,” the team has stated in its report submitted to Swasthya Bhavan. The team comprising 22 doctors from government medical colleges as well as private hospitals visited several hospitals over the past few days - including MR Bangur Hospital, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Rajarhat, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati and the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. At Sagore Dutta Hospital, for instance, the team found that senior teachers from most departments, including medicine and pulmonary medicine, were not visiting the Covid patients. It was left to junior doctors to do the rounds and decide on the treatment protocol for all serious patients as their seniors would not visit the wards, the team has observed. Around 300 Covid patients are being treated at Sagore Dutta Hospital. At the CNCI, which has around 450 Covid patients, the team found that lack of intensive monitoring of patients was resulting in misuse of medical oxygen. The general consumption of medical oxygen was 10-15 litres per minute, though some patients, who had partly recovered, were requiring much less. Had the wastage been prevented, the hospital would have been in a better position to treat serious patients who needed around 60 litres of oxygen per minute, the team has observed. At the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, junior doctors and postgraduate trainees were working in tandem with senior doctors. But that was somewhat lacking at MR Bangur Hospital. The team has observed that a number of patients at the Tollygunge hospital who required to be upgraded for more intensive care were being denied that facility owing to slack monitoring by doctors. “The report outlines several shortcomings. The misuse of oxygen has to be stopped and its use optimised through more intense monitoring of Covid patients,” said G.K. Dhali, the state's coordinator for management and containment of Covid-19. “Senior doctors at the CNCI, Sagore Dutta and MR Bangur Hospital need to be more proactive and involved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours robbed in Salt Lake||Seven cellphones, a pair of earrings, a silver chain and a wallet were stolen from two adjacent houses in Salt Lake’s AA Block early on Tuesday. Amitava Chatterjee, a resident of AA Block, noticed that the iron grille on one of his windows of his room had been pried apart when he woke up in the morning, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Sensing something wrong, he searched his bedside table and realised four cellphones, a pair of earrings, a silver chain and his wallet, containing his Aadhaar card, voter I-card, PAN card and some cash, were missing, the officer said. “Chatterjee raised an alarm, following which his next-door neighbour, Arindam Poddar, informed him that he found a window of his house open. At least three cellphones were missing,” the officer added. Chatterjee and Poddar filed complaints at Bidhannagar North police station. . Chatterjee said in his complaint that his family had gone to bed after dinner around 10:30pm. “The family did not hear any noise during the night. They discovered the theft in the morning,” said the officer. Poddar, too, said he and his family members had not heard any noise. When he woke up in the morning, he found one of the windows of his room open. Three cellphones were missing. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had launched a probe to track down those behind the thefts. No arrests were made till late on Tuesday. Three men hailing from different areas in Park Circus have been arrested for stealing wheels and tyres off parked cars in Salt Lake, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Rainwater enters SSKM Medical College and Hospital||Several patients in the gynaecology section of SSKM Medical College and Hospital had to be shifted and many others moved to one side as rainwater flooded the department’s ground floor on Tuesday afternoon. Senior doctors, nursing staff and health workers of the department joined hands to ensure no patient faced difficulty when water accumulated in the building, which is located opposite the Ronald Ross building in the northern end of the Bhowanipore campus. “Besides the ground floor, there are two other floors on the top and the patients had to be shifted to these floors. Waterlogging had been a problem for the department since 2005 but after 2011, the problem was addressed,” said Subhas Chandra Biswas, the head of the department of gynaecology of the medical college and hospital. “Thankfully the waterlogging didn’t happen during the OPD hours when there is a huge rush of patients outside,” he said. The PWD looks after the drainage of water from the buildings on the sprawling SSKM campus. On Tuesday afternoon, a team of engineers rushed to identify the cause of the  waterlogging and began a series of activities to clear clogged drains. By late night, the water level started receding. The hospital authorities have convened a meeting on Wednesday to discuss how to address the problem of waterlogging and whether alternative arrangements would have to be made before the monsoon. Senior engineers from the PWD and CMC will attend the meeting. Witnesses said water started accumulating outside the building from 3.30pm. The area usually witnesses a long queue in the morning when several patients turn up to visit the outdoor of the gynaecology department. Around 4.25pm, water started gushing into the ground floor of the department, a part of which is earmarked for OPD and the rest  kept available to treat emergency patients who might need immediate surgical intervention. Nurses and doctors of the gynaecology department waded through water on the ground floor to shift some women who were waiting for their treatment on Tuesday afternoon. Relatives joined in to help shift patients, too, as the water level kept rising. A message was sent to senior officials of the hospital, including Manimoy Banerjee, the director of the Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research, informing them about the waterlogging and the patients in the gynaecology ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid patient on Calcutta Medical College and Hospital sunshade, rescued||A Covid patient, undergoing treatment at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, climbed down to the sunshade of a window adjacent to his ward where he spent a few hours until he was rescued early on Tuesday. The patient is believed to have slipped out of the window around 3am. Hospital staff spotted him crouched on the sunshade a couple of hours later. Police at the hospital outpost informed Bowbazar police station. “A person from the Disaster Management Group went to the sunshade from the window and rescued the man around 5.30am,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Since the rescue the man has not been very coherent, a police officer said. He will be undergoing psychiatric treatment along with the treatment for Covid-19. Psychiatrists say Covid-19 can aggravate psychological conditions in people. “Covid-19 can worsen pre-existing depression or lead to psychological conditions...," said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Raid on hookah bar, three arrested for violating Covid restrictions||A hookah bar, located in the basement of a hotel on Sarat Bose Road, was found operational on Monday night when a police team raided the place. Three people were arrested for violation of the government order that restricts opening of any bar or restaurant during the pandemic. A team of the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department in Lalbazar conducted the raid at the hookah bar —   Dawntown Café — on 44A Sarat Bose Road and found at least 10 persons inside. The raids came days after a bar-cum-restaurant in Kasba was found open on Friday where a drunken brawl had spilled onto the road and had led to a BMW hitting several cars and a ragpicker, who died on the spot on Rajdanga Main Road. Following the incident, the cops have started vigilance over violations of the government restrictions. Senior officers in Lalbazar said raids would be conducted at places that are found to be operational. “This is a dangerous trend. There should be 100 per cent adherence of the government rules,” said a senior cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal seeks Centre’s nod to allot doses to private units||The Bengal government on Tuesday requested the Centre to allow it to provide Covid vaccines to private hospitals for about four lakh people who have taken their first dose at private units across the state and are awaiting the second. The Centre till Tuesday night neither rejected nor approved the request. The state government has drawn up an alternative plan so that the recipients could get the second jab at a government facility nearest to the private unit where they were administered the first dose. If the plan is adopted, the recipients will be given time slots for their second dose at government units. “We have requested the Centre to allow us to provide vaccines to the private hospitals for the second dose as that will make it convenient for those who have taken their first dose at those healthcare units. We are awaiting a response,” an official of the health government said on Tuesday. “As an alternative, to ensure these people, about four lakh recipients, get the second dose on time, the state government has tagged private hospitals with government healthcare facilities.” The private hospitals in Calcutta, Salt lake and New Town that were administering shots till April 30 are being tagged to government hospitals, health centres run by civic bodies as well as other vaccination sites of the government. The state has issued a list of government vaccination sites to which the private hospitals have been tagged. “To get vaccinated at the government facilities, one has to carry a photo identification document like voter card, Aadhaar card or passport along with proof of having received the first dose, for example the text message received after the first jab,” the official said. “The state government is working to evolve a more precise and convenient information dissemination system for the benefit of all intending to take Covid vaccines.” A state government official said to avoid long queues for these recipients, exclusive time slots are being planned. “No other recipient will be allowed to avoid rush and long queues during those windows,” the official said. In Calcutta, the hospitals have been mostly tagged to health centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and a few government hospitals. In Salt Lake, the private hospitals have been tagged to government hospitals, including Salt Lake Sub-Divisional Hospital. In New Town, the healthcare units are tagged mostly to the New Town Kolkata Development Authority’s vaccination centre. Apart from these, if someone wishes, he or she can visit any government vaccination centre for the second dose. Metro reported on Tuesday that private hospitals had requested the state government to provide them with doses so they could administer the second jab to those who had taken the first at their facilities. Although the state had earlier asked the private hospitals to redirect the recipients to government facilities, most people said they would prefer to wait for the private units to get their supply. Till April end, the state government would allot doses from the supply it would get from the Centre to private hospitals. But the Centre’s new vaccination policy from May 1 states that the private hospitals have to procure doses directly from the manufacturers — Bharat Biotech for Covaxin and the Serum Institute of India for Covishield. However, in Calcutta, barring a few, most hospitals have not been able to procure the doses. Private hospitals said the system introduced by the state government to tag them to government facilities might be inconvenient to people. “Our staff will not be there to assist the recipients of the second dose. There could be confusion. We are in talks with the state government to allow private hospitals to administer the second dose at government facilities such as stadiums and community centres,” said Rupak Barua, the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Thunderstorm, heavy rain lashes Calcutta, one electrocuted to death||Heavy rain came lashing on Calcutta on Tuesday afternoon, flooding roads and leading to at least one death because of suspected electrocution. A middle-aged man was found floating in water on the road outside the north gate of Raj Bhavan, next to a lamp post. Firefighters and police removed the body around 6.30pm. Lamp posts with lids on openings removed or kept open, exposing the maze of wires inside, and live wires submerged in water on roads make many parts of the city a death trap during or immediately after a downpour. Tuesday’s death showed little has changed. The Met official said one or two spells of thundershowers are expected in Calcutta over the next two days. But the weather will change from May 14. “The weather in Calcutta will be hot and dry from Friday. By the weekend, the temperature is expected to rise to 37-38 degrees,” he said. The rain during the day came in two major spells. The first started at 2pm and lasted over an hour. Another round started around 4.15pm and lasted for some 30 minutes. The sky started changing colours a little before noon and it was pitch dark by 2pm. The downpour, which started shortly afterwards, was preceded by gusts of wind and accompanied by rumblings of thunder. Around 2.35pm, it was difficult to see beyond 15 metres on Gariahat Road because of the intensity of the rain. Around 3pm, Camac Street was under ankle-deep water, as were parts of Central Avenue and Rashbehari Avenue. Cars moved slowly because of the showers with lights switched on as the afternoon was difficult to tell from evening. Till 5.30pm, the Met office recorded 102mm of rain in Alipore, 96mm in Dum Dum and 115mm in Salt Lake. In Met parlance, 60-120mm of rain in 24 hours is heavy and 120-200mm is very heavy. Citing figures from pumping stations, an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said Ultadanga had received 106mm of rain, Maniktala 77mm and Ballygunge 75mm. “The water level in the Hooghly rose during high tide before the rain started. The lock gates were closed around 1.30pm and reopened at 3.30pm. The closure of the gates coincided with the rain, leading to waterlogging at many places,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. “Over 370 pumps were deployed to drain out the accumulated water. By 7pm, most of the waterlogged areas were cleared. By the time the lock gates are closed again at 8.30pm, the remaining areas will be cleared of water, too,” he said. The Met office attributed Tuesday’s downpour to a cloud mass that had formed over the Bangladesh border. The mass kept growing in size as it drifted towards Calcutta. By the time it was close to North 24-Parganas and the northern fringes of Calcutta, the shell was over 80km long, said a Met official. “The cloud mass emptied most of itself over Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Multiple weather systems led to the downpour on Tuesday. A trough of low pressure from Rajasthan to Assam, another trough spreading from Sikkim to Odisha and a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal led to significant moisture incursion and the formation of the cloud mass, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Catholic diocese in cooperation with St Xavier’s University to start Covid care centres||The Catholic diocese of Asansol in cooperation with St Xavier’s University will start three isolation facilities with 90 beds for Covid patients in Burdwan and Asansol following a request from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. During an interaction at Nabanna on Monday, Mamata had appealed to Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, to consider opening Covid care facilities in Asansol. “Felix Raj ji, can you do a favour for Asansol? Please think it over because Asansol is a very critical area. Only one, Durgapur Missionary Hospital, is there. We also have hospitals. Mother and child hub is there. But in Asansol, you have good infrastructure,” Mamata said to Father Felix Raj at a meeting with leaders from several faiths. On Tuesday, the vice-chancellor said a 50-bed safe home would come up at Chetana Human Resource Development Centre in Burdwan. The other one will be set up on the St Joseph’s School campus, which houses St Xavier’s College, Asansol. The facilities will be under the Catholic diocese of Asansol. “Responding to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s appeal, I contacted the Catholic diocese of Asansol for the isolation facilities in Burdwan and Asansol. The representatives of the diocese have held discussions with the district administration in East Burdwan and West Burdwan so that the facilities can be started at the earliest. These will cater to the needs of the affected in Asansol and Burdwan,” said Father Felix Raj. “We have informed the chief minister’s office about our resolve to expand the facilities. We hope that the facilities will be operational from Monday.” Father Sarto, a priest with the Catholic diocese of Asansol who is coordinating the setting up of the isolation units, said officials of the district administration would inspect the facilities in a day or two to decide the course of action. “We have also proposed that a safe house for female patients be set up at Loreto Convent Asansol, which is adjacent to St Joseph’s School. Let them decide,” Father Sarto said. The facilities will have beds, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, nebulisers, trained nurses around the clock and allied support. Doctors will coordinate with the nurses over video calls. “Based on their advice, decisions will be taken about referring the serious cases to hospital,” said Father Sarto. He said the Covid-19 situation was grim in the industrial town of Asansol. “Almost all households have Covid patients. Many are not aware of how to isolate themselves or lack facilities for isolation. Covid care facilities will bridge some of that gap.” On Monday, while Father Felix Raj was briefing the chief minister on starting an isolation-cum pre-hospitalisation centre on the St Xavier’s University campus in New Town, Mamata requested him to open such facilities in Asansol. “Since we are running a facility on the New Town campus, the university will share its expertise with the Asansol diocese,” the VC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
