13-05-2021||Calcutta||25-year-old youth electrocuted in city of killer wires||The youth whose body was found on a waterlogged footpath outside Raj Bhavan on Tuesday was an engineer and he was heading towards Esplanade Metro station station to catch a train for Dum Dum, police have learnt from his family. Eyewitnesses told the police that the youth tripped on the waterlogged footpath and got electrocuted when he grabbed a lamp post apparently in an effort to get back on his feet. Rishav Mondal, 25, originally from Farakka in Murshidabad, was staying as a paying guest in a north Calcutta apartment, officers at Hare Street police station said. “His family said he had come to Calcutta recently and joined the Dalhousie office of a petroleum company. He spoke with his family members over the phone minutes before stepping out of his office on Tuesday evening. He had told them that he would walk to Esplanade Metro station and board a train for Dum Dum on his way home,” an officer said. People in a car that was passing through the waterlogged street in front of the Registrar of Assurances office, near Raj Bhavan, raised an alarm on seeing Mondal’s plight. Traffic cops and officers of Hare Street police station rushed to the spot and found him senseless. He was taken to SSKM Hospital in a police ambulance, where he was declared dead. Large parts of Calcutta went under water following intense showers on Tuesday afternoon, exposing pedestrians to the risk of electrocution. Lamp posts with exposed wires and live wires submerged in water on roads make many parts of the city a death trap during or after a downpour. Mondal, a civil engineer, is survived by his parents, sister and brother-in-law. His relatives from Murshidabad and Calcutta visited Hare Street police station on Tuesday night and on Wednesday morning to claim the body. The police said that the preliminary verbal opinion shared by the autopsy surgeon suggested that electrocution was the cause of his death. The only breadwinner in his family, Mondal had done civil engineering from a private college in Chennai, his Facebook profile says. The civic body, which is responsible for the maintenance of lamp posts, has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the bereaved family. Mondal’s relatives, however, refused to accept the compensation and demanded justice for the untimely death of the youth. “We do not want the money. Instead, the government should use the money to ensure that such accidents do not happen again,” said Mondal’s brother-in-law Keshab Chandra Palit. His sister Vijeta said his brother died because of the government’s fault. “Now they want to compensate with money?” she said. The police said the family did not lodge any official complaint till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Principal of La Martiniere for Boys, John Rafi, resigns||The principal of La Martiniere for Boys, John Rafi, has resigned from the post. Rafi, who will continue as principal till June 30, sent his resignation letter to Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India and president of the school’s board of governors, on Tuesday. Vice-principal P.A. John Stephen will function as acting principal till the next head is appointed, the school said. Rafi, a physics teacher, was the vice-principal of the school for three years before taking over as principal on April 1, 2015. He succeeded Sunirmal Chakravarthi, who had resigned as principal a few months before. “It is a mixed feeling now. Just as I am getting ready to take on new challenges, I have profound attachment to La Martiniere for Boys. La Martiniere is such a place that it grows on you and I will always hold it dear to my heart,” Rafi told The Telegraph. He was with La Martiniere, Lucknow, for seven years before moving to the Calcutta school as vice-principal in 2012. The secretary of the La Martiniere schools, Supriyo Dhar, on Wednesday issued a circular announcing the change. “This is to inform all concerned that Mr John Rafi, principal, La Martiniere for Boys, has tendered his resignation from the post of Principal, La Martiniere for Boys, with effect from 11th May, 2021. His resignation has duly been accepted by the competent authority and accordingly he will be released from his post with effect from 30th June, 2021,” the circular said. During his tenure as principal, Rafi introduced activities in both academic and co-curricular calendars of the school. In 2017, he had introduced a fest for children from underprivileged families. For the middle school, he introduced the Inter La Martiniere cricket match and an exchange programme. For the junior school, Rafi introduced a system where each child would learn a new activity every year. He also started an open-air concert for Class V students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: ICU bed crisis results in patients with severe symptoms being refused admission||A crisis of critical care beds for Covid patients is resulting in many patients with severe symptoms being refused admission or treated in general wards where their condition is deteriorating to a stage beyond recovery, said doctors and health officials. On May 11, 2020, a couple of months into the pandemic, Bengal had 907 critical care beds for Covid patients across the state. On May 11, 2021, the state had 2,711 critical care beds for such patients, almost three times the count a year before but the crisis, too, has intensified by many notches. Doctors and health officials said the virus had become more transmissible and was causing severe disease in many more patients compared with last year. A man in his 50s from Salt Lake, who has several comorbidities, had tested positive for Covid and was taken to a private hospital in the township on Monday night. Doctors in the emergency ward said he needed a critical care bed. All ICU beds at the hospital were occupied. “We called up a private hospital in New Town and were told that one ICU bed was available. However, it took us about an hour to hire an ambulance and take him there. When we reached the hospital, the authorities said a patient had become critical and was allotted the bed,” a relative of the man said. The patient was kept at a nursing home in New Town and finally, on Wednesday evening, he was shifted to an ICU bed at a nursing home in Maniktala. Many private hospitals said they had increased their ICU strength much more than they did during the first wave of the epidemic last year but the numbers are inadequate. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria had 99 Covid beds during the peak of infections last year, of which 32 were ICU beds. This year, the hospital has 170 Covid beds, of which 50 are ICU beds. “All critical care beds have been occupied over the past 10 days and we are turning down requests from other hospitals to transfer critical patients to our facility,” said an official of the hospital. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals had around 20 ICU beds for Covid patients last year. Now it has around 80 but there is still a need for more, said an official of the Bypass hospital. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had 45 critical care beds for Covid patients last year. This year they have 130. “We are getting 10 to 15 requests daily from small nursing homes and hospitals to transfer patients to our critical care unit,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Mukundapur hospital. Some hospitals said the crisis of critical care beds had reached such an extent that patients in need of high-end critical care support were being treated in general wards with less advanced equipment. As a result, their condition is often deteriorating to a stage beyond recovery. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has around 25 extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machines, which pump blood to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to the body. This machine is used to provide support to extremely critical Covid patients. “There are many young patients who need ECMO support. But the demand is so high that there is a waiting list of seven to eight patients,” a doctor at the hospital said on Wednesday. Physician Amitabha Saha, who is part of Medica’s Covid treatment team, said: “Patients on general beds are deteriorating much faster compared with last year. Also, we have seen mainly those who are not vaccinated are becoming critical, which is why many young patients are requiring ICU and ventilation support.” Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya, who treats Covid patients at Peerless Hospital, attributed the rise in the number of critical patients to higher transmissibility of the virus. “Now, the number of people getting infected is five times more compared with last year. As a result, the number of critical patients, too, is more than last year. It’s about faster spread of the virus and severity of the disease,” said Bhattacharya, who now has 26 Covid patients admitted under him. “A number of younger patients are turning critical. One reason could be they have not been vaccinated but are exposed more to the virus because they have to step out for work,” said Bhattacharya. Bengal on Wednesday recorded 20,377 new infections, 135 deaths and 19,231 recoveries. Of the 135 deaths, 44 were reported from Calcutta and 27 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,989 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,091.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Critical care ramp-up hits ventilator wall||Hospitals in the city want to increase the number of critical care beds for Covid patients but a shortage of ventilators is one reason they are unable to do that fast, officials said. Since most patients infected with the new strain of the virus and admitted to ICUs need to be put on a ventilator, hospitals said adding ICU beds without the device would not make sense. But getting ventilators, imported or produced in the country, is taking three weeks to one month. The waiting period was two weeks in the pre-Covid times. Hospitals said the period should have been reduced given the severity of the second wave of infections in the country, but the opposite is happening. Also, some of the ventilators procured under the PM CARES Fund are malfunctioning and they are so basic that they could not be used for critical Covid patients, some hospitals said. Hospitals and some manufacturers and distributors of ventilators said the delay was mainly because of shortage of personnel in the production units, red tape at various points and delay in shipment. One big private hospital in Calcutta had procured several ventilators last week, which were to be flown in from Chennai. The CEO of the hospital said the ventilators were lying at the Chennai airport for four days because those could not be put into a cargo flight. Finally, those were transported to Hyderabad and from there to Calcutta. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 60 ventilators for Covid patients for its 130 ICU beds. “We had procured 10 ventilators from Gurgaon… It took more than three weeks to reach us. We placed orders for another 16 today but those are not expected before another three to four weeks. Till the ventilators arrive, we cannot increase the ICU beds despite high demand,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Venkatesh said the 30 ventilators for non-Covid patients at the hospital were all engaged. Peerless Hospital has 42 ICU beds, of which 20 are fitted with ventilators. All critical beds are occupied. “At least 10 patients in general wards need to be shifted to the ICU but we cannot transfer them because all critical care beds were occupied. These patients are given oxygen support and put on non-invasive ventilators on general beds,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital, he said, had placed orders for five more ventilators but those are not expected before at least a month. An official of a multinational company that manufactures ventilators said one reason for the delay in the arrival of ventilators from the US and Europe was the fact that only a few cargo flights were operating. Another reason is limited production capacity. “Many workers are down with Covid and so production is hit. Also, the manufacturing units have to prioritise the demand of their respective countries. So, Indian companies have to produce ventilators in greater numbers,” the official said. “The demand has gone up because of the new strain. Earlier, 45 per cent ICU beds needed to be fitted with ventilators. But now we have 80 per cent beds with ventilator support,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: AMRI opens satellite unit at Lalit Great Eastern||A portion of a star hotel in central Calcutta has been converted into a satellite facility for Covid patients without symptoms or with mild symptoms. The 195-bed satellite centre at The Lalit Great Eastern, which opened on Wednesday afternoon, has been set up and will be run by the AMRI Hospitals. The centre has a remote monitoring system, which allows doctors and nurses to check the vitals of patients such as the oxygen saturation level and pulse from the nursing station. A mat called Dozee Pro, placed between the bed and the mattress, is connected to a sensor that helps record the vitals of a patient. “No other satellite unit in the city has this facility,” said an AMRI official. Four doctors and 10 nurses will remain stationed at the hotel around the clock. If required, specialists will be consulted, the official said. “We have started with 195 beds. By Wednesday evening, 75 beds had been booked. If there is demand, we can add more beds and take the count up to 250,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Another official of the hospital chain said the satellite centre was under the supervision of the Dhakuria unit of the group, which now runs five satellite facilities. The other four together have around 150 beds. At Great Eastern, there are single-occupancy and double-occupancy rooms. “While a single-occupancy room costs Rs 10,000 a day, the double-occupancy costs each person Rs 6,000 a day. The cost is all inclusive,” said an official of AMRI. Patients who want to book a bed at The Lalit Great Eastern have to call AMRI first. They will be asked to visit the emergency department of the Dhakuria hospital, where their vitals will be checked before they are shifted to the hotel. “Our doctors will check the patient to be sure that she/he does not need a hospital bed. Only those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms will be alloted beds at the hotel,” the official said. Barua said AMRI was continuously recruiting nurses and doctors to manage the satellite facilities. “We are hiring many intern nurses, who are working under the supervision of senior nurses of our hospitals,” Barua said. AMRI has also set up a 250-bed field hospital at the Salt Lake stadium for patients whose condition is a little more serious than the ones at the satellite centres. The Lalit Great Eastern, which was earlier known as Great Eastern Hotel. was set up in the 1840s. “There are two wings in our hotel. We have given one wing to AMRI to set up the satellite facility. The two wings have separate entry and exit. The other wing is still open for guests, though there is very little movement now. The restaurant is closed, as ordered by the government,” said Dilip Mishra, the general manager of The Lalit Great Eastern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur teacher accused of abuse suspended||An IIT Kharagpur teacher who had allegedly verbally abused students from disadvantaged categories last month for not standing up for the national anthem during an online class has been suspended based on a fact-finding committee’s report, said an institute official. IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath said on Wednesday evening: “We have put her on suspension until further orders, based on the report. In this inquiry process, suspension is the first step that we have taken. She will not take classes during the suspension period and normal suspension rules will be followed.” The teacher, who is an associate professor from the department of humanities and social science, was allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents during a preparatory English class, which is offered to students from reserved categories. In the purported video, a rant could be heard: “This is the minimum you can do for your country. Listen to me…. I have 20 marks for you, I will give zero to everybody. All 128. Do you want that? Tell me. Do you want that? (‘No, ma’am’, says a student in a meek voice). Shameless people. You have to only stand up for two minutes in honour of the national anthem and you cannot do it. And one bloody b******. You know, this is also on your parents. Be it like that. I am calling your parents that. Do you have any shame? Shameless creature of prep course. One smart fellow. (He) did not stand up for the national anthem and said ‘Bharat Mata ki’. Are you in school now? Bloody B******.” Repeated calls and text messages to the accused teacher went unanswered. On April 27, the students’ senate that represents all the students on the IIT Kharagpur campus had sought an inquiry into the verbal abuse. Sources on the campus said it would be decided later if measures like pay cut or scrapping of increment will be initiated against the teacher. Over 1,000 former students of several IITs had written to IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari at the end of April, seeking strong action against the teacher. The alumni had written the teacher “is  a habitual offender and believes her casteism and abuse will go uncensored”. Late April, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes had taken suo-motu cognisance of the alleged use of “unparliamentary language and casteist remarks’’ by an IIT Kharagpur teacher and asked the institute to submit an action-taken report in 15 days. A report has been sent to the commission, registrar Nath said. An official of the commission said they will write to IIT Kharagpur in a day or two after going through the report. The commission had earlier recommended measures like filing of an FIR, slapping of relevant sections on the accused and arrest of the accused, among other things.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIT Kharagpur asks scholars to go home||IIT Kharagpur has asked its research scholars to vacate hostels and go home because of the “limited space of isolation facilities and treatment”. Late on Wednesday, the registrar issued a notice that said the institute will remain closed from May 14-23. An email that the institute authorities sent to the hostel wardens on Wednesday morning said: “Institute authorities have decided that due to limited space of isolation facilities and treatment, it is imperative that students should now proceed to their homes”. In December last year, the institute had allowed around 800 of its 4,000-odd research scholars to return to the campus in batches. From mid-April, IIT Kharagpur decided to stop the remaining research scholars from returning to the campus because of a lack of beds at hospitals for Covid patients. Now, because the situation has deteriorated further, those who were on the campus have been asked to leave. “Please ask them (students) to make their plans to go home urgently. As the situation is not very good elsewhere, the institute will help in travelling to respective places by arranging buses and cars for students,” the email said. Highlighting the burdened and insufficient medical facilities, dean of students’ affairs Somesh Kumar had on April 17 written to the research scholars who were going to return to the campus over the next few weeks to defer their journey. Many on the campus said they relied on hospitals in Calcutta for treatment of critical diseases because BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus was not equipped to deal with the rising number of Covid patients. Calcutta itself is struggling to cope with the number of infections in the second wave of the Covid pandemic, a professor said. The hostel wardens have been asked to get details — home address, email ID, room number, mobile number, guardian’s name and phone number — of the boarders residing in the halls as early as possible, an IIT Kharagpur official said. “We are taking steps required for travel arrangements from the institute’s end. We had planned to bring students in phases. But as the scale of the pandemic is growing we have asked students to proceed to their homes,” IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath told Metro. The scholars who are from nearby places or those who can make their own arrangements can leave after informing the warden or dean of students’ affairs, an official said. The mail reminds the hostel wardens that a negative RT-PCR report is required to enter many states. “Based on the plan of travel, they (students) will be asked to get the RT-PCR test in BC Roy Technology Hospital in slots,” the mail said. “Last year, when students had been asked to vacate the hostels, the institute had asked them to make their own arrangements. The IIT authorities had even disconnected the Internet to force the students to vacate the hostels. But this time, they are making arrangements for our transportation,’’ said a research scholar. Late on Wednesday, the registrar issued a notice that said: “In view of the rise in the number of Covid-19 affected cases in the campus and as decided in the meeting of the stakeholders for breaking of the chain of Covid-19..... the institute shall remain closed  from 14th May to May 23rd.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Firhad Hakim blames ‘hooking and theft’ for youth’s death||A day after a 25-year-old engineer died after allegedly coming in contact with a lamp post in the heart of the city, outgoing Calcutta mayor Firhad Hakim blamed “hooking and electricity theft” for the electrocution death. He asked police and CESC to set up a technical team to probe the incident and prevent such incidents in future. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the CESC have written two separate letters to Lalbazar asking to start a detailed probe into the death of civil engineer, Rishav Mondal, whose body was found partially submerged in a waterlogged footpath near Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening after a heavy spell of rain. According to the rulebook, the primary responsibility of maintaining the lamp posts in Calcutta lies with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Metro on Wednesday found several electrical wires jutting out of the lamp post outside the office of the Registrar of Assurances that allegedly caused the death of the civil engineer on Tuesday evening. After the incident, it has been cordoned off with guard rails to ensure that no passer-by could come in its contact till the probe was complete. Several other lamp posts Metro came across in different parts of the city were found with wires jutting out, making them look as dangerous as the one that claimed a life a day before. The hatches on most of the lamp posts — meant for maintenance and repairs — are open, raising the possibility of someone coming in contact with a live wire inside. Reacting to the incident on Wednesday Hakim said: “This is not about Raj Bhavan alone. This is the condition across the city where some people steal electricity for their vested means and endanger lives. I do not know why such people cannot be brought to book. This has happened earlier also in Kidderpore.” “I am requesting the CP (commissioner of police) to make a technical team along with the CESC to look into this problem of electricity theft.” The civic body on Wednesday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the bereaved family. The family,  however, refused to accept the compensation and suggested that the government should use the money to fix these glitches instead. “...We are returning the compensation so that they (the government) can fix the glitches,” Mondal’s elder sister, Vijeta Palit, said. Last year August, two men returning home after a dip in the Hooghly, were electrocuted near the botanical garden in Shibpur after they came in contact with a lamp post. In August 2016, a 14-year-old student returning home from tuition had died after touching a lamp post while wading through a waterlogged Bhowanipore road. The CMC had then claimed that Yash Bengani wasn’t electrocuted by touching the trident lamp post, instead he had slumped after coming in contact with a CESC feeder box around 10ft away from the post. In connection with Tuesday’s incident, a CESC spokesperson said: “In Calcutta and Howrah, all our cables are laid underground and have been like this for years. This (Mondal’s death) is an extremely unfortunate incident. We are sure a thorough investigation would unearth the exact cause.” He added the CESC was not responsible for the maintenance of any of the lamp posts that fall under their area of service. Senior officers in Calcutta police said a probe has been launched to ascertain the exact sequence of the events. “We are in the process of examining witnesses,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cops, NGO pass the buck on teenager's dad search ||Two days after a 13-year-old Covid-positive boy was found alone at the Sealdah station parking lot on Monday morning, no efforts were allegedly made either by police, railway police or the NGO that rescued him, to look for his father. Police said Childline, which had rescued the boy, was his custodian and was responsible for the next procedures, while the NGO officials said as they had informed the local police and they should also launch a search for the father. Railway officials said they had “nothing to do” with the incident as it happened just outside the station building, which is not under the railway’s jurisdiction. The boy is currently at the safe home in Uttirno and undergoing Covid treatment. “He is asymptomatic and is responding well,” said a health department official at Uttirno. The official added that they have received an email from an NGO that has requested for the child’s custody after his recovery. “We have also received more than one request from people who want to sponsor the child’s education.” According to the procedure, once the child is fit to be discharged, he is supposed to be produced before the Child Welfare Committee in presence of his guardian. The CWC is expected to decide on the next course of action. “We have tried to search for the child’s father outside the Sealdah station area today. But in absence of any photograph it is a difficult task. We have informed Entally police station. They should formally search for his father,” said an official of the Childline — a central government NGO. Senior officers in Entally police station said they have received an “intimation” about a child being rescued from their jurisdiction. “It is for the NGO that rescued the child to look for his father. We can chip in only when specifically told to,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
