14-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine: City civic body rules out separate slot for recipients from private hospitals||Many health clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have said separate slots cannot be provided to the recipients of the second dose of Covid vaccines who have taken their first jabs at private hospitals. An official of the civic body said on Thursday that they were fearing law and order problems if such recipients were given priority over residents of the respective areas, who are queuing up from very early in the morning for the jab. "It will not be possible to provide separate time slots to these recipients. Most of the clinics are located in residential neighbourhoods and hundreds of people are queuing up for the vaccine. If a group is given preferential treatment, then there can be law and order problems," the official said. Special slots for recipients who have taken their first dose at private hospitals would have enabled them to avoid long queues to get the second jab at a civic clinic. Most private hospitals have suspended vaccination against Covid as they are unable to procure doses from the manufacturers. Till April end, the state government was allotting them doses, a system that came to an end when the Centre’s new vaccination policy took effect on May 1. The state government has announced that private vaccination centres will be tagged to the nearest government-run facilities, which in Calcutta are mostly CMC clinics, for the second dose. The state government has circulated the list of centres to the private facilities and has also said that people can walk into any government-run centre for the jab. The private hospitals have proposed that the state government use their facilities as extensions of its vaccination centres so that those who have taken their first dose at the private units could be administered the second jab on their premises without much hassle. The state is awaiting the Centre’s nod before accepting the proposal. Many people have told private hospitals that they had returned from CMC clinics without taking the jab because of long queues. Many others on Thursday said they would wait for 12 to 16 weeks from the first dose for the second jab, as recommended by an expert panel of the Centre. In Bengal, about four lakh people have taken the first dose at private facilities and are awaiting the second. Most have taken Covishield. Peerless Hospital on Wednesday had sent its staff members to the CMC clinic of borough 12 in Mukundapur to find out whether those who have taken the first shot at the hospital could be given separate slots for the second. "Our people were told by the CMC clinic authorities that the recipients would have to stand in the queue like others. No exclusive slots could be given,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. A Southern Avenue resident had gone to a nearby CMC clinic which is supposedly tagged to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria. He was told that Thursday's quota was exhausted and he would have to come back on Friday morning and queue up like others. Many people who had taken the first dose at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences called up the hospital on Thursday and said they could not get the second dose at CMC clinics because of long queues. "We have been getting mixed responses from beneficiaries about the government's initiative. A few have got the jab, whereas some have been deterred by long queues. A few senior citizens want someone from the hospital to escort them to the CMC clinic, while others want to wait till we get doses,” said R. Venkatesh , regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. The hospital has around 8,000 people awaiting the second dose. Bengal on Thursday recorded 20,839 new infections, 129 deaths and 19,181 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.3 lakh. Of the 134 deaths, 39 were reported from Calcutta and 25 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,924 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,131.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Passengers queue up as Calcutta airport Covid testing facility provides report in 48 hours||The Covid testing facility at the Calcutta airport has many passengers queuing up every day because very few diagnostic centres in the city are giving test results within 72 hours of sample collection. The local authorities at many domestic and international destinations have made it mandatory for fliers to have a Covid negative report, obtained not more than 72 hours before, while boarding the flight. Airport officials said they had asked Suraksha Diagnostics, which conducts the tests, to give the results of those with air tickets within 48 hours. The facility was started about a month ago and can be accessed through gate number 3C on the departure level, near the airline counters. “Many passengers were complaining that they had to cancel their tickets because the RT-PCR test reports were not available within 72 hours. So we had decided to set up the testing facility at the airport,” an official of the city airport said on Thursday. Apart from passengers, residents of nearby localities are queuing up for the test, said officials of Suraksha. “We are collecting 200 to 250 samples every day for the RT-PCR test at the airport, of which 80 to 100 are of air passengers. The airport authorities and airline officials have requested us to prioritise testing of samples of fliers. We are delivering their reports within 48 hours,” said Niren Kaul, vice-president, operations, Suraksha Diagnostics. He said samples were collected every day from 10am to 6pm. The standard fee of Rs 950 is charged for the test, he said. “Passengers from far-off places like Burdwan are coming to get the test done here before departure,” said Kaul. Passengers flying out of Calcutta to most cities in India and outside the country need an RT-PCR negative report and the test should be done within 72 hours before departure. Several passengers said they were facing problems in getting test reports within 72 hours of giving samples. UK national Anumkita De is scheduled to return to the country from Calcutta through Delhi on Air India flights. De, a doctor, is to fly from Calcutta to Delhi on Tuesday evening and then onwards to London on Wednesday morning. “I had contacted several testing facilities but all of them said they could not guarantee a report within 72 hours. One centre said they were only collecting samples of people with Covid symptoms and were not entertaining air passengers,” said De, who is staying in Tollygunge now. She is planning to go to the airport on Sunday to give the swab samples for the test. The Telegraph has reported that RT-PCR test reports are often coming four to five days after the collection of samples. “Now people are only travelling for essential causes. So, these passengers are severely inconvenienced when they have to cancel or defer their travel,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Remdesivir sold for Rs 25,000, chemist held||Three men, including a pharmacy owner, have been arrested for allegedly trying to sell a vial of remdesivir, a medicine at times used to treat Covid, for Rs 25,000, which is almost 10 times the price, police said. The police have seized 132 vials of the medicine that were allegedly illegally stashed in an apartment on Chapel Road in Hastings. One of these vials was about to be sold for Rs 25,000 to a family in Gariahat when police intervened and arrested the people allegedly involved in the racket. A reported crisis of remdesivir and alleged inability of comparatively smaller hospitals to source the medicine have left patients’ relatives with no option but to buy it from the blackmarket at a premium. Earlier, too, the city police had made multiple arrests in connection with illegal hoarding and sale of remdesivir. “A resident of Gariahat lodged a complaint alleging that someone was charging Rs 25,000 for a single vial of remdesivir, whose original cost is Rs 2,700. We pursued the case and found that the man who was offering them the medicine was in touch with a medicine shop owner,” said an officer at Lalbazar. On Wednesday night, a team from Lalbazar picked up Raj Kumar Roy Chowdhury, of Sarat Ghosh Garden Road in Kasba, who had allegedly approached the complainant, and Indrajit Hazra, 41, of Sahapur Colony, who runs a medicine shop. Hazra was arrested from a location on Diamond Harbour Road. Statements from the arrested duo led the cops to Debabrata Sahoo, 36, of Chapel Road, who allegedly had more than 100 vials at home. He allegedly failed to produce any documents for the medicine, which can only be procured by hospitals. “A preliminary investigation suggests Sahoo had sold the vial for Rs 12,000 to Hazra. The latter was trying to sell it to a patient party through a middleman for Rs 25,000,” said an officer. The police said a sample of the medicine would be sent for chemical examinations to ascertain its authenticity. An order from the state health department on April 24 mentioned that remdesivir was “not needed for the treatment of all Covid-19 patients''. Only “10-20 per cent of all Covid cases” requires treatment with remdesivir. The order also stated: “No hospital/nursing home should give prescription to patients for Remdesivir. It is the responsibility of the hospital to arrange it for their patient.” But, in reality, many hospitals are failing to procure the medicine, leaving patients’ relatives with no option but to look for it in the blackmarket. Calcutta police on Thursday issued a helpline and the email ID of the joint commissioner of crime to report financial frauds relating to black marketing of oxygen, plasma, medicines or hospital beds through social media. Email: jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in Call: 9874909640||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Appeal for Id prayers at home||The customary hugs will not be there after the Id prayers this year. The warmth will be there but the muted celebration will have a constant reminder of the unfolding human tragedy caused by a raging virus. Muhammad Faizal, 34, a Beniapukur resident, came to New Market on the eve of Id on Thursday to buy new clothes. He returned with only one bag, containing a set of kurta pyjama for his 8-year-old nephew. In previous years, he had to bring along a friend as there would be too many bags. “This is no time for grandeur because disease and death are all around. Normally, I have colleagues and friends coming over to our place for lunch. But this time, it is going to be just a family affair,” said Faizal, who works for an IT company in Sector V. Many people said the feast would be curtailed and celebrations limited to family members. The Id biryani at the home of Shadab Khan, 39, a plywood trader in Barrackpore, is the stuff of legend among his friends. Every Id, he and his wife, Nausheen, host over 50 guests, some of them coming from as far as Narendrapur, on the southern fringes of the city. “But this year, we will just have a video call with them to exchange greetings,” said Khan. Visits to Zakaria Street and New Market a day before Id offered a peek into the muted celebrations planned for the occasion. Both places were busy but the crowd was nothing compared to the usual frenzy on the eve of Id. A walk down the entire stretch of Zakaria Street, around 600m long, took just over 10 minutes on Thursday. On the eve of Id in previous years, it would take at least 30 minutes. “People from all over the city come here before Id. This time, mostly residents of the area are here. The volume of purchase is also much lesser than usual. A person who buys 5kg of sewai is buying only 1kg,” said Shahid Ahmed, 64, who sells cigarettes, soft drinks and other items from a small shop on Zakaria Street. “This is not the time to celebrate. If we show prudence this year, God willing, we can celebrate Id with aplomb next year,” said Muhammad Fayazuddin, who owns a store selling kurta pyjamas opposite Nakhoda Masjid. By prudence, he meant abiding by the Covid protocols. The shops opened during the 5pm-to-7pm window. The imam of Nakhoda Masjid, Shafique Quasmi, said there would be no large gathering in the mosque for Id prayers. “I have appealed to people to pray from their homes. People who visit the mosque for prayers will be split into small groups. I have asked them to desist from hugging one another after the prayers,” he said. The customary Id prayer on Red Road has been called off. “The maligning of Muslims is a toxic ploy by people who thrive on polarisation and hatred. But that thrusts more responsibility on our shoulders. We should not let our guard down for once and must continue to abide by all the Covid protocols,” said Manzar Jameel, a 60-year-old resident of Paddapukur in Entally. Id at Jameel’s residence normally involves an elaborate spread of biryani, paratha, korma, sewai, sheermal and other delicacies. His four sisters and their family members come over for a feast. But this year, it will be just his core family — his 85-year-old mother, wife and three daughters. Id is being held against the backdrop of a pandemic for the second straight year. “There is very little we can do, other than following the Covid protocols meticulously. This pandemic is worse than a war, where you can at least see your enemy,” said Shahanshah Mirza, the great-great-grandson of Wajid Ali Shah. Id for Mirza starts with a visit to the Imambara in Beniapukur, followed by a visit to his mother’s graveyard. The morning then leads to a full day of feasting with friends and relatives. But this time, Mirza is not stepping out of his home. Neither is he having guests at his place. Mirza has two daughters aged 22 and 12. The younger one’s response to the curtailed celebrations has pleasantly surprised Mirza. “She has not asked for any gifts. She understands that it is not right when people are sick and dying,” said Mirza.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||PIL crusader dies of Covid, mother too tests positive||A Calcuttan widely known for his frequent public interest litigation (PIL) petitions died of Covid on Wednesday. Kamal Dey, 53, lived with his mother at their Thakurpukur home. On Wednesday, the elderly woman was found stooped over his lifeless body. Neighbours called police after they realised what had happened. Dey’s mother is Covid positive too. The police have admitted Durga Rani Devi to MR Bangur Hospital. Some of Dey’s PILs led to court orders with long-term implications. In 2016, Dey had filed a PIL in Calcutta High Court complaining about the flab on tummies of policemen. Dey had attached 18 photographs of policemen with round tummies in his petition where he argued that according to the Police Act 1861, if a cop was found unfit, he or she could be suspended or even sacked. “The then inspector-general of police overseeing police welfare had to draw up a specific fitness regime for police personnel...,” said a senior IPS officer. In 2013, he had moved the Supreme Court alleging disrespect to the Tricolour during a December 2012 cricket match between India and England and a India-Pakistan match that followed. In September 2013, the apex court had asked the Indian cricket board, the Cricket Association of Bengal and Calcutta police to prevent spectators from showing disrespect to the national flag during matches. “On Wednesday night the local police received information from some residents and broke open the main door. The lights and fans were on. Dey’s mother sat beside him,” said a senior officer of Calcutta Police. The mother’s condition is critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||St Teresa’s Superior Sister Pranita Lepcha passes away||The Superior of St Teresa’s Convent, Sister Pranita Lepcha, who was the acting principal of St Teresa’s Secondary School in Kidderpore, passed away on Thursday morning. She was 43. Sister Lepcha had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to hospital on May 1. “Sister was on oxygen support since she was admitted and later on ventilator support. She succumbed to Covid,” said Sister Regi Mathew, provincial, Daughters of the Cross. Before moving to St Teresa’s Secondary School, Sister Lepcha was the principal of St Paul’s Boarding and Day School in Kidderpore for two years. She was supposed to take charge as principal at St Teresa’s but the process was delayed because of the pandemic, said Sister Mathew. “But she had taken up all responsibilities as the head of the school. She was also a provincial councillor.” Reverend Father Victor David, 68, the parish priest of Our Lady of Happy Voyage, Howrah, who was in hospital with Covid, passed away on Thursday. On Thursday afternoon, the archdiocese of Calcutta issued a circular by archbishop Thomas D’Souza asking people to pray for those who are quarantined or hospitalised. The circular mentioned Sister Lepcha’s death and the health conditions of others. “...I would like to request all of you to pray the Holy Rosary and offer it for the healing and restoration of complete health of our sick brothers and sisters, especially those who are affected by Covid-19, those who are quarantined or hospitalised,” the archbishop said in the circular. “...there are Priests, Sisters and Lay people who are affected by Covid-19, persons known to us, even unknown. Let us pray earnestly for all our sick,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Coming soon:  RT-PCR testing facility and safe home at Ramakrishna Mission ||The Ramakrishna Mission will start a facility for conducting the RT-PCR test at the BEd College in Saradapith adjoining Belur Math in a few days. “The centre will be open to all who want to tested,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. “This will be in addition to our efforts aimed at spreading awareness about the pandemic in these difficult times and come to their help in whatever way we can.” The Ramakrishna Mission has decided to start a safe home for 50 Covid patients at the Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira, a  polytechnic college run by the order, adjacent to Belur Math. The safe home will start in early June and the testing facility will begin by next week, senior monks said. The Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission has set up dedicated Covid-19 beds in hospitals under its wing in Calcutta, Kankhal, Lucknow, Thiruvananthapuram, Varanasi and Vrindavan, the Math said in a release. “Many of our hostel buildings and guest houses have been converted to temporary Covid care centres or safe homes,” said Swami Suvirananda. “Our centres at Dehradun, Itanagar and Mumbai are functioning as designated Covid vaccination and diagnostic centres.” Senior monks of the order said spiritual counselling through online classes is being provided through many centres and relief services were also being provided in several countries including Bangladesh and South Africa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||‘This Id, we prayed for a better future’||The last year was tough; our/my world literally turned upside down in so many ways... many of us don’t even know half of it. However, amid the uncertainty, I’m trying to make sense of key moments that enabled time to go on and for life to continue. The losses and despair felt heavier than normal, and the joy and love felt stronger and more consequential than before. Friends in our midst passed away, and the situation in India appeared to reach new unthinkable lows every day. I also had to learn to come to terms with the loss of a relationship. Far too often we feel imperative to look for lessons in these dark moments, like our own worst preachers. This is unnecessary and not always helpful. Sometimes, things are crap and should rightfully be acknowledged as such. There was light too. While I was physically distant from family, we spoke more frequently, laughed more together, had meaningful conversations. I intimately got to know my housemates, in an accommodation that had otherwise been too busy/on different schedules/too strapped for time. While I have yet to fully reflect on the mucky nature of this year, this was also a time that I found myself supported and just about confident enough to begin my masters. I moved back to London and rekindled old friendships and made new ones; met new co-conspirators, whom I have loved scheming with and talking to, sometimes hours and hours over video chat. I made marginally more time for artistic ventures from a past life, including drawing. And found a whack community of gym enthusiasts who helped London feel more familiar again. Undergirding these moments, dark or light, are the connections that sustained me throughout them. They’re not specifically reflected on this post, but I am indebted to them all. My earliest memories of Id consisted of putting on new clothes, offering prayers at the jamat in Kalighat Club, then heading out to my grandmother’s house, eating a special breakfast as a family where we would spend the entire day. It was nice and low-key. The second day of Id is always blocked by all my friends and family for my father’s annual Id party. I have had my friends from London, Greece, Dubai, Delhi and Mumbai literally fly down for the event in the previous years. Id in London is quite festive. My friends and I would usually go to Regent’s mosque, where Muslims from all over the world come to celebrate universal brotherhood. It is also known for being one the most diverse mosques in London and hence, the gathering is rather large. So, the Id namaz is offered in shifts in the morning. After the prayers, we all go to the basement of the mosque where breakfast is provided and we get to meet and greet everyone. This year, because of the pandemic, my housemates and I decided to go to the mosque closer to our place in North London. The jamat was smaller and social distancing was practiced during the namaz. The concept of Id away from home is a rather difficult one. However, I have been fortunate enough to have friends around me who tried to make the day as festive as it can be in their capacity. My housemates and I ended up going to McDonald’s for breakfast after our prayers and came back home and talked about how each of us spent Id back home. In conversation, we realised that we have so much to be grateful for. And what is Id without gratitude? We spoke about how many kids won’t get to celebrate Id with their families and friends today or even in their own home because it has been demolished or taken away from them. This year has been a rather tough one for the entire world. And this Id, we wished and prayed for a better future. This year on Id, I urge you to pray for all the peoples’ oppression at Al Aqsa mosque, Palestine; China-Xinjiang; Kashmir; Syria; Iraq and Yemen. And also for the countless lives lost to Covid-19 in the past year. May Allah bless you all with your desires and all what he desires for you. Id Mubarak!  Mariam Zaki is a master’s student in Global Media, Diplomacy and Post-Colonial Communications at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Solar plant atop Bagjola canal||A solar power plant was inaugurated on May 1 next to the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. This is one of two plants that have been commissioned to come up over the Bagjola Canal, one on each side of the Major Arterial Road. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said: “Urban land is scarce and costly. Such a plant addresses the problem of availability of landspace for renewable energy. Placing solar panels on canal top also lessens evaporation from the canal and prevents dust and litter from falling in the water. It also prevents mosquito breeding. So it has multiple functions. Above all, it is a great contributor in reduction of global warming by consequent reduction of conventional power use.” A traditional 500 kWp solar power plant requires about two acres of land. It generates  about 73,0000 units of solar   electricity a year. A thermal power plant emits 6,57,000 kg of carbon di-oxide to generate that amount of electricity. The plant was built before time. “Our timeline was to finish by September. But in early April, we were asked if we could finish one of the plants by April 30. Work was done on war footing,” said Aban Saha, director of Agni Power and Electronics, which is in charge of the construction. The electricity generated will be used at the convention centre. Any additional production would be directed back to the power grid, connected through net metering. Saha claims this would be the widest canal top solar power project so far in the country. The 100m long plant is 41m wide. NKDA already has built a solar plant between Gate 5 and 6 of Eco Park since 2015. “It is of the same generation capacity as this one. Thanks to the plant, we have saved Rs 92 lakh in electricity bills over three years,” Sen said. The plant on the other side of the road will take time, sources said. Though half the construction is done, industrial oxygen would be needed for any kind of cutting. With the state government harnessing all industrial oxygen for use as medical oxygen, that has been stalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Eid-special recipes you must try this time||HYDERABADI CHICKEN DUM BIRYANI Ingredients: • Rice 1kg (soaked for 30 mins) • Chicken 1kg • Curd 250g • Salt to taste • Oil 150ml • Ghee 150g • Butter 2tbsp • Onion 4 medium pieces (sliced and light-browned in oil) • Clove 7-8 pieces • Green cardamom 5-6 pieces • Cinnamon stick 1 inch • Black cumin 1tsp (Shahi jeera) • Biryani garam masala 1tbsp • Kewra water 1 tbsp • Mint leaves ½ cup • Coriander leaves ½ cup • Green chilli 4-5 pcs • Red chilli powder 1tbsp • Turmeric 1tsp • Cumin powder 1tbsp • Garlic paste 2tbsp • Ginger paste 2tbsp • Milk ¼cup BIRYANI MASALA • Green Cardamom 1tsp • White pepper 1tsp • Kebab Chini ½tsp • Shahi Jeera ½tsp • Clove 5-6 pieces • Cinnamon stick 1 piece (of ½ inch)] • Javitri (nutmeg) 2-3 piece Grind all dry spices. Method Step 1 Grind together the mint leaves, coriander leaves and green chilli. Marinate all ingredients with the chicken except the clove, cinnamon and green cardamom. Leave the marination for 1 hour. For best results, marinate overnight. Step 2 Heat a vessel on the stove. Pour in oil and add the marinated chicken. Cook until it’s 90 per cent made. Take another vessel and place it on the stove. Add 4-5 litres of water. Put five tablespoons of salt (adjust according to taste). Add the rest of the spices in the ingredients and let the water boil. Add the soaked rice and cook until its 90 per cent prepared. Now, strain the rice. Step 3 Grease a vessel with ghee. Now add half of the rice and layer it flat with the cooked chicken. Sprinkle biryani garam masala and pudina. Add the rest of the rice and sprinkle with the biryani garam masala again. Add ghee and butter on the top. Mix the milk and kewra water together and pour it on top of the rice. Place the lid on the vessel and cover it to let it cook for five minutes on medium-high flame and 10 minutes on low flame. Serve your Hyderabadi Dum Biryani and serve with raita or salad. Ingredients: • All purpose flour/ whole wheat flour 500g • Salt ½tsp • Milk ½cup • Ghee/ butter/ oil (as required) Method Step 1 Mix all ingredients and make a soft dough out of it. Let it rest for 10 minutes. Make a plane chapati. Pat some ghee/ butter/ oil onto the chapati. Now roll it into a square. Step 2 Heat a pan and place the paratha onto it. Let it cook till both sides are light brown. Now add ghee/ butter/ oil onto the paratha and flip it to the bottom side of the pan. Let it stay till both sides are golden-brown. Serve hot. Ingredients: • Oil 125ml • Mutton 1kg • Curd 200g • Garlic 2 bunch medium-sized • Ginger 1½ inch • Red chilli 10 pieces (whole) • Black pepper 10-12 pieces (whole) • Cumin seeds (1 tbsp) • Clove 5 pieces (whole) • Green cardamom (6 pieces) • Cinnamon stick (a piece of ½inch) • Turmeric (½ tsp) • Onion (3 pcs) • Salt (as required) For sizzling • Black Cardamom (2pcs) lBay leaf (2-3 dried leaves) For garnishing • Coriander Method Step 1 Grind all ingredients except curd and turmeric to make a fine paste. Place a vessel on the stove. Pour in 100ml of oil. Add bay leaves and black cardamom. Let it crack. Add all spices and stir it at low-medium heat till the oil is separated. Step 2 Place a pressure cooker on the stove. Pour the rest 25ml of oil. Add black cumin seeds and then the meat. Light-fry the meat until the purge is no more. Now stir the curd into a thin texture and add it to the meat. Let the water get dry. Mix in the spices that have been fried. Pour in two glasses of water. Cover the pressure cooker and let it cook until tender. Garnish with coriander. Ingredients: • Long grain Basmati rice (500g) • Ghee (125g) • Sugar (500g) • Orange food colour (½ tsp) • Khoa 100g • Almond 10-15 pcs (chopped) • Cashew 15-20 pcs (split) • Raisin 15-20 pcs • Kewra water 1tsp (optional) • Cloves 6-7 pcs • Green cardamom 4-5 pieces Method Step 1 Soak the rice in water for half and hour. Place a vessel on the stove and pour two litres of water. Add orange food colour and kewra water. Let it boil. Add the soaked rice into the vessel and let it stay till the rice is 100 per cent cooked. Drain the rice. Step 2 Add 1tbsp of ghee in the same vessel. Now place the dry fruits in and fry it for a minute then pull them out. Step 3 Add in rest of the ghee into the vessel. Add clove and cardamom and let it crackle for a second. This will enhance the taste and add an aroma. Now, let the sugar melt at a low flame and add the cooked rice into it. Cover the vessel at low flame for two minutes. Open the lid after 2 minutes and pour ¼cup of water. Cover the vessel again for 4-5 minutes. Open the lid and shift the flame to medium-high. Mix it with light hands till the sugar syrup dries and is consumed by the rice. This process shall take seven to eight minutes on high flame and shall not be disturbed until then. To check if the syrup is consumed, you can dig into the rice with your cooking spoon. Lastly, add all dry fruits and khoa. Mix well. Nazish Pervez Khan, is a Uniworld City resident||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||New Town gets another paid Covid test centre||A walk-in Covid test centre started operating from Wednesday at New Town Mela Ground. Operated by Dr Lal PathLabs, it is being run from two kiosks set up by NKDA. “We are increasing the number of testing facilities in New Town. We already have a drive-in testing centre run by Apollo Clinic outside the fair ground. A walk-in testing centre opened at Eco Park Gate no. 1 on April 5. This centre is the latest addition. All three are doing paid RT-PCR tests. We have a free Rapid Antigen Test centre in Utility Building in Action Area III,”said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Tests will take place from 8am to 2pm daily and cost Rs 950. A total of 49 samples were collected on the first day. “We can collect upto 150 samples a day. The samples will be tested at our CC Block laboratory in New Town itself. We will deliver reports within 48 hours,” said Shreya Saha, the owner of the centre. The lab also does home collection for Rs 1,400. Walk in for second dose Those who took the first dose of Covishield from private facilities in New Town can walk into the NKDA vaccination centre at Terminus Building beside Pride Hotel on the 56th day since the day to get the second dose, the NKDA has announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Sabita Ganguly opens the door to her urban garden||No one will guess she’s 88. Independent and optimistic, Sabita Ganguly is as passionate about her life as she is about her garden. Despite battling several ailments in the past, she has managed the upkeep of many plants on her terrace, backyard and driveway and believes gardening to be a hobby that keeps the mind pure. Fruits, flowers, foliage — she grows them all. Every year, as if on clockwork, my Easter Lilies bloom in April, around Easter and this year too they were on time. Next in line are the Tiger Lilies and then Ball Lilies. I also have Hibiscus, Nayantara, Togor and fruits like Kul and Lemons, although I joke that the Lemons must have got Covid as they are simply refusing to flower! There are some Chillies and Tomatoes nearly ready to be plucked and some Aloe Veras whose gel I rub on my hair for nutrition. Plants are my favourite gifts and I love gifting away saplings of my plants too. I love the thought of them spreading branches everywhere around. I feed crows and pigeons but these birds also have an appetite for my Petunias and Tomatoes. So I’ve planted in these pots flags that blow in the wind and resemble scarecrows. They seem to be keeping the birds at bay. A couple of years ago, the Soumitra Chatterjee-starrer feature film Sanjhbati was shot in my house. Top stars came by for the shoot and my garden was part of the attraction. There was scene with actor Dev watering my Cacti and Milies and a Holi scene showing the stars playing on the terrace in the backdrop of a Krishnachura tree in full bloom. That tree, along with a Radhachura, were the first tall trees on this street. I had planted them back in 1988 when I moved to this neighbourhood. My son, who lives in Ghaziabad, keeps asking me to go visit them but they live on the eighth floor, from where trees look like dwarfs. But sitting right here in my BB Block living room, I can see so much greenery at arm’s length. I love it here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Coming soon: Urban forest at canal side||It takes some 300 hundred years for nature to create a forest but using a Japanese technique, a plot opposite the convention centre in New Town is being developed such that a man-made forest becomes ready in only 20 to 30 years. The plot lies within Karmyog Green Village, that itself is a green strip created out of a garbage dump along Bagjola canal side. The Karmyog team has set up the “Miyawaki forest” with support primarily from the Inner Wheel Club of Greater Calcutta and also by 50 other Inner Wheel clubs under district 329. Japanese garden Akira Miyawaki is a 93-year-old Japanese urban botanist who has developed the method in question. “The Japanese love greenery but have limited space so he came up with the idea of building mini forests in decades instead of centuries,” said Sourabh J. Sarkar, co-founder of Karmyog Green Village, who has spearheaded the project. Miyawaki asks planters to use native species and for them to be planted as per height. So the inner-most layer has tall canopy trees like Jackfruit and Mango. Next comes the understorey layer with medium-sized trees like Pomegranate and Guava. Short shrubs like Syngonium and Rapish Palm will come up to knee-level level and ground cover species like Rhoeo grow horizontally and cover the soil. “We also have a waterbody that has plants growing and we haven’t removed the algae on it as we want to keep it natural,” says Sourabh. Through the jungle is a pathway to take visitors around a sanctum sanctorum of sorts before leading right to it. “The concept of encircling the shrine is used in various places of worship. We shall have mnemonics of all religions — to show harmony — and right at the centre will be a massive banana tree. So in a way we are viewing nature as God,” says Sourabh. While this is not strictly out of Miyawaki’s book, the spirit, he says, is the same. They have come up with triple-decker bamboo panels too, with soil on every shelf growing cabbage, cauliflower, tomatoes etc. These panels overcome the problem of space and use nutritious soil that Karmyog is preparing with manure, cowdung etc. “Our attempt is to use minimum soil for maximum nutrition.” Visitors welcome post-Covid The forest has bamboo structures meant to support creepers and hold up placards with information about the plants. There will also be audio-visual descriptions. It is shut now because of the partial lockdown but will allow visitors to come and even let them feed fish in the water body. “Our objective is to have people come, learn and replicate the system at home. A 4ft x 10 ft bed in one’s balcony is enough for the humblest form of this forest,” says Sourabh, adding that they shall hold workshops for anyone interested to spread the knowhow. “The tallest trees on the ground do not exceed a height of two or three floors so how can people living in the 20th floor connect with nature? For them these micro-forests are most suitable.” The forest, when it reopens, will be open to visitors between sunrise and sunset, which is the clock Karmyog works by. “Wouldn’t it be nice for parents to have a place like this to take children to instead of the mall? They can absorb the ambience of the woods without having to drive out of city,” says Sourabh’s wife Reena, who is also involved with the project. The forest materialised after the Inner Wheel Club approached Karmyog. “We’re lucky to have found this group. Where else in New Town could we have found space for a jungle?” asked Saswati Pal, president of Inner Wheel Club of Greater Calcutta, at the inauguration. Inner Wheel’s district chairman Anita Ghosh pointed out how important greenery was for oxygen and pollution alleviation. “In an age when agricultural land is being converted into concrete jungles we, on the International Day of Forests, are glad to have initiated an urban forest,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Artiste Isha Mahammad succumbs to Covid 19||Artiste Isha Mahammad succumbed to Covid-19 early on Tuesday. A resident of AC Block in Salt Lake, he was 88 and is survived by his wife, son, daughter and three grandchildren. “My father had comorbidities and a few days ago tested positive for Covid,” said son Shamir Isha. “After a search for beds in several hospitals he was admitted to Beleghata I.D. and B.G. Hospital but could not pull through.” Isha has been buried at the Bagmari Muslim Burial Ground. Isha was born near Konnogar in 1933 and pursued a diploma from the Government College Of Art and Craft, Calcutta, an institution he would later become principal of. He was also trained in graphic art from Dusseldorf Academy in erstwhile West Germany in 1968 and held exhibitions across the world. He was also president of The Asiatic Society for two terms between 2016 and 2020. Isha was considered a progressive and secular intellectual. “Baba was a humanitarian, held women in high regard, loved poetry, Tagore, books and was the most secular person I know,” said Shamir, himself an art historian and history professor at St. Xavier’s College, recalling how critics and masses alike had praised the Durga he had sculpted at the Bakulbagan puja once. “As for Id, I would have to drag him to public namaz. He would complain that people in Salt Lake do not perform the kola-kuli (embrace) after namaz. So besides greeting ministers and high ranking officers at the gathering, he would walk to the rear of the field and embrace devotees of the labourer class who had come,” says Shamir. “He died on the 27th day of the fasting month Ramadan, that is said to be the most auspicious of days. Being an artiste, he shall live on in his work.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid casts pall over Id festivity plans||The moon says it’s Id-ul-Fitr but the faithful are in no mood to celebrate. The group namaz, the new clothes, the lavish feasts are all to set to fade away the second time in consecutive years because of the pandemic. “Eid is a sort of reward to us for fasting the month and is meant to be a celebration, so we cannot mourn on the day. But how can we enjoy when so many people are ill or grieving the death of someone?” asks Saba Ahmed, a resident of Uniworld City. Last year, the country was in lockdown during Id, “but this year the cases are closer to home and the mortality rate is much higher. Id is going to be sombre this time,” Ahmed adds. Residents said they would keep it simple. “Previously we would offer namaz with others at Nazrul Park but this time neither will we go anywhere nor invite anyone over,” says K.Z. Islam of FE Block. The only silver lining is that his joint family of 13 people are together for Id after many years. “Even those living in different cities have come back and are working from home now. So we look forward to eating a meal together.” Community namaz The community namaz mentioned by Islam would be organised by Harmony Association of Salt Lake & New Town but since last year they have stopped public gatherings. “Everyone is scared. This year only one person called to ask if we would have the public prayer and I told him otherwise,” says Nurul Haque, a retired IAS officer and president of the body. No online meet is planned either. Their secretary Irfan Asad succumbed to Covid last year. “We were just thinking of holding an annual general meeting to elect a new secretary when the second wave came afresh. We have put it on hold,” said Haque, a KB Block resident who will be leading the namaz at home on Id morning with his wife. A housing complex in New Town, however, will be arranging Id namaz in their prayer hall. Arena Housing in BA Block was developed by the West Bengal Minority Development and Finance Corporation and houses about 180 Muslim families. “There are plans to hold prayers for less than 50 people in a socially distanced way,” said Hammadur Rahaman, a resident who is a doctor currently working at the Covid satellite facility of Medica Superspeciality Hospital. Residents, Rahaman said, have by and large been told to offer prayers at home. “Some are leaving to spend the occasion at their ancestral homes in the districts. In case more people want to come to the hall, a second batch will be held. Our resident maulavi sahib, Mufti Mohammed Asif, will conduct the prayer,” he said. No mood for celebration For children, Id is the most awaited festival of the year. “We wear new clothes, meet cousins, watch movies, eat delicious food and get ‘Idi’, which is money gifted to children by relatives,” says Ammara Khan, a Class XII student, longingly. Salman Khan’s Id release this year is Radhe, and Ammara and her friends would have gone for it, if it wasn’t for the pandemic. “We might see it online (on Zee5). I’ll take a break from studying this Id, wish others over the phone but the festival won’t be as enjoyable as before,” says the Uniworld City resident. Some households said they may make biriyani while others said paratha-chicken chaap would be as far as they would go. The traditional sewaii, however, is a must. Ahmed has no heart to shop for clothes. “Some of us are buying clothes for the kids but we adults are just not in the mood. I’m not buying bangles or applying mehndi this time,” she sighed. Prayer above all “Instead of celebrating, let’s pray and serve the needy,” says Shamir Isha, art historian and history professor who has lost his father to Covid-19. “Service is one of prophet Mohammad’s greatest teachings and anyone who calls himself a Muslim should donate food, clothes, medicines to the needy in the pandemic.” Naushaba Kausar of Sunrise Greens in New Town says Id parties and stage events are all man-made additions to the auspicious occasion. “The scriptures say that the most important part of Id are namaz, gratitude and praise to Allah. And while it is recommended that Id namaz be offered in an open area, it can be offered in any place clean.” Kausar adds how the scriptures ask people not to leave or enter a city where a plague has broken out. “We are in a similar pandemic now and being asked to self-isolate. So by staying away from public namaz, we are following the holy books, which in itself is a form of worship,” she smiles. “And if you really miss biriyani, like I did last Id, order it through a delivery app.” Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Field hospital opens at Salt Lake stadium||To save time and enforce social distancing, AMRI Hospitals have got little robots to move from bed to bed and through their webcam, allow doctors to interact with patients without physically having to go over every time. The robots have come into use at AMRI Hospitals during the pandemic and are part of the “crew” appointed at the new field hospital inaugurated at Salt Lake stadium on May 7. “These VGo robots have been introduced especially for the pandemic. Their no-touch programming allows doctors to feed instructions over the phone,” explained AMRI Hospitals group CEO Rupak Barua. “The robots are fitted with wheels and as per instructions, will visit the beds assigned. The webcam on top will connect the patient to the doctor, whose face will be seen and voice heard over a screen fitted in the robot.” The VGo robots are imported from the US, although the manufacturer is based out of Massachusetts. The stadium wing of the hospital will have one such robot at work. More than 200 new beds The 233 new beds at the stadium have been laid out after the state government approached AMRI with the proposal. “Initially we thought of turning these beds into a satellite centre but judging from the desperate situation around, we felt a field hospital was more needed,” said the CEO. “The infrastructure was set up in five to 10 days.” While the hospitals have so long been catering to only the severest of cases, two satellite centres were set up for mild or asymptomatic cases. So Monotel, in Sector V, and Hotel The Sojourn, opposite to the stadium, together have 91 beds. The annexe building of AMRI Salt Lake, which is the Covid wing, has 83 beds. The field hospital at the stadium is for patients who may not be so critical as to need hospitalisation but are still suffering. “Thus far we simply could not admit this category of patients but now, doctors and nurses will monitor them, oxygen will be available and in case their condition deteriorates or they need ventilators, patients will be transferred to the hospital across the road,” said Barua. Dr Susruta Bandyopadhyay, head, critical care, AMRI Salt Lake, added that the stadium beds have piped oxygen. “Cylinders are a crude way of providing oxygen, where one is constantly worried about the refilling. Piped oxygen comes from a centralised unit and is a more advanced system.” Bandyopadhyay estimates that for every patient admitted at the hospital, there would be five here at the stadium’s field hospital. Dormitories in use Surajit Roy, CEO of the stadium, said they had handed over 28 dormitories to AMRI. “Our hospitals are under so much stress that we were ready to help in any way we could,” he said, adding that Kishore Bharti stadium in Santoshpur had also been give to Medica Superspecialty Hospital to start a satellite facility. The dorms have been turned into male and female wards, single and double rooms and a four-bedded respiratory care unit. Many rooms do not look like typical hospital cabins. Some are much longer than they are wide, with space for two beds on either side of the walkway. Some rooms have pictures of icons like Sania Mirza and Mary Kom plastered over walls, meant to inspire the sportspeople who used to stay here before the pandemic. There are also rooms for doctors, nurses and back office work like handling admission and discharge. “To be admitted here, however, the patient has to head to the emergency section of AMRI Hospital across the street. The doctors there will assess the severity of the case and decide whether the patient needs the hospital, the satellite centre or the field hospital here,” said Barua. The officials would not comment on the rates but said the stadium beds would be roughly half of those inside the hospital. “We are planning to open another field hospital at Netaji Indoor Stadium with 200 beds and a satellite facility at The LaLiT Great Eastern Kolkata with nearly 200 more beds.” AMRI’s vaccination centre has also got shifted out of the hospital and into the stadium, in keeping with government regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: How we voted||Salt Lake has given this election’s winning Trinamul Congress candidate Sujit Bose a lead of 47 votes. The figure may look insignificant but is of critical import when viewed in the context of the 2019 Lok Sabha election in which Trinamul’s Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, despite bagging the Barasat seat, had conceded a lead of 12,270 to her BJP rival in the township’s 14 wards. The over-all lead from the Assembly constituency was 18,916. This time, Bose won the Assembly seat by a margin of 7,997 votes. Overcoming the Lok Sabha deficit was the challenge facing Bose, the sitting MLA. The fact that he not only did that but also managed a lead in the township itself is a Herculean feat. Of course, Bose always maintained that Parliamentary and Assembly polls followed different dynamics. He would know as he came back from behind and won even in 2016, by 6,988 votes, when the deficit in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls was 6,489 votes in favour of the BJP. That was the first time the BJP made a mark electorally in the area. Lead in six wards A look at the ward-wise figures reveals that Bose has led in six of the 14 Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation wards that are part of this Assembly constituency — wards 28, 32, 35, 36, 37 and 40. Which means he trailed behind BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta in eight others. The highest lead came from Ward 35, comprising Sukantanagar and the adjoining added areas — 1,564 in favour of Trinamul. This ward had given BJP a lead of 71 in 2019. So there has definitely been a massive turnaround. Ward 36 is another such case in point. The added areas of Chhoynabhi, Kulipara, Khasmahal, Trinath Pally etc. had given BJP a lead of 79 in 2019. This time it went the other way, giving Bose a lead of 983. The most slender margin is 24 votes in Ward 34, comprising GD, HB, HC, IB, IC, JA, JB, JC, KC, LB blocks etc) for the BJP. Even here the 2019 lead for the BJP was a far more decisive 731. This is, in fact, one of the reasons why Dutta lost. He did not get as handsome leads in the blocks where he was expected to do well as what would have helped him offset the deficits elsewhere. Ward 31, with a high presence of Hindi-speaking voters in blocks like BF and CF, other than AE, BE and CE blocks, had given BJP a lead of 2,258 votes in 2019. This time, the lead reduced to 1,308 votes. Another high-yielding ward for BJP, because of the same voter demography, was expected to be Ward 33, with FC, FD, FE blocks along with FB, FF, GB, GC and part of HA Block. In 2019, it had propelled BJP forward by 1,728 votes. But this time, the lead reduced to 727. BJP’s 2019 lead in Ward 29, comprising the AJ, AK, AL, BJ, BK, CJ, CK, CL, DJ, DK and part of Sarat Abasan, came down to less than half —  from 1,535 votes in 2019 to 643 this time. The surprise this year was Duttabad. The slum that is sandwiched between the planned township and the Bypass matters because of the high polling percentage the area traditionally records. Even in this Covid-hit election, it recorded 82.2 per cent polling, way above the average for the whole of the constituency — 66.47 per cent. The only ward which amid the 2019 rout had given Trinamul a lead in Salt Lake was Ward 38, however slender may it have been, of 180 votes. But while the added areas of Wards 35 and 36 decisively swung from BJP to Trinamul in this election, Duttabad has given BJP a lead of 318. The reason seems to be Dutta harping on residents of Duttabad being the original settlers of Salt Lake and promising a masterplan for its development. The South Dum Dum story Bose’s own turf South Dum Dum — he is a resident of Sreebhumi and the vice-chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality — gave him a lead of 7,711 votes, which largely gave him his winning margin as Salt Lake did not eat into it. But even this lead was not assured for him because in 2019, the same 10 wards had given BJP a lead of 6,646 votes, which Salt Lake had handsomely supplemented, by 12,270 votes. “If we can lead with a minimum of 15,000 votes from the 10 wards under the South Dum Dum Municipality, I will build on it from Salt Lake,” Dutta had told The Telegraph Salt Lake before the election. Not in his worst nightmare could he have imagined the lead vanishing and plunging into deficit zone instead. The Hindi-speaking voter-infested Bangur Avenue, which he had assiduously courted, did give him a boost but the margin of 2,572 was far less than the Lok Sabha lead of 4,600-odd votes that the ward had generated for the BJP. That goes to show that many of even this community had preferred to support Bose, who is known to be accessible and hands-on with all local problems. Even Kalindi, where Dutta’s mainstay in South Dum Dum, Mriganka Bhattacharya, who is also a Trinamul-turned-BJP leader like him, was till recently the councillor, did not give him a lead. Bose got ahead by 963 votes here, in Ward 19. Other than Ward 29 (Bangur Avenue), Ward 30 (Lake Town) is the only one among the 10 wards under the South Dum Dum Municipality where the BJP has done better than Trinamul. Civic poll worry Looking ahead, with Trinamul trailing in eight of the 14 Salt Lake wards, should the party worry about its prospects in the civic poll? Election is due in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, with the mayoral council and the board of councillors having been dissolved last October. But the chairperson of the newly reinstated Board of Administrators Krishna Chakraborty is unwilling to read much into it. Trinamul has trailed in her own ward. “There are some highly educated Bengalis like retired bureaucrats and non-resident Indians, who have their own logic and style of functioning and voting, as well as Marwari businessmen in my ward. This is a democracy. Still I have managed to convince many of them,” she said. She admits that the fight was not easy. “All our councillors have worked tremendously to recover ground. Hats off to them. We have given Sujit a lead of 47 votes. We have recovered a lot of ground in areas where we were behind.” The same voters, many of whom might not have sided with Trinamul even in this election, she is confident, “will shower us with support in the Corporation election”. “The councillors are beside the people round the year. People, especially the women, have given their mandate for Mamata Banerjee,” she signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
