15-05-2021||Calcutta||City police start suo motu case in connection with civil engineer's death ||The city police on Friday started a suo motu case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against “unknown person” in connection with the death of civil engineer Rishav Mondal. Mondal, 25, had died of electrocution allegedly after coming in contact with a lamp post on a waterlogged footpath near Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening after a spell of heavy rain. “Today, a case has been started under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code for Rishav Mondal’s death. A detailed inquiry has been launched to fix responsibility for the death,” said a senior police officer of the central division. Sources in Lalbazar said the police have conducted the forensic examination of the lamp post and the bunch of wires that were found to be wrapped around it. “It needs to be ascertained which of these wires caused the electrocution. Then we will try to establish the source of power of that particular wire,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Several eyewitnesses and shopkeepers in the area have been examined. Prima facie, many have been found to be illegally drawing electricity from the main lines. Outgoing Mayor Firhad Hakim on Wednesday had put the blame of the incident on “electricity theft” and “hooking” that he said, could have caused the electrocution. Investigators said it was too early to confirm the individual or agency which was behind the power supply. A senior officer said, “One thing is clear. Whoever is responsible for this (electricity theft) had full knowledge about the consequences of the act. Hence, a case under section 304 has been initiated.” The charge, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years of imprisonment. Mondal’s family, who are from Murshidabad, had not lodged a formal police complaint till Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Veteran pathologist Subir Dutta dies of Covid||Veteran pathologist Subir Dutta died of Covid on Friday. He was 86. Dutta is survived by his wife, daughter and grandson. Dutta had set up Scientific Clinical Laboratory in Taltala, one of the city’s oldest private pathological laboratories. He was admitted to a private hospital in Dhakuria on April 25 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had been on a ventilator since admission. Doctors said Dutta's condition started to deteriorate a few days ago. Born in 1935 in Calcutta, Dutta went to Hindu School and then to Presidency College before joining the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Over the past two years, Dutta finished writing a book. “It would be published posthumously,” said a family member. Dutta was the dean of the medicine department of Calcutta University. All the medical colleges in Calcutta were under the university then. Dutta was also a member of the senate and syndicate of the university. In 2003, Calcutta University had awarded him for being an eminent teacher, his family said. Dutta was attached to several health care programmes at the national level. Several prominent physicians and pathologists mourned Dutta’s death as the news broke on Friday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: City-based NGO team to locate people with symptoms||An NGO working the underprivileged has created a team to locate people with symptoms of Covid-19 and provide medical help. Many people in slums are hiding or ignoring symptoms until it becomes severe, said some of those who work with them. There is a tendency to ignore a fever or cold and cough as something that will “go away soon” without realising it could lead to a serious health condition. The job of health workers who live in the community is to locate such people, get them tested for Covid and provide medicines if needed. “Our health workers are moving around in the community trying to find people who have Covid symptoms so that they can be diagnosed early. We tell the health workers not to ask directly because that might scare them and make them hide it but to find out indirectly if they have any health complaints,” said Alakananda Ghosh, deputy chief executive officer (medical), Calcutta Rescue. “There is a tendency to hide because they fear they will be sent somewhere else, away from the family.” The NGO also intervenes if they find a student has skipped doing a task assigned to him or her. They often find the student has family members who have Covid symptoms. Anyone with symptoms is referred to the NGO’s doctors who consult either on the phone or physically at one of the four clinics. For mild to moderate symptoms, the doctors prescribe medication to be taken at home. “Those who have tested positive for Covid are being monitored and medicines are being provided to them. We have provisions for oxygen cylinders, too,” said Ananya Chatterjee, an official at the NGO. She said the number of infections in slums was more than what was recorded last year. Congested living conditions, she said, make them more vulnerable. “We tell our beneficiaries that we have kept medicines for them and will provide them oxygen support, but they cannot afford to ignore symptoms and need to report them. We tell them that if their condition becomes critical, it will be difficult for us to get them hospitalised in the present condition.” The health workers have been provided with pulse oximeters to check the oxygen saturation and taught to handle oxygen cylinders. They have also been trained in the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department issues guidelines to ease hassle at govt vaccination centres||The health department has instructed all government vaccination centres to abide by guidelines aimed at reducing the waiting time, crowd size and risks of transmission outside the facilities. The guidelines were issued by health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam a few days back but the health department had to re-issue them on Friday as the majority of the vaccination centres were not adhering to them. Highlights of the guidelines ⚫ Display boards: Boards showing the number of jabs to be administered on a particular day are to be put up at each centre. This should be done to "dispel false hopes of same day/on spot vaccination..." the guidelines state. Health department officials said that barring a few, none of the centres has put up the boards at prominent locations. “At a few centres, the boards have been set up near the entrance, far away from the people at the end of the queue,” a health department official said. ⚫ Tokens: Each vaccination centre should issue tokens to people queuing up for the jab. Health department officials said tokens would be distributed before the start of the day’s vaccination. Depending on the crowd, the distribution can start an hour before the vaccination begins or even before to avoid unnecessary queuing up from early hours. The guidelines state there should be four slots for vaccination — two in the first half and two in the second — every day. “Estimating that at least 40 people can be vaccinated in each slot, 160 or more can be given the jab subject to availability of doses,” an official said. ⚫ Tokens for next session: If there are more people in the queue than the number of doses on a given day, those who are not getting the jab will be issued tokens for the next day with specific slots. ⚫ Basic amenities: Vaccination centres should arrange for basic amenities such as chairs or benches, drinking water, washrooms, sanitisers and masks. “Temporary sheds for at least 50 persons may be created…. The waiting area must be well ventilated,” the guideline states. Some officials in the CMC's health department said sheds and arrangements for drinking water had been made at some centres. “The challenge is to ensure shade for those standing in queues on small roads and in lanes,” an official said. ⚫ The elderly: “If a recipient aged 75 or more stands in the queue, the manager of the vaccination centre will have to ensure that he gets priority and doesn’t return without being vaccinated,” a health department official said. The guidelines spell out that preference has to be given to senior citizens, disabled and those visibly ill. Officials said they have received complaints that the aged and the infirm were being made to stand in queues for hours. Many such people are returning without being vaccinated because of their inability to stand for such long durations. ⚫ Avoid mix-up: Separate sites should be demarcated for Covaxin and Covishield. This is particularly vital for those centres where both vaccines are being administered. Covid count Bengal on Friday recorded 20,846 new infections, 136 deaths and 19,131 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.31 lakh. Of the 136 deaths, 34 were reported from Calcutta and 42 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,955 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,197.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Private health centres flouting govt’s directive on prescribing remdesivir and tocilizumab||Smaller private hospitals and nursing homes in Calcutta are not abiding by the government’s directive on prescribing remdesivir and tocilizumab for Covid, resulting in scarcity of the drugs, health department officials have said. Many healthcare institutions are not following the protocol that discourages hospitals from rampantly prescribing the drugs to treat Covid. The protocol includes a guideline on how to procure the medicines through proper channels, they said. “At many hospitals, especially in small private hospitals, these drugs are rampantly prescribed in violation of the protocol issued by the health department. There is a general tendency to overuse the medicines. Some doctors do not take into consideration the side-effects, which in many cases may prove fatal for the patients. Since these drugs are very costly, people tend to believe they are the best and run after them,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal’s director of health services. “To address this, we have issued a protocol on the use and indications. The protocol is mentioned on the website…. There is also an advisory on how to get the drugs to avoid blackmarketing.” A state government directive issued on May 3 states that medicine companies and vendors can only sell remdesivir and tocilizumab to hospitals treating Covid patients. The volume of sale depends on the ICU bed strength and occupancy of the hospitals. An April 24 directive states that only 10 to 20 per cent of all Covid patients need remdesivir and no hospital or nursing home should unnecessarily prescribe the drug. And if the drug is prescribed, it will be the responsibility of the hospital concerned to arrange it. “Violating this rule, many small hospitals and nursing homes are prescribing remdesivir even when there is no need for it and asking patients’ families to procure the drug themselves. Thus families are forced to buy the medicine at a premium. Some are even shelling out 10 times the actual price,” another health department official said. Calcutta police on Thursday had arrested three men for allegedly stocking and selling remdesivir vials. Altogether 132 vials were seized, of which one was to be sold to a family for Rs 25,000, almost 10 times the actual price. Calcutta police on Thursday had published a helpline number (9874909640) and an email ID (jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in) to report frauds related to the supply of oxygen, medicines, plasma and hospital beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department worry over O2 device crisis||Bengal’s health administrators are worried about a tendency among a section of people to stock oxygen cylinders and concentrators at home fearing that someone in the family might need them after contracting Covid. Home healthcare providers, who either sell or rent out oxygen concentrators and cylinders, said their stock was exhausted because of the panic reaction. Such is the demand for oxygen devices that even stores that sell mobile phones are now keeping oxygen concentrators and they are selling fast. “We have asked the drug controller to ensure there is no hoarding of oxygen cylinders. More than 4,000 oxygen cylinders have been seized in raids conducted with the police,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal's director of health services. “We are also advising people not to stock oxygen cylinders unnecessarily because those who actually need them will not get one on time.” According to home healthcare providers and oxygen device suppliers, an oxygen concentrator would cost between Rs 60,000 and Rs 80,000. Now, the devices are even being sold at Rs 1.10 lakh apiece, they said. Some Calcutta residents said they were buying oxygen concentrators and storing oxygen cylinders after hearing about the harrowing experiences of their friends and relatives who live in cities like Delhi and Gurgaon. “My cousin has told me how Covid patients in Delhi are dying unable to breathe because they are not getting oxygen cylinders or concentrators at home and are unable to get a bed in hospital,” said a 50-year-old resident of a high-rise building in south Calcutta. He has bought an oxygen concentrator though none in the family members has contracted Covid. A businessman who lives in Garia has kept an oxygen cylinder at home. The businessman, his wife and son had Covid last year. “This year the severity of the disease is much more and every day I hear about the crisis of hospital beds. So, if any of us has Covid, we can at least have some basic support at home for a day or two, till we arrange a hospital bed.” he said. Home healthcare providers said they had run out of oxygen devices and were refusing homecare of several Covid patients. “People have realised that oxygen is the lifeline to fight Covid at home. Apart from medicines, oxygen cylinders and concentrators are now the most important things to keep at home. People are keeping even empty cylinders and this has created high demand for oxygen devices,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, unit head, Calcutta, Apollo Home Healthcare. Apollo Home Healthcare has sold 50 oxygen concentrators in the past 10 days. On Friday, 150 concentrators and 60 cylinders of the company were out on rent. “Among those who have taken the devices on rent, there are around 75 who are suffering from Covid, COPD and other diseases that require oxygen support. As for the remaining 135-odd, we are not sure whether they are using the devices,” Bhattacharya said. “We have decided that a concentrator or a cylinder would be given on rent for 15 days, after which if someone is unable to produce a doctor's advice, a heavy penalty will be charged.” Portea Medical, another home healthcare service provider, spoke of a similar crisis. “Over the past month, we have sold around 80 concentrators and given 200 such devices and cylinders on rent. In normal times, we would barely sell 10 devices a month and give out on rent 30 to 40 such devices,” said Nabarun Shaha, unit head, Calcutta, Portea Medical. “We have run out of stock and are awaiting supplies. So we have to refuse several Covid patients who need homecare and oxygen support.” As the demand for oxygen concentrators soars, many stores which never sold such devices are selling them now. RG Cellulars, which sells mobile phones and other gadgets from its 20 stores, has started selling oxygen concentrators. “We have already sold 300 oxygen concentrators from the 20 stores,” said Ravi Gupta, director, RG Cellulars. They are importing another 250 oxygen concentrators from China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Id 2021: Few turn up at mosques to offer prayers in Calcutta||The hugs and handshakes were replaced by ‘dur se salaam’ after the Id prayers on Friday. Fewer people turned up at mosques across the city as many chose to pray from home. The day was marked by feasting but the celebrations were mostly restricted to family members. For Iftekhar Ahsan of Calcutta Walks, the run-up to Id usually means last-minute frantic shopping. The day starts with prayers and leads to one feast after another. “By the end of the day, I am tired of hugging people and shaking hands with them. There is none of that this year,” said Ahsan. Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia Restaurants, said the bulk orders on Id had substantially dipped this time. “Earlier, one order would mean 20 plates of biryani. This time, there are mostly smaller orders. It suggests people have cut down on large gatherings,” said Azhar. Azhar started his day with a prayer with a set of relatives, maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. The lunch at his Ballygunge home comprised “Id special” biryani, sewai and sheer korma. But instead of 50 plates of biryani, there were “five to six” because there were no guests. Social media was replete with Id messages. But almost all of them spared a thought for the human tragedy brought about by Covid-19. “I know that all of us have our masks on, but believe me, we don’t need to take it off for you to know that we are smiling under it…. Dedicating this Id to hope…. Hope, that we will prevail together if we play our cards right. Hoping Allah keeps you and your families safe,” read one post with a picture of a family of four, everyone masked up. At Nakhoda Masjid, the Id prayers were held in two slots — 6.30am and 8.30am. “People did not hug. They did salaam from a distance,” said Shafique Quasmi, the imam of the mosque. Id was also marked by charity. Zeeshan Majeed, a social worker, spent the first half of the day providing oxygen cylinders to Covid patients. “I went to three places — Beckbagan, Kareya and Gurusaday Road. Id is not only about celebrating with family members, it is also about reaching out to the underprivileged,” said Majeed, who runs a campaign called Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation. Like many other festivals in Calcutta, Id, too, is not bound by religious boundaries. For Diptanshu Roy, 19, Id means watching a Salman Khan film with friends at a theatre. The Behala boy did watch Salman’s Id release, Radhe, but on an OTT platform. On Friday, he had biryani, but had it ordered at home from a restaurant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Muted Id celebrations as prayers offered in small groups||Prayers at Nakhoda Masjid in Chitpore on the morning of Id on Friday. The Id prayers were held in two slots in the morning. The number of devotees was roughly a tenth of the usual Id turnout, said the imam of the mosque. “In view of the second wave of Covid-19, I had appealed to people to offer prayers from home,” he said. The hugs and handshakes were replaced by ‘dur se salaam’ after the Id prayers. Meanwhile, the gates of a mosque in Serampore, Hooghly, about five minutes from the railway station, were closed and a notice stuck on the outside wall read: “There will be no Id namaz at Idgah.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||City police receive complaints on oxygen supply fraud||The city police have received at least eight complaints on online frauds related to the supply of oxygen cylinders in and around Calcutta in the past 24 hours. In all the cases, the complainants had transferred the money online to different bank accounts but had not received any oxygen cylinder in return. The police have tracked these accounts to places in Bihar and in South and North-24 Parganas. The city police had on Thursday published a helpline number (9874909640) and the e-mail ID of joint commissioner (crime) — jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in — to report frauds related to the pandemic. In some of these cases, people were duped with double or triple the rate of an oxygen cylinder as they had made an online payment without realising that they would never get the service. The police said fraudsters were choosing their targets from social media, who were posting their urgent needs of life saving drugs or a hospital bed or oxygen. “People who are posting their urgent requirements on social media are most vulnerable. It is easy to dupe them...,” said an officer. Although eight cases were reported within a day of publishing the helpline, a section of the police believes that the actual number is higher than what has surfaced. “Many people are too busy saving the life of their near and dear ones to report anything to the police,” said an officer in Lalbazar. A senior police officer said it was always advisable to verify any lead before sharing the information or transferring money for any service. “...We are trying to identify the fraudsters through the money trail.” Social media is flooded with unverified leads sharing purported information about phone numbers for supply of oxygen, life-saving drugs used in Covid treatment, plasma and for arranging beds in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Former students of St Xavier’s College step in with month’s ration at shelter home||A boy who grew up in an orphanage started an orphanage of his own and ran it successfully for 25 years until the Covid pandemic almost forced him to shut it down. Dilip Sanpui runs a shelter home that comprises an orphanage and an old people’s home. Around 75 children and elderly people at Sanpui’s shelter in Bansdroni are safe at least for another month because, just when everything was turning bleak, former students of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, stepped in with a month’s ration. Sanpui realised it would be impossible to sustain so many people with “depleting resources” and he had to cut down on the scale of activity in the last few months. He had to ask the senior citizens to leave but then he saw that the elderly people could not arrange even a single meal on their own. Sanpui called them back to provide them with at least one meal a day. On Thursday, St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association supported by St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta, provided them with rice, pulses, edible oil, soybeans, salt, spices, wheat, cake, biscuits, juice and chocolate. “While we are under severe panic because of the medical emergencies everywhere, we are unintentionally ignoring these small genuine and verified NGOs who are entirely dependent on the help and contributions by CSR funds of corporate entities as well as personal donations,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “Most of them are also not able to reach out to the benefactors but their inmates are either starving or asked to vacate the homes due to lack of food items and essential resources. However, we have received requests for helping out with food items from many such organisations and we initiated it on Thursday with many others in the pipeline,” he said. Sanpui, who grew up in an orphanage, was rescued by a priest when he was 10. Sanpui was pulling a van rickshaw before that. “I grew up there, received education, completed my graduation... I wanted to start an orphanage, which I did. But with the pandemic entering its second year, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to sustain the organisation. So, I approached them,” said Sanpui, who is 50 now. He got himself a government job in 2001 so that he could contribute funds to the organisation — something he is doing even now. “But feeding 75 people every day requires a lot of money and resources,” he said. The second wave of the pandemic has hit people hard and many organisations are finding it increasingly difficult to arrange resources to support the beneficiaries. With their own limitations, not many people and organisations are able to contribute as much as they could earlier. “Our association actively looks to help such people and organisations. The association has been providing help to the needy people for the last 36 years. We have a lot of such collection and distribution initiatives on our activity calendar during this deadly second wave of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sanjib Koner, the honourary secretary of St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association. The Xavier’s old boys had helped more than 50 such NGOs during the first wave of of the pandemic and in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan last year,  Koner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
