16-05-2021||Calcutta||Every bit counts in fight against Covid-19||As the second wave of the pandemic continues to surge, citizen groups are coming to the fore to help organise relief and medical aid. The Bengal, an organisation involved in various socio-cultural projects and community activities, has set out to provide a common platform for individuals and institutions wishing to donate or contribute essential items required for Covid-19 care. The mission is to support those who are working tirelessly on the frontline and be the coordinators between the donor and the receiver. “A lot of people reached out to us and expressed their eagerness to donate in kind but didn’t know how to go about it. That was the idea behind this initiative,” said Esha Dutta, a committee member for the project. As a case in point, the initiative has supported Gurdwara Behala and IHA Foundation in the ‘Free Oxygen Langar Seva’ on the Gurdwara premises by Satnam Singh Ahluwalia and Gurbir Kaur Ahluwalia. Their mobile service has also been activated to reach those in need, with requests being made through their social media page. “When we go back in history, especially during the Bengal plague, Sister Nivedita, Rabindranath Tagore and many others came out to help and support people in distress. The second wave is terrible for all of us, but a lot of people are desperately trying to help others in need,” said Goutam Ghose, veteran filmmaker and working president of The Bengal. Donations are coming in the form of “PPE Kits, unused medicines, oximeters and even bed-linen” as “every bit of help counts”, says Nilanjanaa Senguptaa, a key coordinator for the initiative. And anyone can make it count. Take Manisha Rampuria, a homemaker, who has already mobilised oxygen and other essential items for the cause. “From a biscuit box to a sanitiser to bedsheets, nothing goes to waste. Let’s all do our bit because if not now then when?” she asks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Your questions on the new curbs ||From Sunday, Calcutta will head to fresh restrictions. The Telegraph tries to answer some of the vexing questions surrounding the curbs: Will I be allowed to walk to the bazaar? Yes. “Retail shops and supplies, bazaars and hats relating to vegetables, fruits, groceries, milk, bread, meat and eggs” will be open from 7am to 10am, said the notice issued on Saturday by the state’s chief secretary. The shopkeepers were worried about being able to wrap up by 10am. Many of them, who come from the suburbs, were doubtful about being able to reach the markets in time. But police said they would stick to the timings from Day One. “We will first try to explain the need to adhere to the deadlines. But repeat offenders would be booked under the Disaster Management Act,” said an officer. Can I drive to a market? The possibility is you will be stopped, especially if you live in, say, New Alipore and claim to be heading to Lake Market. Interactions with multiple police officers suggested the cops would “discourage” driving to markets. “People should go to the market in their neighbourhood. One of the objectives of the fresh curbs is to reduce the number of vehicles on the road,” said a police officer. Can I walk to a bank? Yes. Banks will remain open from 10am to 2pm. But expect limited services and a depleted workforce. Many government banks have already pasted notices saying only basic services like “cash deposit/withdrawal, cheque deposit and government schemes” are being provided. “The suspension of transport will create enormous difficulties for many employees who have to endure long journeys to reach their workplaces,” said a representative of a bank officers’ union. Can I drive to a bank? Yes, but make sure you carry a pass book, cheque book or some other document that can serve as a “proof”. Can I visit an ATM? Yes, if you are walking into one. But if you are driving, there is every chance of a cop stopping you. “There are more than one ATM in every neighbourhood. Why would someone need to take the car out to visit an ATM,” said a police officer. I have a marriage in the family. Can I drive to jewellery and sari shops? Jewellery and sari shops have been allowed to remain open between 12 and 3pm because May-June is a wedding season. “There are eight wedding dates from May 21 to 30,” said the owner of a jewellery chain. But like in case of driving to a bank, you should keep a proof handy, said a police officer at Lalbazar. A wedding card can come in handy, or an e-card on the phone. Can I order food? “E-commerce/home delivery of all commodities shall be allowed,” according to Saturday’s notice. Online food aggregators will be operational. Many restaurants also said they had ramped up their delivery fleet since the places had been shut for diners. Can I order groceries and other raw food? Yes. Online aggregators will be operational. But the suspension of transport options might cripple the supply chain and distribution channels of FMCG companies because people managing them often come from the suburbs. “The same thing had happened during the restrictions last year,” said an official of an FMCG company. Can I buy liquor? An excise official said all “retails counters” selling alcohol would remain shut from Sunday to May 30. There was no clarity on online orders and home delivery of booze. The Spencer’s liquor delivery platform accepted orders around 9.30pm on Saturday, slotting a Monday delivery. An official of Spencer’s said on Saturday night that he was “still awaiting clarity” on whether fresh online orders would be accepted from Sunday. I work in a restaurant or a bank or any other sector that will remain operational. Do I need any document to go to work? Calcutta police on Saturday launched an “e-pass facility for movement of essential service providers and online delivery services”. The police have demonstrated the process to download the pass on their social media handles. Will confectioneries be open? Sweetmeat shops will be open from 10am to 5pm, the notice says. Many confectioners who make savouries along with cakes hoped they would also be allowed to operate in that window. Can I step out at night? The government has imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 5am. Don’t step out unless there is a medical emergency. Multiple police teams will be deployed through the night across the city to keep a check on violators, said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “Any car out after 9pm would be stopped. If found guilty, the occupants will be prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act,” he said. Even if you take your car out for a spin in the night and manage to escape being spotted by the cops, there is every chance a CCTV camera will spot the car. You will get an e-challan the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Migrant workers rush home as state government announces complete lockdown from May 16||Hundreds of migrant workers and their families rushed to bus stands across the city to head back home after the state government announced restrictions till May 30. At the Esplanade bus terminus, a large crowd gathered from Saturday afternoon with their bags packed. Many carrying headloads were headed home to Hazaribagh in Jharkhand, Malda, Balurghat, Siliguri and Patna, among others. A private bus headed for Jalangi in Murshidabad had many sitting on its roof, their legs precariously dangling over the roof rail. At the Babughat bus stand, long queues were spotted in front of bus operators’ kiosks. Those who got tickets made a mad scramble for the parked buses because they were told they had to occupy seats to ensure no one else would. Jitender Tiwari,a private bus operator who had three buses leave for Hazaribagh and Patna, said that it was an unprecedented rush. “There was a huge rush and fights broke out among the passengers over jumping queues. We tried our best to accommodate as many as we could, but we could not give tickets to many as the buses have a limited seating capacity. Many volunteered to travel on the roofs and we could not refuse them,” he said. In Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee Bus stand, too, many stood for hours to book tickets for government buses headed to Asansol, Durgapur and Burdwan, among others. Many of those leaving were people who worked at construction sites, small factories, as apprentices of mechanics and domestic help. All of them apprehended that the restrictions would continue beyond the initial fortnight. The chorus at nearly all the bus stands was: “We don’t want to be stranded.” Many said they were particularly wary after their experience of last year’s lockdown, when they had suddenly found themselves out of jobs and were forced to ride bicycles back home or pay hefty sums to book cars and small buses . Mohammed Faiyaz Sheikh, 28, a construction worker who was working at a building site in New Town, reached the Esplanade bus stand around 2.30pm. Sheikh, who hails from Malda and works as a mason, used to get Rs 250 per day besides food and lodging from the contractor. “This time, the contractor told us clearly that there will be no pay for no work and we have to clear the site as he will not be able to pay for our food as well. But he has cleared our dues and we came straight here after collecting our wages,” he said. Sheikh had been stuck in the city last year at a construction site, he said. “We could return home only after we managed to hire a small mini bus that cost us a lot. We had to do it as we were finding it difficult to find food as the contractor had said that he could no longer pay for our daily food bills,” he said. He said that the entire time that they were in New Town, they had to depend on food supplied by the police, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and local residents’ groups. At the Karunamoyee bus stand, Sagari Halder, 34, a resident of Muraroi in Burdwan, who worked as a full-time domestic help in a Salt Lake home, was waiting to buy a ticket for a government bus. “My employers had already asked me not to come since the past couple of months. I used to get Rs 12,000 a month. I had then started working in other houses as a part-time help and was earning around Rs 7,000. I decided to head home as I don’t know long the lockdown will continue. I am not sure that I will remain employed during the period, either. All the houses where I worked have told me that I will not get paid if I don’t go to work. Last year, I had got stuck and even though I have a son who is in school and I need the money, it is better to be home right now,” said Halder. Bidhan Hazra, who used to work as two-wheeler mechanic’s apprentice, said that he used to earn Rs 150 per day apart from getting money for food from his employer. “He said that he will have to keep his workshop shut and he will n longer be able to afford me. I decided to head home instead of being stuck here with no money,” said Hazra, who stays near Durgapur. Many workers this newspaper spoke to on Saturday said that they had somehow managed to find a means of livelihood and were barely back on their feet. Many said that they had taken loans. “Another round of prolonged restrictions will deal a death blow to us,” said Sahidul Biswas, 36, who works in a small hosiery manufacturing unit in Hatibagan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Last-minute shopping, concern over domestic help||Police on Saturday made announcements to make people aware of the restrictions from Sunday morning while citizens crowded markets and queued outside liquor stores to collect their stocks that would last at least till the fortnight. Many Calcuttans, who depend on helps and have security guards posted at their apartments and housing complexes, expressed concern on how they would report to duty from Sunday. Helps and guards — who are part of the private sector — are essential to many, especially the elderly. Although there is no specific mention about helps or security personnel on Saturday’s notification, many The Telegraph spoke to have either asked their helps to stay with them or have discontinued their services. Several housing complexes have arranged accommodation for security guards. People crowded market places on Saturday evening to stock essentials. “The market timings has been halved. To avoid that crowd, I decided to stock some groceries,” said Anil Mukherjee, a resident of Maniktala. Maniktala, Gariahat, Lake Market and Jadu Babu Bazar were teeming with last-minute shoppers on Saturday evening.  Thousands of people stood outside liquor shops across the city from 5pm on Saturday following the announcements of the restrictions that included closure of retail liquor shops from Sunday. But many returned home empty-handed because either the stock got exhausted or the store had to close by 7pm. At least six-seven liquor shops had to be closed down in the Gariahat and Ballygunge area as hundreds of people were still standing in queues waiting after 7pm. “We explained to them about the 7pm deadline. They were disappointed but abided by the rules,” said an officer of Ballygunge police station. Police across the city were engaged in making public announcements about the restrictions that would be in place from Sunday 6am. A senior officer in the central division said, announcements were made in market places about the revised timings from 7am to 10am when markets would be open and about the restrictions on movement of private vehicles except for medical emergencies or essential services. “We are requesting people to stay indoors...,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Bengal health department directs test centres to prioritise critical patients||Samples for RT-PCR tests from serious and “clinically unstable” patients will have to be collected first and be accorded top priority, the Bengal health department has said in a recent advisory to all hospitals and collection centres. “... this has become extremely important to expedite the process from collection of RT PCR testing samples to report generation of clinically unstable patients for quick medical intervention...,” reads the directive, which has been jointly issued by the state’s director of medical education and director of health services. The directive comes in the wake of the health department receiving several complaints of health institutions refusing to admit patients without a test result despite the state government’s instructions that all serious patients have to be admitted irrespective of test reports. Senior officials of the health department said there were signs among patients queuing up for RT PCR tests that indicated they were “clinically unstable” and should be given priority. “Some of the clear indicators include abnormal heart rate, chest pain, shortness of breath, cold hands and legs and at times loss of consciousness,” said a senior official, who is also a doctor. The health department had earlier instructed that irrespective of test results, serious patients would have to be accommodated, preferably in SARI wards. In case they have to be referred to another institution, that should be done after confirming a bed, the department had said. Doctors across Covid hospitals have observed a time-lag that is proving critical for some patients, particularly those with comorbidities. The health department has now instructed hospitals that for serious patients, the samples for RT-PCR tests, once collected, have to be separated from others. The sample collection boxes will have to be marked separately and necessary measures will have to be taken for their emergency transportation to testing centres and labs. “A patient’s Covid-positive result helps to immediately deciding the course of  treatment without any delay,” said a pulmonologist of ID Hospital in Beleghata. “Earlier intervention always helps particularly for those with early symptoms of pneumonia.” Relatives of patients who were allegedly refused admission by some nursing homes and hospitals later complained to senior officials in Swasthya Bhavan. They said some institutions turned them away even after they said there was little they could do since test results would not reach before four and five days after collection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||La Martiniere schools announce fee hike of up to Rs 50,000||The La Martiniere schools have announced a fee hike of up to Rs 50,000 approximately a year over the concession given last year. Hundreds of parents complained it was “an unfair decision” in the middle of the pandemic when incomes have been hit. There were also questions whether such a hike was legally tenable after Calcutta High Court's intervention last year in response to a complaint by parents that in the absence of on-campus classes schools should not be allowed to charge fees like other years. At La Martiniere, the payable fees in kindergarten was Rs 79,200 instead of Rs 99,000 after the court order. The fee is now Rs 1,30,000 this year. For a student of Class XII, the fees in 2020-21 was Rs 69,600 instead of Rs 87,000. The fees is now Rs 1,06,000 a year. Calcutta High Court had in its order in October asked private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of the tuition fees between April 2020 and one month after the schools resumed on-campus classes. The court had restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra-curricular activities or the like” till in-the person classes resumed. After the order, La Martiniere schools had cut down the fees by 20 per cent. It has charged parents on three heads — tuition fees, session fees and infrastructure development fees. “We have gone back to the original fee structure. As per the court order, we had given the concession last year,” Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools, told Metro on Saturday. Schools have been closed since March last year. When the situation had improved, the government had allowed Classes IX to XII to resume from February 12. But after the rise in Covid-19 cases, schools had to shut down again and revert to online classes. A La Martiniere parent on Saturday said: “Business has been hit. Now with further restrictions imposed, business will further go down. The school should have considered this.” Senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya said the hike amounted to contempt of court. “Till the time schools resume on-campus classes they will have to continue with the reduced fee structure....” said Bhattacharyya. An appeal against the Calcutta High Court order, moved by some minority-run schools, is pending before the Supreme Court. “Our petition in the Supreme Court is pending,” said a La Martiniere official. The school said since last year it has been paying salaries to all staff according to the Seventh Pay Commission. Some parents questioned why a school would charge for infrastructure development at a time when students are not going to school. “Why should the school charge on infrastructure now?It is not being used and children are doing online classes,” said a parent of a middle school student. The school argued that it required resources to maintain a 200-year-old building. “Whether the school runs or not, maintenance of the building has to be done...," said Dhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||HS and Madhyamik not to be held next month||Bengal’s secondary and higher secondary examinations, which were due in June, will not be held next month, state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay announced on Saturday. “No exams will be held in June. Madhyamik Pariksha was due in the first half of June. Higher secondary exam was scheduled for the second half of June. But as we decided to suspend certain activities today, this will result in exam conducting bodies requiring more time in organising these exams. These exams will not be held in June,” said Bandyopadhyay. “The education department, in consultation with the concerned board, council, will work out a reasonable time frame. Students and their guardians do not have to worry. They will be given reasonably well time, notification in due time.” The Madhyamik exam was scheduled to be held from June 1 to 10 and the HS examinations from June 15 till July 2. On April 30, the state HS council had said the higher secondary examinations would be held as scheduled in June. On Saturday, an official of the school education department said “the ground situation, as far as Covid is concerned, has changed drastically between April 30 and mid-May”. He said the count of cases was rising exponentially across the state and exposing students to an exam venue at a time like this, would amount to putting their health at risk. “We cannot allow that. It is time to stay indoors as much as possible. The higher secondary council had even announced that HS examinees would appear for the examination at their own institution (home venue), instead of writing the test in June at an away centre. Even this decision was not found tenable because of the change in scenario,’’ said the official. Early this week, the presidents of both exam conducting bodies left it to the state government to decide whether exams could be held on schedule. The headmaster of a south Calcutta school said: “Since college admission is largely dependent on the Class XII marks, the council was trying to conduct the school-leaving exams on time. But everything is in a limbo again.” The CBSE and ICSE council both have deferred their Class XII board exams, which were to be held in May, because of the pandemic. The new dates will be announced once the authorities review the situation in the first week of June. An official of the education department said, they were also keeping a watch on what the boards like CBSE and ICSE council do in the first week of June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
