17-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta cop advice helps five from Delhi reach home||A couple and their three children arrived at Howrah station from Delhi on Sunday morning and were stuck because of lack of public transport before being helped by police to reach Sealdah station on their way home. Priyanka Singh, a resident of Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas, husband Manoj Singh, an app cab driver in the national capital, and their two daughters and one son, had to wait for close to 30 minutes before they found a government bus to Esplanade. The family was headed to Priyanka’s maternal home in Patharpratima, 105km from the heart of Calcutta. Priyanka hoped to get a bus to Diamond Harbour or Namkhana from Esplanade. On Saturday afternoon, her sister had called Priyanka to inform her about the Covid-19 containment measures to be in force in Bengal from Sunday. She had “still hoped we would get something from Esplanade,” but in vain. The family reached Esplanade around 11.40pm but there was no bus in the terminus. The roads were deserted. After waiting for some 15 minutes, Priyanka approached a team of policemen. An officer listened to their plight and arranged for a police car to drop them at Sealdah station. The officer suggested that the Singhs get on a “staff special train”. “The officer came as a godsend. We were at a loss what to do with the kids in the scorching heat,” said Manoj, 41. The car dropped them at Sealdah station. But they were stopped at the gates. Manoj explained their plight to the security personnel and the family was let in after much persuasion. A jawan told them that a train would leave for Namkhana around 12.30pm. “We reached Namkhana around 3pm,” said Manoj. What followed was another long wait for a vehicle. Finally, the family hired a motor-powered van to Patharpratima, around 30km away, for a staggering Rs 1,000. “We had to reach home. There was no other option,” said Manoj. He has kept his car with his brother in Delhi, where the government has extended the lockdown till May 24. “There is hardly any income,” he said. Not every passenger arriving at Calcutta on long-distance trains was as lucky. Since morning, many passengers were stranded at Howrah and Sealdah stations for want of transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Home kitchen delivers in times of trouble||When you call up The Home Matters, a home kitchen, a young, enthusiastic voice answers. It is not the “professional”, bland voice that often greets a client, but one that actually seems interested in the caller. The owner of the voice is Abhisayan Ghara, 29, one third of the team that has been running the home kitchen from Purna Das Road in south Calcutta since April last year, to provide meals to homes affected by Covid. The meals are either free or available at a very affordable price. Because many of the recipients are or were Covid patients, the meals, standard Bengali fare, are healthy and lightly-cooked, but unlike some other healthy fare, quite delicious. The chicken curry hides delicate flavours in it. The muger daal is downright aromatic. The aamer tok is the right balance of sweet and sour. You may even be served a portion of dal phela torkari, a special Bengali vegetable dish with lentil seeds. The making of food is a form of care. Even if you are selling it, it nourishes someone. But supplying food to homes affected by Covid now is nothing short of a lifeline. It also means a commitment you cannot go back on. Up to a hundred meals, including lunch and dinner, are prepared every day by Abhisayan and his two partners, Suhit and Suprit Das, who are twins. The three men grew up together in the same para, between Hindustan Road, where Abhisayan lives, and Purna Das Road, where Suhit and Suprit live. The kitchen of their home is the home kitchen from where the enterprise runs. Of the meals, about half are provided free to individuals and families who are ill, unable to manage themselves and cannot afford to pay. At some homes, the entire family is suffering from Covid. Some homes have only the elderly and infirm. Other homes have lost family members. When death disables you, food that is freshly-made and can be trusted arriving at your doorstep is a gift. Abhisayan and his partners take special care to find out about individual preferences of their clients. Some of them are in their 80s. Some need gola bhaat, softened boiled rice. Some do not appreciate any departure from routine. “Recently we served pish pash. We had someone saying the food was not ‘understandable’,” laughs Abhisayan. Sometimes someone will ask for medicines to be bought and delivered with the meals. Maybe bread as well, because the neighbourhood grocery store may refuse to go to a Covid home. Sometimes someone will just open up about someone she has lost. The meals are delivered in neatly packed clean plastic containers. Since mealtime is tied up with medicine time for so many now, Abhisayan and his friends may have to deliver the food themselves at time, though usually it is through a third party delivery partner. “The delivery can be a challenge,” says Abhisayan, as most of these services are over-stressed now. “During the recent spell of rain, we went out ourselves in our cars,” he adds. It is not easy. But the rewards are many. One is a message that arrives from a client after every meal. “God bless you,” it says. “I wait for it,” says Abhisayan. After school, he got a BBA degree in corporate management from Symbiosys in Pune. Away from home, he learnt to cook. But he discovered it was not only a necessity; it was a passion, as it was with his friend-partners. It could have had something to do with his inheritance. Abhisayan’s father, who passed away in 2015, was the owner the well-known sweet shop Mahaprabhu Mistanna Bhandar in Dover Lane, which shut down three years ago. Abhisayan was helping his father then and also finding out that he had a talent for making and innovating mishtis. The pandemic and the need to help others was the push he needed to set up the home kitchen, despite the limited infrastructure. The friends start their day at 6.30am. By 10.30 lunch is ready,” says Abhisayan. The afternoon goes into procuring bajar, raw materials. In the evening, dinner is cooked. When the load is too heavy, he cooks a bit at his house, where he lives with his mother and elder brother, but the meals are put together at Purna Das Road. “We do it ourselves. We just know how to cook,” stresses Abhisayan, proudly. Suprit, who is out of town now, has studied hotel management, but Abhisayan and Suhit have had no formal training in food or cooking. They have their mothers, though. Suhit and Suprit’s mother, especially, is a strong presence. Her Bangal (people from the former East Bengal) lineage brings to the food its sharp, but entirely bearable flavours. The kitchen hygiene also reflects stern maternal standards. In return the boys keep occupying the kitchen, Abhisayan chuckles. “Our mothers want to get rid of us.” The boys’ kitchen may move out to a bigger space soon. But the set-up will be the same. It will remain a home kitchen. It does not only do meals. It has a fun, provocative side to it as well. Its high tea menu includes maachher kochuri (kochuri with fish filling), deemer-devil (devilled eggs) or chingrir bhorta (mashed prawns) with assorted crackers. Its Instagram account reveals high adventure, from pepper mutton chops to bandhakopir paturi (cabbage cooked in plantain leaves). The idea is to rescue Bengali “cuisine”, which has boomed — but also, paradoxically, become limited and bland — from its stereotypes, an inevitable outcome of being out there in the “global” market. The standard Bengali items are, says Abhisayan, basanti polao (yellow pulao), chingri malaikari (prawn coconut curry), panthar magsho (goat meat). But of course there is so much more. “Such as marichbata,” he says. It is not what you think it is, he says, mysteriously. You have to try it. I must, because it sounds pungent and refreshing. But once I feel a little better about the world around us. Till then there are his plain, wholesome, generous meals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Support pours in for the Covid-hit||A supplier of stationery to schools whose business has been closed for more than a year visited an NGO in Entally and donated 50kg of potatoes and 25kg of rice. A group of parents whose children have just started school donated rice, pulses, flour and edible oil to the NGO. People from all walks of life have come forward to donate rations to Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC), a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, after the NGO put up a post on social media. In the post, KMWSC had sought help to provide lunch to 200 underprivileged people staying in a Covid safe home. The initiative started this week and KMWSC has committed to providing lunch all seven days a week for the rest of this month and also in June. “People are struggling in their own ways and not all of them have money to give but I am overwhelmed to see their thoughtfulness and help with raw materials that they could afford,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of KMWSC. Sister Suchiang said people — mostly unknown — were visiting the centre every day with bags and cartons containing various food items. She said the organisation had stocked up rations for a month. One such donor is 37-year-old Suman Sankhanibhi, who used to supply stationery, trophies and certificates to schools. He donated 25kg of rice and 50kg of potatoes to the centre. “The past year was really bad for my business. The second Covid wave has served another blow. The schools are showing no sign of opening. Despite the odds my family and I managed to survive. I felt I can spare a few thousands of rupees during this hour of crisis, when many are fighting hunger,” he said. Some people have donated money to buy fish for a couple of days and promised to do more. “People suffering from Covid-19 need wholesome food and there are so many people who have nothing to eat. They are isolated from home. Since we cannot help them medically, we decided to serve them lunch,” said Sister Suchiang. Cooking for 200-odd people requires hours of hard labour. Work begins early in the morning so that the food is delivered on time. An appeal on KMWSC’s social media page reads: “The wave of coronavirus is leading to the second pandemic ie hunger. Thus, this initiative is taken by KMWSC to support the needy Covid patients and their families who are suffering from the hunger crisis. Looking ahead to your generous support to make a difference in the lives of the Covid patients and families by donating and sponsoring towards food.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Complaint against hospital over remdesivir||Hours after the death of a 46-year-old Covid patient admitted in a small hospital in north Calcutta, his family alleged that the hospital did not administer remdesivir even after they procured six vials of the medicine. A complaint has been registered with Shyampukur police station against the hospital on Sunday. “My brother-in-law was admitted to the hospital on April 28. Hospital officials would keep calling us and informing us about treatment procedures and medicines we needed to purchase immediately. Once we were told to purchase a machine. We arranged it immediately for Rs 12,000. Then on May 3, we were told to get six vials of remdesivir. They said the medicine was available in  a pharmacy nearby,” said the sister-in-law of the deceased. A purported bill generated from the pharmacy on May 3 in the name of the patient shows the sale of one dose of “100MG LYOPHILIZED injection” for Rs 20,940. The family said they had this as the “proof of buying Remdesivir.” The Telegraph reported on Saturday that health department officials were concerned about violation of norms regarding prescribing remdesivir by smaller hospitals and nursing homes, forcing patients’ families to purchase the drug at a premium. The government’s directives suggest that the medicine should be directly supplied only to hospitals and nursing homes treating Covid patents. The directive also prohibits hospitals from unnecessarily prescribing the medicine. The deceased person’s family said when the patient’s condition started deteriorating on May 14, the hospital asked them to shift him to a better medical facility. According to the complaint lodged with Shyampukur police station, the family contacted their family physician. He took out the treatment summary from the hospital and told the family that there was no mention of remdesivir in it.  The patient died early on Sunday. “When we confronted the hospital they verbally assured us that remdesivir was administered. However, there was no mention of the medicine in the summary,” the family alleged. The police said they would refer the case to the health department for investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta samaritans join hands to provide food||People living in shanties near Ballygunge railway station will get hot khichdi from Wednesday evening. Slum dwellers around Jadavpur railway station will get cereals and pulses from this week. The Covid containment measures announced by the state government, and which came into effect on Sunday, have robbed thousands of people of their daily earnings and two square meals. But from young students to social activists, people across the city are extending a helping hand to feed as many as they can. A guest house adjacent to Gariahat police station has been turned into a kitchen, helmed by the volunteers of Jatiyo Bangla Sammelan, a platform of youth and social activists, to feed poor and destitute people in neighbouring areas. “Ever since the lockdown was announced on Saturday we have stocked up 200kg of rice, 60kg of pulses, potatoes and onions to prepare khichdi and other dishes. Our volunteers have hired autos to ferry the food in the evening. The auto drivers will be paid Rs 350 each daily and also fed from the kitchen,” said Siddhabrata Das, a spokesperson for the platform. The volunteers will deliver food to around 200 people living in shanties near Ballygunge station, Bijan Setu and under the Gariahat flyover every day. “In the coming months, we have plans to serve food to people in areas like Tollygunge and Bijoygarh,’’ said an organiser. The organisers have taken to crowd-funding to raise money for the kitchen. So far, they have raised Rs 1 lakh and spent the amount on buying essentials and hiring vehicles for delivery. The platform is launching its service on Bhasha Swahid Divas (Language Martyrs Day) to commemorate the death of 11 people who were killed on May 19, 1961, in Assam’s Barak Valley while fighting to protect the Bengali language. Das said they were starting the kitchen in Dover Guest House so that the cook of the facility, which does not have any visitors over the past couple of months, could be gainfully employed. “He was not earning anything owing to the absence of the visitors. The community kitchen will enable him to make some earnings. Two more helpers are being engaged,” said Das. Explaining how the sudden imposition of the containment measures has impacted the poor people, a volunteer said most people in the neighbourhood depend on daily wage for their survival. Many in areas like Gariahat and Kasba earn a living by plying autos or running small tea stalls. “They don’t have any income now. Many of them survived by working as domestic help. With the surge in Covid cases, a lot of households are refusing to let them in and have discontinued their service. They will die out of starvation,’’ he said. Members of Jadavpur Commune, who had run a community kitchen last year for 288 days, have started collecting items such as rice and pulse. The commune has been formed by current and former students of the university. Debjan Sengupta, a member of the commune, said they would start delivering ration to the families living in slums around Jadavpur railway station. “These families have been badly hit by the lockdown. Several of them are masons, attendants and drivers who cannot earn now. We will start with giving ration and have plans to resume the community kitchen,’’ said Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Principal of Techno India Group Public School dies of Covid ||The principal of Techno India Group Public School Garia, Sujata Ghatak, passed away early on Sunday. Ghatak, 52, had tested positive for Covid and was under treatment at a hospital over the past 20 days. She is survived by her husband and son. “She was doing well initially and was connected with us over the phone for a week. But after that her condition started deteriorating and she succumbed to Covid-19,” said Manoshi Roychowdhury, co-chairman, Techno India Group. Ghatak would have completed four years as principal of the school in July. Before joining the Garia school, she was associated with other private schools in the city — as headmistress of one institution and founder principal of another. “She was always motivating her team and was connected to her teachers and students,” said Roychowdhury. Roychowdhury said Ghatak took the school to a “new height”. The school received accolades during her tenure. “She started the inter-school quiz competition with 32 schools. This was only one of the initiatives started by her,” said Roychowdhury. Dedicated to her work, Ghatak attended a school meeting from her bed before she was admitted to the hospital. "She said it would keep her distracted," said a school official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Visit vaccine centres near home: Police||The health department and police officers have advised Covid vaccine recipients to visit centres near home over the next fortnight, when public transport will largely remain off the road as part of the Covid containment measures of the Bengal government. As buses and autos are not allowed to ply during the period, those without private vehicles have to depend on app-cabs to visit vaccination centres at faraway places. On Sunday, app cabs were far fewer in numbers resulting in a steep surge in fares. “How will I go for vaccination when there are no buses and autos?”, was a question many cops on roads faced on Sunday. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to said many people who had stepped out to visit markets asked them how they could visit vaccination centres in the absence of public transport. “I advised each of them to visit a centre near home so that they did not have to worry about public transport,” said a sergeant posted near the Gariahat crossing. Another officer in Behala who had faced a similar concern from an elderly Calcuttan said: “I advised the gentleman to avoid going to any far off vaccination centre. He said the centre near his home was at least 1km away. He then came up with an idea and said he would ask his neighbour’s son to drop him off at the centre,” the cop said. The police said many expressed concern that they were not in a position to walk to the vaccination centres. Nor can they afford to hire a vehicle. People who called up the health department helpline on Sunday were given the same advice — go to a vaccination centre near home. From Monday, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has arranged for vaccination at a health centre in each of the 16 boroughs. All these centres will be administering Covaxin from 10am to recipients who have valid documents to prove they are eligible for the booster dose. Till late on Sunday, the government had not issued specific orders about those who may be eligible for the second dose of Covishield. “We are trying to open two centres in a few boroughs across the city,” said a CMC official. Amid the assurances, a section of citizens remained wary about visiting a vaccination centre twice, particularly those who don’t have their own mode of transportation. “On Sunday,I had to wait for quite long to get an app cab from Shyambazar to Chadni Chowk and the fare was double the usual amount,” said a north Calcutta resident who works in an emergency sector. App-cab operators said they had remained off the platform because the number of bookings was low and not everyone had documents to show that there was a valid reason to travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Trader’s body found on Hooghly banks ||A 66-year-old city businessman who left his south Calcutta home early on Sunday for his daily walk did not return home and was allegedly spotted jumping from the Howrah-bound flank of Vidyasagar Setu, police said. A body was recovered from the Hooghly banks on Sunday evening. The police said the wife of Shravan Kumar Birla, the missing businessman, identified the body as that of her husband. Birla’s car was found on the bridge with the key hanging from the ignition and the driver’s door was open. An officer said he was seen jumping off the bridge on Sunday morning. One of his acquaintances who visited Hastings police station later in the day, after the car was spotted on the bridge and towed away, ruled out chances of Birla having been depressed. He said: “He (Birla) was fine. He had left home around 5.30am.” An officer of Hastings police station said Birla had recovered from an ailment a few weeks ago. The Telegraph could not speak with the family to verify the information. The police said Birla ran an automobile parts company from an office on Prinsep Street. Officers of Hastings police station had launched a search in the Hooghly and areas where Birla could have visited after stepping out of his home on Karaya Road. A team of disaster management group and personnel from the river traffic police were deployed to carry out the search in the river. Traffic police officers said an empty Honda Fit was spotted on the bridge on Sunday morning. They found out the owner’s name from the registration plate and the family was alerted. Sources said CCTV camera footage was being scanned to track the car's movement before it headed for Vidyasagar Setu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
