18-05-2021||Calcutta||Suffering Covid patients head to Behala gurdwara instead of hospital||Many Covid-19 patients in home isolation in Taratala, New Alipore and Behala are heading to a gurdwara instead of a hospital when gasping for breath. Once at the gurdwara, a patient’s vital parameters are being checked by a team of paramedics. People in need of oxygen are then being let into a camp and provided with oxygen. Once stable, the patient is going back home. If still critical, a team of volunteers is scouting for a hospital bed. A week into its launch, a free oxygen supply service at Gurdwara Behala has served hundreds of people, many of them critical. One of them is Malati Saha, a 59-year-old homemaker in Sahapur Colony in New Alipore. Malati had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 12. Her oxygen saturation level dipped to 91 a day later. “When I called up the doctor, he advised immediate oxygen intake. I checked with many pharmacies and private dealers but in vain. I came to know about Behala Gurdwara from a WhatsApp message,” said Malati’s 37-year-old son, Rony. Rony took her mother to the oxygen camp, carved out of a portion of the ground floor of the gurdwara, around 8.30pm on May 13. Since then, she has been visiting the camp every day, where she is being provided with oxygen for six hours at a stretch. “Her oxygen saturation level has risen to 98 now. She is stable. The doctor has asked to reduce the intake from Tuesday. These people are like angels. I shudder to think what would have happened to my mother without their help,” said Rony, who owns a small grocery store in Behala. The camp, named “Oxygen Langar Sewa”, is an initiative of IHA Foundation. The project is an extension of Langar on Wheels, a campaign to provide freshly cooked meals to underprivileged people during the lockdown last year. Gurdwara Behala, IHA Foundation and Kolkata Response Group had organised the drive, which continued even beyond the lockdown phase and fed close to three million people, said organisers. The new centre has oxygen cylinders which form a gas bank. Each cylinder is connected to an outlet which has a flow meter to maintain the flow of oxygen given to the patients. “At a time, oxygen can be supplied to a dozen people inside the camp. We also have oxygen concentrators. They are being used to serve senior citizens who are sitting in their vehicles outside the gurdwara,” said a volunteer of the IHA Foundation. The camp is equipped with oximeters, blood pressure measurement machines, glucometers, thermometers and all other equipment to check the basic parameters of a patient. Most of those who go there are in desperate need of oxygen, but are unable to find a bed in hospital or arrange an oxygen cylinder by themselves. Bengal’s health administrators are worried about a tendency among a section of people to stock oxygen cylinders and concentrators at home fearing that someone in the family might need them after contracting Covid. Home healthcare providers, who either sell or rent out oxygen concentrators and cylinders, said their stock was exhausted because of the panic reaction. “We are getting 40-50 patients every day,” said Arabinda Bera, a doctor leading a team of volunteers and paramedics at the gurdwara. “We are ramping up the infrastructure so that we can also provide basic treatment to Covid-19 patients with comorbidities till they get a bed at a hospital,” said Bera. The bulk of the oxygen is being supplied by a private company at a concessional rate, said organisers. “During the day we receive a lot of calls. The rush starts from the evening when patients’ families come after exhausting all avenues. The doors of our gurdwara are open to everyone,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairman of the IHA Foundation and general secretary of Gurdwara Behala. The “Oxygen Langar” will soon have another unit inside Nakhoda Mosque. “We are in the final stages of discussions with the mosque administration,” said Ahluwalia. Gurdwara Behala launched two helplines on Monday, they are — 9830200026 and 9830200029.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Dhritiman Chatterjee finds Satyajit Ray’s film relevant during ongoing second surge ||Dhritiman Chatterjee, one of Satyajit Ray’s actors who worked with him in the 1970s in ‘Pratidwandi’ and then after 20 years in ‘Ganashatru’ and finally ‘Agantuk’, finds Ray and his last three films to be highly relevant in the current times of religious polarisation and divisiveness. Taking part in an online discussion on the book Satyajit Ray in 100 Anecdotes with the authors, Arthy Muthanna Singh and Mamta Nainy, Chatterjee stressed the need to keep Ray relevant to the young generation instead of memorialising him. Ray’s last three films —Ganashatru, Shakha Prashakha and Agantuk —had been criticised for being mostly shot on the set. Ganashatru, heavily reliant on dialogues, was shot entirely on the set. Answering a question put forth by the authors on how Ray’s film-making might have changed between Pratidwandi (1970) and Ganashatru (1989), Dhritiman said: “Pratidwandi depicted a turbulent time, it was a breakaway film from what Ray was making at that time. There were long shots of walking a long street and things like that. Whereas just before Ganashatru, Ray had been seriously ill for a long time but he was itching to get back to work. He wanted to make a film but he would have to do that in a static way and so he chose Henrik Ibsen’s 1882 play Enemy of the People, which would be made purely on the set.” Ray had to contend with serious limitations like having a cardiologist check on him between shots and keeping an ambulance ready. “Ray was a keen observer of people and he had the liveliness of dialogues that marked Ganashatru,” said the actor. Dhritiman went from playing a young protagonist in Pratidwandi to a middle-aged villain in Ganashatru opposing his doctor brother, who raised an alarm over polluted charanamrita. Chatterjee finds the film relevant during the ongoing second surge of Covid infections, which is believed to have been fuelled by religious congregations like the Kumbh and political rallies. Like the film, in real life, too, science has been pushed back by religion and politics, putting the lives of people in danger. The auteur film-maker was home-bound and reading a lot during the period he made his last three films. Agantuk, where the protagonist is an anthropologist, was probably inspired by his reading of anthropologist Levi Strauss, Chatterjee said. “He was then very much thinking about primitive tribes, the relationship between various communities,” said the actor, who yet again plays a villainous role in Agantuk grilling the protagonist. Talking of the ways in which Ray and his films could be kept relevant, Chatterjee said: “We can talk of the way he made cinema, his outlook of life. We keep saying Ray was a humanist. We need to examine what do we mean when we say he was a humanist and how to keep that alive.” Ray was a product of the post-Independence Nehruvian era of liberalism, secularism and now, a “much-maligned word”, of socialism. “The younger generation should be exposed to these influences and have to be sensitised to these institutions,” he said. On a lighter note, when he was asked which role he would have liked to play in Ray’s films apart from the ones he did, Chatterjee said: “I would have killed to play Feluda.”  He also would have loved to play character roles in his films. “In Ray’s films there is no such thing as insignificant roles,” he added. The actor who played Professor Shanku in Professor Shanku O El Dorado directed by his son Sandip Ray, said: “Since Professor Shanku’s stories were set in places all over the world, Ray could not have thought of filming them because of production costs.” Ray was known to shoot his films on tight budgets and would be very accountable to his producers. It was pure luck that a producer was willing to fly Sandip Ray and his Shanku team to Brazil for the shoot. On Ray’s famous relationship with his child actors, Dhritiman said: “He got along with children. He grew up in a traditional extended household. In Santiniketan, he did community living with other ashram-ites. In many ways he was a lone man, but in other ways he was a community man.” Asked by a member of the audience what Ray thought of the contemporary Indian film and who he thought was a promising director, Chatterjee said: “He was fairly optimistic of the future of Indian films and spoke very highly of Ketan Mehta’s Mirch Masala.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Archbishop asks council members to stand by people who need oxygen, medicines||Archbishop Thomas D’Souza has asked parish priests and council members to initiate steps to identify the people who need help with regards to oxygen, medicines, Covid test and food and stand by them. The archbishop on Monday issued a circular to all 65 churches in the archdiocese of Calcutta and made an “appeal” to all priests, consecrated men and women and the lay people to be “generous in helping our brothers and sisters in need at this critical time of Covid-19 pandemic”. “Please donate generously to the Covid Fund,” the circular says. “I request all our Parish Priests along with Parish Council members, Religious Communities, Parish Action Groups, SCC (Small Christian Communities), Parish Commissions... to discuss and initiate steps first to identify the needs, the people who need help (food, medicines, Covid test, quarantine, oxygen, counselling etc.). We must care for all needy and poor people to the extent possible," the archbishop has said in the circular. The circular also contains guidelines about Holy Mass during the period (till May 30) special Covid control measures will remain in force across the state. “Our churches will remain closed during the lockdown period. However, Holy Mass will be celebrated in the Church/chapel by priests without any congregation,” the circular says. It says that though the government has allowed 50 persons for marriage, "all our parish priests are requested to consult the Archbishop in case of marriage celebration". It also mentions that funeral rituals shall be allowed with not more than 20 persons at a time and the physical distancing norm will have to be followed. “It is advisable to take the body directly to the cemetery without Holy Mass and the burial will be done with the priest present. Once parish churches are open, Holy Mass for the repose of the departed person will be celebrated,” the circular says. “We have made special groups and a youth commission to look into the needs of the people,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar-general of the archdiocese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Many Covid vaccination centres down shutters across Bengal||Half the Covid vaccination centres across Bengal, including those in Calcutta, were closed on Monday because of unavailability of doses and the latest change to the Covishield dosing schedule. Many people were inconvenienced as they visited the centres amid the state-wide “lockdown” only to find the doors closed. Officials said there were about 3,500 private and government-run vaccination centres across the state. On Monday, a little more than 1,700 were functional. Around 60,000 people received the jabs till the evening. “There were two reasons why so many vaccination centres were closed on Monday. One is lack of enough doses and the Centre’s inability to send fresh supplies. The other is the Centre’s latest decision on the Covishield dosing schedule, which says the second dose should be administered 12-16 weeks after the first,” said a health department official. “We are almost out of stock. Only a small number of Covaxin doses are left, which will last for a day or two. The entire Covishield stock has been exhausted. It does not make sense to administer Covaxin to a handful of people at all the centres because that would have led to law and order issues.” The Centre, the official said, will get seven to eight lakh doses by the end of this month. “But it is not clear when those consignments will start coming,” the official said. “Those who had booked appointments for the Covishield second dose on the CoWin portal before May 13 got it even before 12 weeks from the first dose. Now, one cannot book a slot for the second dose before 12 weeks,” the official said. The CMC administered Covaxin from about 16 of the 144 clinics on Monday. Almost all the recipients had taken their first dose at private hospitals. “The queue is short. People can come, wait for a short period, take the vaccine and leave,” said an official of the CMC. The CMC clinics were also given a limited number of Covishield vials but there were only a few recipients. “Only those who took their first doses in February and missed the second can take the second dose of Covishield now. That number is very low,” the official said. Besides, if four or five people are turning up to take the second dose of Covishield, the CMC is taking down their names and phone numbers but not administering the jab. “One vial can vaccinate 10 people. If we open a vial for five people, the remaining five doses will go to waste. So we are taking down the phone numbers of these people. We will call them when we will have nine or 10 recipients of Covishield,” the official said. Many people in Calcutta who had taken the first dose of Covishield went to CMC clinics for the second dose but found many of the centres closed. Notices asking recipients to come after 12 weeks from the first dose were put up at the centres. An elderly couple in Tangra had gone to the CMC Ward 58 office on Monday to take their second dose of Covishield but found it closed. "When we had taken the first dose of Covishield, we were asked to return on May 13. When we went to the CMC clinic that day, we were told to come back on May 17 because the interval was extended to 45 days," said the wife, who is around 65. “We walked to the clinic on Monday but it was closed with a notice asking the Covishield second dose recipients to revisit after 84 days from the first dose,” she said. Many recipients alleged that there was no way to know whether a particular government centre was administering vaccines. When people are calling up private hospitals, they are being told to wait or being given a list of government vaccination centres. An official of the CMC said they did not have the data of people who took their first dose from private hospitals, as a result of which they were not able to inform these people. As for those who took their first dose at CMC clinics, the civic body would make announcements in neighbourhoods from autos about the revised guideline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Admission bar on three hospitals over allegations of billing irregularities||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked three hospitals in Behala, Park Circus and New Town to stop admitting patients after allegations of overbilling and seeking deposit before admission surfaced against them on social media. The commission, which is the regulatory body of all private clinical establishments in the state, had issued an advisory during the first wave of Covid infections last year asking private hospitals not to make advance payment a condition for admission. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they took suo motu action against the three hospitals based on social media posts and reports published in a vernacular daily. “We have asked Apex in Behala, Samaritan in Park Circus and Ujjiban in New Town to stop admitting patients for now. There were allegations against these hospitals that they were overcharging patients and asking for a deposit before admission. We have also asked them to submit a few bills on a random basis. We will examine the bills and decide on our next course of action,” said Banerjee. The commission had last year told all private hospitals that they could not deny admission to a Covid patient if the family was not able to pay a security deposit. It had said that a private hospital could not deny treatment to a patient under any circumstance. But several hospitals are still seeking a security deposit as a condition for admission. If a patient’s family fails to pay the deposit, the hospital is refusing admission. During the first wave of infections last year, several hospitals had been accused of not even allowing patients to be wheeled into the emergency ward because their families failed to pay any advance. The patients were kept in ambulances for hours as the families ran from pillar to post to raise the money. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said they did seek a security deposit from patients but that was not a condition for admission. “We do not deny anyone admission if a family fails to pay any security deposit. We admit the patient and start the treatment. We provide the family ample time to pay the deposit. No one is denied admission or treatment if they fail to provide the security deposit during admission,” said Barua. He said it was a global practice for hospitals to ask for a security deposit before admission but no one should be denied treatment if the family failed to pay the amount. The deposit money, he said, is used to buy medicines and consumables for the patient’s treatment. Banerjee also asked private diagnostic centres and laboratories to not charge more than the amount stipulated by the government for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19. The state health department has capped the test rate at Rs 950. If a centre sends someone to collect test samples from home, it can additionally charge up to Rs 15 per kilometre. The Telegraph had on May 6 reported that a number of diagnostic centres were charging twice or thrice the government-stipulated rate for home collection of samples for Covid tests, taking advantage of the inability of the elderly and the ailing to visit the centres. An elderly couple who wanted to have their samples collected from home were asked by three diagnostic centres to shell out Rs 3,000, Rs 1,900 and Rs 1,400 for the tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Remdesivir finger at three private hospitals||At least three private hospitals in and around Calcutta are under the scanner of the health department for allegedly indirectly forcing some patients’ families to procure remdesivir from certain quarters at a higher price, a health department official said. According to the allegation, the hospitals did so despite having adequate stock of remdesivir, which at times is prescribed for Covid. Allegations have surfaced that despite having adequate stock of the medicine, the accused hospitals are trying to create an artificial crisis and force patients’ families to buy it from some “designated” persons at double or triple the price.Officials in the drug control wing are investigating the allegations. A state government order issued on May 3 states that medicine distributors or pharmacies cannot sell remdesivir to individuals. The medicine has to be sold directly to hospitals treating Covid patients and the volume of sale depends on the ICU capacity and occupancy. Sources in the health department said one of the accused hospitals is in Garia, another is in Shibpur and the third has multiple branches, including one in Salt Lake. “It is unfortunate that these institutions are trying to create an artificial crisis by telling patients’ families that they do not have remdesivir and that the patients would survive only if the medicine is administered to them. As there is an embargo on the sale of remdesivir to individuals, patients’ families have no clue from where to buy,” said a health department official. After that, hospital officials, pretending to help families, allegedly offer them a “solution” and provide them a contact number to buy the drug.“By then family members are so desperate to save the patient’s life, they get ready to pay any amount. This is an unholy nexus,” the official said. Health department officials said they had come to know about some families who were forced to pay several times the price of the medicine. However, very few families bother to lodge a complaint with the authorities because they are too busy saving the patient’s life. An official at Swasthya Bhavan said the drug control office had been periodically making calls and visiting these hospitals to alert them against such illegal practices. “The drug control authorities have a clear picture of the stock of each hospital. If they come across any case where a hospital asks a patient’s family to get remdesivir themselves, drug control officials can immediately verify with their stock register,” said the official. Another health department official advised people to alert Swasthya Bhavan or the West Bengal Health Regulatory Commission about such cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||New Town Covid vaccination centres offer slots to avoid crowding||Officials at two Covid vaccination centres run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) are calling up potential recipients to tell them their respective time slots for inoculation to prevent crowding at the centres. The NKDA official said the two centres were only administering shots to those already registered on the CoWin portal. From Tuesday, the two centres will resume vaccination of people aged 60 and above, the official said. Those who get themselves registered on CoWin have to call up the New Town helpline number--- 180010-37652 — and tell the operators their details as well as the registration number on the portal. The NKDA will call up the potential recipients when slots become available, the official said. The township authority has introduced the practice to ensure that the turnout at each centre is not more than the number of doses available on a given day. “That will prevent crowding at the centres,” the official said. Public health experts have repeatedly stressed the need to avoid crowds to prevent infection. “Our vaccine drive started on April 1. After a slow start, we have been seeing a huge rush. The surge in Covid cases has led to a desperation among people to get vaccinated. So, we have decided to ensure that there is no unnecessary crowding,” said the official. Metro has reported that people in the city and its adjoining areas have been queuing up since very early in the morning for the Covid shot. A large number of them are returning without being inoculated despite waiting for hours because of erratic supply of vaccines. On Monday, the vaccine centres administered shots to at least 100 hawkers in the age group of 18 to 44, whose names were earlier collected by NKDA officials. The drive to inoculate hawkers will be held on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. A drive was started on Monday at the centre at the New Town bus terminus building, behind Pride Hotel, to vaccinate people aged 70 or more who had missed their first shots. The NKDA is also planning to administer Covid-19 shots to construction workers at different sites in New Town. “We have enlisted volunteers from different residents’ welfare associations as well as local NGOs to help us,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said. Apart from that, the NKDA has also formed a “Covid-19 war room” comprising senior Hidco and NKDA officials. The township authority has formed various cells and assigned them specific tasks including vaccination, testing and delivering free meals at homes of elderly Covid-19 patients and safe homes. “Each cell alerts others if somebody comes to know of an emergency and the persons concerned act accordingly,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
