19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Helpline to cope with mental stress||An institute of mental health will launch a helpline on Wednesday morning to help people cope mentally with disease and death. The helpline — 1800-891-3021 — will be active from 9am to 9pm, seven days a week. People from across the country can call to share their anxieties, problems and feelings with a mental health professional, free of cost. “In our present uncertain situation, so many people are struggling with stress, anxiety and depression. We wanted to make our community feel supported, to tell them that they are not alone.The toll-free helpline will provide a safe, non-judgemental, and completely confidential environment for anyone to share their innermost fears and feelings,”  said psychotherapist Minu Budhia, the founder-director of Caring Minds, which has launched the helpline. Budhia said “home isolation” could be stressful as people are locked up in their rooms with no physical interaction with even family members. “There is so much news of death of near and dear ones or friends or people in the neighbourhood, which is taking a toll on people’s mental health. Talking to a mental health professional helps to heal. The sad part is at this time people are alone even in their homes,” said Budhia. The isolation is creating emotional gaps when one cannot see or talk to each other despite living in the same house. Added to this is the physical stress of battling the disease, said a homemaker who has tested positive for Covid-19. There are households in the city where all members have tested positive for Covid-19 and they are living in separate rooms fighting the disease on their own. “Mental health is still a taboo in our society and the helpline will help them reach out without worrying about their identity being disclosed,” said Budhia. She said there were examples of people who had lost family members in the disease and were feeling “suicidal”. “We also want to cater to second-tier cities where there are not many mental wellness clinics. People need emotional support during this time,” said Budhia. Preeyam Budhia, head of New Initiatives at Caring Minds, said:  “People are losing lives and losing their minds and we want to encourage as many people as possible to reach out to us for help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Give private guards in Calcutta their due||Security agencies and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of housing complexes have raised concern why private guards, who have become an integral part of Covid management teams, have not been included in the essential services bracket. The inclusion would have made them eligible for free vaccination by the government and exempt from Covid-related restrictions. The guards are performing Covid duties like lifting stretchers outside hospitals, fumigation and helping suspected Covid patients get on or off ambulances in hospitals and housing complexes. Officials of the Central Association of the Private Security Industry (CAPSI) – an umbrella organisation comprising nearly three lakh guards in Calcutta – have written to the state government seeking recognition of the guards as frontline workers. “Private security personnel are an integral part of the city’s security paraphernalia as they are needed everywhere – hospitals, banks, markets, institutions, housing complexes, vital installations…. The guards have been relentlessly performing their duties risking their lives like any frontline worker during the pandemic. Hence we have put up a request before the state to include them into the list of essential services and prioritise their vaccination,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, secretary, CAPSI, Bengal. Thousands of men and women who work as private guards have become lifelines at their workplaces by performing jobs beyond their call of duty or training. According to the chief of private security agency NIS, guards at hospitals are most vulnerable and exposed to a “huge quantum of risk.” “From holding stretchers with bodies of deceased Covid patients to lending a helping hand to patients trying to step out of an ambulance, guards are risking their lives every day. They are expected to perform duties beyond that of a conventional guard. It is sad if they are stopped on the road during the lockdown just because they have not been included in the essential services bracket,” said Debajit Choudhury of NIS. The majority of the guards have basic training in access control systems, patrolling duty, responding to emergencies, making primary enquiries and intervention in incidents of criminal nature and handling basic security tools like metal-frame detectors. However, in the past year, their job description has changed from protectors to facilitators, RWA officials said. “From guarding gates to arranging doorstep deliveries for affected families to fumigation of buildings – the guards are doing everything. It is unfortunate that they have not been recognised as frontline workers and that is why they are finding it difficult to commute during the lockdown. We have been able to retain the entire staff at our housing complex but that is not possible everywhere,” said an official of the Urbana housing complex, off Ruby hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Curbs hit those forced to step out for work||The lack of transport options because of the Covid-19 curbs is taking a heavy toll on people who are forced to step out of home for work. Police are strictly enforcing the curbs, stopping almost every vehicle on the road. Till Tuesday night, Calcutta police had prosecuted 725 people and seized 286 private vehicles for allegedly violating Covid-related curbs. Against such a backdrop, The Telegraph tracks the arduous journeys of some people who don’t have the luxury of working from home. Long walk home The 9km journey between his home near Dinabandhu Andrews College in Garia and his store near Gariahat is proving tougher by the day for a grocer. Biswajit Saha, the owner of Laxmi Narayan Stores on Hindusthan Road, was walking home when Metro called him up around 1.15pm on Tuesday. He had reached near Jadavpur police station by that time. His business window is from 7am to 10am. But wrapping up business takes time. “I left the store around 11.30am. I waited for almost an hour but did not get a bus. I started walking around 12.35pm,” said Saha. The temperature was around 38 degrees in the afternoon and the RealFeel almost 47 degrees. Saha did not get a bus on the return journey on Monday as well. “I had managed to find a taxi. But it is not possible to pay a fortune every day,” he said. Saha is desperately looking for a cycle to make his travel somewhat less taxing. Train fine Two residents of Ranaghat in Nadia, around 80km from the heart of Calcutta, work at a private bank in Rajarhat. On Tuesday, they boarded a Calcutta-bound “special train” from Ranaghat. The trains are meant to ferry railway employees. They got off at Ultadanga station, only to be confronted by RPF men. They had to pay a fine of Rs 600 for “unauthorised travel”. They were released after senior officials of the bank went to the station and talked to the RPF. “The banking system will crumble if these people don’t come to work. But they are being penalised for coming to work,” said an official who was part of the team that talked to the RPF officers. Pedal power A 48-year-old man who works at a sari store in Triangular Park lives in the interiors of Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. The store was closed on Sunday. Since Monday, he has been cycling to work and back, covering 14km each way. “Each trip takes me around 90 minutes. But it seems much more because of the heat,” said Kamalesh Sardar. Sardar has no other option. He is the only earning member in the six-member family comprising his wife, two children and aged parents. “There are hardly any customers. But coming to work makes things look somewhat normal. Sitting at home will be worse,” said Sardar. The sari shops dotting Gariahat and Rashbehari Avenue were deserted on Tuesday. Only a few had one or two customers inside. Several did not open. Sari shops are allowed to remain open from noon to 3pm. Two is company On Monday, a man rode a Scooty for around 150km, from one neighbouring district of Calcutta to another. The 28-year-old, who sells credit cards for a private bank, rode from his home in Joynagar, South 24-Parganas, to his branch in Nadia’s Phulia. The journey took him six hours via EM Bypass and then NH 12. A woman, his neighbour and his college mate, works at a private diagnostic centre at Madhyamgram. “We came together till Madhyamgram, stopping at a couple of places for tea. The journey would have been more difficult had I been alone,” said the man. Before local trains were suspended, he used to board a train from Joynagar to Sealdah, and another train from Sealdah to Phulia. One trip took around four hours. The man has rented an accommodation in Phulia but has to travel home at least twice a week because he has an eight-month-old son at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Dankuni school principal passes away||The principal of Methodist School, Dankuni, Denzil John, passed away on Monday night. He was hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19. John, 51, is survived by his wife and two children. He had taken over as the principal of the school in 2019 from Raja McGee, the principal of Calcutta Boys’ School,  after serving as the vice-principal of St Thomas’ School in Kidderpore for a few years. “It is a huge loss not just for the school but also the church. He was with us for a short span of time but during this period we saw he was an able administrator. He wanted to do many things for the school and it will be difficult to find a replacement for him,” said Reverend Kamalaksha Sardar, the secretary of the founder body of the school, Calcutta Christain Schools Society. Methodist School, Dankuni, is one of the schools under the Society. “He was in the hospital for about a month on oxygen support. He passed away at 11.30pm on Monday,” said McGee, the principal of the Calcutta Boys’ School, also under the Society. John worked in places like Nainital and Patna before coming to the city. For about a year of his tenure in the school, on-campus classes were held. Classes had to be shifted to the online mode in March 2020 following the outbreak of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: St Xavier’s to start vaccine centre and safe home||St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, will conduct a Covid-19 vaccination camp in collaboration with the state government on its Park Street campus. It will also set up a safe home for Covid patients on its Raghabpur campus in South 24-Parganas. Senior officers of the district administration and state health department have already done a preliminary inspection at Raghabpur. On the Park Street campus, the vaccination will start with the college staff, teaching and non-teaching staff, alumni and then include others when the capacity increases, a college official said. The date and the eligibility criterion will be fixed based on the allotment of the vaccines and the number of doses, he added. “We are going through a very difficult time and we at St Xavier’s would like to take our responsibility in our own way to fight the dreaded virus...,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college and president of the alumni association. The safe home on Raghabpur campus will help the people in the surrounding areas who do not have adequate space for isolation at homes. “If the less serious patients are handled in the isolation centre, the pressure on the hospitals will automatically reduce and proper life support can be provided to the serious ones. We are happy to give our newly built college building even before its formal inauguration…,” Reverend Father Savio said. Sanjib Koner, the secretary of the alumni association, said the helpline, operated by the alumni, was working almost around the clock to cater to the emergency requirements. “It has been able to guide Xavierians and non-Xavierans with up-to-date information on medical facilities and oxygen,” he said. Institutions across the city are taking other initiatives to combat the pandemic. The school education department on Monday wrote to the district magistrates on the use of school buildings as safe homes. “...the state government is considering using schools as safe homes for Covid patients,” read the circular signed by Anindya Narayan Biswas, the commissioner of school education. St Xavier’s Collegiate School: The school has offered space for an RT-PCR testing centre. “We have tied up with Nightingale Hospital, which is conducting the tests on our campus,” said principal Father M. Thamacin Arulappan. Don Bosco School, Park Circus: The school has started an RT-PCR test facility which caters to about 100 people every day. “We decided to open our campus to the public, which is now closed for in-person classes,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. Shri Shikshayatan Foundation: The institute in collaboration with Charnock Hospital on Tuesday vaccinated 100 staffers from four units — Marwari Balika Vidyalaya, Shri Shikshayatan School and Shri Shikshayatan College and Calcutta Business School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC chatbox lets down second dose recipients||A number of people have failed to book slots for the second dose of a Covid vaccine at select Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinics as a WhatsApp chatbot that was created to spare them the harassment of standing in queues for hours did not give any time slot. Without a slot no one can take a shot at any of the three clinics run by the civic body. The chatbot has been launched with the objective of granting time slots to recipients so they do not have to queue up from early in the morning. To initiate the process of booking a slot, one has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. A number of people who tried to book slots on Monday received messages asking them to select slots on specified dates. But when they tried to book a time slot, the chatbot replied that none was available. The same reply came through the day as these people tried to book a slot multiple times. The glitch prompted a number of people to complain on the Twitter handle of the civic body. A resident of Paikpara who wanted to book a slot for the second dose of Covaxin did the registration. A message then came asking him to choose a date, which he did. “The chatbox was telling me that slots were available on certain days at two centres. But every time I was selecting a date and entering my details, the chatbox replied that slots were not available. This happened throughout the evening and the night,” he said. Around 9.45pm, a message came on the chatbox saying a few slots were still available. He repeated the steps to book a slot, only to be met with the same response. A New Garia resident who was trying to book a slot for a friend had a similar experience on Monday. “I completed all the formalities and got a message that a slot had been booked on May 19 at the South City centre. But it did not mention any time slot. There were two star marks besides the time slot column,” said the man. “Later, at night, I received a message that the slot had not been booked and the recipient should not visit the centre without a specified time slot,” said the man. He kept trying on Tuesday but the chatbot replied bookings would open again on Sunday. An official of the state e-governance team that designed the chatbot said: “The chatbot started taking bookings at 10am. There were 5,000 slots and all were booked within an hour. The chatbot did not suffer any glitch.” The three centres where the CMC is running vaccination clinics for second dose recipients are Bidhan Sishu Udyan near Ultadanga, Roxy cinema at Esplanade and South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||RKM alumni to clear Covid doubts through live sessions on Facebook||Fifteen doctors from the 2005 batch of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, have decided to make people aware of the various aspects of Covid-19 and clear common misconceptions associated with it through live sessions on Facebook. They will also support the 60-bed safe home at the Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, Belur Math, set to be operational from May 26. They will provide medicines, pulse oximeters and glucometers for patients and protective gear such as masks and face shields for doctors and health workers deployed at the safe home. Prithwiraj Saha, a critical care medicine specialist and the co-ordinator of the 2005 batch, said: “There are a lot of misconceptions that need to be cleared. So, we thought of providing the people with the right information to reduce the panic. We have planned nine sessions — Pandemic without Panic — where specialists from every field will address the basic questions.” Krishnendu Khan, a paediatrician, addressed the first live session on Covid-19 in Children on Sunday. Saha conducted a session on Covid-19 in Adults on Monday. “The concepts regarding the virus being airborne or one coming in close contact with Covid patients are very important. Close contact is defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as someone who is within two metres of an infected person for at least 15 minutes within 24 hours,” said Saha. The sessions are being streamed from the Facebook page of the Bengali music group, Prithibi, and besides answering the questions of the anchor, the medicos are taking questions from the viewers as well. The other sessions will be held over the next two weeks. Consultant biochemist Aniket Paul will speak on Cytokine Storm in Covid-19 on Wednesday, while gynaecologists Apurba Pailan and Shankadhar Panja will speak on Covid-19 and Pregnancy on Thursday. One misconception is that one CT scan is equal to 300 to 400 X-rays. “This was the situation around 40 years ago,” said Koushik Nayek, radiologist, who along with Samik Ghosh and Amar Narayan Shaw, will speak on HRCT Panic in Covid-19 and Role of Chest X-ray on May 26. The alumni met Swami Divyananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, on Sunday to hand over the items to start the safe home on the premises of Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira, a polytechnic college. The safe home  will accommodate asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients. Residents of Bally, Belur and adjacent areas will be treated there. Classrooms, prayer hall and seminar halls of the polytechnic college will be used to house the patients. The alumni are also planning to start a sample collection centre at their alma mater shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: RT-PCR rate cap flout finger at Calcutta labs||Private diagnostic centres are allegedly still charging double the rate set by the government as the ceiling, or even more, for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19. Even people who are visiting the centres to give their samples for the test are being charged more. There are also allegations that laboratories are not giving bills for the payment. The state government has capped the RT-PCR test rate at Rs 950. A rush for tests has led to long queues outside most diagnostic centres, forcing many to accept the terms set by the centres as they are more concerned about getting the test results fast. Picking a fight for overcharging will delay the tests and that can have serious consequences for the patients, said many people who had to get the RT-PCR test done at exorbitant rates. Samrat Ghosh, 25, a resident of New Town, developed Covid-19 symptoms last week. The diagnostic centre that sent a man to their house to collect his samples and that of his wife charged them Rs 2,000 each. “My father had first gone to a centre in Baguiati. They said they would charge Rs 1,850 for home collection and Rs 1,750 if we visit the centre to give our samples,” Ghosh said. When Ghosh’s father went back to the Baguiati centre to book a slot for home collection of samples, officials there said they had run out of test kits. One official gave his father the contact number of a person who would collect samples from home. “That man came and charged Rs 2,000 each,” said Ghosh. “A few weeks back, my mother had tested positive. She had done her test at Peerless Hospital and they charged Rs 950. So we were aware about the rate cap imposed by the government,” Ghosh said. The flood of complaints related to overcharging has prompted the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission to remind private laboratories and diagnostic centres that they cannot charge more than the rate set by the government. “For home collection of samples, the laboratories can charge Rs 15 for every kilometre as commute charges,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said in an audio message posted on the WhatsApp group of private clinical establishments on Monday. The commission is the regulatory authority of all private clinical establishments in the state. Banerjee said in the audio message that diagnostic centres or laboratories were free to engage franchisees to collect samples from home, but the charge cannot exceed the government-imposed curb. The rate includes the cost of personal protective equipment the collector will wear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta private units seal vaccine deals||Several private hospitals have finalised deals for Covid vaccines - Covishield, Covaxin and Russian-made Sputnik V - and the consignments are expected to start coming from next week, officials of the healthcare units said on Tuesday. Only a handful of private hospitals are now administering Covid vaccines. Tens of thousands of vaccine recipients are waiting for other healthcare units to receive supplies and resume the vaccination drive. The drive has remained suspended at most private vaccination centres since May 1 because of lack of supplies. The private centres now have to directly procure doses from the manufacturers. Most hospitals were communicating with the manufacturers — Serum Institute of India for Covishield and Bharat Biotech for Covaxin —for over a month, but the companies were not promising supplies. However, a number of private hospitals said on Tuesday they had placed orders and paid the three manufacturers, the third being Dr Reddy's Laboratories, which will supply the Russian vaccine. Only a few private hospitals such as Apollo Gleneagles, Woodlands and Charnock Hospital in New Town had procured Covaxin and Covishield doses from the manufacturers and started administering them. On Monday, AMRI Hospitals in Mukundapur and Dhakuria started administering a small number of second doses to those who had taken the first jab at those hospitals. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has placed orders for 50,000 doses of Covishield and 5,000 doses of Sputnik V. “We are expecting Covishield doses to start arriving in phases from the end of this month. Sputnik V doses are expected from the second week of June,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The group is procuring the vaccines centrally from Bangalore and distributing the doses to its units across the country. Around 8,000 people who had taken the first dose of Covishield at the Bypass hospital are awaiting the second. “We’ll follow government guidelines and administer the first and second doses to all eligible age groups,” said Venkatesh. Peerless Hospital has placed orders for 12,000 doses of Covishield and they are expected to come by the end of this month, said officials. “Around 3,000 people who took their first dose at our hospital are awaiting the second. We will give them priority…. The appointment for the second dose will be managed by us,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The AMRI hospitals group has ordered one lakh doses of Covaxin, which are expected in phases from June, said an official. There are other hospitals which have thousands of first-dose recipients awaiting their second jabs. The hospitals are in talks with the manufacturers. “We had administered the first dose to 14,000 people. They are calling us every day to know when fresh doses will come and they will get their second jab,” said Suparna Sengupta, the CEO of Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala. “Many Covishield recipients will complete 12 weeks after the first dose by June,” she said. Metro reported on Tuesday that thousands of people are unable to get vaccinated and most government-run vaccination facilities were closed because of shortage of doses. A state health department official said the government had around five lakh doses left for the general public, which would barely last a couple of days and then have to wait for fresh supplies from the Centre. Officials of private hospitals said the price for Covishield would be around Rs 850 a dose and Covaxin and Sputnik V around Rs 1,500 a dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Buddhadeb Bhattacharya tests positive for Covid-19||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya has tested positive for Covid-19, health department sources confirmed. His wife, Mira Bhattacharya, who contracted the disease first, is admitted in a private hospital in Calcutta with respiratory complaints. The ex-CM is undergoing treatment at home; his oxygen levels are fluctuating. "Swab samples of Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, his wife and their attendant were collected this morning and they tested positive for the disease," a source said on Tuesday. A medical board has been formed for Mrs Bhattacharya at the hospital, he added. "Doctors are seeing the former chief minister at home and they are constantly keeping a tab on his health condition," the source said. Bhattacharya has been suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for a while, and was released from hospital care a few months ago after being treated for complications arising from the same. He was advised to stay at home by physicians, and could not cast his vote in the recently concluded West Bengal Assembly elections. The communist leader was also not seen at the left front's brigade meeting, organised before the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
