20-05-2021||Calcutta||Lockdown: Electrician cycles 100km a day for work in summer sun||Electrician Dipankar Mondal, 40, pedals 100km in searing heat almost every day between his South 24-Parganas village and workplace Calcutta. “The other option is to stay home without earning, which is worse,” he said. Till a few days ago, the commute to work — catching a local train to Sealdah and then walking to Dalhousie — would take Mondal around 90 minutes. Now it’s a four-hour bicycle ride through 50km each way, every day. Taking multiple halts and a few sips from a water bottle now and then are his only defence against the scorching sun and soaring humidity. Mondal earns around Rs 11,000 a month working for a vendor who has a contract with a private bank, where he looks after generators, air-conditioners, computer UPS (uninterruptible power supply) units and other electrical equipment. Mondal has been deputed to the bank’s Dalhousie branch but has to attend to problems at other branches, too. His village in the interiors of Gocharan in Baruipur subdivision is about 15km from Baruipur town and 50km from Dalhousie. The car routes range from 44 to 47km but Mondal takes some bylanes to avoid the main roads, which makes his ride longer. Mondal is the sole breadwinner in his family, which includes his parents, wife and a 10-year-old daughter. Since the stricter Covid curbs were imposed on Sunday, Mondal has been leaving home before 6am. He pedals through Baruipur and briefly takes the EM Bypass before turning into the interiors of Kamal Gazi and Boral. Then follows a ride along the narrow lanes adjoining the Boral crematorium up to Tollygunge, and finally the last stretch up the thoroughfares to Dalhousie. “I try to leave home early because as the day progresses, the weather gets hotter. It’s better to reach the branch a little early and wait under a shade,” Mondal said. “I don’t speed. When I get exhausted, I halt for a few minutes, maybe drink a little water, and then start pedalling again.” Mondal has an “authorisation letter” from the bank that he shows to any cop who stops him on the roads. A tool box attached to his bicycle is “proof” that he is “out to fix something”. On the city roads, he is joined by scores of other cyclists making their own stressful journeys from the suburbs to make a living. On Tuesday, The Telegraph had reported how the Covid-induced transport constraints are taking a toll on people who do not have the choice of working from home. From a grocer walking between his store in Gariahat and his home in Garia to a sari shop assistant cycling from Sonarpur to his workplace in Triangular Park, strenuous commutes have become an everyday reality for many in and around Calcutta. The local train has generally been the transport of choice for Mondal, as for tens of thousands of other daily commuters. Till last week, Mondal would board the Lakshmikantapur Local from Gocharan station and get off at Sealdah. During last year’s lockdown, Mondal did not have an authorisation letter and sat at home for nearly two months. “We survived by making muri (puffed rice) at home and selling it to a couple of nearby shops. But that allowed us to barely scrape through. I don’t want those days to return,” he said. The banks are now open to the public from 10am to 2pm. Mondal tries to leave the bank by 3.30pm because he is not comfortable riding too long a distance in the dark. But on Wednesday, a job involving cables at his workplace held him back. It was well past 4.30pm when he spoke to this newspaper, and he was still working. Mondal said he had two options: either “cycle through darkness” or spend the night at the branch. He eventually stayed back at the bank, joining two tables to make a bed for himself. “I shall complete Thursday’s shift and then go home,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: State health department identifies priority groups for early vaccination||The state health department has identified priority groups who are at high risk of catching Covid-19 and are also “potential spreaders” so that they are vaccinated before others. The priority groups include retail sellers of vegetables, fish, grocery; employees of ration shops, kerosene shops, fuel pumps; lawyers, law clerks, muharrirs; sex workers and transgenders; inmates of social welfare homes and correctional homes; and newspaper vendors, among others. Government employees who did not take the shot earlier, when they were being vaccinated as members of priority groups, will get another opportunity to get vaccinated. The state has started vaccinating hawkers, transport workers and journalists as priority groups. An order issued on Wednesday by the state health secretary noted that “as per availability of vaccines, which is insufficient, the scarce vaccines available at the disposal of the Government of West Bengal may be divided into two streams”. One of the two groups is the general public at large, while the other includes the priority groups. The order added that the priority groups are “groups which are super-spreaders/ public-facing/forcibly exposed to public mingling: groups which are endangered as well as potential spreaders.” The order mentioned that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the administration in other districts may assign different days of a week for the immunisation of different categories and different age groups. Officials of the CMC said they would soon chalk out a plan on how to vaccinate the priority groups. The state health department and the CMC have since Tuesday been vaccinating transport workers and hawkers at four locations — Sutanuti Community Hall in Shyambazar; Sarat Sadan, adjacent to Triangular Park, on Rashbehari Avenue; Islamia Hospital in central Calcutta; and Mohit Mancha in Cossipore. “Retailers sitting in markets are among the most exposed. They have to interact with tens of hundreds of customers every day. This makes them very vulnerable. They may catch the infection from any infected person. On the other hand, infected sellers can spread the infection to many of those who come in contact with them,” said a doctor of the CMC. “Vaccinating them will reduce the chances of infection spreading from places where people gather every day.” Sources in the CMC said that in the absence of enough doses, giving priority to those who are at an increased risk of getting infected was one way of dealing with the vaccine shortage. The order mentioned that the vaccination of those not included in the priority groups would be done from hospitals run by the state government. The private hospitals, too, will start vaccinating people not belonging to any priority group on a large scale once they receive a steady supply of vaccines from the manufacturers. An official of the CMC said they would soon work out plans on how to vaccinate the priority groups mentioned in the health department’s order. “As of now, we have four centres dedicated for vaccination of hawkers and transport workers. We may open a few more centres dedicated to other priority groups. These are people who are receiving their first dose,” said a CMC official. Recipients from the priority groups will need to carry a proof that mentions their profession. “The retailers at a market should get a certificate from the market committee stating that they own stalls at that market,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 vaccination grinds to a halt at 3 government centres in Salt Lake, New Town||Covid-19 vaccination has ground to a halt at three government-run centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. Hundreds of people from Rajarhat, Salt Lake, Baguiati, Dum Dum and other places who had gone to two vaccination centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday did not get the shot as neither had any doses. The centres are at Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE block and in Narayanpur, Rajarhat. No shots could be administered on Tuesday as well. Those who had queued up at Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital had the same experience. An official of the corporation’s health department said they had received vaccine vials on Wednesday but they were all used up to inoculate hawkers at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s stackyard. “We had to suspend operations at the vaccine centres in Salt Lake and Narayanpur as we were instructed to give shots to the hawkers,” said the official. However, this was not communicated to the residents and many had queued up since 4am for the shot. Dipanjan Bhowmick, 63, a resident of Lake Town, had gone to Matri Sadan for the second dose. He returned home after 4.30pm without getting the jab. “I had to wait for hours before the hospital authorities told me that they would not be able to administer shots as they were running a drive to inoculate hawkers,” said Bhowmick. Long queues had formed at the Narayanpur centre, too. As soon as the authorities at the centre said that they could not administer shots on Wednesday, an argument broke out among officials and those in the queue. “Why didn’t they put up a notice saying vaccination had been suspended for the day? It seems officials at the centre are just not bothered about our inconvenience,” said Babushona Mondal, 48, a trader who had queued up with his father at the Narayanpur centre. Many had gone to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital as well. Soumyashree Sarkar, who had gone with her parents for their second dose, said that they waited for hours but did not get the shots. “Officials told us that it would not be possible to administer vaccines today and asked us to leave,” she said. An official of the hospital said: “We waited for the supply. When we came to know it would not come, we put up a notice announcing that first doses would not be administered.” New Town Kolkata Development Authority has written to all residents’ welfare associations of gated communities and housing cooperatives to give them details of their help. “We want to start a vaccine drive for domestic help,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||RKM students groomed to teach kids||A group of students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, is being trained in teaching young school students who cannot afford formal education during the pandemic. These to-be teachers are attending an orientation course before they start lecturing students of Classes III to VIII as part of free tutorials from May 26. The tutorials will be held on digital platforms. About 50 students of Vidyamandira are being guided by the two teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Sargachhi, Behrampore, which runs a higher secondary school (from Class V to XII) and a primary school (from Class I to IV). Jyotirmoy Bose, an MA student of Bengali at Vidyamandira, is being trained in teaching Bengali and history to school students. Sumit Roy, a third-year undergraduate student of Bengali, will teach environment to Class IV students. Jyotirmoy said they were being taught at the orientation programme how to draw the attention of a school student towards a subject. “We have been told that when it comes to taking a class on a poem, we should present it through recitation so the student can immediately connect to it,” said Jyotirmoy. Use of tools like powerpoint presentation and graphics will be part of the course. “The teachers advised us to teach school students according to their mental make-up. We have to come down to their level to relate to them. Use of pictures, graphics and powerpoint presentations will help establish the connect,” Sumit said. Mrinmoy Saha, one of the two teachers conducting the orientation programme, said they had told the students to pay attention to questions from young learners and answer them with patience. “This helps a teacher earn the confidence of a student. But what is more important is to bring a variation to the way of teaching. Suppose, while talking about Murshidabad, which is a historical place, a Class V student must be told about the river Bhagirathi that flows past the town. This can be done through graphics or video. History will be combined with geography,” said Saha. Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of Vidyamandira, said that for each class there would be a designated session on YouTube. “We don’t want to compromise on quality when our students offer free tutorials. They must impart lessons to these kids in a very lucid way…. The orientation will arm 50 of our students who have been chosen for this mission with the necessary skills,” he said. In Bengal, schools had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. The classes were discontinued on April 21 following a surge in Covid cases. But students of Classes III to VIII have been away from schools since March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Police vigil on night violations||Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra has instructed officers of all 25 traffic guards across the city to step up prosecution against “genuine violators” of night curfew and book them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act. In a recent message to senior officers, Mitra asked that cases under the Disaster Management Act and for violation of Section 188 of the IPC “be increased”. He said that the officers-in-charge and the additional officers-in-charge of traffic guards should “personally see to this”. Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) deals with “disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant”. The section invites imprisonment for a term that may extend to six months, or a fine up to Rs 1,000, or both. On May 15, the Bengal government had announced stricter Covid restrictions for the next 15 days to “contain and combat” the spread of the virus. While not calling it a lockdown, the government had decided that all outdoor activity and movement would be banned between 9pm and 5am except for exemptions in certain cases. “There have been reports of violation of the night travel ban in certain stretches, particularly on smaller roads and key connectors cutting through localities,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. “The police commissioner has taken a note of this and has accordingly advised officers to prosecute those who have been flouting the ban without any valid reason.” Several officers said a bulk of the violators were mostly private car-borne who were out at night to visit extended relatives who live a distance away. A few were found going to drop off friends and acquaintances at night. “Some auto rickshaws and vans have been spotted ferrying vegetable vendors late at night and returning with them after markets have been shut,” said an officer of a traffic guard in south Calcutta. “A small number are stepping out to take walks after dinner.” Legal experts said section 188 of the IPC makes it clear that it is not necessary that an offender should intend to produce harm, or contemplate his or her disobedience as likely to produce harm. It is sufficient that the offender knows of the order which he or she disobeys and that the disobedience produces, or is likely to produce, harm. “The police commissioner’s instructions are basically aimed at ensuring that officers of traffic guards don’t go slack while shouldering their responsibilities during this second wave of the pandemic,” a senior IPS officer said. Across traffic guards, officers admitted the number of violators now was lesser compared to last year when the state government had announced a lockdown to break the chain of transmission. A far greater number is panicking this time and opting to stay indoors, officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||IIEST to recharge data packs of 400 students||IIEST, Shibpur, will recharge the data packs of students as some are struggling to bear the costs owing to the financial constraints because of the Covid-induced pandemic. Some students wrote to the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) authorities, highlighting how financial distress was coming in the way of attending classes on the digital platforms. An official of the institute said, about 400 students who received full waiver and half waiver on tuition fee on the basis of annual family income, would get the data packs recharged. At IIEST, students whose annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh, enjoy full fee waiver while whose annual family income ranging between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh get half fee waiver. “Classes will continue to be held on the digital platforms as a precaution against Covid. These students are finding it difficult to continue with classes on online platforms following financial constraints. So, we have decided to get their data packs recharged,” said IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti. An official said the decision on the data pack was taken at a meeting that the director held with others last Sunday. The institute last year had set up a digital education hub with Rs 1 crore contribution from an alumnus to help students encounter the hassle of digital divide. “Getting the data packs recharged is going to cost the institute close to Rs 4 lakh. We will use the corpus or appeal to the alumni for donation,” said the official. The institute last week decided to give tabs to students who don’t have devices so they can attend online classes. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ senate, said they had raised the issue of the data packs last year. “...The facility (recharge) should be provided at the earliest,” said Kumar. Some students at IIEST Shibpur in last September had requested the authorities to waive their tuition fees because “family earnings have been hit” by the pandemic. The annual tuition fees is Rs 1.25 lakh. Another member of the students’ senate said, those who enjoy the 50 per cent fee waiver were finding it extremely difficult to pay even that amount. “No wonder that they are finding it difficult to bear the costs of recharging data packs,” he said. IIEST has received three oxygen concentrators from the alumni that would be used in the Covid-care unit the institute had set up last month. After the institute struggled to get oxygen concentrators in Calcutta, Arindam Biswas, dean, International Relations and Alumni Affairs, had appealed to the alumni to donate oxygen concentrators for the unit. “One donated by the Singapore-based alumni reached the institute last week. One sent by the global alumni association reached on Tuesday. The third one contributed by the 94-batch alumni is expected to reach in a day or two,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Date with Super Blood Flower Moon on May 26||Two events on May 26 will cause interest among people. Both natural, but one is potentially destructive, cyclone Yaas, and the other is a cosmic beauty, that of a Total Lunar Eclipse. A rare Super Blood Flower Moon is going to occur in the eastern sky on May 26 evening. In its journey around the Earth, the Moon will go through a number of phenomena for being termed as Super, Blood and Flower Full Moon. This will be the first Total Eclipse of the Moon since January 21, 2019, when it was not visible from India. Calcutta has seen its last total lunar eclipse 10 years ago, on December 10, 2011. The night of May 26, it will be a Full Moon but with a difference. Moon will be near its closest point to Earth, called perigee, in its slightly elliptic orbit around the Earth. The Moon will be at its perigee on that day exactly at 7.23 hours, IST, at a distance of 3,57,309km from the Earth. Secondly, the Sun-Earth-Moon alignment will be such that from the Earth it will be viewed as a Full Moon and also eclipsed for some time. The Moon on its journey around the Earth will be passing through the Earth’s shadow for a few moments and will be totally eclipsed. Since a totally eclipsed Moon takes a dark blackish red colour, it will be called Blood Moon. This happens because of the comparatively less deviation of the red part of the moon light through the Earth’s atmosphere and falling on the Moon’s surface. So, a bigger, brighter, eclipsed Full Moon occurrence has given it the name of a Super Blood Full Moon. The word “flower”, sometimes called Pink Moon, is from native American folklore. The total Lunar Eclipse will be visible mostly from eastern Asia, Pacific Ocean, most parts of North and South America and Australia. The Partial Eclipse of the Moon will start around 15.15 hours IST and end at 18.22 IST. The totality of the eclipse will occur from 16.41 hours and 16.56 hours IST. For most of India, the Moon will be below the eastern horizon during the total eclipse, and so people from India cannot observe the Blood Moon, but residents of some parts, mostly in eastern India, will see only the very last part of a partial lunar eclipse, that also very close to the eastern horizon when the moon is just rising. That evening, the Moon will rise in the Calcutta sky at 18.15 hours and those interested will just possibly get a few minutes’ glimpse of the partial eclipse, which will end around 18.22 hours. That is only if the cloud cover to be generated by the cyclonic weather, as predicted, allows. For the other cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, the eclipse will not be seen as the Moon will be below the horizon there during the eclipse phase. Most of the country will have to be satisfied with a penumbral eclipse, which is not very much discernible with the naked eye, when the Moon passes through a slightly shadowed region of the Earth and is not very spectacular. But people can see a very bright and bigger Full Moon that night. At perigee, a Full Moon looks 30 per cent bigger and 14 per cent brighter than an average Full Moon. That is the reason the Full Moon will shine brighter and look bigger that night. The next Total Lunar eclipse will occur on May 16, 2022, but it will not be visible from the Indian subcontinent. But on November 8, 2022, an eclipse will be seen from India. Debiprosad Duari is the director, research and academic, MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research, MP Birla Planetarium||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Doorstep vaccination resumes as private hospitals procure doses from manufacturers||Private hospitals have started fresh off-site Covid vaccination for residential complexes, community groups and offices and are planning more as the healthcare institutes are now procuring doses from the manufacturers. Many private hospitals had started off-site vaccination — inoculating people at sites outside the hospitals — earlier on a small scale when they were provided the doses by the state government. However, the drives were not taking place after May 1 when the Centre had said private vaccination centres had to procure the doses directly from the manufacturers. A few hospitals have now procured vaccines and others have placed orders in bulk and vaccination at doorsteps has taken off again. This time it will be on a bigger scale, hospitals said. The Telegraph has reported how hundreds of vaccine recipients, many of them with second doses due, are waiting because vaccine stocks are getting exhausted. Many state government sites are closed because of a lack of supplies while many private hospitals are waiting to get supplies from the manufacturers. The demand for off-site vaccination is very high and hospitals are getting hundreds of requests from residential complexes, corporates and community groups who would provide space for such drives. One hospital is getting requests from software companies each of whom want vaccination for nearly 20,000 employees and their dependents. “Before May 1, the supply of vaccines from the government was limited so the off-site vaccination could not be started in a big way. But now, since the private hospitals can procure the doses in large numbers from the manufacturers, we can go for bigger off-site vaccination drives,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. He said the hospital has requests from more than 50 companies, residents’ welfare associations and community groups in the city. The hospital group would start off-site vaccinations for them when the bulk supplies from makers of Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V arrive.  Barua said the hospital group has recruited additional nurses and support staff for the off-site vaccination drive. The group is planning to procure about five lakh doses in the next three months. “Off-site vaccination is important because the doses can be inoculated to a large number of people. The vaccination sites at the hospitals have limited space and so not many people can be administered the doses at once,” said Barua. Besides, there are many elderly people who find it difficult to go to a vaccination site. Also, there are many who are apprehensive of going to a hospital amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital had been conducting off-site vaccinations since April 21 but in between there was a gap of about a week when it had to procure the vaccines. “We are doing off-site vaccinations for oil companies, airport employees and communities. The drive resumed from May 6 and will continue as we keep procuring more doses of Covaxin and Covishield,” said Rana Dasgupta, the CEO of Apollo Gleneagles. He said the hospital has conducted off-site vaccination for the members of Punjabi Bradree and Burhani Masjid in the city. The vaccination for these community groups started from May 11, said Dasgupta. Woodlands Hospital is administering more vaccines outside the hospital, at offices, than at the hospital. It is conducting off-site vaccination for 500 to 600 people every day on an average. At the hospital, 250 people have been administered the doses every day since May 4. “We are conducting off-site vaccination only for corporates. We feel employees at various offices are also priority groups like healthcare workers as they have to go out daily and are exposed to the infection. After the lockdown is over in Bengal, they will again be going to their workplaces in large numbers,” said Rupali Basu, CEO, Woodlands Hospital. She said more than 1,000 companies have approached the hospital for vaccination at their sites. Woodlands authorities are processing the requests. Charnock Hospital in New Town has started off-site vaccination from Tuesday at educational institutions. “We have already vaccinated 200 people in two days and it will continue as we get the supplies of the vaccine,” said Ipsita Kundu, CEO, Charnock Hospital. She said the hospital was in the process of procuring 50,000 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Weather Forecast: Hint of storm, warning for Bengal||A low-pressure area expected to form over the North Andaman Sea by this weekend is tipped to turn into a cyclone and move towards the Bengal-Odisha coast, making landfall sometime in the middle of next week, the Met office has said. “A low-pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and adjoining East Central Bay of Bengal around May 22. It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move north-westwards and reach Bengal-Odisha coasts around May 26,” said a bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The IMD also said “the southwest monsoon is very likely to advance over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21 in association with the likely strengthening and deepening of south-westerly winds over the region”. If the cyclone takes shape, it will be called Yaas, a name given by Oman. The threat of another cyclone looms when the west coast of the country has just been hit by Cyclone Tauktae. A Met official said May and October-November — pre and post-monsoon periods — are favourable for cyclonic storms because the sea surface temperature is on the higher side. A low-pressure area has to intensify into a depression and a deep depression before turning into a cyclone. “A weather system draws on the heat and moisture to gain strength on the sea. The surface temperature of the Bay of Bengal is on the higher side. It is likely to provide the ammunition the weather system needs to turn into a cyclone,” said an IMD official. The threat of another cyclone in May, in the middle of curbs to contain a resurgent virus, has uncorked on social media unending comparisons with Amphan. The super-cyclone had hit land near the Sagar islands in South 24-Parganas on May 20 last year, when Bengal was under lockdown. Winds howling at 180km per hour slammed the Bengal coast when Amphan made landfall. The storm had left behind a trail of destruction that the Sunderbans and Calcutta had not seen in decades. Met officials said it was too early to compare the two storms. “It is still too early to say anything on the path, windspeed and other elements of the new system, if at all it takes the shape of a cyclone. Those things would be clearer in the coming days,” said the Met official. “Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places very likely to commence in the coastal districts of Bengal from 25th May evening with significant increase in… intensity subsequently over the districts of Gangetic West Bengal,” the Met bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
