21-05-2021||Calcutta||Free Oxygen Parlour at GC Block community hall||A free oxygen parlour has come up at GC Block community hall and promises respite to Covid patients unable to procure oxygen at home. Called GC Block Welfare Association Salt Lake Oxyzone, the centre is the initiative of three NGOs. “The parlour will stay open from 8am to 8pm and will be able to cater to 10 patients a day on an average. In case of emergencies, however, we are open to providing oxygen after hours too,” says Jhumpa Ghosh, a resident of the block and director of Change Initiatives, one of the NGOs involved in the project. Two beds have been set up at GC community hall and patients will have to come with their Covid-positive reports and doctor’s prescription about oxygen intake. The volunteers will then do the needful. Patients need not come wearing PPE suits as the volunteers will be wearing them. The service is not being extended to non-Covid patients with respiratory problems. “There was a debate on this and we took the decision after consulting several doctors. They felt that despite our best efforts, non-Covid patients might contract the virus if they come here,” says Ghosh. Doctors living in the block have agreed to help out in case patients need further assistance. “One needs to be clear about the fact that this is an emergency Covid response unit. It is not a substitute for a hospital,” says Gargi Bhattacharya, whose brainchild the Oxyzones are. The AD Block resident is associated with the NGOs Prameya Foundation and Echoes. “We are offering help to those who can benefit from oxygen support. Such patients can come to us instead of competing for hospital beds with more critical patients.” The service was started on Monday and despite enquiries, no one had come in for oxygen till Wednesday. “This facility has reassured residents. We have had patients calling and confirming the availability of oxygen in case it comes to that. We hope this will reduce the panic and the problem of cylinder hoarding,” Ghosh said. Four other Oxyzones have come up at Jadavpur, Sodepur and Kidderpore in the last fortnight and the team is working on war footing to start more in places like Bhowanipore and the Sundarbans. The cost of the Salt Lake centre has been more than Rs 1 lakh and the oxygen cylinder was purchased in the black market. “A small 10l cylinder  now costs Rs 20,000. This is more than double the MRP,” says Bhattacharya. The oxygen is free but patients need to replace the mask and disposable bed sheet they use at the centre. Available at medicine shops, these will cost between Rs 150 and 170. “We have been clear from the start that oxygen would not be charged. Air must be free. If someone has the means, they are encouraged to make donations to sustain the project and make it available for others,” says Bhattacharya, who has worked in collaboration with other NGOs and received donations from residents of the city as well as NRIs. To donate to the cause or to avail of the service, call 9831441868 or 9903899556.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Pablo and me||It took 10-year-old Devansh Bose 10 hours to make a “rubber band ball”. It took his dog Pablo 10 seconds to undo it. Rubber band balls are balls created by mounting one rubber band atop another and Devansh had made his using nearly a thousand of them. “These balls sell for up to Rs 2,000 on the net and I had wanted to put mine up for sale on OLX,” says the boy who wasn’t one bit angry at his dog for undoing his hard work. He simply laughed it off and made another one. “Actually I love making crafts as much as Pablo loves eating them,” shrugs the fifth grader. “I made a paper gun out of which came paper bullets, I made origami figures, art work… they’re now either in tatters or in Pablo’s tummy. I guess he doesn’t like it if I keep busy with something other than him.” Devansh loves his dog to bits too. Mother Joie recalls the time they visited Hamleys in the UK and even in the world’s largest toy store, there was only one item the boy sought — a bone for Pablo, which obviously, they didn’t have. So he settled for balls — one for Pablo and another for himself.” Pablo was brought into the family four years ago to teach Devansh about empathy and sharing, virtues which Pablo has abundance of. “The other day he kept barking non-stop from the backyard. He never barks like that,” recalls Devansh. “My father was the only one home then and Pablo guided him to the backyard, where we later realised a pigeon had broken its wing and fallen. I’m very happy that Pablo didn’t try to hurt to the bird. He wanted to rescue it.” Well, birds aside, the Labrador eats anything and everything and usually, it doesn’t even matter if he’s hungry or full. Father Arjun feeds him a sumptuous meal of chicken-rice and takes him to the backyard to relieve himself, but if some Jamruls happen to fall off the tree at the time, Pablo pounces on them for dessert and won’t stop till he is physically pulled away from them. “Mangoes fall off the tree too but he doesn’t try to eat those,” says Devansh. “The mangoes these days are sour so Pablo brings them to me and we play football with them instead!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Homeschool your pup: Expert shares some dos and don’ts||Residents have been getting puppies all through the pandemic. Some are doing it to help them overcome their boredom, some to get their mind off the depressing Covid-19 news and some because they feel they would never have a more opportune time to devote all their time to bringing up the dog. But the initial months can be tiresome! For such pet parents, Saptadeep Pal held a puppy-training workshop for first-time dog owners at Hugs n Wags pet creche in New Town’s AE Block. “It’s not uncommon for families to abandon their dogs because they failed to toilet train them or because the dog bit and tore things,” said Pal, who has trained under experts like Arnold Kivago and Mike Ritland. “Then dog-owners receive wrong advice from others and cause further damage.” So here’s what Pal had to say- He eats everything Do not: Chase your pup and make a fuss about him having put  something into his mouth. He may panic and swallow the object. Or he may believe this to be a way of attracting attention and make a habit of this. Do: Keep a collar on the pup at all times so it’s easy to grab him by it. Once you get hold of him do not pull the object out, lest he think it to be a game of tug of war. Simply hold the object firmly till he gets bored and releases it. You may also offer him a treat so he releases the object to eat the treat. Or you could pinch him slightly in the belly. It won’t hurt much but the object will immediately come out of his mouth. Toilet training Do: When your puppy wakes up in the morning, lead him to the washroom or wherever it is you want him to relive himself. Now do not let him out till he has done his business. Take him there after all meals too. He will soon get the message. Separation anxiety Do not: Make a fuss about leaving the house. Don’t pet him excessively or apologise for having to leave him. In fact don’t constantly tell your pup to do this and do that or he’ll become dependent on you to make all his decisions. He needs to be able to take his own decisions when he’s home alone. Do: Leave casually without any fanfare. Even when you return, give it a while before you start playing with him. That way he won’t come to think that being left behind is a big deal. You could boost his confidence by fixing a “me time” for him every day when he stays by himself. Leash walking Do: When going for a walk keep him on a long leash and let the puppy run. If he tries to be mischievous pull him back. Do not: Be afraid of street dogs barking at your puppy. Put yourself between the two and walk on calmly. Your pup looks up to you. If he sees you calm, he’ll remain calm. Crate training Crate training is the practice of keeping a dog in his crate or cage for some time. While in India many people think this is imprisonment, the practice is very popular in the West. The crate is your dog’s own space. It’s a good idea to keep him inside it, particularly after meals. This is because after eating they tend to get very energetic and may vomit what they have eaten. It’s also a good idea to keep them in the crate during Diwali when loud firecrackers are bursting all around. Simply cover the crate with a cloth and he’ll feel safe. Those leaving their pets alone may also consider crate training. It protects against any accidents the unsupervised dog may get into. Table-top lessons Many dogs don’t let the vet check them so here’s a trick to overcome the problem. Once a day put your pup on a high table and check his paws, ears and teeth. Lift his tail, check for ticks, lumps, dirt and brush him. The pup will be so distracted by the sudden height that he won’t object to the checking. Eventually he’ll get used to the practice and won’t object to the vet checking him either. Also practise holding your dog firmly, even if he protests. Don’t leave him till he calms down. This will go a long way in giving him injections smoothly. If he bites you, push his nose down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Haveli restaurant converted into a safe home||Haveli, the restaurant next to the Tank 9 petrol pump in CK Block, has relaunched itself in the pandemic as a safe home. Having tied up with ILS Hospitals and NGO Ekal Parivar, it is taking in Covid patients with mild symptoms, free of cost. Called Ekal Isolation Center, the service started from May 17 with 25 available rooms. “The third, fourth and fifth floors of the building, above the restaurant, used to be a hotel before the pandemic, under the name The Saltee Hotel. We are now offering those rooms to patients as a form of social service,” says Surya Prakash Bagla, chairman of the Saltee Group that runs Haveli. Under the arrangement, Haveli is providing lodging, food, wifi, TV free of cost, while ILS is providing doctors, medicines and pathology. Nurses, oxygen, hospitality and logistics are being managed by Ekal Parivar. For admission, however, patients are to get in touch with ILS, which will then recommend cases to Haveli. “We have a doctor posted there and are providing the medicines,” said Aruna Tantia, director, GPT Healthcare that runs ILS Hospitals. On the first day, five patients had checked in. “If two people from the same family check in, they may put up in the same room. Otherwise the rooms are meant for single use,” says Bagla. The vegetarian food is being prepared by chefs of Haveli and meals are being planned keeping in mind the needs of the patients. “For the past 10 days or so, Haveli and Ekal Parivar have also been delivering meals to homes of those in quarantine, free of cost,” says Bagla. “We began this initiative within Salt Lake and are already serving more than 200 meals a day. So we have decided to extend the service to Lake Town, Bangur, Phoolbagan , Kankurgachhi and central Calcutta.” Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Floating corpses in Ganga affects fish consumption||The sight of floating corpses in the Ganga, coupled with lockdown-induced transportation issues, has affected the overall fish consumption in and around the township. So several fish-loving Bengalis have switched to other forms of protein till the situation in the river is brought under control. A resident of BE Block said he has given up fish for the time being as he is both repulsed and freaked out. “The thought of the fish nibbling on or even swimming with human bodies is alarming and disgusting. Scientists are claiming coronavirus won’t survive in dead bodies but what about the surface? No one is sure and I’m not taking a chance,” said the man whose father, however, continues to eat fish twice a day. “My father eats nothing but fish and has categorically refused to stop eating it, whatever be the case. So our household is still buying fish, albeit much less.” Similar is the case with Sanjeeb Kumar Debnath, an engineer from Lake Town whose family usually has different kinds fish for lunch four times a week. Not any more. “Ever since the news of floating corpses has been reported, we are scared the fish may be poisoned or breeding in contaminated water. So I’ve given up river fish like aar, boal and prawn, It’s only pond fish like rui, katla and charapona now,” he said. Gita Chakraborty, a retired school teacher from Bangur Avenue, has quit fish altogether. “I’ve switched to a largely vegetarian diet along with eggs and meat. There is every chance that the fish reaching me is poisoned. An administration that has been so irresponsible in controlling Covid will be equally callous in controlling fish contamination. We can’t trust anyone; we have to fend for ourselves,” she said. Market watch Fish from the Ganga is usually pooled in at Malda, Farakka and the stretch from Baghbazar to Serampore. The current is so strong in upstream Ganga that neither anything afloat  nor the fish is ever stagnant. People in the fishery business say that if there are corpses of either humans or animals or birds floating down the river, a certain section of the fish — the carnivorous kinds — will eat that flesh. This category of fish include koi, magur, bahas, tyangra and magur. Devasish Jana, former councillor of Ward 34 who is in the fish trade, said that 17 per cent of the fish consumed in the city is brought in from places like Andhra Pradesh, Nagpur, Bilaspur and Odisha. “Mainland fish and sea fish make for 30 per cent of Bengal’s cultured production. Earlier, a lot of river fish used to come to Bengal from Muzaffarpur, Hazipur, Moradabad, Unnao and Lucknow districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But that does not happen anymore owing to rise of fish-eating population in those states,” he said. Biswajit Mandal is a fishmonger who lives opposite Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan and delivers fish to houses all over Salt Lake, especially Purbachal. He agrees that the consumption of fish has taken a hit. “Varieties like rohu and katla are always in demand. These are still selling because most families eat them on a regular basis. But overall fish consumption has gone down. I get my fish from Patipukur wholesale market, where maximum stock comes from out of town. Demand for river water fish has gone down because of transportation issues as well as lockdown-induced problems. Some people also feel river water fish is now contaminated due to floating corpses, but it is a just a small section,” he said. Arup Mondal, who runs a wholesale fishery business at Patipukur, says people need not panic. “The percentage of fish coming from the Ganga is not much.  Also, sea water fishing is usually shut along the Bengal coast from April 15 to July 15, which is the season of storms, cyclones and heavy monsoon. There is every chance that the fish may get poisoned along the Ganga owing to floating corpses, but people in Bengal need not panic because we don’t bring in a lot of river water fish into Bengal.” Against the tide Shayari Sinha Dey, a Lake Town-based teacher in a government school, has not given up on her staple despite the rumours. “I agree that water contamination is very likely under such circumstances but I don’t want to panic. Unless experts in the field tell us to give up fish, I don’t want to take a call. I am tired of being scared, I just want to see how things shape up,” she said. Dipti Chandra, who runs an egg shop in Bangur Avenue, has quit certain varieties of fish but for different reasons. “I stopped eating cat fish a couple of weeks back, mainly as they have become very expensive in the lockdown. I’m sticking to rohu, katla and charapona,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||New Town: 2 complexes set up their own isolation centres||Two gated communities in New Town — Elita Garden Vista and Hiland Willow Conifer Beech — have set up Covid isolation centres with oxygen support on their premises. The department of health and family welfare had issued a revised guideline on May 12 which allowed NGOs and resident welfare associations to run isolation centres, laying out the guidelines to do the same. In place of applying for permission, all they have to do is inform the district’s chief medical officer of health. Both isolation centres were inaugurated on Sunday by Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Last July, Greenwood Sonata had become the first housing complex in the city to set up a safe house for its Covid-infected residents. “The LIG (lower income group) apartments in our complex are 1 or 1.5 BHK, having a single room and toilet, which makes it difficult for an affected member of a family to isolate. The problem is there even in the MIG flats, which have two bedrooms, in case the family is big. This is why we thought of setting up an isolation centre where we can provide basic support for patients with mild symptoms,” said Munni Lal Mondal, one of the seven directors of the Hiland Willow Conifer Beech residents’ body. There are four beds with one oxygen cylinder. “Since there are no Covid positive cases in the complex, one cylinder is sufficient for now. In case there is a need for more, the supplier has assured us of help,” he said. The centre also has a pulse oxymeter, an electric kettle and some basic medicines like paracetamol. The isolation centre has been set up in the community centre which is about 60m away from the residential block of the Action Area IIB complex. This locational segregation is one of the key parameters mentioned in the government guideline. The oxygen supplier has given some residents a basic demonstration on how to run the cylinder and regulate the flow meter. “We have also entered a tie-up with SP Diagnostics. They have promised to help over video call and have a doctor come for a visit if needed on extra payment.” Elita Garden Vista in Action Area III has converted two rooms on the ground floor of their club house into the isolation centre. “Last year itself, we had thought of this but we did not have the space and there was no such desperate shortage of beds as is being currently seen. But such is the situation now that we approached the builder who still has not transferred the clubhouse to us. Two residents have already died of Covid in our complex and about 30 people are currently infected. The builder agreed to let us use a part of the club house,” said Arunangshu Chakraborty, a resident who is a consultant in anaesthesia and critical care at Tata Medical Center. The doctors in the complex have formed a medical advisory committee and are applying the standard operating procedure they follow at the hospital. The building has a separate entrance and exit. So the medical staff, after donning PPE, can walk directly in without further scope of infection. The doffing space has a shower facility with a separate exit. The centre has four beds, each fitted with oxygen cylinders. The adjacent room is being used to store medical equipment and for the medical staff to sit. “Other than cylinders, the unit has nebuliser, pulse oxymeter and blood pressure monitoring machine. We have six more beds with which we can scale up, if needed. We are also trying to get a bipap machine,” said Chakraborty. Though an agreement has been signed with a private medical unit, the doctors have drawn up a weekly roster to provide back-up support. A support group has been formed for the affected families who are being called daily and asked about grocery and medicinal requirements. Cooked food has also been sent to those in need. Such has been the cohesiveness that when an appeal was emailed to residents seeking funds to set up the centre Rs 6 lakh was raised in a single day. The facility, at both complexes, is free for residents who will have to pay only for medicine and doctor visit, if needed. Neighbours in need The Elita Garden Vista residents are not just taking care of each other. In case anyone in adjoining New Town Heights and Sukhobrishti need oxygen on an emergency basis, the complex’s medical care unit has decided to extend help, provided there are beds free in their isolation unit. “We have to assess the situation in our own complex before we take the call but we have decided in principle to help if we can,” said Chakraborty. “One should try to look out for each other in such extraordinary circumstances and not depend on the government for everything,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Rajarhat gets a safe home cum Covid care centre||A Covid treatment centre cum safe home was inaugurated on Tuesday. Rajarhat New Town Nirapod Nibas has come up next to a swimming pool, in a building owned by Netaji Sangha, Narayanpur. The project has been undertaken by Kaleidoscope, a film production cum event management company with support from Rajarhat New Town MLA Tapash Chatterjee, who helms the club. There are 60 beds, of which 20 are for women and 40 for men in separate wards. “Of these, 30 beds will be free for which patients will be taken on my recommendation. For the other 30, the management has promised not to charge more than Rs 3,500,” said Chatterjee. While medicines will be free for the free beds, the charge for the other beds will include standard Covid medicines but not investigations or other medicines. “We had distributed food during last year’s lockdown. This year, we wanted to help with Covid treatment in New Town so we contacted Tapash babu,” said Samiran Das, founder and managing partner of Kaleidoscope, who is a resident of Sunrise Point in Action Area IIC. The air-conditioned place with wi-fi and cable TV will have a resident medical officer other than nurse and ayah. A doctor will visit thrice a day. There will be 24-hour oxygen supply. A three-bed oxygen parlour will cater to those having breathing trouble. “People without a Covid-positive report may have trouble being hospitalised so we have arranged for temporary relief,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||New faces in charge of three Salt Lake wards||In its first meeting after being reinstated, the Board of Administrators for the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Friday decided to appoint ward co-ordinators for all the wards under it. While the majority of the former councillors made their way back, some new faces are set to be inducted as well. For Salt Lake, changes are being made for wards 31, 34 and 41, the former councillors of which — Sabyasachi Dutta, Devasish Jana and Anindya Chattopadhyay respectively — have switched to BJP. Board of Administrators member Debraj Chakraborty refused to read much into it. “There is no rule that ward co-ordinators have to be former councillors. The board has the authority to appoint anyone it deems fit,” he said, adding that political affiliation to Trinamul Congress was not a criterion. “Had that been the case, Md Mohasin Ahmed of CPM and Gita Sardar of Congress would not have been re-appointed as co-ordinators of wards 13 and 14 respectively,” he said. The new names decided on at the meeting are Supriyo Chakraborty for Ward 31, Ranjan Poddar for Ward 34 and Ratna Bhaumik for Ward 41. All three are close to the newly re-elected Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose. “I have been on the ward committee for earlier councillors Devasish Jana, Sathi Banerjee and Sabyasachi Dutta. I am also the secretary of the AE (Part 1) residents’ body and was instrumental in introducing theme puja to our block 15 years ago, a move that has put our block on the Durga puja map of Salt Lake,” said Chakraborty, who runs the Season’s furnishing store at Kwality More. Poddar was Bose’s confidential assistant during his last term as MLA. A resident of Karunamoyee A Block, he has already started visiting the office of Ward 34 daily, located next to Big Bazaar. Bhaumik is now a resident of EC Block but knows the ward well, having spent 24 years there. “My mother-in-law still lives in AC Block,” says the general secretary of the state Trinamul Mahila Congress unit. She is sitting in the ward office at BD Market on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings. Though they have not received the appointment letter yet, the co-ordinators have started working to contain Covid. “On Tuesday, we sanitised BD and AC markets as well as all the community halls in my ward,” said Bhaumik. Additional reporting by Brinda sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||At the wheel, ferrying the ill||There’s nothing more precious now than a hospital bed but let us not forget the contribution of those ferrying patients from hospital to hospital, in search of that elusive bed. These men are driving for hours at a stretch without food or water, as they cannot remove their PPEs. They sweat profusely but have no time or place to bathe. Hounded by phone calls round the clock, they don’t remember the last time they slept an entire night. They don’t have time to queue up for vaccines so many are living in fear of contracting or passing on Covid to their families. Patient parties are crying foul over ambulances charging nearly Rs 10,000 for rides even within Salt Lake but ambulance owners say they are victims of the system too. Beasts of burden The volume of work has increased to inhumane levels, say ambulance operators. “There have been times when we worked 10 days at a stretch without going home,” says Laltu Das Mondal, who drives a Columbia Asia ambulance. “We were burning out and have stopped that now.” Mangal Das used to only manage Loknath Ambulance Service but such is the rush now that the senior citizen is having to sit behind the wheel and drive around patients too. “We had initially reserved four of our 10 vans for Covid duty but Covid patients just keep increasing. We are having to send them non-Covid vans too,” says the Kestopur resident who has moved into a room on his terrace to keep distance from his family. There’s no telling when, or if at all, drivers go home in a day now. They are eating biscuits, bathing at pay-and-use toilets and sleeping 40 winks in the ambulance in between duty. “Our gari has become our bari,” Mangal sighs. Soumen Mahesh of Kankurgachi’s Usha Ambulance Service has not slept in 25 nights and cannot recall the last meal he ate. By the time Biswajit Mahesh of Biswajit Ambulance Service reaches home, he can do no more than drop dead. “Even then I can’t sleep as calls keep coming and I have to rush out again. We feel sick wearing PPEs the whole day, our neighbours ostracise us saying we shall spread Covid in the neighbourhood. We are going through hell,” he says. No to Covid patients Some of Soumen’s drivers have flatly refused to ferry Covid patients so he has had to keep some ambulances reserved for non-Covid patients. “Plus the drivers are asking for more money to work in a pandemic situation,” he says. Two of Biplab’s drivers have quit in fear, “and the mothers of two more are calling me from their village every day, pleading with me to let their sons go. I am lying to them. I am telling them their sons are not on Covid duty,” says the man behind Krishna Social Service, helplessly. Tapan Pal used to be a taxi driver but made the switch to driving an ambulance a year ago. “Lockdown ey khabo ki?” he counters on being asked why. "My own car had to be scrapped as it was over 15 years old and I was driving someone else's cab when the pandemic began,” he says, standing next to his ambulance at Columbia Asia Hospital. But he refuses to pick up Covid patients and would not take up a better-paying job with a Covid hospital. “I have a family to get back to,” the 51-year-old from Kadapara reasons. The FD Block Association ambulance is not catering to Covid patients. “Before you label us as selfish, think of dialysis patients. With their weak immunity, can they risk boarding a van frequented by Covid patients? Many such patients are asking specifically for non-Covid ambulances,” says Ashis Saha, who manages their two ambulances and a hearse. They are all non-Covid. There have been occasions when halfway through a trip the patient shows Covid symptoms. “On humanitarian grounds we have dropped them to their hospitals and sanitised our van rigorously,” says Saha. “But the other day we got a call from an AA Block resident asking us to pick up a relative from a Barasat hospital. They assured us she wasn’t a Covid patient but we saw her coming out of Covid ward. They had lied to us. We left without the patient.” Same with Radha Krishna Ambulance Service. “I am not taking Covid patients. Period,” says the owner, without sharing his name. “I check symptoms before allowing in a patient and if the case is suspicious, I leave without a word. I know I can mint money if I take Covid patients now but I have a family at home. I’m happy being a small fish.” Patients hiding symptoms Fearing refusal, patient parties sometimes hide Covid symptoms from ambulance drivers. This doesn’t play out well as the drivers and helpers may not be wearing PPEs that day and end up with Covid themselves. “We got duped many a time,” says Tapan Giri of Bidhannagar North Society For Social Welfare. “Our ambulance is run by an NGO with limited funds. We could never afford multiple PPEs so we never catered to Covid patients to begin with. But patients would hide their symptoms till our driver and helper both got sick. They were scared for their lives and refused to work thereafter.” So since December their ambulance is gathering dust near Bidhannagar north police station. “We still get calls but there is no driver!” says Giri. Ride only if bed confirmed Such is the rush that some ambulances are now accepting patients only if they have beds confirmed at a hospital. “Otherwise we end up visiting five or six hospitals, only to be turned away from them all. Patients are dying in vans and I cannot have that. If my ambulance has oxygen to last five hours I tell the patient I have oxygen for two hours, keeping some time in hand. By that time, I tell them they must let the van go,” says Susanta Kumar Ghosh of Susanta Ambulance. Some like Biswajit’s agency are tied up to certain hospitals and nursing homes. “So we are mostly asked by hospitals to go pick up patients and there isn’t a problem of beds,” he says. No beds in sight Mangal says he doesn’t have the heart to ask callers if they have beds confirmed because he knows they do not. So he has devised a system of “shuttling”. On an average, patients are visiting five or six hospitals a day, where the private institutions are taking two hours to check and refuse the patient and the government ones are taking even longer. But even while waiting, the driver’s phone never stops ringing as other patients need his services. “So we are now dropping off patient A on a wheelchair or stretcher at a hospital and going to pick to patient B. By the time we drop B to another hospital’s wheelchair, patient A has been refused and we return to pick him and drop him at another nursing home,” says Mangal. “There’s no other way the existing fleet of ambulances in the city can serve so many patients at once.” Dipak Pandit explains how the same patient has been hiring his ambulance for two days in a row now. “This man used to be a top ranking government official back in the day but now all his contacts and connections cannot get him a bed. Our ambulance is taking him to the biggest of hospitals and smallest of nursing homes, only to drop him home at the end of the day,” says Dipak. “He will probably hire the van again tomorrow.” Soumen says many patients are not even trying to look for beds anymore. “They are calling the ambulance and asking us to park outside their homes. The patient comes and lies inside for the oxygen and leaves when it exhausts. We’re getting an increasing number of such calls but can only go over if we have enough oxygen,” he says. Brawl to buy oxygen Besides driving, ambulance drivers are spending a chunk of their man hours queuing up for oxygen. “Gone are the days when suppliers would send us oxygen. Now we have to go and queue up. At any point of the day, we are standing behind 30 to 40 people and end up spending four to five hours in line,” says Soumen. With suppliers having become unreliable, Dipak is sending his drivers all the way to oxygen plants in Badu and Kalyani and when a driver of IB Block’s Krishna Social Service went to refill oxygen, a scuffle broke out at the suppliers’. “This is a supplier we have had excellent terms with for 15 years but now he refuses to recognise us. He will only sell to the highest bidder,” says Biplab. “And one of these days when they announced to the serpentine queue that they had run out of stock, a fist fight broke out for the remaining few slots. My boy’s hand got injured. This is not what he had signed up for.” Beyond call of duty While they are in it to make a living, Biplab emphasises that they are not butchers. “There have been times when I’ve let the ambulance out for free to patients who couldn’t pay,” he says. Susanta talks of how he saved a patient the other day by providing CPR and Pankaj Poddar says ambulance drivers are often entrusted with much more than simply dropping patients off. “The other day a lady from the US called to get her mother admitted. The mother lives by herself in Salt Lake and no relatives came forward to help. It is we who ran about looking for a bed for her and we who completed formalities at the hospital,” says the proprietor of Poddar Ambulance Service, based in the Metropolitan region. Rise in rates Operation costs have shot up as drivers and helpers now need to wear PPEs (that can be priced up to Rs 1,500). The vans need frequent sanitisation, oxygen needs to be purchased in the black and drivers and helpers need to be paid far higher salaries before they agree to undertake this risky work. Still, the price hikes are not uniform across services. Covid ambulances are now charging between Rs 2,500 and 8,000 for rides within Salt Lake and New Town. “For non-Covid patients, I’m charging a basic Rs 800 and then some more based on kilometers travelled. For Covid patients, the basic is Rs 2,500 to 3,000,” says Susanta. “But there are many providers who are making patients pay through the nose even in these desperate times. They are giving the rest of us a bad name.” Some services are adding waiting charges at hospitals and some like Dipak are playing by the ear. “I’ve kept the fees subjective,” he says. “The police sometimes asks us to take road accident patients to the hospital. No one pays for such rides. Similarly, there is a cap on the amount a patient headed to a government hospital can pay. We have to charge from those who can pay so we can set it off against those who cannot. How else can we run our business?” Poddar Ambulance Service is charging about Rs 7,000 as opposed to pre-Covid rates of Rs 3,500. They do not have a separate rate for non-Covid patients as Pankaj says, “100 per cent cases are Covid cases now. But ours is not a van with an oxygen cylinder tossed at the back. We are a critical care ambulance that even has facilities like ventilators and bipap machines. We have a trained ICU technician and doctor on board,” he explains. Doctors are becoming difficult to come given the Covid crisis and if that’s the case, he reduces the fare. Drivers who used to charge Rs 200 a trip are now demanding Rs 800, the technician charges Rs 3,000. “I give proper receipts of my transactions and am charging for honest work, so why are we being painted villains?” Pankaj asks. “People are paying Rs 30,000 for Remdesivir that costs less than Rs 900, but won’t pay a few thousand extra for an ambulance?” Susanta agrees. “We are risking our lives for you and you are bargaining with us? No one complained when buying Rs 500 liquor bottles for Rs 1,500 during the first lockdown.” No vaccines for drivers Those in the business feel they do not receive the respect they should. “Patients misbehave with us, thinking we are in connivance with corporate hospitals, out to fleece them. No one considers us health workers. We are ‘ambulancewallas’ who got into this trade as we couldn’t finish our education,” sighs Biplab. This is why, they feel, they have been given neither the Covid vaccine nor health insurance cover from the government. “We are holding and lifting Covid patients all day. We are cleaning their blood, vomit and stool. If we aren’t frontline workers, who are?” Biplab asks. None of his workers have got the jab. Soumen got his vaccine after trying for a fortnight but other drivers who work with him are still trying. “So now besides working round the clock, we are having to queue up from 5am. Not only is it exhausting for us, but we also waste patients’ time like this.”  Is anyone listening?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Pre-dawn queues grow longer at vaccination centres||A guard outside the vaccination centre at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital told a man who had gone there on Wednesday to enquire about the second dose of Covaxin that recipients had been queuing up since 4am daily. Across the city, long queues since early morning have been a feature at vaccination centres for  weeks. Even after the exclusion of Covishield recipients — because of the extension of the gap between the two doses of the vaccine to 12 to 16 weeks — the queues have not become any shorter. Rajat Roy, a resident of Dum Dum, joined the queue at RG Kar hospital at 7.30am on Thursday. Already, there were around 45 people ahead of him. His vaccination was done around noon. Apart from standing in the queue for long, Roy had to walk 40 minutes to the hospital and another 40 minutes back home because no transport was available. “Given the scarcity of doses, I preferred to stand in the queue and take it,” he said. Many elderly people have to wait under the merciless sun to take the jabs. Physical distancing norms are hardly followed in queues at most vaccination centres, triggering apprehensions among many that they would contract Covid while waiting for the jab. “If someone in front of or behind me is infected and we stand so close for four to five hours, very likely I will be exposed to the virus,” said a man who stood in the queue at RG Kar hospital on Thursday. People queuing up since dawn has become a daily phenomenon, especially since the beginning of May when private hospitals stopped giving jabs and a sense of fear grew among many that they would not get vaccines. An official at a private hospital that had always given time slots to vaccine recipients said government-run vaccination centres could also try allotting such slots. Some of the suggestions that emerged while talking to officials of government-run and private vaccination centres and recipients: ⚫ Give tokens with time slots in advance so people do not have to queue up since early in the morning. ⚫ Government vaccination centres learn at night how many doses they will get the next morning. They must inform people in the queue how many doses will be administered on a given day and tell the rest not to waste their time tanding in the queue. ⚫ Strengthen and widen the WhatsApp chatbot system that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has introduced. Though it is said to have initially suffered from a glitch, many people benefited from it. The snags, if any, should be fixed and more vaccination centres must be brought within the ambit of the chatbox. ⚫ Open more vaccination centres so queues do not get too long. “We are advising the vaccination centres to adopt innovative ways so that people do not have to stand in queues for long. They can give tokens and allot time slots. The queues are primarily happening because people are anxious they would not be able to get vaccinated later,” said Nayaran Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the state health department. The state government has tagged government-run vaccination centres where people who had taken their first dose at private hospitals can take their second. If government centres can split time between second dose recipients from the private hospitals and other recipients, overcrowding can be avoided. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said officials from the hospital visited the government-run centre tagged to their unit. “We had requested officials at the centre to give second-dose time slots to those who had taken their first shot at our hospital, but they said they could not do so,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Crematory with four electric pyres to come up in New Town||A crematorium with four electric pyres will come up in New Town within a few weeks, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. A 2-acre plot in Action Area ID, near Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute's New Town campus, has been earmarked for the crematorium, which for now will be reserved for Covid victims. According to the official, the plot has been chosen keeping in mind that there are no large gated communities or housing cooperative societies nearby and the area largely comprises empty fields. “The crematorium will have four electric pyres, which will be operational simultaneously. There will also be a mortuary on the plot, which is adjacent to a small feeder canal of the Bagjola canal,” the official said. The NKDA has submitted a detailed project report for the crematorium to the state government for approval. “The facility will have high chimney stacks and other pollution control devices.” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said work on setting up the crematorium would start as soon as they get the state government’s nod. “We want to build this facility at the earliest. This will be the first crematorium in New Town and we want to make it a place where every need will be taken care of through a single-window system. People don’t have to go here and there looking for things required during the last rites of a person,” said Sen. The facility has been conceived as bodies of Covid-19 victims from various hospitals in New Town and adjoining areas such as Salt Lake and Rajarhat are being sent to crematoriums in far-off places such as Gobardanga and Naihati in North 24-Parganas. “This is causing huge delays as most of these crematoriums are getting a large number of bodies from all across the city as well as the fringes. On most days, hearses are forced to queue up in front of these facilities and the family members get stuck for long hours before they can perform the last rites. It is quite a traumatic experience and hence this crematorium is being built,” said another senior official of the NKDA. The Telegraph had on May 10 reported that the body of an 85-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, remained in her flat at Karunamoyee Housing Estate in Salt Lake for at least 19 hours before the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation removed it for cremation. Corporation officials had said the reason for the delay was crematoriums were chock-a-block with bodies. Similar cases have been reported from Bangur as well as parts of Dum Dum and Rajarhat over the past few weeks, another official of the Bidhannagar civic body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Over 1,000 journalists get jabs for free at Press Club||Over 1,000 journalists got Covid jabs for free at a six-day vaccination drive at Press Club, Calcutta. The drive was held by the state government with the club. “The drive ended on May 19. In total, 1,060 people were vaccinated,” said a club official. The drive followed an announcement by chief minister Mamata Banerjee declaring journalists as “Covid warriors”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Blaze at state youth welfare department’s office in Dalhousie, fireman hurt||A fire broke out in the state youth welfare department’s office in Dalhousie on Thursday night. A firefighter was injured while carrying out fire fighting operations in the third-floor office and had to be hospitalised. Witnesses said they had spotted fumes coming out of the building, located near Lal Dighi adjacent to the Telephone Exchange building, around 9pm. Till 10.30pm, 10 fire tenders had reached the spot. Sujit Bose, the fire services minister, was on the spot to oversee the entire exercise. A team from the Calcutta police’s disaster management group joined the firefighters to bring the blaze under control. “It appeared to be a fire from an electrical short circuit. Experts would reach the site on Friday to make their assessment,” a fire department official said. Godown gutted A fire broke inside a sari godown on the third floor of a 11-storied building on Park Street on Thursday morning. Ten fire tenders brought the blaze at Poddar Point, the highrise adjoining Apeejay School that houses around 80 offices and a few godowns, under control after nearly four hours. Police said no one was injured even though glass panes had to be smashed to help firefighters continue with their operations. Fire department officials suspect the fire was because of an electrical short circuit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Sex workers and transgenders laud health department’s jab decision||Sex workers and transgenders have lauded the state health department’s decision to include them among groups that will get priority in receiving Covid vaccines and also urged the government to ensure that good intention does not suffer because of poor implementation. Sex workers and trans-genders are among the most discriminated and disadvantaged sections of society and most of them do not have formal or fixed jobs. Almost all are daily wage earners and they cannot afford to sit at home. Always at risk of contracting Covid, these communities should get priority in vaccination, said public health specialists. While many welcomed the decision to vaccinate the two communities on a priority basis, they criticised the government for not giving the same treatment to private security guards. Private guards have been playing a crucial role since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year. At hos-pitals, housing complexes and offices, they went much beyond their call of duty and implemented Covid norms and helped patients and suspected patients in getting on and off ambulances. “This is a welcome move. We have been demanding for a long time that transgenders be given vaccines on a priority basis. This should have been done earlier, but better late than never,” said Ranjita Sinha, a transgender activist and the secretary of the Association of Transgender/Hijra in West Bengal. Government officials have informed the community that there were 711 transgenders in the state according to the 2011 Census. The actual number, Ranjita said, would be many times more. Kajal Bose, the secretary of the Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee that works with sex workers, said:“Sex workers are always at risk of getting infected. The government should do the vaccination of sex workers through clinics that we run in red light areas. That will result in fast vaccination.” Durbar has 60,000 sex workers registered with it, but there are many who are not part of any organisation because of the fear of reprisal in society. “There are many trans-genders in districts who are not documented. The government should widely advertise the fact that they have recognised trangenders as a priority group for vaccination. Only then those who are not documented will come forward,” said Ranjita. “It is a very progressive and bold decision…. I think the decision to prioritise some groups is a wise decision gi-ven the practical reality of vaccine shortage,” said public health specialist Soumyadeep Bhaumik, who is associated with the The George Institute for Global Health, India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Education department keen on holding Madhyamik and higher secondary exams: Bratya Basu||Bengal education minister Bratya Basu said on Thursday his department was keen on conducting Madhyamik and higher secondary exams once the Covid situation improved. “We don’t have any plans to cancel the examinations. I don’t know why you (media) are always talking about exams being cancelled…. If the cases of infection come down, the exams will be held,” Basu told a news conference on Thursday. Madhyamik and HS examinations — scheduled to be held from June 1 to 10 and June 15 to July 2, respectively — will not be held next month, the government had announced on Saturday. Minister Basu said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had “taken certain emergency steps” to contain Covid-19 and the “rate of infection is coming down” “We can hope that the rate of infection will further come down. Although we don’t have anything substantial to say, there are reasons to be hopeful. Exams will be held if the infections come down.” Basu said his department would announce its decision on Madhyamik and HS examinations after consulting the chief minister. “We will seek the views of the exam-conducting authorities. We will consult with the chief minister and will let everybody know very soon what we are going to do,” Basu said. During the interaction at Bikash Bhavan, the education secretariat, reporters asked the minister how midday meals could be distributed from schools that his department had decided to turn into safe homes early this week. Basu said there would not be any problem in distributing midday meals. Several teachers have expressed their anxiety over visiting the schools that will operate as isolation centres, for the purpose of distributing mid-day meals. The number of schools, primary, upper primary, secondary and higher secondary put together, stands at over 50,000. “The schools that would not be converted into safe homes can be used for distribution of midday meals,” an official of the department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid helpline to comfort people and ease pandemic-induced anxieties||Hundreds of people are calling counsellors to talk about their anxieties and fears at a time when almost every family has one or more people infected with Covid-19. Some have lost family members and are in isolation, uncertain of the future. Some are worried because they know they are ignoring symptoms to avoid the financial implications of losing out on working days — something they cannot afford. Others who have family members in the hospital are anxious if the patient will come home safe. The fear has amplified in the second wave of the pandemic because the Covid cases are “closer home”, and not a distant relative, which is taking a toll on people’s mental health. Don’t worry let’s talk, a free helpline (6290548004), has been started by Kolkata Victorian Round Table 227 and clinical psychologist Gargi Dasgupta to help people talk and “not let their worries, fears and helplessness take control” during this raging pandemic. The helpline is active from Monday to Saturday between 8am and 10pm. Counsellors on the other end help to comfort people and ease their anxieties. “There are two kinds of issues — one is related to health and the other is of social security and economic loss,” said Gargi Dasgupta, clinical psychologist, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Dasgupta said for people earning between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000, staying in isolation for 15 days was not an option because it would make them “vulnerable to job loss”. She said that even medical professionals who have to step out of their homes every day were anxious about their safety and that of their families. “There are medical professionals who are worried about their safety because of their over-exposure. They are worried whether the precautions they are taking are enough,” said Dasgupta. The pandemic-induced isolated lifestyle has detached people from their families and friends. Mobile phones have become their only source of entertainment, information and connection with the outside world. “The phone is giving people company and is a source of entertainment but it can also be damaging because of the information available. There might be many positive things to take note of but a vulnerable mind is drawn to the negative and tends to register the negative things,” she said. When people call the helpline, the counsellors have different approaches depending on the problem, Dasgupta said. “We help them relax and ask them to write out the possibility of their fear becoming a reality. When they start writing they are able to rationalise, which precedes their emotional response, and the possibility of their fear coming true goes down,” she said. Another approach the counsellors use is to ask the callers to disengage themselves and think that a friend has come to them seeking suggestions. “When they distance themselves from the problem, they are able to reflect and engage in a more rational way,” said Dasgupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health experts cite reasons for more patients turning critical ||⚫ People testing positive for Covid but staying home on self medication, fearing they would not get a bed ⚫ Covid patients turning critical but not getting beds for several days ⚫ A section of people still in denial and not getting tested despite having Covid symptoms ⚫ Violation of the treatment protocol by general medicine practitioners More Covid patients are turning critical and dying in the second wave than the first and public health experts and doctors are citing the above reasons, along with the fact that the virus has gained in virulence, for the outcome. The Covid critical care units in most private and government hospitals in Calcutta and its surrounding areas are full despite a steep rise in the number of beds compared with the peak of the epidemic last year, officials of several hospitals said. Self medication The crisis of beds is forcing relatives of many Covid patients to rush from one hospital to another in search of a bed. Doctors said that since people have come to know about the bed crisis, many patients are choosing to stay at home. “These people, many of them elderly and with comorbidities, are apprehending that they would not get a hospital bed and so are getting treated at home. Many of them are not even consulting doctors and having medicines following prescriptions that are widely getting circulated on social media,” said Sauren Panja, the head of critical care and internal medicine at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “When someone is in home isolation, it’s a must to stay under the supervision of a doctor who can evaluate the patient’s condition regularly and decide when he or she needs to be admitted to hospital.” Many such patients, despite having an oxygen saturation level far below 93 per cent, are staying at home on oxygen support. “Their condition has become critical by the time they reach hospital,” said Panja. According to him, many people are taking steroids indiscriminately and that is causing harm to them. “We give steroids to Covid patients judiciously. In many cases, steroids can bring down the patient’s immunity and allow the virus to replicate, leading to more severity. It can trigger other medical conditions like high blood sugar and other infections,” said Panja. One steroid commonly used is dexamethasone, which doctors said should not be taken without medical supervision. Other doctors said many patients coming to hospital had preferred to be at home rather than try for a hospital bed. “There is a severe bed crisis and so many patients are not getting beds when required. But at least 10 per cent of the patients admitted under me were prescribed admission by local doctors but they preferred to stay at home with a false sense of security. This is opposite to what was happening during the first wave, when people out of panic were getting admitted even when there were no symptoms," said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya, who treats Covid patients at Peerless Hospital. Test reluctance An 80-year old woman, who is a resident of Barrackpore, had a fever and her rapid antigen test for Covid was negative. Despite that, her oxygen saturation level dropped to below 80 on Wednesday night and family members took her to BN Bose Sub-Divisional Hospital. “The doctors said she should be admitted and treated for Covid. They also suggested an RT-PCR test (a more confirmatory test for Covid). But some in the family refused to admit her to a Covid hospital saying she was not suffering from the disease and could get infected if admitted there,” said one of her grandsons. She is now at home on oxygen support. An elderly man, who had taken two doses of a Covid vaccine in April, has been running a temperature and suffering from a sore throat for four days. He visited the outpatients department of a private hospital on Thursday evening. “When I asked him to get tested for Covid, he said he was fully vaccinated and was not getting exposed to the virus since he is hardly stepping out,” said the doctor who examined him. Doctors and public health experts said reluctance to get tested was causing serious problems. “The problem has increased this time compared to last year because many people have taken one or two doses of vaccines and have a sense of security. But the problem is there are people who are getting infected despite being vaccinated,” said Panja. “If such people do not get tested despite being infected, they will spread the virus to others. Also, a delay of three to four days in getting tested is turning many patients critical,” he said. Drug misuse According to doctors treating Covid patients, a section of general medicine practitioners is still indiscriminately prescribing medicines to Covid patients and not suggesting hospital admission. “Any doctor can treat Covid on a domiciliary basis because the government guidelines are in place. But the problem lies in the fact that in certain cases guidelines are not being followed and steroids are being prescribed indiscriminately, which can lead to problems,” said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya. “However, in many cases the doctors cannot be blamed. There are instances when the doctor has advised admission but the patient is not getting a bed. So, the doctor is forced to go beyond the protocol and advise medicines,” he said. Mismanagement Health officials said at some government hospitals, doctors and authorities were not properly managing patients, which were leading to problems. “At one government-run hospital I found all patients were provided with the same amount of oxygen support and the authorities were not bothered,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the coordinator of the Covid-19 management team of Bengal and the head of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital. “At another government hospital, I found departmental heads were not attending to Covid patients and so there was practically no evaluation,” said Dhali. This, he said, was the case in many other hospitals, resulting in patients turning critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
