22-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas threat: Calcutta Municipal Corporation takes precautionary measures||Meshes of wires dangling from electric poles, choked gully pits and congested drains across Calcutta show very few lessons have been learnt from Cyclone Amphan, which had ravaged the city this time last year. The only positive — the Calcutta Municipal Corporation convened meetings with CESC and disaster management agencies throughout Thursday. The approach was different from last year — 36 hours had passed after Amphan when the CMC convened a coordination meeting to restore normality in the city. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force will be kept on high alert from May 25, a day before the cyclone is tipped to hit land, officials said. The coastal districts of Gangetic Bengal are set to get rainfall, accompanied by gusts of wind, from May 25 as Cyclone Yaas nears the Bengal coast, the Met office said on Friday. “The system is tipped to intensify into a cyclone by May 24 and reach the Bengal-Odisha coast by the morning of May 26,” said the official. The Telegraph takes stock of the preparedness: Fallen trees Uprooted trees had emerged as the biggest hurdle to restoring normal life in the aftermath of Amphan. Engineers of power utilities had said fallen trees had delayed work on repairing or replacing damaged or snapped cables. This time, the civic body has claimed to have ramped up their personnel and machines. “Each of the 16 boroughs will have three emergency response teams. We are also trying to have a group of tree cutters in each of the 144 wards. The number of men deployed will be close to three times more than last year,” said Debasish Kumar, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. The stock of saws, ladders, JCB cranes and payloaders — needed to cut trees and remove debris — has also been ramped up significantly, he said, without going into specifics. Another CMC official said they were trying to identify spots to dump the debris. “We will keep a pool of trucks on standby to ferry the debris if our vehicles fall short.” Poles and cables The CMC estimated that thousands of electric poles were uprooted across the city during Amphan. Engineers had attributed the high count of electric poles felled to the weight of cables on them, many of them defunct. A trip across the city on Thursday and Friday showed little had changed. From Elgin Road to Ballygunge Circular Road, thick meshes of wires hanging from poles made their way through the canopy of trees — the perfect recipe for a rerun of last year’s disaster. The cables included power, broadband and cable TV wires. Cable operators and internet and telecom service providers attended a meeting called by the CMC on Friday. The operators have been asked to snip dead cables from poles to the “maximum extent possible” in three days, said a CMC official. “We will start work tomorrow,” said Tapash Das, the joint convenor of the All Bengal Cable Television and Broadband Operators United Forum. The civic body has in the past prodded MSO operators to snip dud cables to decongest the poles. Power A CESC spokesperson spoke of improved coordination and ramped-up manpower. The fleet of emergency response units of the power utility had depleted last year because the lockdown forced many workers to return home to districts or neighbouring states. “We have more than doubled the number of specialised workers who will attend to snapped power lines. The coordination with the CMC has started early. If the fallen trees and branches are removed promptly, we will do our best to restore power supply as soon as possible,” he said. He said the stock of generators, poles, cables and other equipment was being ramped up as well. The utility serves over three million consumers in Calcutta and adjoining districts. Continuing power outage in the aftermath of Amphan had triggered protests in many areas. Some areas like parts of Behala, Budge Budge, Panchashayar, Garia, Serampore and Baguiati are still dependent on an overhead network, which is more vulnerable to a storm. The CESC spokesperson said “around 80 per cent of the places under its jurisdiction had underground networks”. Asked if any conversion — from overhead to underground network — had happened since Amphan, the spokesperson said: “It is a continuous process. Even in overhead network areas damaged by Amphan, we have set up completely new sets of equipment”. “We are also focusing on a decentralised emergency response system for improved mobility,” he said. Water Water supply, which was hit for days in many areas after Amphan, is among the topmost priorities this time, CMC and CESC officials said. The civic body is banking on a “sufficient stock” of generators to ensure water supply is not crippled. “We will have generator back-up at all water treatment plants. We will also hire as many generators as we can from private suppliers in each ward. These will be provided to households with pumps but without power,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. “All 74 booster pumping stations will be functional and will have generator back-up. But if the rain coincides with the high tide in the Hooghly and the closure of lock gates, waterlogging is inevitable,” said a CMC official. He said work had started to clear the mouth of many choked gully pits in the city. The civic body has also ramped up the number of people who clean the mouth of gully pits on flooded roads so the accumulated water can flow into the underground drainage network. The men will also open man-hole covers to quickly drain out water, said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIM refrains from fee hike for two-year MBA programme||IIM Calcutta has decided not to hike fees for its two-year MBA programme because of the Covid-induced economic distress faced by some students and their families. The MBA committee of the Joka institute had proposed to the academic council, which comprises teachers, officials and the director, that the fee be raised to Rs 23.05 lakh from the existing Rs 23 lakh. The academic council rejected that proposal, said an IIM official. Subir Bhattacharya, the interim director of the IIM, told The Telegraph: “We are not going to hike the fees this year.” “There have been cases of loss of jobs, curtailment in salary and shutting down of businesses all over the country. In keeping with the inflationary rates, it was proposed that the fees be raised by Rs 50,000 this year. But the proposal was struck down as the incoming batch of students must have been facing the same hardship as those now in class,” said a member of the council. There was a proposal to raise the fee for foreign students from $ 60,000 to 65,000 as well. “But that too has been struck down because of the same reason.” Another member said last year, too, the fee was not raised since the council could not meet because of the sudden imposition of the lockdown. Moreover, the institute was preoccupied with changing the mode of the programme from in-person to online as a precaution against Covid-19, the member said. Students of the 2019-21 batch had in June last year sought a fee waiver citing an economy that “looks very grim” and said they were uncertain about job prospects. In a letter to then director Anju Seth, the then president of the institute’s students council, Hunar Gandhi, had written: “The situation of the economy looks very grim and the current and the graduating batches may be adversely affected in terms of future prospects…. We hereby request you to provide relief in the tuition fee and other charges.” A teacher said the situation had worsened with the second wave of Covid triggering further distress across the country and it would be inhuman to raise the fee. “Considering that the batch that had just graduated sought a waiver of fees, it would be inhuman to raise the fees for the incoming batch. Although we sustain ourselves from whatever we earn through fees, we still decided against raising the fees,” he said. Last year, the students of the two-year programme forced the institute to waive the hostel fees as they were not using the hostels and attending online classes from home, till they were called back to the campus in October. They were called back so they could use the internet connectivity on the campus to attend online classes. A teacher said that considering that the programme would be held online this year, they were expecting the students would again seek a waiver on the hostel component. Although any proposal to raise the fees for the one-year MBA executive programme did not reach the council, it has been decided that the amount (Rs 27 lakh) would remain unchanged. In July last year, the institute had decided to refund deposits and offer deferred admission to its executive MBA course this year after six candidates sought a refund saying they didn’t want to pursue the course in such “uncertain financial times”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid care: Breathe easy in parked buses outside NRS Medical College and Hospital ||A bus that stands round the clock outside the admission counter of Nilratan Sircar (NRS) Medical College and Hospital is allowing Covid patients to breathe easy, literally. The bus is one of five vehicles deployed in an oxygen-on-wheels initiative of Jain International Trade Organisation (Jito), a non-profit body of the Jain community. While the bus at NRS was the first, the four have since been posted at RG Kar, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Chittaranjan seva Sadan and SSKM hospital. The 32-seaters have been equipped with four oxygen concentrators, each capable of generating five litres per minute. The buses are also equipped with lights, fans and mobile charging points. The seats have been partially modified to allow comfortable seating. The electricity required to run the machines is being drawn from the hospitals. “In this pandemic, when oxygen is in short supply, economically deprived patients are facing an even bigger challenge. On May 9, one of our members, Sheetal Dugar came up with the idea of fitting buses with oxygen concentrators to help them,” said Bhaven Kamdar, the secretary of Jito. The 15-year-old organisation has so far been involved in economic empowerment and educational initiatives. Dugar, he pointed out, was the managing trustee of Sri SL Dugar Charitable Trust which runs The Aryans School in Kamarhati. With classes happening online, the school’s fleet of buses has been idle for months. The proposal was sent to the health department on May 10. “The clearance came within barely four hours. We were directed to connect with NRS hospital,” Kamdar said. It took the rest of the day to refit the bus. The day after, it was taken to the hospital and handed over for inspection. All buses have been fitted with CCTV cameras. “That way, the doctors can remotely monitor the patients in the bus over an app on their mobile phones and issue instructions to the technician present on site,” Kamdar said. NRS hospital superintendent Dr Indira Dey is all praise for the initiative. “Covid patients come chiefly with complaints of breathing trouble. During the admission process, allocation of beds takes time. During that period, one has to wait. We are making patients, whose oxygen levels have started dipping, wait in the bus on oxygen support. The bus is also coming to use if the patient has to be transferred from a ward in one building of NRS to the other or taken to the Covid ward at R. Ahmed Dental College across the road,” Dey said. The use of the buses is in the hands of the health department. “The doctors at each hospital will recommend which patients would need immediate support,” Kamdar pointed out. Another bus will be deployed at MR Bangur Hospital from Saturday. “The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has requested us for oxygen concentrators for its safe homes which we have agreed to provide,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone: Amphan-hit Indian Botanic Garden scrambles to fend off Yaas||The Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur is bracing for Yaas. No sooner had it recovered from the body blow of Amphan exactly a year ago than the garden, crippled by inadequate staff and funds, was hurled into a fight against another cyclone that is set to hit the Bengal-Odisha coast on May 26 morning. Amphan had ripped off a significant portion of the canopy of the 271-year-old Great Banyan Tree and had damaged and uprooted countless trees in the 273-acre garden. The garden authorities are scrambling to protect the huge, old trees but such efforts are hampered by the lockdown as most of the staff is unavailable. Scientists are trying to save the new branches that have emerged in the gaping hole in the north-west portion of the canopy of the Great Banyan Tree by putting bamboo props to support them. Apart from The Great Banyan Tree, there are other old trees with huge canopies which are being pruned so that they maintain their centre of gravity and don’t topple in the cyclone. “We can do very little particularly in the current situation of lockdown. There is hardly any staff available. We are making do with those who live nearby and outsourcing a few,” said Basant Kumar Singh, a senior scientist at the garden. Cyclone Amphan with wind speeds up to 170km an hour had wreaked havoc in the garden last year, blowing off a huge portion of the north-west canopy of the Great Banyan Tree. It had also damaged about 1,000 trees in the garden and uprooted several hundred. Some of these, including the 100-year-old Baobab tree or Kalpavriksha were later replanted. “We are putting bamboo props to support the young branches that have come out in the canopy of the Great Banyan Tree. There is only so much we can do. We are also pruning branches of other trees so that they are not top heavy and can withstand the heavy gusts of winds,” said Singh. “We are also alerting the guards in the garden so they immediately inform us if there is major damage,” said the scientist. The Great Banyan Tree is no stranger to cyclones. It had lost its main trunk to two cyclones in 1864 and 1867. It has the biggest canopy spreading over 1.6 hectares with an interconnected branch system that looks like a mini-forest. Most of these branches are supported with props.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||RKM college students to teach Classes IX to XII||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes IX to XII, who have not been attending school because of the Covid pandemic. The classes will be held on digital platforms. The registration process started on Thursday and will go on till May 24. A notice signed by Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college, said: “In order to help you with your academic studies amidst the pandemic, the Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, is offering free online classes for students studying from Class 9 to 12 in these tough times. The students of our college have enthusiastically come forward and volunteered themselves to teach you all.” In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were suspended on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of the pandemic. A monk of the college said they decided to offer free tutorials to students of these four classes because students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes III to VIII. Students of these classes, too, have not attended school since March 2020 because of the pandemic. The free classes to be conducted by students of both colleges will start on May 26. The link for registration for classes to be conducted by students of the Narendrapur college is https:// forms.gle/ZZwajrcExVUJ8zv56. The notice said there will be four classes each day — two in the morning, from 8am to 10am, and two in the evening, from 7pm to 9pm. Classes will be held five days a week, from Monday to Friday, and are likely to be conducted on YouTube. An official of the college said about 60 students of the college — undergraduate and postgraduate — have volunteered to take classes. Undergraduate students from second year have enlisted their names. An official of the college said the objective was to help the underprivileged students who could not afford private tuition to compensate for the absence of in-person classes because their families’ financial constraints had worsened during the pandemic. Asked whether the students who have volunteered for the service would be groomed on how to teach, a monk of the college who is coordinating the initiative said a section of students periodically taught students of Narendrapur Blind Boys’ Academy. “They have a fair idea about the syllabus. Still, if they need any guidance, we will offer that,” he said. The classes will be offered only to boys. “That is what we have decided initially,” said a college official. The class timetable and other details such as links will be sent to the registered students. School students attending the classes can interact with the teachers by typing their queries in a “chatbox”. Students of the college are attending classes on online platforms from home as a precaution against Covid. “By teaching the senior school students, students of the college can expand their domain knowledge further,” said a teacher. Safe home Gouranga Bhavan, a boys’ hostel of the college, will be converted into a 100-bed safe home for Covid patients in cooperation with Rajpur Sonarpur municipality. The patients at the isolation facility will be admitted under the supervision of the health and family welfare department. “We will provide oxygen support to the extent possible. Meals for the patients will come from our kitchen. Doctors, nurses, medicines and other emergency support will be provided by the government,” said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Prices of food items start spiralling after Covid curbs||A Kasba resident bought chicken for Rs 200 a kg on Friday from a neighbourhood market. About a week back, chicken sold for Rs 165 a kg there. A Ballygunge resident bought grapes for Rs 200 a kg on Friday. A month back the price was Rs 120 a kg. Eggs sold for Rs 70 a dozen, up from Rs 50-55 a dozen around 10 days back. Prices of several food items started spiralling soon after stricter Covid curbs came into force last Sunday. The suspension of suburban train services, too, has had its impact on prices. Several food items, especially fruits, were brought to the city by train. Fruits and poultry products have witnessed a sharp rise in prices. Retail traders blame the lockdown, which has reduced the number of truck arrivals and also made the arrivals unpredictable, for the price rise. “Fewer trucks are coming in with poultry, resulting in price rise,” said a retailer in south Calcutta. “Most of the poultry in the city’s markets comes from North 24-Parganas, Burdwan and Midnapore. The truck drivers and helpers are afraid to come because of Covid. This has caused a demand-supply mismatch and resulted in a price rise,” he said. Among fruits, apples sold at Rs 250 a kg on Friday, up from Rs 200 about two weeks ago. "I bought apples for Rs 250 a kg and big mosambis for Rs 30 apiece on Friday," said Manish Shaw, a Ballygunge resident. Apart from irregular movement of trucks, wholesalers blamed low yield in Himachal Pradesh for the steep rise in the price of the fruit. Truck operators said the recent restrictions have forced many of them to cut inter-state movement. "From around 30,000 trucks three months back, just about 300 trucks are now entering the city," said Subhas Chandra Bose of the West Bengal Truck Operators Association. "If trucks aren't getting to take items from Calcutta to other states, how will they bring fruits or other stuff from outside?" As for fish, there is no problem with the supply from other states but retailers aren’t turning up in enough numbers to procure them. As a result the price of fish in retail markets is shooting up despite godwons remaining well stocked. "Earlier, retailers would turn up on Matadors or commute by suburban trains. That has stopped. The number of visitors to wholesale fish markets has dropped sharply and the impact is being felt in the retail markets," said Syed Anwar Masqueed, the secretary of the Howrah Wholesale Fish Market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Gurudwaras and NGOs start providing oxygen to people across communities||A gurudwara in the city on Friday started providing oxygen concentrators to people across communities and social strata. Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat, on MG Road, through the service wants to reach out to those in need of oxygen in the middle of a raging pandemic, when emergencies are surfacing in homes at any time of the day or night. “We can convey the information to the Sikh community through the gurdwara. But we want to reach out to people from other communities with oxygen support,” said Gangandeep Singh, spokesperson, Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat. They have started with 20 oxygen concentrators that have been donated by two Sikh families in the US and Canada. People have to approach them with a Covid-positive report for a concentrator. “We are giving it out for five days initially. We expect people to return it once the requirement is over,” said Ajit Singh Bari, vice-president, Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat, who was instrumental in organising the concentrators. The service is being offered for free and the idea is that it should reach the poor who cannot buy concentrators. The service was started on Friday in the presence of Bari, T.S. Walia, the president of Khalsa English High School, and MLA Vivek Gupta. Call: 9830920011, 9830355486, 9830312393 or 9815212336 Across the city, several other organisations have come forward to provide oxygen support to Covid patients. A 50-year-old man in New Alipore who had lost his mother a few days back was struggling to breathe. He managed to call the helpline of NGO Kolkata Gives around midnight asking for oxygen support and a concentrator was delivered at his doorstep. Kolkata Gives has procured 250 oxygen concentrators for people in the city and the districts. Of the 250, 100 have been sent to the Sunderbans. “We are receiving requests throughout the day and night. In most cases, we are asking people to collect the concentrator and return it. We send a video to every user so they can use the concentrator,” said Anant Nevatia, trustee, Kolkata Gives. Call: 9696022022 Samaritan Help Mission in Howrah-Tikiapara is another NGO that is providing oxygen cylinders and concentrators. “There is no discrimination between the rich and the poor, the idea is to give to whoever needs. But an appeal to those who can afford — donate whatever you can so that we can help more people,” said Mamoon Akhtar, the founder of the NGO. Call: 9836777600, 9339837017 The New Town authorities and an NGO in the area have started an initiative where oxygen cylinders will be delivered for free to Covid patients. Volunteers of the New Town Forum and News, the NGO, are coordinating the logistics of delivering the cylinders. There are trained personnel to operate the oxygen flow meters. A helpline has been set up and the oxygen cylinders will be available around the clock. Call: 18001037652 Gurdwara Garcha Road will start an oxygen concentrator service when a consignment arrives on Sunday. Call: 9830920011, 9432363890, 9903820164, 9831123925 Free oxygen support is available at Gurdwara Behala. Call: 18002579655 A club in Rajdanga is providing oxygen support. Call: 9875386038, 9051737131, 6289007703, 033-24421902 Gurdwara Dunlop has started a service with five oxygen concentrators that can be collected from Dunlop. Call: 9433946454||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology revives community kitchen||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all government and private engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, has resumed its community kitchen to feed the poor and the destitute in Kalyani. Headquartered in Nadia district’s Haringhata, the university is preparing meals for 350 people on the campus and distributing the food through the office of the sub-divisional officer. Registrar Parthapratim Lahiri said the resumption of the community kitchen became inevitable as stricter restrictions that came into force on Sunday to arrest the rise of Covid-19 cases had robbed hundreds of people of their livelihood. As part of the initiative, the kitchen of the girls’ hostel on the campus is being used as the community kitchen and it is being run by a dedicated team of employees. “Since we have resources and the infrastructure, the community kitchen was revived on Thursday. Food packets containing soybeans, eggs, chicken, fish and khichdi are being distributed through the SDO’s office,” said Lahiri. Last year, the community kitchen was run for about a month. Unlike last year, the distribution of food packets has been left to the local administration. An official of the university said that ever since the campus was shut as a precaution against Covid, the small eateries and shops around have all downed their shutters. “These people are in distress. We hope that through the community kitchen we would be able to take care of some,” he said. The university will start the fundraising drive to incur the cost. “Initially we will use the university’s corpus to run the kitchen,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone: Centre alerts Bengal and eastern coastline states on hospital evacuation||The Union health ministry on Friday asked Bengal and other eastern coastline states to prepare hospital evacuation plans and enhance their health emergency readiness ahead of a Bay of Bengal cyclone expected to hit the Odisha and Bengal coasts on May 26. The ministry has cautioned that the cyclone’s predicted landfall over Odisha-Bengal and widespread rainfall and inland flooding in districts along the east coast and the Andaman and Nico-bar islands, may compound public health challenges already posed by the Covid-19 epidemic. The India Meteorological Department has said a low-pressure zone is “very likely” to emerge over the North Andaman Sea and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 that may move northwestward and reach the Odisha-Bengal coasts on May 26 morning. The Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, in letters sent to top administrators of the Andaman and Nicobar islands, Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu, has urged reviews of emergency department preparedness, stocks of medicines and backup equipment in hospitals in coastal areas. Bhushan has asked the states to prepare advance evacuation plans to, if required, move people from health facilities along the cyclone’s projected path to safe zones or to other hospitals and ensure that hospitals have adequate arrangements for their labs, medical services, and oxygen. “It needs to be ensured that health facilities are stocked with adequate essential medicines and supplies to meet any exigencies arising due to disruption on the movement of vehicles due to high wind or heavy rainfall,” Bhushan wrote. The ministry has also directed states to mobilise district public health and disease surveillance teams involved in Covid-19 management to look out for possible outbreaks of other infections such as acute diarrhoeal diseases, dengue, leptospirosis, malaria, associated with flooding or heavy rains. The advisory comes amid signals of widespread Covid-19 infections in several eastern coastal districts. The fraction of positive cases among those tested — a measure of widespread infection — over the past week has been 41 per cent in North 24-Parganas, 27 per cent in South 24-Parganas, and 23 per cent in Puri, Odisha. The fraction should be ideally less than 5 per cent. The ministry has asked state administrators to plan rapid antigen tests in camps that might house evacuated populations and ensure that standard precautions against Covid-19 such as masks, physical distancing, and hand hygiene are continued to be followed in all cyclone-affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
