23-05-2021||Calcutta||Ignoring Covid risk, citizens spring to rescue 32-year-old man||A diabetes patient who has been pedalling around 9km to work every day fell off his bicycle and lay unconscious near the Hazra crossing on a searing hot Saturday morning. Suvamoy Dey, 32, survived a threat to his life because a handful of Calcuttans — particularly a police officer, a woman doctor and an elderly woman — would not abandon a stranger slumped on a pavement even for fear of catching Covid. A providential phone call from Dey’s home helped — it alerted the officer about his high blood sugar levels and the possibility that he had passed out because he had neither eaten well in the morning nor taken his medicines. However, it was difficult to feed Dey water because his jaws were tightly clenched. The elderly woman arrived just in time to tell the policeman they should insert a coin between the sick man’s teeth so they can pour a glass of sugar water, obtained from a tea stall, into his mouth. A few hours later, after a bout of hospital tests, a rejuvenated Dey returned home with his younger brother. The resident of Gobra near Topsia cooks for a community kitchen in Tollygunge for Rs 8,000 a month. He took up the job a fortnight ago, several months after the epidemic closed down his small catering business. Dey had collapsed to the ground on Townsend Road near its intersection with Hazra Road around 9.30am. Inspector Ashis Roy, officer in charge of the Regent Park traffic guard, was passing by when he saw a man lying on a pavement with a small crowd around him. “The man was unconscious. The identity card he wore round his neck showed that he was attached to a community kitchen. He was almost motionless. Someone in the crowd stopped a doctor’s car just then. The doctor got off, checked Dey’s pulse and said he was alive. “The doctor left,” Roy said. As Roy wondered what to do next, Dey’s phone began ringing inside his bag. Roy asked a man in the crowd to get the phone and ask whether the caller knew the unconscious man’s medical history. “Luckily, it was a call from his family. They told us the man had high blood sugar and had not had a proper breakfast. I realised this (his collapse) may have happened because of a sudden dip in his sugar level,” Roy said. “I asked those present to arrange for a glass of sugar water. With help from another person in the crowd, I tried to force the unconscious man’s jaws open to feed him the water. But his jaws were clenched too tight.” Just then an elderly woman, who had her hands full of bags containing vegetables, stopped by. She asked Roy to insert a coin between the unconscious man’s teeth. “The wise woman said, ‘Hath diye cheshta korben na, kete jabe (Don’t try it with your hands, you’ll end up injured),” Roy recalled. The trick worked. As the sugar water passed down his throat, Dey’s tongue began moving. He slowly opened his eyes. But he was still unable to speak. The crowd had swelled, most of the onlookers eager to help but unsure what to do. A woman stepped forward to declare she was a doctor. She asked Roy to lift Dey’s head and herself lent him a hand. She then patted Dey’s cheeks till he regained consciousness. “She immediately said, ‘We need an ambulance’. As luck would have it, an empty ambulance was already headed our way. We sent the man off to SSKM Hospital where Shankhanath Nag, an assistant sub-inspector from Bhowanipore police station, took care of him,” Roy said. A few hours later, Dey was discharged from hospital. By then, his younger brother had arrived to take him home. “Dada is back home. He fell sick because he had forgotten his medicines today. He would like to report for work after a day’s rest,” the brother told The Telegraph in the evening. Dey had been unemployed for several months before being hired as a cook for the community kitchen, which serves Covid patients free of cost. The younger brother, who works at a cable operators’ office, said he didn’t earn enough to support the entire family. This newspaper has written about several others who pedal tens of kilometres to reach their workplace in the absence of public transport because of the Covid curbs, and because of a lack of job prospects in their own neighbourhood. Dey’s bicycle, which had been in Roy’s custody through his hospital stay, has been returned to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Don Bosco School opens safe home for Covid patients with mild symptoms||Don Bosco School, Park Circus, on Saturday opened a safe home for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms, on its campus. The 30-bed facility with oxygen support, in the classrooms on the ground floor of the building, has been set up when the school felt the need to “create more medical aid is at its greatest”. “As of now schools are closed and we are not sure when we will be able to reopen campuses. When we have the space and facilities we thought we should make it available for medical service and reach out to the needy,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. Some of the doctor parents of existing students and past pupils of the school took the initiative in collaboration with the school. “As Covid-19 treatment can prove to be expensive to many...the primary aim is to reach out to people who are at an economic disadvantage,” said a statement issued by the school. The safe home has started under Atanu Saha, a cardiac surgeon at a city hospital. “We have onsite doctors and trained nurses who will monitor the patients. If a patient deteriorates we will have to shift him to a higher facility,” said Saha. The need to create facilities outside of hospitals is essential because “hospitals are overworked and infrastructure is full”, he added. Saha said he had run from pillar to post to get a space to treat patients. “All we needed was a space but either the people were unwilling to give or were charging exorbitantly. I then approached the principal of my son’s school and he immediately agreed.” Don Bosco Park Circus has joined hands with Atma, a foundation for healthcare service and Unigrow Solutions, human resource consulting, to offer the facility to Covid patients. The facility will have on call doctors and tele consultation option. About 10 days back, Don Bosco started a testing facility where people could get RT-PCR tests done on its campus. The school is planning to start a vaccination centre also and talks are under way with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Two men arrested for alleged oxygen fraud||Two men, one of them a teenager, have been arrested for allegedly duping people with false promises of supplying oxygen cylinders against money. Calcutta police have zeroed in on the duo, who were operating separately, by tracking the bank accounts where they had asked the complainants to transfer the money for the cylinders that the complainants urgently needed for their Covid-affected family members or relatives. The police identified the accused men as Rupam Saha, 19, and Pramit Bhattacharjee, 29, both residents of North 24-Parganas. “Both are unemployed and had picked up their targets from social media posts. Both had the same modus operandi. They had asked the complainants to transfer the money online against false promises of supplying them with the cylinders later, which they never did,” said a senior officer in the detective department that is dealing with these complaints. Calcutta police have published a helpline number  (9874909640) and an e-mail id (jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in ) to report frauds on oxygen cylinders, plasma, arranging beds in hospitals and arranging medicines required for Covid-19 treatment. Both arrests were made after receiving complaints through either the e-mail id or the helpline. Police investigations have found the involvement of multiple gangs from Bihar in such frauds. No one from the Bihar gangs have been arrested till Saturday evening. Senior police officers said people who post their urgent needs on social media are most vulnerable to such frauds. “It is obvious that if someone is in urgent need to save a life, he or she will not think twice before transferring money if that helps them get the urgent service they are looking for. The fraudsters are taking advantage of this desperation,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: State health department issues black fungus advisory||The state health department has issued an advisory on mucormycosis or black fungus amid the rise in suspected cases of the disease in patients and fears among people. The disease is “a fungal infection that mainly affects people who are on medication for other health problems that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens”, the advisory said. The Telegraph lists some of the important points from the advisory that can help people. ⚫There are some warning signs and symptoms like pain and redness around eyes and/or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, bloody vomit and altered mental status ⚫ One must become cautious if there is a nasal congestion and blackish or bloody nasal discharge ⚫Other warning signs include one-sided facial pain, numbness or swelling, blackish discolouration over bridge of nose/palate, blood clot without any injury, blurred or double vision with pain “The disease progresses from the nose to the eyes to the brain. One should not wait and seek a doctor’s help if there is blackish or brownish nasal secretion,” said Dulal Bose, the clinical director of ENT at Peerless Hospital. ⚫Uncontrolled diabetes, people on immunosuppresants, people who underwent an organ transplant, patients who had prolonged ICU stay in hospital are among the most vulnerable ⚫Some of the ways in preventing mucormycosis is to control diabetes; use steroids at the right time, and take the right dose for the right duration; use clean distilled water for humidifiers during oxygen therapy; avoid exposure to decaying organic matters like bread/fruit/vegetable and excreta. Maintaining good personal hygiene is very important ⚫People who are diabetic and those who have recovered from Covid-19 must monitor their blood glucose levels regularly “Keeping blood sugar levels under control and steam inhalation can help. But people need not panic. In my experience of 50 years, I have seen five cases of mucormycosis,” said Bose, a former head of the ENT department at SSKM Hospital. Anirban Dalui, assistant professor, community medicine, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, said mucormycosis is a rare disease. “But it has been made a notifiable disease. Any doctor treating a patient with suspected symptoms must notify it to the government. A disease is made notifiable if it was rare but suddenly many cases gets reported. But there is no reason to panic because it is a very uncommon and rare disease,” he said. “Do not lose crucial time to initiate treatment for mucormycosis,” the advisory said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s to offer counselling sessions amidst pandemic||Jesuit priests of St Xavier’s College have come together to start counselling sessions to comfort people afflicted by disease, death and depression. Eight priests took calls from around 50 people on Saturday, the first day of the session, in two shifts — 10am to 12 noon and 2pm to 4pm. Most of the callers on the first day were in some way connected to the institution — former students, teachers, staff, or their family members. But the counselling service is open to all. “We expect callers from different faiths, practices and walks of life…,” said an organiser. One of the callers on Saturday was a man in his late 30s, affected by Covid-19 and on the seventh day of home quarantine. “Many young people are getting affected by the virus in the second-wave, many of them are dying. What if I don’t make it,” the caller is said to have asked. “We have been doing a lot of philanthropic work in the Covid-19 times. But they have been on the physical side. Now, we must do something in comforting people suffering from loss of mental peace…,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “Our Reverend Fathers are trained during their long training for priesthood to extend compassionate mental care to comfort disturbed minds,” he added. The association of former students of the college is collaborating with the priests in this project. The priests comprising the team of counsellors include Father Jeyaraj Veluswamy, rector of the St Xavier’s community (both school and college), Father Anil Gomes, the controller of examinations of the college and Father Peter Arockiam, vice-principal of the evening section of the college. “All the counsellors are teachers. The Fathers will use their practical wisdom and decades of experience with people,” said a member of the association, who is a part of the core team of organisers. Most of the calls on Saturday spoke of “isolation and helplessness, of being locked inside their own homes”, said priests attending to the calls. “We are listening to the callers with patience. Listening is very important in these troubled times. They said they had many things to share but were hesitant in talking to family members. They were worried their aged parents would be more worried if they got to know about their children’s depression,” said Father Veluswamy, one of the eight counsellors. Father Anil Gomes, another counsellor, got a call from Hooghly on Saturday. The caller was a man in his 50s, who had lost family members to Covid-19. “His house was damaged by Amphan last year. He was extremely panicked about the threat of another cyclone,” said Father Gomes. The counselling facility is available during pre and post-lunch sessions in Bengali and English. The name and contact numbers of the Fathers with their time slots are on the college website. The college had provided ration and essential commodities in different phases during the lockdown last year and distributed PPE kits to the hospitals. During the second surge of the pandemic, the college has offered its rural campus at Raghabpur in South 24-Parganas to the state government for setting up of care homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: CMC to remove big hoardings||Police have asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to remove all the big hoardings from the city skyline and clean the roads of abandoned or loose construction materials that may act as missiles when Cyclone Yaas would make landfall. The civic body is expected to start the exercise from Sunday, police said. Representatives of Calcutta police, CMC, West Bengal fire and emergency services and CESC will participate in a coordination meeting at Lalbazar on Sunday morning to discuss post-cyclone problems and ways to tackle them. “Learning from Amphan would be the primary focus of the meeting,” said an officer. A separate police team has been formed under the leadership of an officer of the rank of additional commissioner in Lalbazar to coordinate the units of the city police that will contribute to the cyclone management as well as to liaise with the other agencies. As a preparatory measure, all police stations and traffic guards have been asked to keep their stock of equipment ready. “… our units have been asked to remain as prepared as possible so that they themselves can start removing branches in case there is a delay in others (other agencies) reaching (the spot),” said an IPS officer. Although the disaster management group will be on a standby mode during or after the cyclone, an alert has been sounded across all the police units to remain prepared. Last year, more than two dozen trees were uprooted across the city, blocking thoroughfares, snapping overhead cables that had plunged pockets of the city into darkness for days. As a precautionary measure, the CMC started trimming big trees keeping the approaching cyclone in mind. “We are focusing on pruning of trees, keeping generators ready at booster plants and water treatment plants,” said a CMC official. The civic body held a meeting on their preparedness in which chairperson of the board of administrators Firhad Hakim, participated through virtual medium. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, has readied teams that will be deployed across the 41 wards, an official said on Saturday. The teams will be equipped with cutting tools, including power saws and trucks, for cutting and removing uprooted trees, the official added. A control room will be set up at Poura Bhavan - the BMC headquarters at FD block in Salt Lake to monitor the developments. Helpline ⚫ CMC: 22861212/1313 ⚫ BMC: 6292234126||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas most likely to ‘target’ Bengal||Bengal would be the “most likely target” of Cyclone Yaas, whose life was kick-started by the formation of a low-pressure area over east-central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. On the sea, the system will keep intensifying to become a deep depression by Sunday, a cyclone by Monday and a severe cyclonic storm over the subsequent 24 hours, according to the Met office. “By May 26, when it is tipped to start hitting land, the storm would have qualified as a very severe cyclonic storm,” said GK Das, the director of India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The landfall process is expected to take a few hours on May 26, said Met officials. “As of now, it seems the cyclone will move towards the north Odisha, Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. Bengal is the most likely target,” said Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra, a senior scientist and cyclone forecasting specialist at the IMD, New Delhi. More specifics — the size of the system, the speed of its movement on the sea and the area where it is supposed to hit land — will emerge in the next couple of days, said Mohapatra. “But since it is very likely to turn into a very severe cyclonic storm, it is expected to generate wind speeds of 165kmph and more during landfall,” he told this newspaper. The Met office issued a bulletin on Saturday, warning that “sea conditions will be very rough… over major parts of central and north Bay of Bengal and along the Odisha-Bengal-Bangladesh coastlines from May 24 to 26”. The bulletin advised fishermen not to venture into the sea from “May 23 evening till further notice”. The Calcutta Port Trust said “all port vessels will be taken inside docks for shelter” before the onset of the cyclone. “No ships will be kept in river anchorages or jetties,” said an official. A cyclone is usually a large system that takes a few hours to make complete landfall. The peripheral winds at the front hit land first, followed by the relatively calm core or the eye of the storm. The eye is followed by the rear winds, as strong as the ones at the head of the spiral. Amphan was a large system with a diameter of 700km. The storm hit land around 2.30pm and the entire landfall process took over five hours. The impact of Cyclone Yaas would be felt in the coastal districts of Bengal from May 24, said Das. “The coastal areas of Bengal will see gusts of wind from May 24 evening. The windspeed will reach 70kmph by May 25 evening, and as the storm nears the coast on May 26, the windspeed is likely to surpass 100kmph.” Calcutta is likely to start feeling the impact of the winds from May 26 evening, said a Met official. The extent of devastation the winds can cause was evident on May 20 last year, when howling winds blowing at well over 100kmph haunted the city when Super Cyclone Amphan was hitting land near Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas. Dum Dum had recorded a windspeed of 133kmph. “It is still too early to forecast the windspeed that Calcutta is likely to witness because of the cyclone. But the city is most likely to see heavy rain on May 26,” said Das. A sharp spell of rain hit parts of the city and Salt Lake early evening on Saturday. The Met office attributed the showers to local cloud formation. The rain will start in Bengal’s coastal areas from May 25, said the Met forecast. “The rain will start from May 25. The coastal districts will have light to moderate rain since morning. The intensity will increase as the day progresses. On May 26, heavy to very heavy rain is likely in the coastal districts,” said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Chatbot slots reopen for Covaxin second shot||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will on Sunday resume bookings for second doses of Covaxin through the WhatsApp chatbot that was designed to save people the harassment of standing in queues for hours to get the jabs. Those who want to take the second dose can type ‘Hi’ and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. This will initiate a series of responses to which the person must keep replying to complete the booking. The chatbot will start issuing appointments for the second dose at 10am on Sunday. “We will again accept bookings for the second dose through the Whatsapp chatbot on Sunday. The bookings will open at 10am,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team (SeMT), which designed the chatbot. After registering, the person has to carry the WhatsApp message confirming the booking to the vaccination centre. Bookings through the chatbot give a specific time slot when the recipient has to arrive at the centre. This will help them skip queuing up outside the centres. The following are the steps to book a slot: ⚫Send ‘Hi’ to 8335999000 ⚫Send the date of first dose ⚫Provide details of ID ⚫Select the venue ⚫Get the time slot. Your booking is complete ⚫ Reported on Friday that even after the exclusion of a majority of Covishield second doses — after the gap between two doses was extended to 84 days — people were still queuing up outside jab centres since early morning. The chatbot will help people avoid this. But only three centres opened by the CMC — Roxy cinema building in Esplanade, South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga — are accepting bookings through the chatbot. These three places are exclusively meant for those who are yet to get their second doses of Covaxin. Without a slot, no one can take a shot at these three clinics run by the civic body. The WhatsApp chatbot first took bookings on Monday but all the available slots were exhausted in an hour, said the SeMT official. Many had complained that though the chatbot replied saying slots were available, they could not book one despite trying multiple times. “We have found that about 9,000 people are left in the city who are yet to get their second Covaxin dose. We are hoping that we will be able to offer slots to all of them from Sunday,” said the official. But one problem that will persist is those not conversant with WhatsApp will not be able to avail of this. They will still have to queue up outside other vaccination centres to get their second doses. The only hope is that if most people opt for the chatbot, the number who have to take it from other centres will fall sharply. A list of CMC-run centres that are administering the second doses of Covaxin and Covishield are available on the Twitter handle of the civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
