24-05-2021||Calcutta||App to keep tabs on safe distance||Around September last year, Sri Sri Academy student Rishav Majumder released how there was hardly any social distancing among people as they travelled or commuted to work. He had stepped out after months to visit his grandmother when the crowd at the bus stop scared him. The realisation egged him on to design a device that will force people to maintain the right social distance among each other during the pandemic. What helped him work on his dream project was the knowledge gathered at the Atal Tinkering Laboratory in his school. More than six months later, the Class IX student presented his innovative idea online to over 300 students and teachers online during an event – Atal Community Day — organised by his school on April 24. Dis-Robo – as his idea is called – has been shortlisted as one of the best innovative projects by his school. It also won him the Inspire Manak Award from the Union government’s science and technology department. Rishav is planning on a lightweight device that can be easily strapped to belts and handbags. “Its sensors will send a message to the users on their smartphone, if a person is standing too close. A buzzer will go off if someone is standing less than 6ft away from the user. This way the spread of infection can be checked anywhere,” said Rishav as he thanked his school for encouraging him to innovate and pushing him to tinker with sensors and controllers. “I had wanted to build a drone once but could not because of the lack of funds. I now plan to build a prototype of this device at my home and see how it works,” said Rishav, who dreams of being an artificial intelligence scientist. The ATL lab, set-up on the seventh floor of the school since 2018, is a favourite place for students at Sri Sri Academy right from Class VI. “The lab is full of hi-tech contemporary software circuits, 3D models, micro-controllers and electrical components that encourage students to innovate, practise and tinker. Every class gets to spend time at the lab once a week. The really interested ones are given more time. Since the pandemic the classes have shifted online,” said lab in-charge Abhishek Biswas. The Atal Community Day – held over two Saturdays had students and teachers of Sri Sri Academy holding workshops and talking about innovative ideas and softwares with schools such as Mahadevi Birla World Academy, DPS Howrah, DPS Ruby Park and many others on YouTube live. At the inaugural session, Hansrudh Gupta of Class X also shared with the audience how his Childcare app will help keep tabs on the students’ mental health. The latter can answer questions on their mental health and book appointments with the school counsellor through the app. Principal Suvina Shunglu is all for giving education a practical turn. “I wanted to make lessons more skill-based for all my students. So, five years ago we started a design lab where children were asked to come up with practical solutions to problems. We started using wood to build stuff in the lab. The interest was stupendous. Three years ago, we started the tinkering lab to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship among the children. Often, they have mentors from various institutions guiding them. We find many students naturally interested in designing apps. Even now, they continue to work from home. We are also ready to help them build prototypes.” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Students take a vow to save Mother Earth||Students of Indus Valley World School were in for a surprise when their paintings were part of a music video created by cartoonist Varsha Mansata Sheth recently. The music video Tree Song was launched on YouTube and uploaded on the school’s website to mark the Earth Day. “Varsha wanted our children to collaborate with her for the video. Students from classes I to V were asked to draw trees as they perceived them,” said Priyadarshinee Guha, the dean of arts at the school. More than 45 children drew trees of various shapes and colours for the project. Around 30 kids made it to the final video that also had some illustrations, video shots and graphics. “The students and their parents were very happy when the video was launched. The children got a huge creative boost in these difficult times,” said director Amita Prasad. Students of Nursery to Class V of Birla High School, Moira Street, recently celebrated the Earth Day on a virtual platform. An array of activities was put up to raise awareness about the planet’s environment. The Nursery kids emphasised on the measures to preserve it, while the senior students focused on the concept of reduce, reuse and recycle. “This day is an occasion to reiterate that we all are responsible to keep our environment green and clean. We promote environmental awareness throughout the year and conservation activities are observed. It equips our students to be effective green warriors,” said headmistress Farida Singh. Students of Birla High School, Mukundapur, celebrated Earth Day by propagating their dream of living on a planet free from pollution. Children used their imagination to show and describe the planet they want to live in. They came up with paintings and models related to the day. “We wanted to convey the message that all should love the Earth, as they would love themselves,” said headmistress Hira Prasad. Principal Minnie Sengupta said: “The day was celebrated to make students aware of their responsibility towards saving the environment. We believe that if children can be taught the value of nurturing nature at a young age, they will make this planet a better place to live in.” Students of the primary section of Abhinav Bharati High School celebrated the Earth Day, virtually. An interactive session was conducted to make students aware of the planet. Several other activities such as making cut-outs of the Earth and painting it were parts of the celebration. They were made to decorate their garden and balconies. Besides making them aware of the significance of the day, the children were encouraged to plant a tree and acknowledge the fact that it was their first step towards saving the planet. Headmistress Moumita Rakshit said: “The Earth Day allows us to show our love and care towards our nature. Once Mahatma Gandhi had said that Nature has all the resources to fulfil our needs, but not greed. Our students in their most humble way tried to pay respect to Mother Earth.” Students of Ruby Park Public School recently celebrated Earth Day with art and awareness messages on a virtual platform. Every class did its bit for the cause. The children planted saplings at their homes and shared their experiences and messages for a greener world. The senior students also wrote compositions on the need to be more environment-conscious and reduce carbon footprints in today’s world. “The whole school took part in the event. The students were asked to spread awareness through posters and write-ups. It is important to build consciousness about the environment and help students change their lifestyles, right from an early age,” said  principal Joyita Majumder. The primary section of Sushila Birla Girls’ School celebrated Earth Day with various fun and educational activities. Students from Nursery to Class V took part in activities based on the theme Restore our Earth. The Nursery and Kindergarten students made trees with fingerprinting techniques and planted seeds, while students from classes I and III focused on recycling old plastic bottles and newspapers. Classes II and IV made posters on the theme. Activities focusing on the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations were conducted for Class V. “Along with various interesting activities, our students integrated technology in creative ways to celebrate this special day,” said headmistress Vidisha Panja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||125-bed Covid care unit at Islamia Hospital||A hospital in central Calcutta that was shut down around five years ago for renovation will be reopened this week for Covid patients. Islamia Hospital on CR Avenue will start with 125 beds, of which 20 will be critical care beds. “The plan is for a G+9 building but only five storeys are ready. We have decided to open it to treat Covid patients during this crisis situation,” said Amiruddin (Bobby), the general secretary of the hospital and a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “The hospital will be inaugurated this week. We have got all permissions and have procured life-savers such as ventilators and BiPAPs. Any Covid patient — irrespective of caste, religion or class — can seek treatment at the hospital,” he said. Amiruddin also said patients will get the benefits of the Swastha Sathi card at Islamia Hospital. The hospital has tied up with Charring Cross Nursing Home for doctors, nurses and other health-care staff. Islamia Hospital was set up in 1926. Since the building was in a shambles, it had to be razed. Over the past five years a new building was coming up in its place. An official at the hospital said they had tried to complete the technical work like installation of the fire safety mechanism, air conditioning and oxygen connection over the past few months under the supervision of Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the CMC. “We wanted to use this space and facility during the pandemic. For now only Covid patients will be treated here. Once the situation improves, we will turn this into a general hospital,” said Amiruddin. Many hospitals have increased their bed counts because of the surge in Covid cases. Institutions across the city are also trying to set up safe homes on their premises where Covid patients with mild or no symptoms can stay. Safe homes enable hospitals to focus more on critical patients. “The medical expenses are very high now and not everyone is able to afford treatment at every hospital in the city. This hospital in central Calcutta will benefit more people,” said social activist Imran Zaki, who is a resident of the area where Islamia Hospital is located.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira to offer free classes on digital platforms||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will offer free tutorials on digital platforms to underprivileged students from Classes III to VIII six days a week from May 26, according to a routine drawn up by the college. A notice signed by Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college, says classes will be held from 7am to 8pm in Bengali, English, social studies, history, geography, mathematics, science and environmental science. A detailed schedule of the classes has been uploaded on the Facebook page of the college. The YouTube links for the different classes have been uploaded, too. According to the notice, the inaugural function for the tutorials will be held at 6.45pm on May 26 and streamed through the “Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira” YouTube channel, after which the students will be asked to follow the channels of their respective classes. An email account has been created for each class for the students to send their queries. The students can interact with their teachers by posting their queries on the chatbox. Fifty students of the college, who underwent training under the watch of teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Junior Basic School at Sargachi in Berhampore, will take classes. The monks of Vidyamandira held an “audition” last week to ascertain whether the students who will be taking the classes had picked up the necessary skills. They have been allotted classes based on their performance during the audition, Swami Ekachittananda said. “We have prepared the routine according to the strength of the volunteers. Although classes will be held six days a week, tutorials for four classes will be held each day. Two classes will be left out in turn every day,” the principal said. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were suspended on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of the surge in Covid cases. The students of Classes III to VIII have been away from school since March 2020, following the outbreak of the epidemic. Although classes are supposed to be held on digital platforms till in-person classes resume, many in the school education department admitted that academic activities had suffered a jolt as many teachers were still unwell after attending election duty and a section of teachers had yet to adapt themselves to taking classes on digital platforms. An official of the education department said that since the schools would be converted into safe homes because of the rise in Covid cases, in-person classes are unlikely to be resumed anytime soon. “The effort by Vidyamandira will help school students remain in touch with studies as much as possible,” the official said. The teachers of the Belur college will deliver motivational lectures occasionally. Students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes IX to XII, who have not been attending school because of the epidemic. The free tutorials for the senior school students start on May 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Yaas: Agencies activate efforts to save lives and minimise damage ||Police, civic bodies, CESC and other agencies on Sunday started taking steps that could reduce the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which is likely to hit land on May 26 evening. As part of the preparations, trees are being pruned, billboards are being brought down and the height of high-mast lights is being reduced. A unified command centre will be set up at the Calcutta police headquarters in Lalbazar, where representatives of all nodal agencies like the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, CESC, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, fire and emergency services department, public works department and the civil defence department will be present. They will coordinate and respond to the pre and post-cyclone situation in the city. The command centre will be operational from Monday. Multiple rounds of meetings were held at Lalbazar and CMC headquarters on Sunday to finalise the operational details, including the number of teams of the various agencies that are expected to work in tandem. The Telegraph takes stock of some of the steps undertaken by the agencies. Pruning of trees The CMC and the New Town Kolkata Development (NKDA) have started pruning trees and canopies since Saturday to reduce their chances of getting uprooted in the cyclone. CMC officials said they had been trimming trees based on calls from residents and civic representatives in the last 24 hours. Also, CMC teams are making rounds to detect trees that need pruning. According to NKDA officials, the canopies are being trimmed so that they don’t remain top heavy. “We are taking care to trim the canopies on all sides and not make a tree heavier on one side as that will make them susceptible to toppling,” said Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials, on the other hand, said they had conducted a drive to prune trees in the run up to the Assembly elections. No fresh drive is needed, they said. Billboards CMC personnel started bringing down billboards across the city to eliminate chances of these iron structures coming off the frames under the impact of the storm and turning into missiles. Last year, several houses near Park Circus were damaged by billboards and iron structures protruding out of the frame. The NKDA has conducted a survey listing all large billboards and has decided to take them down before the storm makes landfall. As construction sites dot New Town, the NKDA has asked the site managers and supervisors to ensure that the cranes are brought down to their lowest levels and are locked properly, so they do not fall under the impact of the storm. High-mast lights and trident lamps: CMC officials said 50 high-mast lights and 8,000 trident lamps and decorative lights in the city would be switched off from Monday evening to eliminate chances of a short-circuit and electrocution. The high-mast lights will be lowered to prevent their damage during the cyclone. All street lights will be operational, CMC officials said. Alerting citizens The police and CMC have been making public announcements in the city, especially in slums and other congested areas, asking people to stay indoors during and even after the storm. “Many people get curious and step out after the first round of the storm blows over, without realising that a second round may follow,” said an official. The police have also been making announcements to evacuate endangered buildings that are vulnerable to gusty winds. The CMC is opening several cyclone shelters across the city where people living in dilapidated houses and huts can shift. “We have identified 545 severely damaged houses in the city, where 2,500 to 3,000 people live. Besides, there are many kutcha houses in slums and elsewhere. We are visiting slums and appealing to residents to shift to safe shelters. We have set up 150 cyclone shelters in schools run by us and community halls,” said a CMC official. High-rise buildings The New Town authorities have sent letters to all gated communities to keep all windows, doors, stairwell approaches and roof doors tightly shut. An NKDA official said they had asked all residents' welfare associations to ensure residents, particularly those on upper floors, keep their windows and doors shut. The gated communities have also been advised to replace cracked window panes in common areas and to shift as many vehicles as possible to the basement parking lots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid positivity rate falls at several hospitals, doctors urge caution||The percentage of positive results out of all Covid-19 tests done in a day has dropped at several hospitals and diagnostic centres in the city compared with the rate 10 days ago, but doctors have warned people against dropping their guard. Along with the fall in the positivity rate, there has been a sharp drop in the number of people turning up for tests, said officials of the diagnostic centres and hospitals. The demand for hospital beds, too, is falling, they said. Surakhsa Diagnostics, which has multiple branches across the city, has a positivity rate of 30 per cent, compared with around 50 per cent about a fortnight ago. Peerless Hospital has witnessed the positivity rate drop from nearly 60 per cent to less than 30 per cent in a fortnight. The three units of AMRI Hospitals together are recording a positivity rate of about 25 per cent. About a fortnight ago it was over 50 per cent. The samples tested at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had a positivity rate of over 50 per cent in April end and early May. It has since dropped to 30 to 34 per cent. The figures, shared by officials of these institutions, are in respect of the RT-PCR test, considered the gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis. The positivity rate is a measure of the number of samples that test positive out of all samples tested in a day. “We have witnessed a sharp drop in the positivity rate of samples being tested at our hospital. It was around 50 per cent in the first few days of May and had even reached 63 per cent one day. On Friday, the positivity rate dropped to 29 per cent,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Mitra said the number of tests being performed at the hospital had fallen, too. “About 250 people used to give samples for the Covid test every day about a fortnight ago. It has since fallen to less than 100,” he said. A doctor said fewer people undergoing the test meant fewer people were coming in close contact with an infected person because of the stricter restrictions in force since May 16. “Before the curbs came into force, an infected person was having more contacts and hence, the number of tests was going up,” the doctor said. The drop in the positivity rate is being accompanied by a fall in the demand for hospital beds, said doctors and officials of various hospitals. Beleghata ID Hospital has been having a few vacant beds at times nowadays. “Earlier, I used to get calls for admission every now and then. Over the past few days, the number of calls has reduced. We are in a position to admit patients as there are a few vacant beds in general wards and high dependency units,” said Kausik Chaudhuri, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Beleghata hospital. He also heads the admission cell there. R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital, said the hospital had witnessed a “bit of a drop” in frantic calls with appeals for admission. “We are now having some vacant beds at times. The situation in the emergency ward has improved. Earlier, trolleys would remain lined up in the emergency ward with patients waiting for admission to Covid wards,” he said. Doctors, however, warned that people should keep following all Covid protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Also, people should get vaccinated at the earliest opportunity. “If we drop our guard and go back to the old normal, we will immediately be hit by another wave. Lockdowns will have to be lifted, people have to resume work but the Covid protocols have to be followed,” said Chaudhuri, a pulmonologist who is treating Covid patients at the Beleghata ID Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Indian Coast Guard officers alert fishing boats, trawlers and vessels along Bengal’s coastline ||The Indian Coast Guard has spotted at least 12 fishing boats and six merchant vessels that are yet to move ashore. Officers said the boats and the vessels were between Fraserganj and Haldia. Aircraft of the coast guard were hovering over parts of the Bay of Bengal, conducting surveillance and spotting vessels away from the shore, as part of the preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. The storm is likely to make landfall on the Odisha-Bengal coasts on May 26. The coast guard, the navy and the air force established separate control rooms on Sunday to coordinate with the state government. Senior officers of the coast guard said they were sending out alerts from Dornier helicopters and the Radar Operating Station in Haldia to the 12 fishing boats and six merchant vessels asking them to return to the shore. “Merchant vessels. This is the Indian Coast Guard. There is a weather alert from the IMD (India Meteorological Department). A deep depression has formed over the central Bay of Bengal and is moving north,” officers on board the aircraft kept transmitting the message to the boats and the vessels. “It is likely to develop into a cyclonic storm. It is going to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal. All merchant vessels operating in the area and in anchorage are requested to exercise caution and take necessary precautions.” Officials said besides the Dornier helicopters, at least six ships were out in the sea to send out alerts to fishing boats, trawlers and other vessels along Bengal’s coastline between Digha and Frasergunj. “We have readied disaster relief teams to swing into action. The deployment of these teams is being finalised in consultation with the district magistrates,” said a senior officer of the coast guard. The navy has brought in two deep sea diving and five flood relief teams from Visakhapatnam, the eastern naval headquarters. Each diving team comprises five divers trained in underwater rescue operations. The flood relief teams will help the state government remove fallen trees or repair embankments urgently. “We are in touch with Nabanna and teams will be deployed at Sagar Islands, Digha and Diamond Harbour, following requests from the state government,” said a senior officer of the navy. “Four ships loaded with relief materials and medical teams have been kept ready at Visakhapatnam for post-cyclone relief.” Along with this, the navy has kept ready helicopters and long-range aircraft in Visakhapatnam and Chennai. Officials said they had been kept on “stand-by” for aerial survey and emergency evacuation. The navy has set up a cyclone control room at INS Netaji Subhas, the naval base in Calcutta, to monitor the cyclone and its aftermath along Bengal’s coast. The air force on Sunday airlifted over 300 National Disaster Response Force personnel from Patna and Varanasi and 21 tonnes of equipment for relief operations. Senior officers said nine aircraft, including three C-130s and two Dorniers, had been kept ready to respond to any emergency call for relief and rescue operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas may unleash strong wind and heavy rainfall in Calcutta on May 26: IMD||Cyclone Yaas is tipped to cross land between Balasore in Odisha and Digha in Bengal between forenoon and evening on Wednesday, a Met official in Delhi said on Sunday. Calcutta is around 170km from Digha and around 250km from Balasore. Cyclone Amphan, which had brushed the city on May 20 last year causing extreme devastations, had made landfall at Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas, around 100km away. Yaas is tipped to unleash high-speed winds and heavy rainfall in Calcutta on May 26. “As of now, the trajectory suggests the storm will cross land between Balasore and Digha,” the India Meteorology Department official in Delhi told The Telegraph on Sunday evening. His projection was based on the current trajectory of the system, which had intensified into a deep depression on Sunday. The system took shape as a low-pressure area on Saturday and was tipped to intensify into a cyclone by Monday and a very severe cyclone when it nears land on Wednesday. The Met official cautioned that cyclones in the past deviated from the projected path. Amphan, for example, had been moving north-northwest at the beginning. But it did not travel in a straight path. In the middle of its journey, it started to re-curve and travel in a north-northeast direction towards the Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. The system that would turn into Cyclone Yaas was also moving in a north-northwest direction. On Sunday afternoon, it was a deep depression positioned 670km from Digha and 690km from Balasore, said a bulletin issued by IMD Calcutta. The Met bulletin said the storm was expected to make landfall between Paradip (450km from Calcutta) and Sagar Islands (100km from Calcutta). “It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 morning and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 morning. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal between Paradip and Sagar Islands by evening of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The coastal districts of Bengal will start getting rain from May 25. “Extremely heavy rainfall” is likely in East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Calcutta on May 26. The storm is likely to generate wind speeds of 155-165kmph at the time of landfall, said a Met official. The coastal areas will see winds blowing at 40-50kmph from May 24 evening. The wind speed will gradually increase as the storm approaches land. From Wednesday forenoon, the wind speed is tipped to surpass 100kmph. Once the system turns into a cyclonic storm, it will have a diameter of “at least 500km,” said the official. Amphan had a diameter of 700km and it took over five hours for the entire system to make landfall. Similarly, Cyclone Yaas will also take a few hours to make landfall on May 26. “The process is tipped to start around the afternoon. The eye or core of the storm is expected to cross land by the evening,” said the official. Asked about the impact of the storm in Calcutta, the official said if the storm hits Paradip, Calcutta is likely to get winds blowing at 50kmph. If the storm hits Digha, Calcutta is likely to see winds blowing at 80kmph. If the storm makes landfall north of Digha, the wind speed in Calcutta will go up according to its proximity to the place of landfall, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
