25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Calcutta Port Trust gears up for storm aftermath||Taking lessons from its experience while facing Cyclone Amphan last year, Calcutta Port Trust has decided to take a number of steps to minimise the impact of Yaas on the city. The port trust has set up satellite phones, procured diesel-run wood cutters and installed generator sets in control rooms and at other strategic locations. "We don't want to miss out on any information or updates this time. We have learnt our lesson from last year’s experience (during Amphan) and decided to secure our networks using eight satellite phones," said Vinit Kumar, the chairman of Calcutta Port Trust. Immediately after Amphan, communication was snapped because telecom companies' network systems had collapsed. So, contacts between the port trust's control centres in Haldia and Sagar Islands and the main control room in Calcutta were snapped. "This disrupted relief operations," said a CPT official. The satellite phones have been distributed among personnel in control rooms in Calcutta, Haldia and Sagar Islands. Besides, 18 diesel-run wood cutters have been bought to facilitate removal of fallen trees after the storm blows over and diesel generator sets have been stationed in control rooms and other strategic locations. Pay loaders have been hired to remove debris and all jetties have been closed as a precautionary step. Senior officials of the port trust said they had been in touch with the Bengal government around the clock. Temporary shelters to accommodate people who will be displaced by the storm are being set up on war footing at several places along the Bay of Bengal. One such accommodation is being set up at Sagar Islands. The shelters will be functional from Tuesday. Teams of senior officials of the port trust worked throughout Monday to clear sandheads, an island on the Bay of Bengal near Sagar Islands, nearly 40km from Haldia, of all ships. Eight port-bound ships were navigated out of the proposed pathway of cyclone Yaas. The port authorities have decided that no ships will be kept in river anchorages or jetties and all vessels will be taken inside docks before the arrival of the storm. Inside the docks, the vessels will be secured with additional ropes and through other means, as laid down in the standard operating procedures. By Tuesday, when entry of ships will be halted, the cranes and loaders will be secured to avoid damage to them. "Arrangements have been made to accommodate 12 commercial ships inside the Calcutta dock and eight in Haldia so that no vessel comes in the path of the cyclone," Kumar said. "Seven ambulances fitted with oxygen have been kept ready." Senior officials said that while entry of ships would be stopped from Tuesday morning, all cargo handling operations would be shut down from the afternoon and the workers shifted to safe accommodations. The port hospital, which has close to 50 Covid-19 patients, has already stocked medicines, oxygen cylinders and food to last for at least three to four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee virtually inaugurates Medica Kolkata police hospital for Covid-19 patients||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday virtually inaugurated Medica Kolkata police hospital for Covid patients in Bhowanipore. The 300-bed facility is open for police personnel as well as others. Medica Superspecialty Hospital had taken over the Calcutta police hospital on Beninandan Street, which had been in a dilapidated condition, and set up the Covid hospital. Some of the beds will be reserved for Swasthya Sathi card holders, Mamata said during the inauguration. “There is no point keeping beds empty. A percentage of the beds should be kept for the people with the Swasthya Sathi card,” Mamata said. The chief minister had announced about turning the Calcutta police hospital into a Covid hospital in collaboration with private players the day she took over as chief minister for the third time earlier this month. Following the inauguration, the consul general of Germany in Calcutta, Manfred Auster, had issued a statement: “I am pleased to see this additional COVID-facility to be inaugurated today at the old Calcutta Police Hospital financed with a contribution of almost 1.88 million Euros from the German government and the rest from PPP initiatives. Germany’s solidarity thus reaches out to all parts of India affected by the pandemic. The partnership with Medica proved already effective during last year’s relief efforts.” Sources said Medica had applied for a grant from the German federal ministry of economic cooperation and development. They received 1.88 million euros for setting up Covid treatment facilities at the police hospital and at Kishore Bharati stadium. They had also received about 1.6 million euros last year from the German ministry to set up a fever clinic, sources at the German consulate general said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Panic buying sends food prices soaring in city ||Beans sold for Rs 150 a kilo at a city market on Monday. About a week back, the price was Rs 75-80. Katla (big) sold for Rs 550 a kilo on Monday. Around a week ago, the price was Rs 400 a kilo. Several markets across the city witnessed spiraling prices of vegetables, fish and other items on Monday when people rushed to stock up for the next few days apprehending that Cyclone Yaas could disrupt their life. In parts of Gariahat, Lake Market, Behala, Maniktala, Sealdah and Kasba, retailers tried to make the most of the panic that seemed to have set in among buyers, most of whom were not sure whether they could visit markets on Tuesday because of the weather. “I wanted to stock up for the next three to four days. I chose Monday because I wasn’t sure whether I would be able to visit the market on Tuesday, when it might rain heavily,” said Sujoy Mukherjee, a Kasba resident. Several market observers said retail markets witnessed a much higher footfall this Monday morning compared to other Mondays, when markets usually remain timid after Sunday’s buying. “The footfall around 8.30am at the Gariahat market was not something we have witnessed in recent times (since the Covid curbs came into force),” said Subol Chandra Das, a vegetable seller. “Everyone, buyers and sellers, seemed to be uncertain about the impending cyclone.” Retailers did not visit wholesale markets on Monday, choosing to wait and watch how things played out. Most of them sold off their stocks from Sunday and made quick money because customers did not bargain. “Day before yesterday I had bought eggs for Rs 6 a piece. They sold it for Rs 7 per piece on Monday. No one stopped to ask why the hike?” said Gaurab Bhattacharya, an eatery shopowner in Phoolbagan. “From Rs 70 for a dozen eggs, today I paid Rs 80.” Wholesalers in Koley Market and in Sealdah’s egg market said there was no reason to panic. They said a section of retailers was trying to use the panic to make some quick money. “Barring beans, capsicum and few other items that are now being brought in from other states, Bengal has enough stock of vegetables. The farmers in the haats were selling their produce at throwaway prices because there aren’t enough buyers,” said Kamal Dey of the Koley Market Vendors Association. “There is no reason to worry unless the fields get inundated and the water doesn’t get drained out.” The prices of fruits, however, dropped across markets as retailers were not sure whether they would be able to sell on Tuesday. At Kasba apples sold for Rs 230 a kilo. Two days back, they were Rs 250 a kilo at the same market. A retailer said that since fruits were perishable items, they wanted to sell all available stocks with them. “We may not be able to come on Tuesday and Wednesday. If things do not improve we may not be able to come even on Thursday,” a fruit seller was heard telling a customer at the market. “Many of the fruits would perish by then. So we are selling off the stocks at a reduced profit margin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Stadium in Barrackpore turned into satellite Covid-19 facility of Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital||A stadium in Barrackpore has been converted into a satellite Covid-19 facility of Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital. The centre, inaugurated on Monday, has onsite doctors and nurses to monitor patients. Other facilities include oxygen administration (including high-flow support) and X-ray. It is primarily for patients from Barrackpore, Khardah, Titagarh and nearby areas. The centre has been set up by Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital, under the aegis of Techno India Group. An official of the hospital said the New Barrackpore MLA, Raj Chakraborty, had approached them for the facility at Royal Park. The centre has started with 35 beds and will add another 35 in a week and 30 more by June 7. “We have 200 beds at our hospital and 90 per cent of them have been dedicated to Covid patients. The government has asked hospitals to upgrade their infrastructure, so we came up with the satellite unit. It is located close to the hospital,” said Sanku Bose, the CEO of Techno India Group. A patient or his or her family needs to call the Covid control room (7439334624) of North 24-Parganas for admission to the satellite unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Road furniture, guardrails to be removed, scan on cars||All guardrails and road furniture such as no-entry boards, speed markers, direction signage and traffic cones will be removed on Tuesday to prevent accidents caused by strong winds that will blow through the city under the impact of cyclone Yaas. Traffic cops will also try to ensure that no cars are parked under trees during or after the cyclone. A senior police officer said all traffic guards had been asked to carry out a survey of their respective areas on Tuesday to look out for traffic furniture on roads and vehicles parked under trees and ensure they are removed. Hundreds of guardrails that are used as speed breakers, median dividers or barricades along footpaths will be removed from the roads. They will be tied along the roadside in bunches so they do not fly under the impact of the cyclone. “We will ask the persons at the wheel to remove the cars from under trees. If no one is found around a car, we will find out the name and contact details of the owner from the registration number and ask him or her to remove the vehicle. If we fail to contact the owner, we may use a wrecker van to tow the car to a safe place from where it could be collected later,” an officer said. People at times park their cars under trees to shield themselves from rain or wind. They often get injured after branches snap and fall on the cars. Traffic cops, who are the most visible members of the Calcutta police, have been asked to withdraw from the roads during the cyclone to ensure their safety, Lalbazar sources said. “It is most important to be safe first. It would not help anyone if someone steps out during the cyclone and gets injured or dies. We can serve people only if we are alive,” a senior police officer said. Police officers across the city, including those from the traffic department and police stations, made announcements to make people aware of the precautions that need to be taken before, during and after the storm. Residents of buildings in the Alipore and New Alipore areas that have kitchen gardens and rooftop nurseries have been requested to enclose their gardens to prevent flower pots from flying and landing elsewhere. The police made announcements in neighbourhoods like Tollygunge, Regent Park and Garia to fill PVC water tanks so they do not get uprooted and cause damage to life and property. “We have learnt lessons from Amphan. Water tanks can be really dangerous if not handled properly. We are requesting people to fill their water tanks so that the storm does not dislodge them,” said an officer in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Telecom operators attempt to keep services alive||Telecom operators in Bengal are taking a cue from their experience of cyclone Amphan last year and hoping to keep services alive for its subscribers as Calcutta and coastal Bengal brace for cyclone Yaas. Subscribers of government-owned BSNL as well as private telecom operators had faced severe disruptions during and after Amphan. The two major challenges operators had cited last year was erratic power supply to telecom towers and inadequate coordination between various agencies and the telecom operators. “In order to address these two challenges, diesel stocks and battery back-up at telecom sites have been boosted…. Frontline teams have identified overhead optic fibre cables that need to be safeguarded and teams are kept on standby for quick repair and restoration of services,” said Lt Gen S.P. Kochhar, the director general of industry body COAI (Cellular Operators Association of India). “There are nodal officers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and state government available for coordination this time,” said Biswajit Paul, chief general manager, Calcutta Telephones, BSNL Subscribers in affected areas will have the option to tap into another functional network on another service provider through intra-circle roaming (ICR). “In consultation with DoT, intra-circle roaming will be initiated in affected areas…. This will enable any telecom subscriber to latch onto any working network and not just depend only on their own network,” said Kochhar. “We are working closely with other network providers (for ICR), partners and government agencies to ensure stable telecom connectivity during the cyclone,” said Vodafone Idea Ltd. Vodafone Idea in a statement: “We have ensured sufficient fuel supply to our sites across locations, and stocking of fuel at strategic locations, for use in case of emergency. Mobile DGs, critical equipment spares and vehicles have been arranged and kept ready at key locations. Vi teams are prepared to manage an emergency situation and network monitoring is being done through 24x7 war rooms.” Airtel said: “Service recovery teams have been formed and are on standby for round the clock repairing and restoration work. As a pre-emptive measure all critical spares, fibre, batteries and diesel have been stocked at key locations for faster response and minimum downtime….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
25-05-2021||Calcutta||How Calcutta is preparing to tackle cyclone Yaas||Every ward under the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will have a team comprising personnel from the civic body, police and the power utility so the response to the impact of the impending storm is better coordinated than it had been after Amphan had devastated the city a year ago. The decision to have many small teams stationed locally was made at a meeting attended by senior officials of several agencies and presided over by the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, will deploy such a team in each of its wards. This is a change from how several agencies delivering utility services performed after Cyclone Amphan in May last year. The Telegraph had reported then that the first such coordination meeting involving multiple agencies took place after the storm had wreaked havoc. Teams are being stationed at the ward level to ensure faster movement and action and mitigate people’s sufferings at the earliest. Following Cyclone Amphan last year, the delay in movement of relief and rescue teams had led to delays in salvage operations. Delays created newer problems. In a Lake Gardens neighbourhood, a CMC team had reached first to remove fallen branches of a tree. But the civic team could not begin work as no team from the power utility company, CESC, was present. Later, when a team of the power utility company arrived, they did not cut off the power line in the absence of a civic team. In many places, internet services were restored only to be snapped again as civic teams cut the internet cables to chop off broken and hanging trees and their branches. Officials of civic bodies said people would not be harassed so much this time because there is better coordination. “The clear instruction is that the power supply has to be restored as fast as possible. People should not have to be in a situation where they do not have water in their taps, and the fans and lights in their homes do not work,” said a senior CMC official who attended the meeting presided over by Hakim on Monday. “The civic teams will go with power utility teams to any place from where we receive reports of tree branches hanging on electric cables. We will work together. CESC will cut the power supply. Our teams will remove the tree branches and power will be restored again.” The civic teams in the wards will have hydraulic ladders, earthmovers and other necessary equipment. Some of the ladders have been hired from private agencies so that relief operations are not halted because of lack of equipment. Apart from the teams in every ward, the CMC will keep hydraulic and other teams on standby in strategic locations like the Ruby crossing and the Science City crossing so that these teams can rush to any location where additional help could be required, said a CMC official. Each ward of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, is going to have a team consisting of personnel from the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL), the civic body and the police. Avijit Ghosh, vice-president (distribution services), CESC, said the company’s primary responsibilities were to restore power and cut off supply where necessary to chop off trees or branches hanging precariously over a road or electric cables. “We will work in close coordination with the police and the civic body,” Ghosh said. “We will also do preventive power cuts where necessary, especially low-lying areas prone to waterlogging. Also, we will focus more on all Covid centres and hospitals to ensure power supply is not interrupted. We are also trying to create a database of safe homes and beds with oxygen for Covid patients set up by the community. We will try to provide uninterrupted power to these places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
