26-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination and immunisation of children will remain closed on Wednesday||Covid vaccination, as well as immunisation of children, will remain closed on Wednesday at all clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation because of Buddha Purnima. All clinics will, however, remain open to provide emergency services. Jab list Chemists and druggists, bank officials, members and officials of urban and rural local bodies and members of NGOs attached with the government will be eligible for Covid vaccination by the government, says a notification issued on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: ‘Tornado-like’ storm wreaks havoc near Calcutta||At least two persons died not too far from Calcutta as a “cylindrical system” that somewhat resembled a tornado preceded Cyclone Yaas that was barrelling towards the Odisha coast on Tuesday evening. The giant rotating mass of wind that swept the Naihati-Bijpur-Halisahar belt in North 24-Parganas and parts of Hooghly district, between 45km and 80km from Calcutta, on Tuesday afternoon appeared to be a tornado to many people but the Met office was awaiting conclusive proof. G.K. Das, the director of IMD, Calcutta, said the system could also have been a mesocyclone, a rotating region in a supercell (a localised mass of thunderclouds) that often leads to a tornado. No direct link with Yaas has been established immediately. Calcutta appeared to be out of the direct path of Yaas, according to the weather office. But winds began howling at night in line with forecasts that the city could witness wind speeds of up to 75kmph on Wednesday. Yaas, a severe cyclonic storm till Tuesday afternoon, intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm by night. The intensity of the rain as well as the wind is likely to go up through the night and into the morning. Calcutta is likely to receive consistent rain throughout Wednesday, with one or two heavy spells, said a Met official. The wind speed is likely to be 65-75kmph, with gusts clocking 85kmph. A full moon night on May 26 and the high tide in the Hooghly that usually accompanies such celestial phenomena have added an additional threat of inundation in parts of the city if the rain is really heavy. Calcutta airport will be closed from 8.30am to 7.45pm on Wednesday. Some of the lighter aircraft that are parked in Calcutta were shifted to other cities, and trains in some stations were chained to the tracks. Around 2.30pm on Tuesday, the storm was over “northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, moving north-northwest at a speed of about 15kmph,” said a Met bulletin. Around 8.30pm, it was 220km from Balasore in Odisha and 210km from Digha in Bengal. The storm was “very likely” to hit land close to north of Dhamra (a port in Bhadrak district) and south of Balasore (the headquarters of Balasore district), around Wednesday noon, the Met bulletin said. Dhamra is around 350km from Calcutta and Balasore around 250km. “The landfall process is likely to start around 9am and continue for around four hours. The core of the storm is tipped to cross land around noon,” said a Met official. The core or the eye of a cyclonic storm is a relatively quiet zone, surrounded by spiralling bands of winds. As the storm passes, an area will experience the peripheral winds in the front. When the relatively calm core passes through land, there will be a brief lull. That will be followed by the passage of the rear winds, which are as strong as the ones at the head of the spiral. During landfall on Wednesday, Yaas is tipped to unleash winds blowing at 155-165kmph, with gusts clocking 185kmph, in and around the area of landfall. The coastal areas of East Midnapore in Bengal are likely to see winds blowing at 90-120kmph, gusting 145kmph, according to the Met forecast. Jhargram and West Midnapore are likely to see winds blowing at 80-90kmph, gusting 110kmph. The coastal areas of South 24-Parganas are likely to see winds blowing at 80 to 90kmph, gusting 100kmph, and North 24-Parganas would see wind speeds of 70-80kmph, with gusts clocking 90kmph. The forecast for the remaining districts: ⚫ Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia, Bankura, East and West Burdwan and Purulia — 60-80kmph, gusting 90kmph ⚫ Birbhum and Murshidabad — 50-60kmph, gusting 70kmph Bhadrak, Balasore and some adjoining districts of Odisha are likely to get torrential rain as the storm hits land. The Met office has also predicted “extremely heavy rainfall” for East and West Midnapore and Jhargram on May 26. Bankura and South 24-Parganas are tipped to get very heavy rainfall. Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, Calcutta, East Burdwan, Nadia, Purulia, Murshidabad, Malda, Kalimpong and Darjeeling are likely to get heavy rain. On May 27, Bankura, Birbhum, Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram are likely to get one or two spells of heavy rain. The sea is likely to be very rough on May 26, said a Met official. Coastal areas of East Midnapore are likely to see a storm surge of 2 to 4 metres and South 24-Parganas a surge of 2m. “The predictions are over and above the usual astronomical tidal surge,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director-general of IMD Calcutta. After landfall, the storm will continue travelling in the north-northwest direction towards Jharkhand. It will lose strength because of the friction on land — in the form of trees and houses. “By Wednesday night, the storm is likely to de-escalate into a severe cyclonic storm and further weaken into a depression by Thursday,” said the Met official. On May 27, the western districts of Bengal — Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapore — are likely to see rain and winds, said the Met bulletin. Calcutta is likely to see overcast conditions on Thursday also. The weather should improve by Friday, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: In-person examinations worry for Class XII students||Hundreds of students who have secured admission to foreign universities could lose a year or a term if the Centre insists on holding the Class XII examinations after the Covid situation improves, their parents and teachers complained. One such parent wrote an open letter and posted on social media that her son has secured admission in a university and may end up losing his seat if he does not have a Class XII pass certificate by August 1. The parent asked why a student should be assessed on one three-hour written examination. “What purpose does sitting for the examination, exposing themselves to infection serve for them? Why should their careers be put on hold or jeopardised altogether,” the mother wrote. She also raised the point that the International Baccalaureate had cancelled its exams in India because of the number of Covid cases. She wrote: “It is sad that their own country and education system should fail these children and make them believe their situation is not understood and the ministry lacks empathy and responsiveness.” Many teachers that The Telegraph spoke to in Calcutta agreed with the parents. “There can be multiple ways of assessing a student — viva, essays, school performance — and not just rest everything on one examination. After more than a year into the pandemic there should have been a formula,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Some parents said students should not be forced to write the exam because it would be a time-consuming process till the publication of results, which could jeopardise the child’s chance of studying at a foreign university. Many teachers pointed out that the accepted norm in the west now was to put the onus on the colleges to pick the most suitable candidates for a particular course. “Some colleges and universities take students from different countries on the basis of essays, school performance and letters of recommendation that are elaborate documents,” said Kar. Students who have applied to various foreign universities got admission on the basis of their academic performance in Classes IX, X and XI and the mid-year exam of Class XII. In one university, students wrote an online written exam and appeared for an interview based on the written paper. Siddhanth Gupta, a Class XII student, said he needed to provide a result by mid-July to be able to study law and criminology in Murdoch University in Perth or lose a semester despite having secured admission. “If I cannot show the result, the university will defer my admission to the next semester in February which means I lose eight months,” he said. Another Class XII student received a letter from the University of Illinios Urbana-Champaign that said: “We will need your high school to be completed by August 1, otherwise you will need to apply again in a future entry term when you will have your high school completion done prior to the start of the courses.” The parent who posted the open letter said: “There would be a small set of children who would rather take the exam. Can this small or at least much smaller number be given the option of taking physical exams when feasible?” The parent who wrote on social media brought forth the predicament of students. “Most career paths require children to take competitive exams besides qualifying Class XII. For a large number of students, examinations serve no purpose, they just need a qualifying grade to access the next stage of their education... These children have... struggled for over a year to secure admission in foreign universities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Sunderban rivers flow above danger level ||Several rivers passing through the Sunderbans flowed above the danger level on Tuesday, and with water gushing into many villages in areas like Hingalganj, Gosaba and Namkhana, district officials scurried to evacuate people from these areas ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Yaas. “More than 2 lakh people from low-lying areas of South 24-Parganas were evacuated by this evening. We don’t want to take risks. More people will be evacuated by tonight.” said a senior government official. Sources said they are undertaking the evacuation process to ensure that no life is lost in the cyclone though there are chances that Yaas might not be as devastating as last year’s Amphan. “Many rivers are flowing above the danger level on Tuesday but the situation may not be the same on Wednesday when the cyclone makes landfall. The water level of the rivers in the Sunderbans went up on Tuesday for two reasons, high tide and easterly wind. The wind is likely to change direction on Wednesday to south-easterly, which might help the Sunderbans escape the devastation that Amphan had caused,” said a senior irrigation department official. Last year, a number of blocks in South and North 24-Parganas like Sagar, Namkhana, Kakdwip, Patharpratima, Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj were devastated and remained inundated after several river embankments breached. “This time we expect the effect will be much less as the cyclone is expected to make landfall near Balasore in Odisha. Amphan had made landfall in the Sagar Islands. Moreover, we are much better prepared this time compared with last year,” said another official. Officials in the irrigation department said embankments are in a better condition this time as the majority of them were repaired after Cyclone Amphan had wreaked havoc in the region. “More than 150km of river embankments were repaired, mostly in the Sunderbans, after Amphan. The damaged embankments were brought to the pre-calamity state. It is expected that these embankments would be able to withstand the impact of the cyclone to a great extent,” said a source. The irrigation department, however, is not taking any chances and has deployed 36 heavy-duty pumps at points where water could gush in. The irrigation department appeared confident about South and North 24-Parganas, but not so about East Midnapore. “As Amphan did not leave much impact on East Midnapore, embankment repair was not done thoroughly in the district last year,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Highrises and housing complexes gear up to secure residents from Yaas impact ||Highrises and residential complexes made their last-minute preparations on Tuesday to secure their residents and premises from the possible impact of Cyclone Yaas. Stocking up on fuel, distributing torches, shifting cars to basements, ensuring all water tanks are full to their capacity and circulating advisories to the residents were some of the tasks that kept the residential welfare associations (RWAs) busy on Tuesday. The Telegraph takes a look: Fuel: All the housing societies The Telegraph spoke to have stored fuel to last for at least the next 48-hours fearing disruption in the power supply during the storm. Several gated communities on the city’s fringe had been without power for days last year after Amphan. Many complexes have taken extra precautions keeping in mind Covid patients who are in home isolation using oxygen concentrators. Lifts and LPG: Many complexes have announced that, depending on the weather, their elevator services may be turned off on Wednesday to prevent chances of accidents. The elevators will be parked on the top floor of the respective blocks, many RWAs have told residents. “We would like to intimate you that all the passenger lifts shall be closed during the time of storm based on the timing we receive from the concerned authorities. However, the service lift will be operational for any kind of emergency,” said an advisory issued by Urbana officials. The association has also said that gas supply will be disrupted on Wednesday, depending on the weather. Shifting vehicles: Housing complexes like South City Residency, which have a large number of open parking lots, have requested residents to shift the vehicles parked in the open to the basements till the storm is over. “The met department says that the cyclone will not cross Calcutta this time. But still, no one is taking chances. A majority of the cars parked in the open have been shifted in the basement,” said a resident of South City. A resident of Greenfield Heights in New Town said all cars had been parked with the handbrakes in place and slotted into a gear so that the wheels are locked. Advisories and torches to residents: All housing societies issued advisories to residents asking them to remove all loose items like flower pots, bicycles, small furniture or anything that could fly and act as a projectile from the common areas. Residents have been advised to keep the doors and windows shut during the storm and get cracked window panes repaired to ensure they do not cause injury. Torches were handed out to residents of several housing societies in case there is a delay in operating the generator set during a power cut. Emergency teams: Several housing complexes, including South City Residency, Urbana and Rosedale Garden in New Town, have formed emergency response teams. In Rosedale Garden, several residents have come forward as first responders in case of exigency during the storm. In South City and Urbana, emergency teams comprise residents and staff attached with the electrical, plumbing and house-keeping services. In some housing complexes, trees and plants have been tied with bamboo scaffoldings to reduce chances of damage during the storm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas and full moon likely to raise water level of Hooghly to almost 23 feet||A full moon and Cyclone Yaas together are likely to raise the water level of the Hooghly to almost 23 feet from the low-tide level on Wednesday and leave many parts of Calcutta inundated, port trust officials said. Officials said that in normal circumstances the height of the water during high tide would be 6.01metres at 1.06pm in Garden Reach — the highest during the day — under the influence of a full moon. And the lowest would be 1.19metres at 9.32am. "By our estimates, the height of the high tide in Garden Reach would go up by another metre because of the cyclone. So the height will be close to 7metres or 23 feet,” a port official said. "That means large parts of Calcutta will be inundated. In some coastal areas, including Sagar Islands and parts of East and West Midnapore, the cyclone can cause the tidal wave to rise by up to two metres and large-scale inundation in adjoining areas." Civic engineers said areas such as Kalighat, Bodyguard Lines in Alipore, Behala, South Port, Ekbalpore, Strand Road and Bagbazar might remain waterlogged for a long duration on Wednesday. Some of the channels that drain water from the city to the Hooghly or the Bidyadhari river, including Tolly’s Nullah, will remain full with rain water on Wednesday. The outlet channels of the city’s drainage network have sluice gates at the points they meet the Hooghly. During low tide, the water level of the Hooghly is lower than that of the outflow channels and hence there is no hindrance to the draining out of the accumulated water. But during high tide, the water level of the Hooghly is higher than that of the channels. If the sluice gates are not shut during high tide, the river water will fill the underground drainage network. On Wednesday, the sluice gates will be shut between 11.30am and 4pm. Civic engineers said the gates were usually kept closed from a couple of hours before the peak to a few hours after the peak. Civic officials said if the sluice gates were not closed, the city’s underground drainage system would be filled with water from the Hooghly and the accumulated rainwater on the roads would not go down into the underground network. With sluice gates closed, the underground network could soon get filled with water accumulated on the surface. And that will result in inundation as the network will not be able to drain out the water into the Hooghly. As flooding is almost inevitable across large parts of the city, the police launched an evacuation drive. Till Tuesday evening, over 2,500 people in low-lying areas were shifted to safer places. Of them, over 1,200 people were shifted from 65 premises in Garden Reach, Ekbalpore, Metiabruz, Rajabagan and Nadial to 42 temporary shelters jointly identified by the police and civic officials. "The majority of the people shifted were from Nadial and Garden Reach," an officer of the Calcutta police's port division said. The army has kept nine cyclone relief columns on "stand-by mode" for Wednesday. Officers said these teams were equipped to undertake evacuation of stranded or marooned civilians and also to clear roads by cutting trees. "The columns will move as instructed by Nabanna,” a senior army officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Administration braces for impact, takes steps to minimise damage||⚫ Hundreds of people living in low-lying areas like Beltala Road, Puddapukur Road and Ekbalpore were shifted to community halls and other safe shelters ⚫ Police and Calcutta Municipal Corporation teams alerted residents about the storm through loudhailers ⚫ Police pasted stickers with the words “Dangerous Buildings” written on them on several dilapidated buildings and asked their occupants to evacuate The weather office has said Cyclone Yaas is unlikely to pass through or by the city but the administration still braced for impact and took a series of steps to minimise damage. Teams of the disaster management group, Calcutta Municipal Corporation, CESC, fire department, National Disaster Response Force, public works department and the civil defence department started working under a unified command at their designated locations from Tuesday. Senior officials of various agencies said that never before in the city had so many agencies worked in such a concerted way to counter a natural calamity. The teams shifted people from unsafe shelters and low-lying areas, trimmed trees, checked electric poles and made announcements about the approaching cyclone, which is likely to hit land on the Odisha coast around Wednesday noon. A CESC team has been stationed at each of the police stations in the city. At some police stations teams of the disaster management group have been posted, and at others personnel of the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed. A set of teams comprising police and PWD personnel and another set comprising police and civil defence personnel have started operating in pockets of the city. Last year, after Amphan, large pockets of the city and outskirts went without power for days as CESC technicians failed to arrive on time to fix the problems. There were reports of residents of areas that had been without power for days hijacking CESC teams. At many places, police or CMC teams had arrived to cut and remove trees that had snapped overhead electrical lines but there were no CESC personnel in the vicinity who could restore power supply. “This year, we plan to move together. Agencies like the disaster management group, fire, CMC and the PWD will chop trees and remove them from the roads, while CESC teams will start working on restoring power supply at the same time,” said a senior member of the unified command at Lalbazar. Each team has been equipped with chainsaws, dragon lights and other tools needed to tackle an emergency. Four motorised boats, operated by the civil defence department, have been stationed at Amherst Street police station, East Jadavpur police station, Alipore Bodyguard Lines and the Police Training School. Teams comprising CMC officials and police sergeants have been kept on stand-by at the 16 borough offices. “Today we spent the entire day making announcements in neighbourhoods, requesting people to stay indoors and to keep their windows and doors shut. We are prepared for tomorrow,” said a CMC official in one of the teams. The multi-agency drive to prepare for the storm follows a model perfected by the Odisha administration, which has time and again faced cyclones efficiently. When Cyclone Fani hit Odisha and Bengal in May 2019, the neighbouring state had evacuated nearly 1.2 million people to cyclone shelters, according to the World Bank. By doing so, the bank had said, Odisha had succeeded in minimising the loss of human lives. The state has a very effective communication system, through which alerts and other messages are relayed down to individuals and communities. Sources in Calcutta's united command said they were trying to follow the same model – shift as many people as possible from the areas that are prone to waterlogging or buildings that may crumble any moment. “There are enough schools and community halls where those people can be shifted. We have tried our best to create awareness so that they move to safe shelters for a few days,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: City police urge people to download Plus Code for faster rescue||The city police have urged people to download a Google application named “Plus Code” on their smartphones so they can share their location if they get trapped during the storm and do not have the internet connection to send their coordinates to friends or the government for rescue. The police said even when the address is known to the trapped person, sharing the GPS location will result in faster rescue than the postal address, which could be difficult to locate during or immediately after a natural calamity. Senior police officers at Lalbazar said that the following steps had to be followed to activate the Plus Code feature on smartphones: 1. Download Google Maps, click on the app icon, go to the settings and click on the “offline maps” option. (An offline map can be accessed even when the phone has no active internet connection.) 2. If you are trapped in an unknown location where your Net connection is not active, click on the Google Maps and then click on the direction arrow, which will determine your current location in form of a blue dot on the screen. 3. Touch the blue dot for a few seconds to create a “Dropped Pin” (a red drop like marker) 4. Clicking on the Dropped Pin icon will produce the location’s Plus Code (a combination of alphabets and numbers). 5. If this Plus Code can be texted (even when the phone is offline) to a friend or any agency, your location can be tracked with an accuracy of up to 10 metres, said an officer at Lalbazar. 6. Those who will stay home during the storm should generate the Plus Code of their location for emergency use. They can generate the code by typing the URL https://plus.codes on Google Chrome or an appropriate internet search engine, the police said. a. Scroll down the page that appears and click on “Find Your Code” box. b. A plus code will be created and it can be noted down/saved for future use. c. If there is an emergency, the code can help the police or other agecies involved in rescue reach you faster with the help of the Plus Code-guided location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
