27-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Storm frames from the city||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: lessons learnt from the storm that did not strike||The city may have escaped the brunt of Cyclone Yaas but the preparations made by various agencies fearing widespread damage can serve as a template for future storms. The Telegraph spoke to experts from various fields, who listed the lessons learnt from the cyclone that did not strike. Start early The forecast about a potential cyclone comes four or five days before the landfall, leaving the administration with time to prepare to minimise damage and loss of life. The Indian Meteorological Department announces a broad area of landfall so agencies can start taking protective measures. In an urban area, the administration must do the following: Team work From the time the Met office alerts about an advancing cyclone, the administration must start working closely with all agencies — police, power utilities, civic bodies, telecom service providers and the disaster management unit. Ahead of Cyclone Yaas, teams with officials and engineers from the CMC, CESC and police were formed for each of the 144 wards of Calcutta to respond to calls from residents. After Cyclone Amphan, lack of coordination among agencies had been a big hurdle to restoring power, and phone and internet connections. This time the government made preparations so power could be restored early. A CMC official had said they had been instructed to ensure power was restored at the earliest. “The chief minister had once said the state had learnt from Amphan and taken measures. It showed the government was aware of what to do,” said Anup Karanth, a disaster risk management specialist at World Bank. Cyclone shelters Shelters for storm-hit people need to be built and maintained properly, especially in coastal areas. Disaster management specialists said the shelters act as refuge for humans as well as livestock. For people in coastal areas, livestock is a crucial source of income and has to be saved, especially during a storm when agricultural fields get flooded with salt water and lose productivity. In such situations, the livestock can sustain families for months. In urban areas, too, such shelters need to be identified. Evacuation The community must be explained well the need to move to safe shelters. Merely asking them to shift may be met with resistance, but if people are told about the dangers of living in a dilapidated building during a storm, they will agree to shift. Fifteen lakh people were shifted to safer structures ahead of Yaas. This minimised the loss of lives. Mangrove plantation Mangroves need to be grown and maintained in coastal areas because they are the first and a very important line of defence against storm and surging water, said Karanth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Yaas: High tide but moderate rain saved city from waterlogging||The water level in the Hooghly rose above the predicted 7 metres from the low tide level on Wednesday but the absence of heavy rain spared large parts of Calcutta from being waterlogged. A few pockets such as Kalighat and Chetla did get flooded but those areas often go under water during high tide, when Tolly’s Nullah overflows its banks. Port officials said large parts of Calcutta were spared inundation because there was no heavy rain. Calcutta recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore from 8.30pm on Tuesday to 8.30pm on Wednesday. The forecast was for “heavy rain”, which means 60mm or above in 24 hours. Calcutta Port Trust officials said the water level in the Hooghly in Garden Reach rose to 7.3 metres — around 24 feet — around 1pm. “That was way above what we have recorded in recent years. The cyclone and full moon together were responsible for the surge,” said an official. “Water gushed over the lock gates at the Netaji Subhas dock and the Khidderpore dock in Calcutta and also in Haldia, a phenomenon we have not observed in two decades. This was primarily because of the timing of the high tide, which almost coincided with the landfall of Cyclone Yaas,” the official said. The lock gates of Calcutta Port Trust prevent the entry of excess water from the Hooghly into the docks, where ships are usually parked during cyclones. Veteran port officials said the volume of water displaced by Yaas in the sea multiplied several times when it entered the Hooghly. Since the expanse of the river is not as large as a sea, the tides created huge displacement of water, resulting in water flowing over the lock gates. “Several jetties, including the one at Ramkrishnapur in Howrah, and a few others in and around the Sunderbans and in Dulduli in North 24-Parganas were completely submerged,” said an official of the Inland Water Transport department. “During Amphan, several jetties were heavily damaged and the pontoons had suffered cracks. But they were not completely inundated like they did on Wednesday.” The sluice gates in Calcutta, which are located at points where the outlet channels of the city’s drainage network meet the Hooghly, were closed early on Wednesday. Engineers from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said they wanted to ensure that river water didn’t fill the underground drainage network. Engineers said the heavy inflow, because of the water level in the river reaching exceptionally high levels during high tide, stretched the city’s underground network but its effect was not felt as the city received only moderate rainfall. “Water rushed through Tolly’s Nullah, inundating parts of Chetla and Kalighat in the afternoon. But that was expected,” said an engineer of the CMC’s drainage department. “But several other pockets across parts of Nadial, Garden Reach and Metiaburuz were not flooded.” Police officers went aro-und parts of the Chitpore, South Port and Garden Reach area asking residents to stay at home or move to safe shelters during the high tide at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Krishachura tree crashes on house wall in Tollygunge||A fully-grown krishnachura tree on a footpath of Tollygunge’s Pratapaditya Road crashed on the wall of a two-storey building across the road on Wednesday morning. Two other trees got tilted in a dangerous way on Biren Roy Road in Behala and on DC Dey Road in Tangra. The trees fell or tilted despite the fact that the city was not buffeted by very strong winds or heavy rain under the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which made landfall around 250km away in Odisha. The highest wind speed Calcutta experienced was 62kmph, around 6.30am. The consistent wind speed in the city was less than 50kmph, not strong enough to tilt or uproot trees, police officers said. The krishnachura tree that collapsed on Wednesday grew on a patch of soil on the concrete footpath. Naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, who runs an NGO that works for restoration of trees, said the krishnachura tree might not have fallen “as suddenly as it appeared”. “There could be several factors (responsible for the collapse of the tree). Most of the trees are planted unscientifically without giving their roots enough space to flare. Trees should get at least a 2-metre radius to grow properly. Otherwise, the roots cannot grow properly,” he said. A tree can fall even when there is no storm, said Basu Roy. “Sometimes, if the roots are weak, even a consistent nagging force is enough to uproot it, especially if the soil is wet,” he said. At least 10,000 trees had been uprooted in Calcutta and its adjoining areas during Amphan, the cyclone that ravaged the city at an average speed of 100kmph, with gusts clocking 133kmph. Several rescue teams were on stand-by on Wednesday to cut and trim trees and clear roads across the city. A team of the National Disaster Response Force stationed in Tollygunge and the police were alerted about the krishnachura tree around 9.30am. “We were a little surprised to see the tree. The entire tree was uprooted and it was neither raining nor windy. The krishnachura tree had a thick trunk… it had crashed on the boundary wall of a house on the other side of the road. Luckily, no one was injured,” said a member of the unified command, which was set up to coordinate relief and rescue operations involving multiple agencies across the city. The tree trunk was sliced into pieces and removed from the thoroughfare. The entire operation was over in 30 minutes. The trees that got tilted in Tangra and Behala were trimmed by the Disaster Management Group personnel and cops of the Diamond Harbour traffic guard, respectively. At least 14 cases of tilted trees and branches falling on roads were reported from across the city till Wednesday evening. There were no reports of anyone being injured, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta escapes wrath of Cyclone Yaas||Cyclone Yaas hit land near Balasore in Odisha around 9.15am on Wednesday, unleashing ferocious winds, heavy rain and storm surge in and around the landfall zone. The sea resort of Digha and surrounding areas in East Midnapore were also hit by strong winds. But most of the damage in East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas was caused by the storm surge. Having faced the wrath of Amphan a year ago, Calcuttans were bracing for another fearful day, despite assurances by Met officials that Yaas would not be as destructive for the city. As it turned out, the very severe cyclonic storm had little impact on Calcutta, barring intermittent rain and moderate winds. The sun came out towards late afternoon. The Telegraph decodes the Yaas impact on Calcutta. Landfall The distance from the spot of landfall was the main reason behind Calcutta being spared any damage, said Met officials. Yaas landed as a very severe cyclonic storm 20km south of Balasore, over 250km from Calcutta. After landfall, Yaas stuck to its north-northwest path towards Jharkhand. Amphan had landed as a very severe cyclonic storm in Sagar Islands, 100km from Calcutta. After landing, the storm swept Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and parts of Nadia. Intensity Yaas generated a windspeed of around 140kmph at the time of landfall. In comparison, Amphan had generated a windspeed of 180kmph. Yaas was also tipped to generate winds blowing at over 160kmph, with gusts clocking 180kmph. But the storm lost steam in the last leg of its journey from sea to land, said an official at India Meteorology Department, New Delhi. “Yaas had a diameter of over 500km for much of its life and close to 700km at one point on the sea. But as it neared land, the system lost strength. By the time it was close to the Odisha coast, the system had a diameter of around 350km,” said the official. Cold and dry winds in the upper levels of the atmosphere, which came from north India, sucked a lot of power from the system, he said. Yaas had an impact befitting a very severe cyclonic storm in and around the area of landfall. But because of the depleted intensity, the system could not have an impact on far-flung places like Calcutta. The Alipore Met office recorded a windspeed of 62kmph around 6.30am. In and around Calcutta, Amphan had unleashed winds blowing at over 100kmph consistently. Rainfall The forecast was that of heavy rainfall. But the city received moderate rain since Tuesday night, that too intermittently. The Met office recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore from 8.30pm on Tuesday to 8.30pm on Wednesday. Heavy rain, in Met parlance, is above 60mm of rain in 24 hours. Amphan had triggered close to 250mm of rain in Calcutta. “The reduction in the size of the system (Yaas) also reduced the rainfall zone, which was limited to Odisha and parts of East Midnapore,” said the IMD official. Yaas was being fed by southwest monsoon currents when on the sea. “But it later got detached from the monsoon flow. So it did not cause the rain it was supposed to,” he said. Recurve Yaas followed a north-northwest path direction from the beginning. Amphan, too, had been travelling in a north-northwest direction but 48 hours before landfall, it recurved towards the Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. Forecast The city sky is likely to remain sunny and cloudy in phases on Thursday. There may be one or two spells of rain but the weather is likely to become sunnier towards the weekend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
