28-05-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp||CRAFT I have created a coronavirus structure made mostly of sponge. You can make it too. Here is how I did it: Materials used for the craft: 1. Sponge Ball 2. Toothpicks 3. Cotton 4. Fabric colors — a. Green b. Red c. Blue d. Brown 5. Fevicol 6. Colour brush 7. A plastic water glass 8. A4 size coloured paper 9. Pencil 10. Sketch pen How to make the coronavirus: Take a sponge ball, place it on a glass. Colour the ball green with the help of a brush. Wait till it gets dry. In between make the spikes — take a toothpick and roll a very small piece of cotton on the top of it. When the colour gets dry pierce the other side of the toothpick in the ball. Then fix very small pieces of cotton balls on it in between the spikes and colour it red and blue. Use the brown colour to colour the spikes. Let it dry completely and then fix it on the project board. Adwita Ghosh, 11 years, Sunrise Greens, New Town The state has declared lockdown again. I cannot go out anywhere so I did many things to keep myself busy and useful. During this lockdown, I spent my time by reading loads of story books like adventures of Harry Potter, Famous Five and Secret Seven which are a few of my favourites. I enjoyed drawing, making origami and crafts. I also love spending time with my family along with my puppy Cookie who seeks attention. I loved finishing my interesting projects that my school La Martiniere for Girls has given us to do. In my house, I have a huge terrace which has a lot of greenery. So, during the pandemic I decided to grow some organic vegetables like aubergine, chillies and many more so that we didn’t have to go out to buy them. I even enjoyed baking with my mother. I cooked dishes like Oreo cake and garlic bread. I like to dance and sing a lot. Since, in this lockdown I couldn’t meet my friends physically, I met them through Zoom, the saviour, and also attend online classes. Playing board games like Brainvita and Ludo was my favourite pastime. I also watched movies like Diary of A Wimpy Kid, Jurrasic Park, Dunston Checks In. When it comes to outdoor games, I love to play my favourite game badminton on my terrace instead of the park. I like doing experiments a lot. Listening to music is my hobby so I listened to music through my echo dot device Alexa. To keep myself healthy I did a few exercises. I also wrote stories and poems. My favourite app is Canva where I can design cards and posters. As the house help couldn’t come, I helped my mother clean the whole house. This is how I spent the whole lockdown. At times I felt bored and wanted to go out but, to keep my family safe from COVID-19 I didn’t go out anywhere. I feel it’s very difficult to forget this period of time but we should look forward for a brighter future. Shivali Sanyal, 9 years, Uniworld City, New Town A few days ago, I fell down the stairs at home and was hurt. Our family physician advised me to take complete rest. So, I am doing exactly that now. In this situation amid the lockdown, I’m spending most of my me-time writing, reclining on my bed. Every morning, I have been writing letters to various readers’ columns of The Telegraph, which has been my favourite hobby for last 27 years. I am glad to inform you that just a couple of days back, the number of my letters published in my favourite newspaper has crossed 950. I am also writing poems in Bengali, which I plan to submit to different magazines within a month or so in the hope of making it to their Puja editions. I am reading Bengali story books also. Yesterday, I completed Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay’s Chayamay. And now, I would commence rereading Pracheta Gupta’s novel Sheet Khub Durey Noy. And yes, almost daily, I am watching films of the Mahanayak of Bengali cinema Uttam Kumar. The last film I watched of his was Sabarmati, in which Supriya Chowdhury — whom I had met once — acted opposite Mahanayak. I am also capturing out-of-the-ordinary moments from my window for the ‘Click Your Township’ column of The Telegraph Salt Lake, as for years it’s my dream to win its annual photography prize. Sourish Misra, 40 years, Sarat Abasan, Salt Lake Sambit Majumdar, 9 years, IA Block, Salt Lake Rajdeep Saha, 9 years, Hatiara, Methopara, New Town Adrika Das, 2years 8 months,  Labony Estate, Salt Lake||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Oxygen support flows in at Mission Shas||A joint initiative of a citizens’ forum, private enterprise and the social sector has resulted in the launch of a free community-based Covid isolation centre with oxygen support in New Town. While two residential complexes — Hiland Willow Conifer Beech and Elita Garden Vista — have built such centres earlier this month, those are for their own use. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has allowed Offer, an NGO which runs homes for underprivileged and HIV-affected children, to use the two-storeyed structure in Action Area IID, near Tank 12, at a nominal cost. The building was last year used by NKDA as a safe house and more recently this year as a Covid vaccination centre. Offer has joined hands with Grey Mind Communication, International Institute of Hotel Management (IIHM) and New Town Forum & News (NTFN), a social welfare organisation formed by residents of the township. Many donors have come forward with help in the project named Mission Shas. Indorama Ventures has donated 25 oxygen concentrators. Sourav Ganguly Foundation and Arijit Singh have donated two concentrators each. “We thought of starting such a facility as we were all receiving calls for help with oxygen. We had approached NKDA for space. We were shown this building which was lying ready the very next day,” said Anilava Chattapadhyay of Grey Mind Communication. At the free oxygen transit facility, rooms on the first floor have been divided into male and female wards, with 15 and 10 beds respectively. “The wards have three rooms each. While Covid positive users can be in the same room, for those having breathing trouble without a Covid test report, we have created segregated compartments with oxygen support in two rooms for use as isolation centres,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of NTFN. Two doctors will come on rounds. Nurses, ward boys and a staff co-ordinator are posted at the facility. Food is also free, courtesy IIHM. “While some are reviving in hours, others are needing to stay on for more than a day.The meals are going from Indismart, our hotel on the IIHM premises,” said Suborno Bose, chief mentor of the Indismart Group who, with his doctor friend Subhankar Home, has pitched in with infrastructural, medical and financial support for the project. The air-conditioned facility opened on May 20. Six people used it in the first couple of days, including a resident each of Birati and Salt Lake. Two needed hospitalisation while four went home after being revived by the support. To avail of the facility, one can get in touch at 9836687889 and 9831839683. Breath aid at doorstep Residents of New Town should not lack oxygen at home, with NKDA starting a Duare Oxygen scheme. “We started with two concentrators on Monday. On Tuesday, we got four more concentrators from a donor. More have been promised. The service is meant to alleviate breathing distress for a few hours,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Five people used the service in the first two days. “We are getting calls from Salt Lake and South Dum Dum Municipality areas as well but are having to politely decline as the service is for New Town residents,” Sen said. The service can be availed by calling the NKDA helpline 18001037652.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Out of the scientist’s garden||Being a drug discovery scientist keeps busy, lockdown or no lockdown. But her favourite pastime, especially on weekends, is to spend time on the terrace, sipping tea and watching the sunset amidst the fresh air and her beautiful blooms. Every season has a different look in her garden —— if it’s Dahlias in winter, it’s Sunflowers now in summer. I grew up in an air force family and have lived all over the country in houses with lovely green patches attached. My father was especially fond of gardening and from him, my mother and I developed an interest too. We moved to Salt Lake in 2008 and even now, despite not being in the best of health, my parents keep tabs on the plants and give instructions to the gardener on their upkeep. I usually ask the gardener to get new saplings but recently I made my first online purchase of seeds. A friend had done the same and she had posted pictures of her beautiful Zinnias. Hope my owns grow well too! Our front yard has Sunflowers now but in winter it is full of pink miniature Roses. We had a good Guava tree there too but it fell off during Cyclone Amphan. Storms and cyclones have indeed broken my pots but this tree has been the greatest casualty. Our backyard has Gondhoraj Lebu and Mangoes. This Mango tree must be 20 years old but it only started bearing fruits last year. And it bore lots of them. My mother and cook delighted us with Mango chutney, pickle, morobba… I’m a gourmet chef myself and like to pick fresh Sweet Basil or Lime from the kitchen garden for my dishes. Among flowers we have Hibiscus, Bougainvillea and Adenium and among vegetables we have Brinjal and Tomatoes but, truth be told, they don’t ripen easily. The terrace garden is a perfect venue for barbecue parties and I held one such up there for New Year’s Eve last year. In fact, when friends came over till a few months ago, it was up there that we chose to socialise. The open air ensured safe distance and the flowers provided a beautiful backdrop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Adopt a green verge in New Town||In a city where hundreds of Covid patients are gasping for oxygen, an oxygen generation plant is coming up, quietly and naturally. This is a piece of land measuring about 2.4 acres, adjacent to Tank 15 in Action Area IIB of New Town, which has been home to about 1,000 saplings of a variety of flowering and fruit-bearing trees over the last couple of months. “An individual consumes as much oxygen as is generated by 16 trees in a lifetime. But how many do we plant? Urban environment does not have the biodiversity to draw its own sustenance. That is why we are looking to grow green patches in a city that is fast losing its green cover,” said Suhrid Chandra of Hari Mitti Foundation, which is behind the initiative. The foundation approached NKDA with the proposal and was allotted the area to plant trees in. “Last year, a total of 4,563 trees were destroyed by Cyclone Amphan. We transplanted some, even then many were lost. We had targeted planting 10,000 trees and achieved it with the help of many organisations and individuals. This year, too, we have targeted planting 10,000 trees but in a different way,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, who was attending the launch of the plantation. Nurture offer The NKDA has earmarked pockets in almost all residential blocks of New Town and is seeking offers for adoption by corporate bodies, organisations and individuals. “The land will remain NKDA property and the produce of the trees cannot be taken away by the adoptive partner. The tenure of adoption is 11 months and is subject to renewal with mutual consent,” Sen clarified. The NKDA has about 40 such plots, which are proving tough to maintain because of wild growth after every monsoon. “We have decided to go for plantation in these plots. Each green verge will have one kind of tree, be it neem or guava, pomelo or pomegranate. We have also spoken to the Coconut Development Board. The area near Biswa Bangla Gate is called Narkelbagan because of the trees that used to be there. We want to revive coconut trees in New Town,” said Sen. The adoptive partner would have to bear some initial expenses for plantation, manuring, deweeding etc. “But after about three years or so, they will sustain on their own and give lifelong returns,” he pointed out. Such green verges would increase the overall green cover of the township and break the monotony of an urban landscape. They would also provide space for physical activity, relaxation, peace and escape from the heat. The first such plot designated for a green verge has been handed to Hari Mitti Foundation, which is being supported by Red Cow Dairy. Survival of the fittest “This plot, as an experiment, will have a variety of trees. They are employing the Miyawaki method, named after Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, which reduces the recommended gap between two saplings while planting. This way, there will be a competition among the trees for survival. All trees will compete for sunlight and water. Some that are not genetically strong will not survive, only the fittest will. But the trees will grow much quicker and create a biodiverse green verge,” the NKDA chairman explained. Chandra, who is supervising the plantation, said his aim was to grow a mixed jungle. “We have chosen the kinds of trees of which birds love fruits or prefer to build nests in. Indigenous species have been chosen — Mango, Arjun, Mahogany etc. They are also of varying heights-from Guava to Krishnachura which will lead to layering of trees. Such a mixed plantation will create biodiversity on its own and be 30 times denser. The leaves will fall and decompose, triggering the growth of microorganisms, which in turn will develop a fungal network and lead to exchange of nutrition between trees.” Trees, he claimed, interacted with each other. Community garden Hari Mitti promotes community garden. “It is being said that food is medicine. But the food we eat is full of pesticides and chemicals which are causing cancer. Our drive encourages people to grow their own vegetables,” Chandra said. Over the last five years, the organisation has been growing rooftop kitchen gardens. “Work is in progress on 150 roofs across the city.” Hari Mitti also owns a farm in Narayanpur, near Sonarpur, which is divided into 600sq ft plots. “Those who do not have a roof of their own can rent such a plot. They can choose the vegetables they want to grow which we will provide. They can do the planting themselves or we can do so on their behalf. At harvest time too, if they cannot come to collect the crop, we can collect it and reach the produce at their doorstep. That way they are assured of pure organic food.” The foundation also trains farmers to go the  organic way in growing paddy, pulses or oil seeds and markets their produce. “Without such an end-to-end solution, farmers grow disheartened to hear long speeches by NGOs who leave them to fend for themselves once they grow the crop.” He urged residents of Action Area IIB to come forward and take care of the trees. “Plants respond to love,” he told audience members present at the launch who volunteered to water the saplings. “I planted a sickly-looking sapling at the inauguration but after regular watering it is now standing erect and grown more than double in height. It is a source of great satisfaction for me and my son who goes with me,” said Dipanjan Bhowmik of Mallika Malancha on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Tribute to Tagore from indoors||Gulabi Gang • Mrinalini from the short story Streer Patra, Nandini from the play Raktakarabi, Chitrangada from the dance drama Chitrangada, Prakriti from the dance drama Chandalika, Lalita from the novel Gora and Ela from the novel Char Adhyay… Six prominent characters created by Rabindranath Tagore, all of them emancipated women, were brought to life on a virtual stage in course of a tribute to the Bard on his 160th birth anniversary. The organiser was Gulabi Gang, a DB Block-based women’s group. In the concluding part of the group’s online Rabindra Jayanti programme, titled Sradhhay Smaroney Rabindranath, the characters delivered their own introductions, through lines penned by director Sonali Basak which showcased them as the figures of protest against discrimination based on caste, creed or gender as Tagore had portrayed them to be. Thus Nandini, played by the evening’s compere Mahua De Sarkar, announced: “My creator brought me to this suffocating Yakshapuri where I find everyone is scared of the king. But why fear a figure who does not have an entity? Ranjan has taught me to be fearless. He calls me Raktakarabi.” Earlier, Abanti Dasgupta, a Class XI student, commenced the show with a message of hope. “This day is so special to all of us that even such a pandemic could not stop us from celebrating the occasion. Tagore generates the strength to fight against any untoward situation,” she said, quoting the song Ami bhoy korbo na. “When we are performing online even from different locations, it generates a feeling of togetherness,” added Abanti, as her mother Sudhanya took over with a welcome dance to the song Sabare kori ahwan. Some members logged in from out of town. Lakshmimoni Sen recounted an anecdote, all the way from Bangalore, involving Tagore and Saratchandra Chattopadhyay, who used to visit him often. “When I was a student in Santiniketan, we heard these stories from hostel mates. In this present situation, these stories can lighten our hearts for some moments,” she said. Indrani Basak from Gurgaon spoke of Tagore’s positive thinking, citing how during an outbreak of dengue in his boyhood he found even the taste of stale luchi and gur to be like nectar. This ability stayed with him even in adult life. During a train journey after the death of his son Shamindranath, he composed the song Aj jyotsna ratey sabai gyachhe boney. Kamalika Banerjee, a dancer from Delhi, presented scenes from Chandalika on a makeshift stage created in her apartment. “The situation is so bad here that it seems I am seated amid flames. Most people are Covid positive in our building but I get strength in Tagore’s name,” she said, adding that she was performing a segment featuring Chandalika and her mother Prakriti as Tagore’s birthday was coinciding with Mother’s Day. “It took considerable time to prepare this set inside my apartment but I felt it would give me a feel of a stage performance, which we are missing now,” chuckled Kamalika, the dancer. Little Sharonya Mitra, a disciple of Mamata Shankar, presented an energetic dance recital to Darun agni bane re. Sarmistha Mukherjee, a social activist who heads the Salt Lake chapter of Human Rights Information Development, participated while being in home isolation. After her tribute with the song Tumi robey nirobe, she added: “I really forgot that I was suffering from Covid. Music is a therapy,” she said. Rama Mitra, who played Mrinalini in the concluding segment, gave vent to an emotion felt by many of her fellow participants after the programme. “Programme ta kore jyano pran phire pelam,” smiled Mitra. Bharati Kanjilal • Kids, mothers and members of SOS Children’s Village celebrated Rabindrajayanti online this year. The village is part of an international organisation for orphaned and neglected children with their West Bengal branch being situated in BK Block. The kids live in different “homes” on campus and are looked after by employees who take up the roles of “mothers”. The mothers, in fact, began the ceremony with a chorus of Esho hey Baisakh, followed by Antar mamo bikoshito karo. They had gathered together while children joined from their respective homes and performed in a section titled Amra shobai raja. Sagar Kumar recited poem Noukajatra, Ajay Das recited Chhutir Din from Tagore’s Shishu while Rudra Pandey delivered a speech about the bard’s life and works. Debarpan Chakraborti surprised everyone with his rendition of Dekhechhi rupsagare on the guitar. “I have been learning how to play the guitar for five years now and I enjoy playing different songs. For today, I learnt a Rabindrasangeet and this was a good experience too,” said the Class VIII student. Deepika Prasad usually dances at such events but this time sang — Tomar khola hawa — instead. Nutan Arya recited from Geetanjali and Ankit Roy ended the show reciting Kumor parar gorur gari. The children were congratulated and encouraged by secretary of the centre, Sonali Das. “It is a wonderful effort by everyone and we got to see a different side to our students. Even though we had to celebrate online this year, I feel we are on the right track,” said Das, herself an FD Block resident. Shatadipa Bhattacharya • Last year, they had celebrated Rabindra Jayanti on a makeshift stage on their rooftop. But this year, they retreated indoors and chose the safety of a virtual show. The New Town CD Block Residents Forum hosted an online cultural programme, marking Tagore’s birth anniversary. “The surge of the pandemic was not so virulent then but this year, the condition has deteriorated,” said Sithi Kana Ghatak, the block’s cultural convenor. Ghatak herself initiated proceedings with the song Ki gabo ami ki sonabo. Debi Dutta recited Tagore’s poem Prarthana while Sumi Roy recited Kripan and Premendra Mitra’s poem on Pochishey Baishakh. “Both poems are relevant for today’s occasion. Mitra’s poem underlines our sentiments about Tagore while Kripan has a message to dedicate oneself for the cause, which serves as a clarion call in the present scenario,” said Roy, an IT professional. Eight-year-old Rashi Ghosh was surprised when applause and appreciation poured in from several neighbours to her mother’s cell phone soon after her performance was over. “She had danced to Ora awkarone chanchal in her room without any audience in front. So she was astonished to hear how so many people watched her perform through a small device. She has no clear concept about online performances,” chuckled her mother Deepsikha, who sang Chokher aloy dekhechhilem herself. Purba Kar, who compered the programme, read out an extract from Rabijiboni by Prashanta Kumar Chattopadhyay, on Tagore’s first love — a Marathi girl named Anna Turkhad. At the age of 17, Tagore was sent to Bombay to train in spoken English from her. He named her Nalini.” Chandrani Sanyal sang Amar praner pore chole gelo ke. “In this phase, online platform has become an effective mode of communication, closely knitting us with each other. When we see others perform on the platform, especially the elderly members of the block, it automatically enhances our self-confidence and inspires us to fight against all odds,” she said. The programme concluded with a self-composed poem, titled Santiniketan, by Kar. Bharati Kanjilal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas delays arrival of Covid vaccine doses in Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas has deferred the arrival of more than 50,000 Covid vaccine doses in Calcutta that have been procured by two private hospitals. Two consignments of vaccines — 50,000 doses of Covishield for Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and 2,500 doses of Covaxin for Charnock Hospital — were scheduled to arrive at Calcutta airport on Wednesday. However, the flight operations were suspended from 8am till 6.30pm on Wednesday as a precautionary measure against the storm. Airport sources said only three flights took off and four arrived at the airport throughout Wednesday. “The consignment of 50,000 doses of Covishield were supposed to arrive on Wednesday from Pune. We had planned to resume vaccination from Thursday. However, it got delayed by a day,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director (east) of Narayana Health of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The vaccine doses are now supposed to arrive early on Friday. “We are planning to resume vaccination from Friday afternoon,” said Venkatesh. He said there are 8,000 recipients of the second dose. Along with them, the hospital would also administer first doses to those above 18 years. The hospital had stopped the vaccination drive from May 1 because of lack of supply. Charnock Hospital received 2,500 doses of Covaxin from Hyderabad on Thursday afternoon. “The consignment was scheduled to arrive on Wednesday but the courier company informed us that it would be delayed by a day because of the cyclone,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of the hospital. She said the vaccination that had stopped for almost a week, would resume from Saturday. Another private healthcare unit, Fortis Hospital, will start vaccination from Friday, said a senior official of the hospital. “We opened 100 slots on Thursday and they were booked within minutes. We are offering first doses to anyone above 18 years. We are also offering second doses to the recipients who are due,” said Richa Singh Debgupta, the chief of strategy and operations at Fortis Healthcare. “We have received 40,000 doses of Covishield and 17,000 doses of Covaxin. We are doing vaccination in workplaces, housing complexes and also at our hospital,” she added. The hospital would try to increase the volume of vaccination to 300 Covishield doses every day, she added. With the current stock, the hospital would be able to carry on vaccination for a fortnight. It is expecting another 50,000 doses of Covishield next month. Among the government facilities, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will again start offering first doses to anyone above 45 years even if they are not among the priority groups like hawkers, transport workers and others. The bookings can be done through a WhatsApp chatbot from 11am on Friday. The priority groups will be vaccinated at specific centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Torrential downpour in Calcutta on day after storm||⚫ Volume of rain on day of cyclone: 25mm ⚫ Volume of rain the day after: 150mm A giant thundercloud that had drifted away from the remains of Cyclone Yaas and reached the skies over Calcutta unleashed torrential rain in the city on Thursday. Many areas were waterlogged, prompting precautionary power cuts by the CESC. Met officials attributed the downpours to a 200km-long cumulonimbus over South and North 24-Parganas, Calcutta, Howrah and Hooghly. They predicted possible thunderclouds over Calcutta on Friday too. The rain caught the city off guard. Calcuttans who had braced for heavy rain on Wednesday and were relieved when the cyclone spared the city woke up on Thursday to claps of thunder, gusty winds and sharp spells of rain. The sun had come out briefly in the morning but the sky soon turned dark. Jinjira Bazaar on the city’s western fringes and Behala in the southwest received 159mm and 150mm of rain, respectively, between 6am and 4pm, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said citing information from the pumping stations. Around 1.30pm, the showers were so intense in Behala that visibility was blurred beyond 10 metres. Around 2pm, Camac Street was under water, as were parts of Central Avenue, Mahatma Gandhi Road and College Street. Maniktala, Belgachhia, Thanthania and Mominpore too recorded more than 100mm of rain, the civic body said. The Met office in Alipore recorded 110mm rain between 8.30pm on Wednesday and 8.30pm on Thursday. In Met parlance, 60-120mm rain in 24 hours is “heavy” and 120-200mm is “very heavy”. “During landfall by a cyclone, the cloud mass is compact. But as the system weakens over land, the clouds get scattered — they spread out,” said India Meteorological Department chief Mrutyunjoy Mohapatra. “Calcutta and the rest of Bengal were not the only places to receive rain on Thursday. The clouds spread to places like Assam and Meghalaya to the east and Uttar Pradesh to the west.” On Thursday evening, the system that was Cyclone Yaas was a depression over central Jharkhand, 20km from Ranchi. It was tipped to weaken further on Friday into a low-pressure area and move towards Bihar. “Another factor that led to the rainfall (in Calcutta) was the continuous flow of moisture-laden winds from the Bay,” Mohapatra said. A cyclone is like a magnet that pulls winds from all sides. Winds from Calcutta’s east flew across the city towards Odisha on Wednesday because the system was crossing the state. On Thursday, the system was over Jharkhand as a depression but it still attracted winds from all sides. Among these were winds from the Bay of Bengal that passed through Calcutta. “The uninterrupted supply of moisture also contributed to the rain,” Mohapatra said. A Met official in Calcutta said the giant cloud that caused Thursday’s rain “had become somewhat stagnant, positioned over Calcutta, South and North 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly”. He said: “Calcutta and South 24-Parganas received the heaviest rain. Parts of north Calcutta and Salt Lake-New Town-Rajarhat were relatively drier.” A cyclone usually sucks all the moisture out of the air and leaves a trail of dry weather. Amphan had triggered close to 250mm rain in Calcutta but the days that followed were hot and dry, made worse by power outages and the lack of water. “The system (that was Yaas) will weaken further by Friday but will still attract some moisture from the Bay, which means thunderclouds can form over Calcutta on Friday as well,” the Met official said. But towards the latter half of the weekend, the weather will be hot and dry, he said. The daily maximum temperature, which fell to 30 degrees on Wednesday and was 31.5 degrees on Thursday — several notches below the usual 35-36 degrees for end-May — is likely to soar towards 35 degrees by Sunday, the Met official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Nine blocks of Ward 29 get Oxygen concentrator machines||Nine blocks of Ward 29 have received oxygen concentrator machines, thanks to local  philanthropists. The machines were distributed on May 20 at the CJ Block swimming pool opposite the ward office by  Krishna Chakraborty, who is the chairperson, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and also the local ward co-ordinator. “Some businessmen and NRIs of the ward wanted to help out their neighbours. They made the purchases from abroad and had the machines shipped to us,” said Chakraborty. “They wanted me to ensure they were handed out to the rightful custodians of the blocks and that’s what I’m doing. Henceforth no one should struggle for want of oxygen.” Chakraborty, who has herself recovered from Covid, said she has been helping patients find hospital beds and asked those in her ward to contact her for any help they needed. Each block association received two 5l concentrators and the CK-CL association, which runs two blocks, received an additional 10l machine. Ward 29 also includes DJ, DK and part of SA blocks but were left out of the list. The first two are non-residential. Jeet Adhikary, a resident of AL Block who is familiar with concentrators through his work with an NGO, demonstrated their use. “The mechanism is quite simple. It uses some mineral water and electricity to filter the natural oxygen in the air and supply it to the user. But it must be used as per the prescription of a doctor,” said Adhikary, who has volunteered to support any block that needs help to set up their concentrators. Watch and learn Representatives of BK Block video recorded Adhikary’s demonstration and will share the same with the family members of any patient who needs the machine. “We do not have the funds to set up an isolation centre in our community hall. If anyone requires oxygen we shall send it to his home,” said secretary of the BK Block association, Rajarshi Chandra. AJ and AK Blocks have decided to do the same. “If residents find it tough to use the machine we shall go and set it up,” said Bishnu Das of AJ Block. “But we shall ask them to return it as soon as they can so others can avail of it.” AK Block has had over 20 residents hit by Covid. “We were ourselves contemplating buying an oxygen cylinder but there was none available. The concentrators will be useful,” said general secretary of the block, Aritra Ranjan Sen. “Our hall is too small to convert into a safe home. Neither do we have doctors at hand. So we shall send over the machine to houses that needs one.” Like AK, most blocks said the machine would be free but residents would be asked to change the disposable pipes and tubes that they use. President of BJ Block Umashankar Ghosh Dastidar said a register would be maintained to keep details of patients who borrow the machine. “We shall also share with them a video of how to use the machine,” he said. AL Block too has been hit hard by Covid and general secretary Manik Saha said in his lane alone 13 of the 20 houses had patients “We shall send concentrators over to homes that need them and a doctor from the block has agreed to help out, if he is home at the time. We are sharing information of the same with residents over WhatsApp and circulars,” Saha said. CJ Block was unable to take a decision as the caretaker of their community hall, along with his entire family that lives there, has tested positive. The machines are in the hall too. “We shall hold a meeting there after the family recovers,” said Sandip Mukherjee, who is a doctor and is treating the caretaker’s family. They want to hire a paramedic to help out with the concentrator. “The paramedic would be able to assist the patient as well as operate the expensive machine properly,” says Mukherjee, an executive committee member of CJ Block. He is keen that the oxygen be free and the salary of the paramedic be deducted from the association fund. The BL Block authorities held an online meeting with doctors and paramedics in the block before announcing their decision. “They explained that an oxygen concentrator is not an oxygen cylinder. The former is for interim use of patients post or pre-hospitalisation, maybe while awaiting an ambulance,” said secretary Tuli Basu. Given that the machine can be dangerous if used without the advice of a doctor, they are asking family members to submit the doctor’s prescription, an ID proof and sign a self-declaration form before taking the concentrator home. “This will ensure responsible use of the machine and protect us from litigation in case anyone misuses it,” Basu said. The block has had a terrible spate of Covid with their president and assistant secretary both having succumbed to it. The BL Block concentrators will be lent, free of cost, on a first come first basis. “How else do we, laymen, decide which patient is more critical? Since the machine is meant for short hauls, people will be expected to return them within 24 hours,” said Basu. “These decisions have been set not at the whim of the committee but from express advice from doctors.” Safe home in CK-CL Block CK-CL Block has turned their community hall into an isolation home cum oxygen parlour. Besides the new concentrators, they have two oxygen cyclinders and five beds ready. “We took the decision after two or three residents in our blocks suffered for want of oxygen late at night. We realised we had to be prepared,” said Shanti Ranjan Paul, secretary of Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association. Funds have been sourced from the association’s coffers and the stay, the oxygen, the food etc will be provided free of cost. At most, patients may be asked to pay for the technicians or nurses. “As per availability, we are open to residents of our blocks and beyond,” says Paul, adding that on Sunday they got a call for oxygen from a neighbouring block. “Our volunteer headed out with a concentrator at about midnight but the doctor finally said it wasn’t needed. A lot of it is psychological. Patients feel better simply knowing oxygen is just phone call away,” said Paul, who is also trying to tie up with private hospitals for Covid vaccination for residents of the block. • AJ Block: 9433283066 • AK Block: 9432861429 • AL Block: 9007080531 • BJ Block: 9331090967, 9331936096, 8240961440, 7980545101, 9330919933, 9830116350, 9830313848 • BK Block: 9830335029 • BL Block: 9230134159, 9836802802, 9051162430 • CJ Block: To be announced  this weekend • CK-CL Block: 9830063599, 9830010556, 9830027856||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police plan to retain command centre created in anticipation of Cyclone Yaas||Calcutta police are planning to retain the set-up of the unified command centre created in anticipation of Cyclone Yaas so that various agencies can regroup in the shortest possible time in case of any exigency in the future. The command centre, on the first floor of the old control room building at the city police headquarters in Lalbazar, had been set up to accommodate officials from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, CESC, public works department, civil defence, National Disaster Response Force, fire and emergency services, forest department, various telcos, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Rail Vikas Nigam limited (RVNL) under one roof. Senior officers in Lalbazar and several other agencies said the unified command centre was a first of its kind in Calcutta. It had been operational since Tuesday afternoon. Eight helpline numbers had been created for the centre. The room for the centre was divided into separate glass cubicles for all the agencies. It has the facility to hold video conferences and has access to all the CCTV cameras installed by the police in the city. A senior officer said the command centre was set up in less than 48 hours to ensure that all agencies could coordinate within the same room, maintaining Covid protocol. “This place used to be our old control room. As it has been shifted to the main building (where Calcutta police commissioner and other senior officers have their office), this place was lying unused,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Overnight, the place underwent changes in terms of setting wooden and glass partitions to ensure that members of the external agencies were not exposed to each other. As a preparatory move, separate teams comprising members of the different agencies were posted across the city to be on a standby mode from Tuesday, ready to take orders from the unified command. A PWD official said: “It is always easier to coordinate when all the agencies are getting information at the same time.This way, it is clear to every agency what their role is and where to chip in.” Last year after Cyclone Amphan had hit the city, apparent lack of coordination between the various agencies had delayed the rescue work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2018: Salt Lake gets its first solar trees — Sourasree — on May 25 with state power minister Sovandeb Chatterjee inaugurating two such structures in front of the West Bengal Power Development Corporation office in LA Block. The structures are akin to trees, with solar panels fixed at various points to receive maximum sunshine and generate electricity. National 1577: Nur Jahan is born on May 31 to a minister who served under emperor Akbar. She marries a Persian soldier but after he dies, agrees to marry Akbar’s son, who is now emperor Jahangir. The union is considered scandalous as she is a widow but Nur Jahan soon becomes the most powerful and influential Mughal empresses ever, holding court, advising Jahangir on decisions etc. 1866: Gopal Krishna Gokhale is born on May 9 in Bombay Presidency. Despite a modest background, his family ensures a sound education, with which he becomes a professor, social reformer and senior leader of the Indian National Congress, fighting for Indian independence. He founds the Servants of India Society to promote literacy through schools, mobile libraries and night classes for factory workers. 1991: A member of the Sri Lankan separatist organisation Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam approaches to greet Rajiv Gandhi at a public meeting in Tamil Nadu on 21 May. Thenmozhi Rajaratnam bends to touch his feet but instead, detonates a belt laden with explosives tucked under her clothes. The 17-year-old is a suicide bomber and assassinates former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in an explosion that also kills 14 other people. Global 1918: Richard Feynman is born on May 11. The American theoretical physicist works in fields such as quantum mechanics, nanotechnology, quantum electrodynamics and receives the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1965. One of the best-known scientists in the world, Feynman assists to build the atomic bomb and joins a team to investigate the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. His lectures and books remain popular decades after his demise. 1960: An earthquake measuring between 9.4 and 9.6 on the moment magnitude scale takes place in Chile on May 22. Lasting about 10 minutes, the calamity induces waves as high as 82ft and devastates the region. Tsunamis affect Hawaii, Australia, Japan and the death toll is several thousand people. The Great Chilean earthquake proves to be the most powerful earthquake ever recorded. 1994: Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, one of the most popular former American First Ladies, dies on May 19 at the age of 64. After the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, “Jacky” had married a Greek shipping magnate, Aristotle Onassis. Also a writer and photographer, Jackie is best remembered as a fashion icon and the pink Chanel suit and pillbox hat she wore on the day of the assassination becomes a symbol of the president’s death. Sports & entertainment 1974: Cricketers Ian Botham, 18, and Viv Richards, 22, make their county championship debut playing for Somerset County Cricket Club between May 8 and 10. The match at the County Ground in Taunton is against Lancashire, a team that boasts of formidable players like Clive Lloyd. The match is a draw but both Botham and Richards go on to become legendary players. 1988: Veteran film actor, director and producer Raj Kapoor collapses at the ceremony to honour him with the highest award in Indian cinema - the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. Kapoor is hospitalised after the May 2 incident but fails to recover. The man behind classics like Awara and Shree 420 dies the next month, at the age of 63.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Tall kadam tree breaks, crashes into roadside sheds in New Alipore||25-year-old kadam tree broke off from its trunk on a New Alipore footpath early on Thursday and crashed into a lamp post, several overhead cables and two roadside sheds in which some street dwellers were sleeping. The men heard the sound of the tree coming down and jumped out of its way seconds before it crashed into the sheds around 2.30am on Thursday. Trees continuing to fall in the city with or without a storm is a grim pointer to how unscientific Calcutta’s kerbside plantation is and how uncared for these trees are. Residents of New Alipore’s J Block said the kadam tree had a major cavity in its trunk, possibly because of rats nesting inside it. A few seconds of gusty wind was enough to dislodge it. “Luckily, no one was injured,” said Ashok Dey, who lives close by. Residents of the area informed police around 6am. A team comprising members of CESC, the disaster management group and personnel from the local police station reached the spot. “CESC men neutralised the snapped cables before the DMG started cutting the tree,” Dey said. Debasish Kumar, a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation who is in charge of parks and gardens, said more than 30 trees, big and small, fell in the city in the last 24 hours. “Most of these trees had weak roots from last year because of Amphan. The primary cause (of trees getting uprooted) is unscientific plantation. One should never plant trees like krishnachura and radhachura on the footpath,” Kumar said. Most of the trees that were damaged this time were krishnachura and radhachura. “Neem and debdaru are better or plants that would not grow beyond 10ft. Trees that can damage life and property if they crash should not be planted on footpaths,” Kumar said. Both krishnachura and radhachura are fast growing, soft-wood trees that are vulnerable and unfit for roadside plantation, said a naturalist. “For footpath plantation, slow-growing hard-wood evergreen trees are always advisable.” Neem is a relatively slow-growing hard-wood tree but it is not evergreen and sheds leaves in winter. Debdaru is more of an ornamental tree when it comes to avenue plantation because it does not have a canopy, which is one of the criteria for avenue plantation, the naturalist said. “Big trees need a radius of at least two metres around the trunks for their roots to develop properly. Without that space, the roots cannot grow properly and the foundation of the tree gets weak,” said Arjan Basu Roy, who runs an NGO that works for the restoration of uprooted trees. “Unfortunately, we start caring about trees only before cyclones while ideally, they should be trimmed and taken care of months before the cyclone season,” he said. On Thursday, there were reports of more trees getting tilted in a dangerous way in Alipore and Tollygunge. One was reported on Burdwan Road near the Diamond Harbour Road crossing in Alipore and another on Uttam Kumar Sarani near the Metro Railway shed in Tollygunge. No injuries were reported because of trees or branches falling, the police said. On Wednesday, a fully-grown krishnachura tree on a footpath on Tollygunge’s Pratapaditya Road got uprooted and crashed on the wall of a two-storey building across the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Back in town to work from home||The pandemic has snatched a lot from us but college students and working professionals are grateful for a small mercy it has shown. With office premises being out of bounds, these youths have been able to work, not just from home but, from their hometowns. No sooner did the first lockdown get announced last March than students and professionals across the country started packing their bags and trying to book tickets home. Salt Lake and New Town, notoriously referred to as old age homes, saw the return of youths, most of whom are over the moon at being with their families. Seventh heaven “Money can’t buy such luck,” says Aniket Sil, an IT sector employee who has returned to ED Block’s Sourav Abasan from Hyderabad. “No company would have given us such a long leave and now none of us want to go back.” Long before the pandemic Souradip Basu would, in vain, ask his Bangalore bosses to let him relocate to Calcutta. “I wanted to come back so badly that I could have signed a lifetime bond  and tattooed the name of the company on my chest in exchange,” says the CA Block resident, now having the last laugh. Sitting in his Gurgaon office, Subham Nandi would fantasise about working remotely. “Since office space was short, 30 per cent of our staff would work from home anyway. But it took the lockdown to let all of us do it from home. Before this, the longest break I could take would be a week,” says the resident of Meena Sparsh in New Town. Working from remote locations has never been an issue with Western clients, says Sumit Sarkar of BL Block, now back from Hyderabad. “But Indian offices felt employees wouldn’t work unless under their boss’s noses. That’s not true if the work is deadline-bound.” Recently Sumit changed his job and is delighted that the new company has granted him a permanent work from home option. Teething trouble The transition to the township wasn’t smooth for everyone. When Subham moved into his New Town flat, the table there was meant for his father to read the newspaper and using a laptop on it was rather uncomfortable. They didn’t have Wi-fi and he nearly had to move heaven and earth to get a decent connection in the lockdown. But like many others, Subham used the “office settlement bonus” granted by his company to set up infrastructure at home. Poulami Pal and her husband returned to town as late as October. “It’s easy for bachelors to pick up their limited belongings and not look back but my husband and I had a lot of furniture and fittings in our Mumbai flat. In fact, a new business had started there during this exodus where companies would simply keep your belongings safe while you left town. But they were charging a bomb and we eventually shipped our stuff to Calcutta,” says the lady from AH Block. Food for thought Food ranks high on the list of perks of being home. Even besides relishing the taste of mom’s cooking, some youths are happy to simply not get into the kitchen. “It’s a relief to not have to cook or plan meals everyday,” says Poulami. Natasha Kesh of FE Block is enjoying that elusive cup of tea with homemade pakoras and Aniket is glad to have something healthy to munch on. “The last two years I was living on junk food from Swiggy and Zomato so my health has improved now,” he says. So much so that he had put on eight kilos in the first three months of the pandemic. He then started walking 5km a day to work it off. Comfort of home Life in now a bed of roses for an IT sector employee who is woken up gently by his mother every morning. In fact, he has taught his father to log into his work station, which the senior gentleman does while junior snoozes away. Ishan Kamal Mitra of AE Block is happy he doesn’t have to commute and can work in boxers, if he pleases. Flexible working hours allow Aniket a “bhaat ghoom” after lunch and Ritankar Sen says the pandemic has recalled all his friends back to town. “At least we can meet more often now,” says the former resident of Hyderabad and current resident of AH Block. Money bags Sumit is saving more than Rs 20,000 on rent and an equally large sum on airfare. “Before this, I would fly down to Calcutta every month to be with my family. My wife works in a government school here and could not relocate and my son is very young so I would keep looking for excuses to fly back,” he says. Souradip has saved so much on rent that he has bought a scooty and Ritankar, although saving a fortune, says it is getting redirected to ordering food. “Everyone at home knows how to cook but we are lazy,” he shrugs. Improved productivity Not just personal gains, residents say their performance has improved because of the arrangement. “The office was full of distractions, with colleagues coming  over to my seat all the time but at home my parents are tucked in by midnight and I can work silently till 4.30am. I love it,” says Ritankar. Souradip is so overwhelmed by his perks that he is happily clocking extra hours without even demanding overtime. “In Bangalore, we wouldn’t work a minute after hours but now I don’t take a tea break till 9.30 at night. I’m even logged in on weekends. And I’m happy to do so considering how much the office is doing for us.” Students have taken an about-turn too. Teresa Dhar of DB Block would barely attend classes, let alone take notes in college. “But since online classes are such a challenge, I feel I’ll fall behind if I don’t pay attention. And now I’ve finished three notebooks taking down notes for corporate law!” The last word is Sumit’s. “If you are lazy, you shirk work both at home and office but if you’re hardworking, you can complete your task and enjoy a multitude of perks at home,” he says. Where the heart is Natasha says being with her parents has been a driving force in the pandemic. “I see parents bogged down by the heartbreaking news coming in. Being with them has reduced the worry and fear around the pandemic,” she says. The former resident of Bangalore adds how she now enjoys evening walks with parents on the rain-drenched roof and laughs with them watching something funny on TV. “These are a reminder of what we missed over the years. They are gifts, if I may say so, of this lockdown.” Sumit is happy he can watch his son grow up and Souradip sleeps with a smile on his lips, knowing that his parents are in the next room. “I know I can help them if they need anything and vice versa. I hear my mother’s voice first thing in the morning… people don’t value such things till they leave home,” says Souradip. A CA Block resident, Souradip is a Covid volunteer and can afford to go drop off a packet of supplies to a neighbour in between work. “I’m happy to be around to help neighbours at this time of crisis,” he says. AJ Block’s Rijula Roy is glad she was around when her Covid-positive grandmother needed a hospital bed. “Being tech savvy, I got on Twitter and sought help, I could make calls for oxygen,” says the copywriter from Mumbai. “This is my home. There’s a sense of security here. There are people to fall back on and I too am here to chip in.” Sumona Jana’s shift back to her parents’ place in New Town CE Block has been providential. A month ago, her father was detected with cancer. “He avoids doctor visits at all costs. Had we not been here he might not have gone to the doctor in the first place. It is only on going for the tests the doctor prescribed that the malignancy was discovered,” she says. Last week, their entire family tested positive for Covid and the daughter is thankful that she did not have to deal with the medical emergency from afar. “We had planned to return to Bangalore in July but now there is no question of leaving without completing my father’s treatment,” Sumona says. Lazy bones Remote working comes without the hazard of lethargy. Teresa speaks of classmates who are logging in and going back to sleep and Souradip, who in Bangalore could rustle up everything from luchi to mangsho-bhat, needs a refresher course in cooking after being out of practice for so long. As for Ritankar, he has volunteered to do the dishes and laundry just to make himself feel useful in a home where he need not do any chores at all. Tele-learning Several professionals felt learning on the job becomes difficult from miles away. “Now I have to make a call for a trivial problem I could have solved by just looking over my shoulder to a colleague’s screen,” observes Aniket. Subham agrees. “The volume of work has increased since, for instance, right now four out of my team of 15 are down with Covid. Every interaction is a call now and with so much work piled on, it is tough to find a free slot when a colleague and I are both able to talk,” he shares. Friends wanted Teresa misses hanging out with pals in her Patna campus and feels like time has stopped for her. “We still talk over phone but it’s not the same,” says the law student who was bored enough to run off to college for a bit earlier this year. Rudroprasad Bandyopadhyay had come for a vacation from Mumbai to BJ Block, after his Class X Boards last March. Since he had to stay back, he has taken admission in Hariyana Vidya Mandir. Classes are on but the boy has never met a single classmate of his. “I only went to school once, to get textbooks, and saw the field outside, quadrangle inside but don’t know when I’ll be able to play there,” he says. As for tuitions, his grandparents asked around neighbours for recommendations. His mother Nivedita spends her time cooking and supervising Rudra’s studies. “My husband, a doctor, is back in Mumbai and I, having never lived in Calcutta before, have no friends here to socialise with,” she says. New hobbies Shubham was driving through New Town in October last year when he saw some people playing badminton on an empty plot near Pride Hotel. Desperate to play the game, he invited himself in and for the next few months the group played every night from 10pm to 12.30am. “I would have to drive 10km to the spot and even then some nights it would be too windy to play. But I was happy enough to have some friends to talk to,”  says the man who applied for membership at a club nearby but was shown a lengthy waiting list. “This other club asked for two years’ charges up front, which is unreasonable given how uncertain things are now. How and where else was I to make new friends?” Others are trying to substitute friends with hobbies. Anwesha has started making crafts with her mother, Teresa is learning the guitar, German, French and Japanese. Chandrasekhar Tawri, a science student who has cleared his online theory papers in an aviation-based course he is pursing from Delhi, has taken up BBA in a bid to learn something new. Ishan has settled for a film a day on Netflix. Minor glitches After having lived independently for years, the home birds are now facing minor adjustment issues. Aniket says his parents want him back home by a certain time, Ritankar says his parents do not like him bringing friends over too late at night. “But then they have every right to criticise me as I have moved into their space and am sharing my life with them 24x7,” Ritankar reasons. Sumona cites the weather. “I never spent the noon at home as I would be away at work in an air-conditioned environment. Spring was always in the air in Bangalore. Now we cannot switch on the AC at home because father has fever,” say Sumona.  But this, she points out, is a “minor inconvenience”. Missed opportunities Chandrasekhar is missing his Delhi campus dearly. “Early 20s are the time to build our careers. We had enrolled at different cities for the exposure but are now stuck behind four walls,” sighs the resident of New Town DB Block. “Initially I was happy being home but now I’m frustrated. I want to explore the world and fulfil my potential.” Anwesha Chaudhuri likes it at home but is nostalgic about the Gurgaon office environment. “I miss dressing up and going to work, I miss office parties…. Now we do talk to colleagues but it’s only about work,” she sighs. Options open Natasha and her husband still retain their place in Bangalore and look forward to moving back whenever lockdown rules are eased. “Even though I love home, I crave meeting my colleagues every once in a while. Some of the people I manage are fresh recruits I have never met in person. Face-to-face interaction still holds its own charm,” she says. Much as he would hate to leave the City of Joy, Souradip feels he may have to, someday. “My department handles confidential data that is too risky to be accessed from home in the long run,” he says. This is why, instead of selling off his TV, fridge and the like in Bangalore, he had them shipped over to Salt Lake. “That way I won’t have to buy them afresh if I am relocated elsewhere after the pandemic.” Poulami speaks of friends who have returned from their hometowns even before offices reopened. “They were finding it difficult to create office space in small apartments that was already occupied by their parents and siblings. It was worse if both husband and wife got calls at the same time,” she says. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas set to send prices soaring in Bengal market||The price of eggs, a cheap source of protein, has gone up by Re 1.50 apiece in a fortnight and the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas may push up vegetables prices, too. The rise in the price of eggs, coupled with the damage to agricultural produce, threatens to hit the pocket hard. South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore have borne the brunt of the cyclone with large swathes of agricultural fields going under water. The retail price of eggs has reached Rs 7 apiece, up from Rs 5.50 about 15 days back. Traders attributed the price rise to a shortfall in the supply of soybean cakes, a poultry feed. “The wholesale price of eggs was Rs 6.05 on Thursday. The cost of production has gone up. Soybean cakes now sell at more than double the price a year ago. If large volumes are not imported, we have to wait till November when the new crop will be harvested. The prices will take a few more days to normalise,” said Madan Mohan Maity, the chairman of the West Bengal Zone of National Egg Coordination Committee. Among the agricultural produce, green chillies are the biggest casualty — the bulk of the green chillies consumed in Calcutta and its adjoining areas comes from the two cyclone-affected districts. Farmers said the storm also damaged fields that produce ladyfingers, ridge gourds, bottle gourds and cucumbers. In South 24-Parganas, farmers said the most affected areas included Kakdwip, Patharpratima, Gosaba and Mathurapur. These areas are principal suppliers of green chillies and several other vegetables. The devastation has been equally intense in many parts of East Midnapore, including Egra, which supplies large quantities of green chillies to the rest of Bengal as well as other states. The district's agricultural produce also includes ridge gourd, serpent gourd (chichinga) and ivy gourd (kundri). “Thousands of acres of land with green chilli plants have been inundated in the two districts,” said Kamal Dey, the president of the West Bengal Vendors’ Association. “Over half of Calcutta's requirement of green chillies and that of its adjoining areas is met from the production in these two districts.” According to officials in the agriculture department, Bengal produces nine-and-a-half to 10 lakh tonnes of green chillies annually. The state consumes 8 lakh tonnes. “Green chillies have a very short shelf-life. They produce tremendous heat inside sacks and a considerable amount gets wasted,” said Alok Niyogi, a wholesaler in Sealdah's Koley market. “It is now being sold between Rs 30 and Rs 35 a kilo in wholesale markets. We are fearing an immediate surge in price.” The prices of other items, including ladyfinger and all varieties of gourds, will also shoot up, wholesalers said. “Thankfully, parts of Nadia, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas have been spared. That will ensure some flow of vegetables,” Dey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Exam time halved: Bengal’s higher secondary in July, Madhyamik in August||Bengal’s higher secondary exams will be held in the last week of July and secondary (Madhyamik) in the second week of August, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. The exams will be held only for compulsory subjects, not additional papers, and at home centres (the school that the student attends), she said. “We are trying so that Madhyamik will be held in the second week of August and higher secondary in the last week of July... The protocol and dates will be communicated by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education,” said Mamata. “The details will be shared by education minister Bratya Basu and education secretary Manish Jain.” The CBSE and ISC are yet to make an announcement about the Class XII exams. Both boards are to review the situation in the first week of June. The ICSE council has asked schools to provide by June 7 the average marks of subjects scored by ISC 2021 candidates in Class XI and XII exams conducted by the schools. The council has not said if the marks will have any bearing on the ISC results. The chief minister said: “We will conduct HS before (Madhyamik) because students will have to take admission to various (college) courses.” Mamata said the exams will be held following Covid distancing norms. “Students will write the exams in their home centre. This we have thought because it will be convenient for students,” she said. “The exams for only compulsory subjects will be conducted. For the rest (additional papers), the school will be awarding the marks.” The government has also decided to shorten the duration of the exams by half and increase the choice of questions. “This decision has been taken for both Madhyamik and HS. Say, for example, a three-hour paper will now be for one-and-a-half hours and suppose there are 10 questions, a student will have to answer only five. So, students will now get more choice. In such difficult times we do not want students to be more stressed,” Mamata said. For Madhyamik, the compulsory subjects are languages, history, geography, math, physical science and life science. For HS, there are 15 compulsory subjects. For higher secondary there are about 8.5 lakh students. For Madhyamik, over 12 lakh students, the chief minister said. The question papers will be kept at the nearest police station or government office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
28-05-2021||Calcutta||High tide and heavy rainfall flood city streets ||The heavy downpour that many in Calcutta had feared Cyclone Yaas would unleash came a day later, leaving large parts of the city inundated. A surge in the water level in the Hooghly — the effect of high tide and the storm together — had on Wednesday flooded only some neighbourhoods in Kalighat that are along the banks of Tolly’s Nullah. On Thursday, the same surge had a more telling impact as heavy rain came along with it. Civic officials said the downpour had made the crucial difference. The Telegraph found knee-deep water on stretches of College Street, MG Road, Central Avenue, Park Street and Camac Street. Many lanes in Kalighat and Kasba were flooded, too. Civic officials said roads near Bhowanipore’s Gaza Park, Muktaram Babu Street, Amherst Street and Camac Street were also waterlogged. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) recorded more than 100mm of rain at its six drainage pumping stations on Thursday. The rain and the simultaneous rise in the water level in the river were together responsible for the waterlogging, said officials. “The sluice gates (at the points where the outflow channels of the city’s drainage system meet the Hooghly) were closed between 11.30am and 4pm on Thursday, when the river water rose too high during full tide (bhara kotal),” said an engineer in the CMC’s drainage department. “The water level in the Hooghly was over 17ft, whereas during normal high tide the level stays between 10ft and 12ft,” said the engineer. If the sluice gates were not closed, the water from the Hooghly would have entered the drainage network and compounded the waterlogging. During low tide, the level of the Hooghly water is lower than the outlet channel. So water is drained out into the river. But during high tide, the river water at times rises higher than the channels. If the sluice gates are not shut during high ride, river water fills the underground drainage network. At the same time, closing the sluice gates means water will accumulate in the underground network. According to the CMC’s records, Jinjira Bazaar received 159mm of rain and Behala Flying Club 150mm of rain between 6am and 4pm on Wednesday. The rainfall at Mominpore, Thanthania, Belgachhia and Maniktala were 106mm, 102mm, 106mm and 101mm, respectively. The intensity of the rain reached its peak between 2pm and 4pm, around the time the sluice gates were closed. “The city can drain out water if it rains up to 6mm in an hour. We use pumps to drain out water faster, but because of the full tide the pumps could not be used to their capacity for four-and-a-half hours,” said a CMC official. The water had started to recede by the evening but fresh rain again threatened to flood several pockets. There was intense rainfall for short durations in several parts from 6pm. The waterlogging in several pockets forced CESC to cut off power supply to avoid any accident because of the inundation. Officials of the company said they had stopped supply to parts of Kalighat, Mominpore, Kidderpore, Garden Reach, Suhrawardy Avenue, Alimuddin Street, Tangra, Convent Lane and Bowbazar, among others. Several stretches of the VIP Road were waterlogged on Thursday. Airport-bound cars were caught in traffic snarls near the Haldiram’s bus stop on VIP Road and at Kaikhali, where the road was under waist-high water. Residents of several housing complexes in the area, including Poddar Vihar and Space Town, said the water could not be drained out till late on Thursday. Several places in Bangur and Lake Town were waterlogged, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
