29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: People with special needs get vaccinated by private institution ||A group of individuals with special needs got vaccinated by a private institution on Friday. Several parents said the initiative by ICanFlyy made these individuals with special needs less vulnerable to infections as they did not have to visit a hospital or vaccination centre. It also saved the parents the hassle of making their wards wait in queues for hours and “feel anxious”. The institute organised the vaccination camp on its premises for young adults with special needs, their siblings, teachers and staff. “Some of these individuals have low immunity and their parents do not want to take them to hospitals or centres and wait in queues,” said Minu Budhia, a psychotherapist and the founder of ICanFlyy. “These young adults are apprehensive about taking an injection but the institute is a familiar place for them, which helped.” Some parents shared their  experience of getting their wards vaccinated. “My son has down syndrome and it is difficult for him to express his uneasiness. If he has any symptom he will not be able to communicate unless it is fever or some other visible symptom which I can see. This makes him more vulnerable,” said Vineeta Singhania. She said these children needed to get vaccinated as they were dependent on caregivers, which made them “more vulnerable”. “I wanted to get my son vaccinated but could not get a slot for the last 10 days.” Another parent said he was not sure of taking his daughter to a hospital or a vaccination centre because of the threat from the disease.  “Moreover, she would get restless while waiting for her turn,” he added. A parent said he had to wait for four hours to get his mother vaccinated but was not sure whether his child would be able to do that to get the jab. ICanFlyy made the experience enjoyable for these individuals by distributing chocolates and setting up a photo booth. A private hospital in Calcutta organised a vaccination drive for individuals with autism recently. Parents said more organisations need to come forward to get this group vaccinated or have slots at centres dedicated only for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas blow to Sunderbans migrants ||Thousands of migrant labourers have come back to the Sunderbans since 2020, most of them during the lockdown last year and some following the onset of the second wave of Covid infections. These people had their incomes drastically reduced but they somehow managed to make ends meet by farming paddy, vegetables or fish. The inundation of vast swathes of the mangrove belt, following a storm surge coinciding with high tide during the landfall of Cyclone Yaas, has posed a livelihood challenge to these people once again. Rising salinity would make many farmlands and water bodies unproductive for at least a couple of years, said residents. They know from first-hand experience. Cyclone Aila had hit the coast in May 2009. The invasion of salt water had left vast areas of farmland infertile for five years. Alok Shikari, a resident of Purba Sridharpur village in Mathurapur II block, used to work as a mason in Kerala’s Kozhikode. He came back during the lockdown last year and has not gone back since.  His family did not own any land and the 34-year-old was working on another villager’s farmland. In Kerala, Shikari worked under a contractor who gave him Rs 600 for each day’s work. He used to get 25 days’ work a month on an average. Back home, the daily wage was around Rs 350. “My income had come down drastically. But we got two meals a day. Every other day, we caught some fish from a village pond. But now, everything has been destroyed. We are staring at starvation,” said Shikari, who lives with his mother, wife and two children. The swelling Thakuran river flooded his village on May 26 morning, when Yaas was making landfall in Odisha. Rajkumar Mondal, another resident of the same village, used to work at a toothbrush manufacturing unit in Kancheepuram district of Tamil Nadu. He had returned home during the lockdown last year but went back to the southern state before winter. In late April, he came back again because he “sensed” that more curbs would be enforced to contain the spread of the virus. Coming back in 2020 was extremely difficult and he did not want a rerun. Back home, Mondal cultivated seasonal vegetables like okra and pointed gourd and sold them at a wholesale market. He made “much less” money than he did at the factory. “With the land flooded, I will have to try and move out for work again, risking my life against the virus,” said Mondal. Though Yaas did not leave a trail of destruction like Cyclone Amphan did last year, the long-term damage to embankments has been severe this time, officials said. The embankments bore the brunt of the cyclone this time because of an unprecedented high storm surge. Based on preliminary assessment on Thursday, irrigation department officials had said nearly 156km of river embankments in four districts — East Midnapore, Howrah, North and South 24-Parganas — were either breached or damaged. Some 55 embankments were damaged in the Basirhat sub-division of the Sunderbans in North 24-Parganas, said an official. “At least 50 embankments were breached in the areas that we work in,” said Sankar Halder, the founder of an NGO called Mukti that works in a dozen blocks in the Sunderbans. Since Wednesday, tens of thousands of people have been dependent on relief materials from NGOs like Mukti. “If salt water penetrates beneath the surface, it takes more than a couple of years to get the same yield from that farm land. The process of desalination is expensive and laborious. These people can’t do that without government support. With the surge in Covid-19 numbers, any logistical support is doubly difficult,” said Halder. Desalination is a distant dream for Animesh Barik, a resident of Dakshin Kashipur in Patharpratima. He was gearing up to sow the seeds of aman rice in June. But now, his land stands submerged in salt water. Barik thinks he has no other option than going back to Mumbai — where he worked at a plastic cap making unit — as soon as possible. “Our lives will once again shift between two threats — to life and livelihood,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine rates vary at private health units in Calcutta ||Several private hospitals in Calcutta have resumed Covid vaccination and the prices are varying from Rs 750 to Rs 850 for a Covishield dose and Rs 1,250 to Rs 1,500 for a Covaxin dose. Many hospitals are charging extra, on an average Rs 200 per person, to administer jabs off-site and at residential complexes and offices. The cost of vaccination at private centres has gone up since the Centre’s new policy requiring the private units to buy doses directly from manufacturers came into effect on May 1. Before that, the state government was providing doses to the private centres from the stocks it was receiving from the Centre. Till April-end, a private vaccination centre was charging Rs 250 for each dose, a rate fixed by the Centre. In May, the private centres are charging different rates across Calcutta. Several recipients have also alleged that hospitals are declaring one rate but charging more while confirming slots. Hospitals are saying they are charging more than the procurement price to cover the infrastructure cost. For off-site vaccination, most hospitals said they were charging extra to cover the cost of vehicles, doctors and nurses being deployed and the infrastructure to maintain the cold chain. The state government has asked all private hospitals to inform it about the rates they are charging to administer a dose. “The Centre has directed us to keep a record of rates charged by the private Covid vaccination centres. We have asked all private centres to submit details of the number of persons they are inoculating and the rates being charged,” said an official of the state government. Most hospitals said they were procuring Covishield for around Rs 650 a dose. The cost of Covaxin is around Rs 1,050 a dose, they said. Fortis Hospital resumed vaccination on Thursday. On Friday, the hospital administered 200 Covaxin and 100 Covishield doses at its Anandapur hospital. It administered 2,200 doses of Covishield at off-site vaccination centres (residential complexes) on Friday, said an official of the hospital. The official said they were charging Rs 1,250 for a Covaxin dose and Rs 850 for a Covishield dose. For off-site vaccination, it was charging Rs 200 extra. However, a Kasba resident who booked slots at Fortis for the Covishield second dose for his parents through the CoWIN app said the hospital was charging Rs 1,050 for each dose. “It is a glitch. We are charging Rs 850 for a Covishield dose administered at the hospital,” the official said. Many people said they would not mind paying extra. The demand for vaccines is very high because of shortage of doses. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, which has received 50,000 doses of Covishield, resumed vaccination on Friday afternoon. By evening, 650 recipients were administered the doses. “Before May, up to 350 people would come for vaccination daily. One site would be enough to accommodate them. But today we had to operate two sites and are planning to open one more on Saturday,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The hospital is charging Rs 750 for each Covishield dose. It hopes to get a consignment of Covaxin soon and will charge Rs 1,150 for each dose. “Covid vaccination is a social cause for which we are charging only the incidental costs,” said Venkatesh. Woodlands Hospital is charging Rs 1,500 for a Covaxin dose and Rs 900 for a Covishield dose. “We are administering 350 doses of Covaxin at our hospital and around 1,500 at off-site centres. Since May 1, we have vaccinated 15,000 people but there is a demand for 2.5 lakh doses from corporates. So the demand is huge,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands. She said the hospital was charging extra for off-site camps and the amount varies depending on the distance and the number of people to be vaccinated. AMRI Hospitals is administering Covaxin at its Dhakuria and Mukundapur units. “We are procuring each dose for Rs 1,200 and charging Rs 1,450 to cover the cost price. This is not a profit-making model for us as we have to vaccinate the maximum number of people. From next week, we will start administering Covishield, for which each recipient will be charged Rs 850,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. The hospital is charging Rs 100 extra for off-site vaccination. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals is charging Rs 1,250 for Covaxin and Rs 850 for Covishield, said an official of the hospital. For off-site vaccination, the hospital is charging Rs 200 extra. However, some hospitals are not charging extra for off-site vaccination. Charnock Hospital is charging Rs 1,500 for a Covaxin dose at the hospital as well as off-site camps. “We have been able to maintain it till now,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Food portal fraud charge in Calcutta||Several occupants of a government guest house on Pretoria Street lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station alleging they had been duped of Rs 75,000. The complaint said they had ordered food through an online food delivery portal on Wednesday evening. The portal allegedly did not deliver the items. Cops have started an online fraud case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jabs for medicine store employees, owners in Calcutta||The state health department will start a drive to vaccinate the 10,000-odd people working in medicine shops across Calcutta and their owners, officials of the department said. “Employees at medicine shops and their owners need to be inoculated as part of the vaccine outreach programme because they are exposed to a large number of customers throughout the day,” an official at Swastha Bhavan said. “Druggists and chemists had appealed to us to consider them as frontline workers and arrange for their vaccination along with transport workers, hawkers and grocery shop owners. We will start the programme next week.” In Calcutta, the vaccination of the staff and owners of pharma shops will be carried out in association with the civic body. The city has been split into five zones — central, east, northwest, Calcutta wholesale and south. An assistant director of drug control is in charge of each of the zones. The officials will receive applications for vaccination from shop owners. The health department has begun vaccinating bus, minibus, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, along with vendors and hawkers across Calcutta. With the new group coming within the ambit of vaccination, senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said a larger number of people will be covered. “Many people turning up at pharma shops looking for drugs later tested positive for the coronavirus. So the staff at the pharma shops and the owners are at high risk of contracting the disease and in turn can become super spreaders. So we have decided to vaccinate them at the earliest,” said a Swasthya Bhavan official. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials decide on the venues for each zone. The drive to vaccinate medicine shop owners and employees will continue in phases.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Crocodile rescued from Sunderbans village pond||A 10ft-long crocodile that got swept into a pond of a Sunderbans village because of the storm surge during Cyclone Yaas was rescued on Friday. Bishnu Das, who stays near the pond in Patharpratima, first raised the alarm on Friday morning. Soon a crowd gathered around the pond and several people tried to take photographs of the reptile. The villagers alerted the local forest beat office. A team from the South 24-Parganas division and trained personnel from the Bhagabatpur crocodile sanctuary in Patharpratima arrived at the village and initiated a rescue operation along the muddy banks of the pond. Crocodiles swimming into ponds in the Sunderbans are uncommon after villages were secured with nylon fencing. “But the fencing got damaged in several areas in the South 24-Parganas division because of the cyclone,” a senior forester said. The rescue team erected a bamboo barricade around the pond to prevent curious onlookers from getting too close to the crocodile. Milan Kanti Mandal, divisional forest officer (DFO), South 24-Parganas, said: “As the crowds kept shouting to draw the reptile’s attention, it was mostly swimming below the surface. The team could spot it only when its nostrils surfaced to breathe… it was a challenge to locate and catch it.” Forest officials then lowered a nylon net at one end of the pond and started pulling it towards the bank. The crocodile managed to give the team the slip several times before a team member managed to get a noose around its snout. “Crocodiles are incredibly powerful… we needed several men to pull the net as well as the rope,” Mandal said. Once near the bank, the team used bamboo poles to “steer” the reptile head towards them. A team member threw a gunny bag connected with a rope over its head and caught hold of its snout. Another got on top of its back to restrict its movement. “Once the crocodile failed to see, it made things easier for us and we managed to tie it with ropes,” Mandal said. The reptile was later released into a creek near the Lothian island. “The pond was inundated with water during Cyclone Yaas from the river and in all possibility the crocodile got swept in,” a forest official who was part of the rescue team said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: More victims without comorbidities in Bengal||More people without comorbidities have died of Covid-19 in Bengal in the second wave this year compared with the first last year, the state health department’s published data has revealed. Among the Covid patients who died in Bengal since the outbreak of the pandemic till Thursday, 72.6 per cent had comorbidities. Which means 27.4 per cent of the victims had no comorbidities. Bengal has lost 14,975 people to Covid till Thursday. Seven months ago, the percentage of those without comorbidities among the dead was lower. The health department’s Covid-19 bulletin published on September 27 last year showed that 14.8 per cent of those who had died of Covid till then had no comorbidity. Till then, 4,781 Covid patients had passed away in the state. “There is a clear shift among those claimed by Covid-19 in the second wave. A lot more people with no comorbidities are dying. A lot of younger people are dying, something that we did not see last time,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and a member of the state government’s task force on Covid management. Chowdhury said it was still not clear why the second wave had killed so many healthy and younger people. “Not just in Bengal. The trend is being noticed across India. There is no clarity yet on why this is happening,” Chowdhury said. Doctors and hospital administrators across the city — from government as well as private institutions — had similar observations to offer. “It is too early to comment why this is happening but many people without any comorbidity have passed away in the second wave,” said a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital, a Covid facility run by the state government. “We doctors saw so many people in their 30s and 40s losing the battle against Covid.” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said his hospital had recorded 132 Covid deaths since April 1. As many as 94 of the victims had no serious comorbidity. “If we leave aside hypertension or mild diabetes, a large number of people who died of Covid had no comorbidities. So many people in their 30s passed away after contracting Covid. People of that age usually do not have any comorbidities,” said Mitra. The hospital, he said, considered conditions like serious ailments of the liver, kidney and heart; autoimmune diseases; cancer and uncontrolled diabetes as comorbidities. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases who treats Covid patients at Peerless Hospital, said young people were catching the virus in larger numbers compared with last year. “The prevalence of comorbidities among people in the below-50 age group is much less. This time, the severity of the virus is much more and younger people are getting affected. So the prevalence of comorbidities among Covid victims is much less,” he said. Sauren Panja, the head of critical care and internal medicine at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, said 60 per cent of his Covid patients who died were below 60 years and had no comorbidities. “More younger patients are being admitted and are needing ICU (compared with last year),” Panja said. “One reason could be vaccination. I have seen none of those who are fully vaccinated, and two weeks have passed since the second dose, in need of CU care,” he said. The Centre had made people in the 18-44 age group eligible for Covid vaccines only from May 1. But only a handful of people in this group have received the jab because of paucity of doses. Vaccination began in India on January 16. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said the hospitals had seen many young patients with no comorbidities turning up for treatment very late. “Younger people seem to think that nothing bad will happen to them and often tend to ignore early signs. But they should not do that,” he said. Another hospital official said because of the high prevalence of the disease in the second wave, getting a hospital bed was very difficult and that could be a reason why many people without any comorbidity became critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CISCE asks for average marks of XI and XII candidates||The ICSE council’s decision to ask schools for the marks of ISC examinees has made some teachers think that the council is looking for other ways to assess the students in case the exam cannot be held. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Thursday asked schools to provide by June 7 the average marks of subjects scored by ISC 2021 candidates in Class XI and XII exams conducted by the schools. The council, however, has not said if the marks will be considered while preparing the results of the examinees. “The CISCE is in the process of collating and collecting the data from all our schools presenting candidates for the ISC Year 2021 Examination. You are therefore requested to provide...of the candidates registered and confirmed for the ISC Year 2021 examination... 1. The Average Marks of papers/ subjects scored by the candidates concerned in the various tests/examinations conducted by the school at the Class XI level through the academic year 2019-20.(in percentage form, i.e. out of 100) 2. The Average Marks of papers/ subjects scored by the candidates concerned in the various tests/examinations conducted by the school at the Class XII level through the academic year 2020-21 (in percentage form, i.e. out of 100),” said chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon in the circular, which was sent to the heads of schools presenting candidates for the ISC 2021. The council had also asked the schools to submit the average marks scored by ICSE examinees in Class IX and X but that was only after the ICSE exams (Class X boards) had been cancelled. The council had cancelled the ICSE exams on April 19 because of “worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country”. “The council asking schools to submit marks does make us think that they are rethinking about exams, online or offline. They could be preparing a back-up by keeping the marks ready,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. The CBSE and the CISCE both will take a decision about the exams in the first week of June, according to an earlier circular. But Class XII examinees are getting anxious about the exams. A number of them have got admission in foreign universities but fear losing a session or a term because of the delay in exams. “This is the next best alternative if the exam cannot be held and the council is perhaps collating the data so that they have everything in place,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Several school heads said the council could be trying to save time. “They are perhaps still deciding regarding exams but in case the exams are not held they cannot hold back the results for too long and if the marks are submitted earlier, the council can save time,” said Jessica Gomes, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School, said that under the present circumstances, the council was taking all measures. “They are keeping themselves prepared so that it will be a fair evaluation of students and they do not face any delay,” she said. The Class XI exams were held in school and there was a parity across institutions but for Class XII, the schools devised their own ways of conducting exams amid the pandemic. Some schools had full-length papers and some conducted shorter exams with fewer marks that were converted to a percentage. Some also conducted pre-boards exams in school after the state government gave them the go-ahead to reopen schools on February 12. The schools had reopened for a brief period and had to shut down again because of the surge in the number of Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
