30-05-2021||Calcutta||Unwell lady on way to pharmacy robbed, accused arrested||A 60-year-old woman who was feeling unwell and had stepped out to get her blood pressure checked at a neighbourhood pharmacy had her gold chain snatched by two youths on an otherwise-deserted road on Saturday morning. The woman’s screams alerted police who caught one of the two men before he could flee. The other was caught sometime later and the gold chain was recovered from him, the police said. The incident happened around 11.40am on Saturday at the crossing of Vivekananda Road and Singhee Lane. All shops except pharmacies and spectacle stores were closed at the time and the roads were deserted because of the pandemic restrictions on the movement of public and private vehicles. “The woman was going to a local medicine shop to get her blood pressure measured when a youth pounced on her and snatched the gold chain off her neck. He had an accomplice too,” said an officer of Girish Park police station. Arati Sen, a resident of Tarak Pramanik Road, had shouted for help as the two youths, one of them with her gold chain weighing 11gms, started running. Some police personnel who were posted nearby heard her and managed to get hold of one of the two youths. He was identified as Akash Gujrati, a footpath dweller who lives in the same neighbourhood. Based on Gujrati’s statement, the police found his accomplice, who had the chain. Marketplaces are open only between 7am and 10am, following the government’s restrictions, after which roads are usually deserted except for people engaged with emergency services or those out because of an emergency. Last year, during the lockdown, multiple gangs had targeted elderly persons who stepped out of their homes for urgent work. Cases of snatching, duping and cheating where the elderly were targeted were reported. “It is always advisable that elderly citizens should not step out of their homes alone. They may ask their family members or a neighbour to accompany them,” said an officer in Lalbazar. How the elderly are vulnerable: ⚫ While going to or returning from shops ⚫ While withdrawing money from an ATM ⚫ While visiting a bank The police’s advice: ⚫ Ask a family member or a neighbour to accompany you ⚫ Do not talk to strangers even if someone tries to strike up a conversation ⚫ Avoid wearing jewellery while stepping out during restrictions when there are fewer people on the roads||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Small private hospitals and nursing homes face vaccine hurdle across Bengal||Small private hospitals and nursing homes, many of them located in towns across Bengal, have complained how they are finding it impossible to procure Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers. At a meeting on Friday with the state government, representatives of nursing homes and private hospitals and the chambers of commerce, Serum Institute of India (manufacturers of Covishield) did not make any firm commitment on how to provide the doses to these smaller units. Even some of the big private hospitals in Calcutta have not received the doses despite making the payments. Tens of thousands of people, who are awaiting the second dose and others who are yet to receive the first jab, cannot get vaccinated because of the lack of supply. “The chambers of commerce, private nursing homes and the Serum Institute of India discussed the problems of supply to private vaccination centres and we are jointly trying to solve the problem,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, Bengal’s health secretary. Sources said at the meeting, the government requested the representative of Serum Institute of India but there was no firm commitment. “The manufacturer said they will first have to cater to the demands from the governments,” a source said. “The manufacturers are unable to provide enough doses even to the government and bigger private hospitals. So, many smaller nursing homes are waiting to get even their first supplies,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal’s director of health services. Many corporate hospitals, which have units in several parts of India, have centrally placed orders and procured vaccine doses in bulks. But smaller nursing homes, most of whom neither have the financial capacity nor infrastructure to buy more than 10,000 doses at a time, are facing the difficulty. At Friday’s meeting, the nursing homes offered to form a consortium so that they could order in bulk, but that was turned down by the manufacturer. According to rules set by the Centre, no association can procure vaccines other than the governments and private vaccination centres so that  hoarding can be prevented. But, nursing homes said this was causing huge problems for them. “We require eight lakh vaccine doses for one month for 1,600 member nursing homes across the state. Our capacities are less and we don’t have cold chain for bulk supply,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the chairman of, Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association. “The big private hospitals are concentrated mostly in Calcutta and a few in towns like Durgapur and Siliguri. But tens of thousands of people in smaller towns depend on private nursing homes for vaccination,” said Alhajuddin, who is also the owner of The Sun Hospital in Burdwan. His nursing home has administered Covishield to 7,000 people before May 1. “Our nursing home is writing two mails a day to Serum Institute of India, requesting them to inform how we can place orders for 5,000 doses,” he said. Alok Roy, chairman, health committee of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said they were trying to form a consortium of nursing homes so bulk order could be placed. “We are trying to rope in few small nursing homes together and so that the process of procurement becomes less tedious. If so many small nursing homes place orders then it would be difficult for the manufacturers to handle those.” In Calcutta also, nursing homes are facing the similar problem. A nursing home in Ekbalpore had administered vaccines to about 1,000 people till April 30 and since then it has not received any stock. “We have requested for 5,000 doses but there has been no reply,” said the owner. Peerless Hospital has paid Serum Institute about two weeks back, but are yet to get the supply. “We have paid around Rs 76 lakh for 12,000 doses. But Serum Institute is not giving us any commitment,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Phoenix Mills and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board to build largest retail mall ||Mumbai-based upmarket mall developer Phoenix Mills and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board have teamed up to build what could potentially be one of the largest retail malls in Calcutta, promising to host the “best of domestic and international brands”. The mall will come up in Alipore on a 7.48-acre plot located near the junction of Diamond Harbour Road and Judges Court Road and have the potential leasable area of 1 million square foot in the first phase. The project, which will call for an investment of Rs 600 crore (excluding the value of the land), is slated to be ready by the second half of 2024. CPP Investments, which manages funds totalling $ 411.6 billion as on March 31, 2021, is going to have a 49 per cent stake in the venture. The development will also mark the first entry of a national player and a large international private equity fund into the city’s mall space, which has so far been dominated by city-based builders. Real estate experts say the project would be a “big positive” for Calcutta and may attract more national players and institutional investors to look at the city favourably. Phoenix and CPP will channelise their investment through a company called Mindstone Mall Developers Pvt Ltd. Atul Ruia, the chairman of The Phoenix Mills Limited (PML), said the project would establish the company’s footprint into eastern India in association with CPP. “This investment bears testament to the attractive long-term prospects of our robust business model of creating destination consumption hubs in key cities of India,” Ruia said in a statement. Shishir Shrivastava, managing director at PML, explained why the company chose Alipore, city’s toniest neighbourhood, for the upcoming mall. “We believe that the site’s proximity to established and developing micro-markets, through extensive and well-developed civic infrastructure, provides us with ample opportunity to cater to the region’s significant untapped consumption potential,” Shrivastava said in the statement. Noting that Bengal is a significant consumption hub, he continued to add that the mall would be designed by international architects with large and modern open public spaces that would be integral to the customer experience in Calcutta’s largest retail centre. “We intend to host the best of domestic and international brands, representing all categories of consumer wallet spend,” he added, indicating that the mall would host both luxury and premium brands. The plot, which was bought for Rs 300 crore, translates to a price tag of Rs 40 crore an acre. Raghav Bajoria, development director, of PML, explained why it was a good buy at a premium neighbourhood. “The site is strategically located to provide excellent frontage, coupled with superior visibility and connectivity,” Bajoria said. Jitendra Khaitan, chairman and managing director of Pioneer Property Management Ltd, said the mall would potentially cater to a vast catchment area which would extend all the way up to Behala, Howrah and even north Calcutta, thanks to the Maa flyover. “Phoenix is known for their open space development and the mall, backed by a national player and a reputable PE fund, would be a big positive for the city,” Khaitan said. That the city has so far missed the radar of international investors into realty was evident from the comment of the CPP head. “We are pleased to further expand our relationship with The Phoenix Mills, a pioneer in India’s retail property sector, to develop and own a premium retail centre in an underserved market,” Hari Krishna, managing director, real estate - India, CPP Investments, said. The development comes at a time when malls in general are going through rough patch in India. They were among the last to come out from the phased lockdown last year and also first to go in during the sporadic restrictions put up by various states. The planned investment goes to show that developers and fund managers still believe that brick-and-mortar retail story in India is still alive despite the pandemic and increasing consumers’ preference towards online marketplaces, realty experts noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||School principals for continuous assessment in semester system||Several school principals from across the country participating in a discussion on Class XII board exams spoke about how round-the-year assessment of students’ performance will be the new norm. One board exam may increasingly be an uncertain way to grade a student, they said. Principals discussed how it was time to change the “trajectory of evaluation” and suggested continuous assessment in a semester system as a more viable option. “Testing times: implementing Class XII exams during the pandemic” was organised by St Augustine’s Day School (Barrackpore & Shyamnagar) on Saturday evening at a time when thousands of examinees still do not know how they will be assessed before they move to the next level of their academic careers. Assessment pattern A student cannot be tested on “so much of information” at the end of a year or at the end of 12 or 14 years, said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. “It is as if our life is on hold because of one exam. Why?” she asked. “I think it’s time we look and we change our trajectory of evaluation... I feel a semester system with a formative approach of assessment would be better where there is continuous assessment of what the child is learning,” she said. Heads also hinted at the need to effect a change soon because, compared to other (international) boards), the process has already been delayed. “There are boards that are not having to debate this today. Their children are far happier. They are ready. While we, in some of our boards, are having to go through this with our children because I think our pattern of assessment may not be so right anymore,” said Sarkar. The principal of Bishop Cotton School, Bangalore, Edwin Christopher, said: “If the circumstances do not allow the conducting of exams next year, the continuous evaluation and assessment that schools have done will be a benchmark of issuing a marks statement, in other words a visa to get a student into colleges, universities or any of the professional courses.” In store for juniors Principals feel schools will have to be less stingy with marks in internal exams and change their pattern of assessment, too. Responding to a question, Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said: “Most schools do have stricter marking schemes in the selections and pre-boards, which has to change.” “This is a learning curve for all of us: teachers, students and administrations. I think we need to relook at our pattern of assessment in the next four years keeping in mind Classes IX to XII,” she said. Exams 2021 Christopher suggested a “hybrid model”, where a student could be tested on only MCQs (multiple choice questions) for 40 marks. “Have all kinds of questions asked within a time-frame of 40 minutes or 30 minutes...which can be in the form of one mark, two marks,  three marks, four marks as the board prescribes...here I am not talking about the quantum of questions but the quality of questions,” he said. Christopher said that the remaining 40 marks could be in the form of an interview in which students take questions from one or more subject teachers. Several school principals said the idea of not having on-site exams was because no vaccines are available for children yet and the fear of contraction Covid was serious. Ruchi Seth, the principal of Lotus Valley, Noida, said her school had “been warmed by so many experts against on-campus exams”. Need for decision Several school principals said it was rather late in the day to debate and discuss the exams now, when a lot of students have already got offer letters from foreign universities. Sunita George, the principal of Bombay Scottish, Mahim, said that it is important that “there is a timeline which we follow whether we conduct board exams or not”. For students who have already got offer letters from universities abroad, the first step is submission of marksheets or a pass certificate of grade XII. “Many students have got scholarships from very good universities and they are starting their terms in July, August or September... These students are going to lose out in a big way if we do not come out with our results on time, irrespective of what the mode of exam is...” George said. “Unlike last year, a lot of countries today are not as badly impacted as India is. Those countries are going to start their sessions on time. So, it is important that by August or September our children finish all formalities and are in those countries with time to complete the 15-day quarantine period some of them require,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta shaped me as a soldier: Lt Gen. Anil Chauhan ||The General Officer Commanding in Chief (GOC-in-C) of Eastern Command will retire on Monday and two days before Lt Gen. Anil Chauhan hangs up his army boots he said how much Calcutta had shaped him as a soldier. Having spent his early school days at Fort William, Lt Gen. Chauhan said his association with the city has been one of his biggest moments in his long career as an army commander. “Calcutta is one place where my childhood friends still reside. Some 14-15 of them suddenly turned up on Saturday to bid me goodbye. In the army you make friends. But school friends are of a different league altogether,” Lt Gen. Chauhan said. “These are the friends with whom you can share anything, do anything. This will be one thing that I will miss the most.” An art aficionado with keen interest in Tibetan art, Lt Gen. Chauhan draws some of his inspiration from his artist wife Anupama. Early this year when plans were being drawn up in the run-up to the golden jubilee celebrations of the Bangladesh Liberation War, Lt Gen. Chauhan had invited artists from the city and from across the border to celebrate the formation of a new nation on canvas. Since his childhood days while studying in Kendriya Vidyalaya at Fort William, the Maidan has remained with the officer, who grew up to become a warfare specialist in the Indian Army. And so has his love for Bangla.  “I picked up small Bengali books of Class II and III level so that I could relearn what I had earlier,” Lt Gen. Chauhan said. “Bangla aami bhujhtey paari,” the eastern army chief said, breaking into laughter. Lt Gen. Chauhan has authored a book, Aftermath of A Nuclear Attack, which was published in 2010. He has also authored the History of 11 Gorkha Rifles Regimental Centre while commanding the Regimental Centre. After his successor takes charge of the Eastern Command and honours are exchanged, life for the officer from the 11th Gorkha Rifles will find a new course beyond the war rooms. “I will miss Calcutta. But the only thing that will keep me going is that I will continue to be invited every year for the Vijay Divas celebrations as the retired army commander. That will give me an opportunity to return to Calcutta every year,” said Lt Gen. Chauhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Firhad Hakim announces new vaccination schedule for different groups||Firhad Hakim, after a round of meeting with civic officials, on Saturday announced from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters a new vaccination schedule for different groups of people that will begin Monday. Hakim met engineers to discuss waterlogging in some pockets of the city and took calls from Calcuttans on their woes that included a distress call from a family to hospitalise a patient whose oxygen saturation had dipped to 52. Hakim managed to get the patient admitted to a hospital in New Town. He also promised to take up with the state health department the case for vaccinating domestic helps and caregivers for the elderly and ailing after some reporters asked him if these people should also be considered as priority groups for vaccination. Saturday was the first time Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC, attended office at the civic body’s headquarters on SN Banerjee Road since he was arrested on May 17 by the CBI and later put under house arrest on the Calcutta High Court’s order. Hakim and three other politicians were granted bail by the high court on Friday. On Saturday, Hakim entered office around 12.30pm and left around 6.30pm, said an official of the civic body. “From Monday, the ward health clinics of the CMC will administer the first dose of Covid vaccines to those above 60 between 9am and 1pm,” he said. The slot between 9am and 1pm will be reserved only for those who do not book slots through the Whatsapp chatbot. It is meant for those not comfortable with technology and prefer to register in-person at a vaccination centre, said civic officials. “From 1pm to 4pm, vaccines will be administered to those who book the slots through the Whatsapp chatbot. Besides, we will keep vaccinating the priority groups like transport workers, construction workers, lawyers, retailers in markets among others at our dedicated centres meant for the groups,” Hakim said. He also announced that people from outside Calcutta, too, could stay in the safe homes being run by the CMC. Safe homes are where contacts of Covid-positive persons can quarantine themselves if they do not have space to isolate at home. Following Hakim’s arrest by the CBI, Trinamul leaders as well as many common people had criticised the central agency’s decision to arrest the leaders at a time when the Covid pandemic was wrecking havoc. As the boss of the CMC and the state’s urban development and municipal affairs minister, Hakim plays a critical role  in Covid management in the city and across the state. “Hakim took calls from Calcuttans at the ‘Talk to KMC’ phone-in programme for an hour from 1pm. Later, he held a meeting with engineers of the sewerage and drainage department. He visited some places prone to waterlogging last night and asked engineers to plan how to improve drainage in the areas,” said an official of the CMC. “Later, he also attended the daily Covid meeting to take stock of the situation.” At the ‘Talk to KMC; programme, people spoke about problems like the dangers of crumbling deserted buildings during the monsoon and waterlogging issues. While replying to questions from reporters Hakim said: “I will talk to the health department whether domestic helps and caregivers can vaccinated as priority. This problem came before me today. I will immediately talk to the health secretary and see what can be done.” Hakim had held virtual meetings with officials from his home ahead of the Cyclone Yaas last earlier this week. He was under house arrest at that time. The Talk to KMC programme where citizens can directly raise their grievances with the boss of the civic body could not be held last Saturday. “Hakim also signed several filed that were pending,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
