31-05-2021||Calcutta||Alakananda Nag: Some place between past & present||Sometimes it is wiser perhaps to step back and look at what you have done. Especially if it is a book that encloses centuries. After Alakananda Nag was ready with the first version of her book on the Armenian community of Calcutta , she felt unhappy with it, and let it lie fallow for a year or so. Then she made it again. The result is a slim and elegant volume titled Armenians in Calcutta, part photo book, part history. It is covered in blood-red cloth and the front cover does not bear the title, which is on the spine, but a question, debossed, or imprinted on the cloth in relief: “Are the Armenians after all the founders of Calcutta?” The self-published book was launched in February at Printed Matter’s Virtual Art Book Fair and is waiting for an India launch. Alakananda, 43, was unhappy with her first attempt because she felt she was “exoticising” her subject. It is easy to look at the city’s Armenian community with “wonder”, says Alakananda, a Calcuttan who has recently shifted to Goa. They were “the world’s first merchants” who came to India and dominated the trade scene in this part of the world before the British came but has now dwindled into a group of about only 40-45 individuals in Calcutta, and whose past glory and contributions to the city, still glimpsed in ceremonies, institutions and photographs and memories, offer a heartrending contrast to its reduced stature now. It is easy to exoticise such a people. But the camera needs to see more. “I was ignoring the complexity of their lives,” says Alakananda. If she had kept the first version, in which she felt there was too much of herself, “it could have become any other photo book”, she says. Instead it is now an exploration of the community’s past and also a record of its contemporary reality. And a very telling book about the city itself. It opens with a reference to a tomb in the cemetery on which the Armenian church in Burrabazar, possibly the oldest Christian church in the city, was built: “This is the tomb of Rezabeebeh the wife of the late charitable Sookias who departed from the world to life eternal on the 26th day of Nakha in the year 15, ie, on the 21st July, 1630.”  Who was the “charitable Sookias” and how did he come to live in Calcutta 60 years before the British? Armenians trade relations with India are said to have been mentioned in ancient Greek writings. In India, Armenian settlements had appeared in Kerala in the 7th century. Their history was always embattled and India was a refuge. A sculpture commemorating the Armenian genocide by the Ottoman empire during  World War I stands on the church grounds in Calcutta. The conquests of Armenian lands by the Ottoman and the Safavid forces in the 15th century drove Armenians to India. The Moghul emperor Akbar welcomed them. The enterprising community spread to several parts of India, most importantly Bengal, and flourished from the 17th century. In Bengal, Armenian churches are located in Chunchura and Murshidabad too. But Calcutta would become the centre of Armenian life in India. “When they arrived/ Over four hundred years ago/ From Rangoon Julfa Baghdad Yerevan/ Calcutta was the New Promised Land/ Trading in shellac indigo silk opium/ Building the city/ Thriving basking growing community,” writes Alakananda. She intersperses her photographs —mostly black and white, rich in detail and evocative, but unfussy, and captioned — with bits of text written by herself, as she felt that just photographs were not enough for the historical project. The theme of blood runs through the book. One of the standout images is of a glass bottle with a stopper, filled with “red photo colour photographed as blood”. Blood is identity, nation, life, death, she says. The same bottle appears on the back cover. This photograph was printed specially in a Santiniketan studio using a 19th century process that involved shellac, the product Armenians traded. The community was part of the indigo trade too and is said to have played a role in instituting the East India Company in India. Its legacy is complex, as is its present. Alakananda had come in contact with Armenian students as a student of La Martiniere for Girls in the city. The Armenian college in Calcutta, formally Armenian College and Philanthropic Academy (ACPA), which still remains an important centre for the Armenian community across the world, draws students from many countries and holds classes from standard I to standard X. After secondary school, many Armenian students get admitted to the La Martiniere schools, which had a close connection with the Armenian community. But after school, Alakananda had been “in a hurry to leave Calcutta” and went to college in Mumbai. She lived there till 2009, working in ad and feature films, to realise that that was not what she wanted. She gave up her job and returned to Calcutta. During a trip to the US, she discovered her brother’s digital camera. Using it gave her “a high I had never felt” and there was no looking back, only through the lens, though she now also uses a twin-lens film camera now. After studying a course on documentary photography and photojournalism at International Center of Photography (ICP), New York, she returned to Calcutta again. It was a serious homecoming. She even began to love the fish and rice Bengali staple, which she had rejected earlier. From around 2012, she began to photograph the Armenian community. For her, it was also a movement from the moving camera to still frames. The first version of the book was ready in 2018, which she unmade. Photographing the community brought her close to its members. Some of them are now close friends. For her research, she depended on interviews with community members and the archives at the Armenian college library, Asiatic Society, private collectors and again, community members. “But the book is also built around an ‘absence,” she says: an absence of people, of materials. “I chose to stick to what was available in Calcutta. Which was a challenge.” The book features landmarks: the church at Burrabazar — the Armenian Church of Holy Nazareth, as it is formally described, the centre of the community life here; the community home in Park Circus, a house for many. The most illustrious members of the community are remembered: the book comes with portraits of Sir Catchick Paul Chater, a Calcuttan who was a founding father of Hong Kong and who rescued the La Martiniere schools out of a severe financial crisis; of Arathoon Stephen, owner of Grand Hotel, and of the glamorous Gauhar Jaan, one of the first Indian performers to record music. Why should not the Armenians be considered among the founders of the city? Also remembered is Fairlawn Hotel, the haunt of Violet, one of the last prominent Armenians in the city and grand dame, who would host the most famous names from around the world. “Her pearls, red lips, perfectly done hair, stood out in contrast to the half-awake guests at breakfast,” writes Alakananda. A mini fold within the book, like Gauhar Jaan’s, is a gallery of the old boys from the Armenian college. But most touching, if not haunting, are the images of the Armenian community members now. The photograph of a middle-aged brother and sister, Marie and Saco Stephen, at their Chowringhee Lane home with a line of newspapers strung over their heads is moving. So is the photograph of Alvard Nikoghosyan, a young girl from Armenia, a student at the Armenian college. The college, which provides free education, is a little marvel. Now the students have gone home. But before the lockdown, it housed about 60 to 70 boys and girls, a number higher than the strength of the city’s Armenian community. “Parents from Armenian communities in other countries, especially where there is unrest, like Iraq and Iran, send their children here, hoping for a better future,” says Alakananda. A spot of India still acts as a refuge. Among other things. Alakananda also speaks about a video she had made with some community members. “In that the Lord’s prayer is drowned by the sound of traffic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Food for homeless and Kalighat kids||Friends have joined hands to provide one meal a day to the homeless and children of sex workers. The group provides meals to almost 300 people every day, including 20 children of sex workers from the Kalighat area. “Last year, each of us had done something in our individual capacity. But this year we thought that if we come together we will be able to give more to the people,” said businessman Ankur Das, a team member. Das and his friends had in March started a group on social media that would network and arrange for oxygen support, hospital beds and medicines for people in distress. It was from there that they thought of providing food to people affected by the stricter Covid norms that have been in force in Bengal since May 16. The team wants to continue the work even after the curbs are lifted. Das said what started as an initiative of school and neighbourhood friends has now got the attention of several organisations, which want to contribute. The meals are being cooked by a few people who used to work at an eatery in the Lake Market area that is now shut because of the Covid curbs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Two more Covid safe homes in Calcutta||Two more safe homes for Covid patients will be operational from Tuesday. A 125-bed safe home was inaugurated at Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, on Sunday evening. A 50-bed facility was inaugurated on Saturday at Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira by Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, a branch centre of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math. Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, and Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality had jointly decided to start the safe home at the ashrama, said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the ashrama. The safe home, which was inaugurated by industries minister Partha Chatterjee, will primarily cater to patients with mild symptoms and will provide oxygen support. It has oxygen cylinders as well as concentrators. The facility also has doctors and nurses. “We have space on the campus to create such a facility and address the needs of people in this area. Not everyone who contracts the disease has an isolation facility or can arrange for oxygen support at home,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya, the headmaster of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur.  “We will also provide nutritious food to the patients.” The safe home has been set up at Gouranga Bhavan, one of the hostels of the college on the ashrama premises. Swami Sarvalokananda said the health department, South 24-Parganas district administration, Baruipur sub-divisional administration and Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality had taken the responsibility of providing medical and para-medical staff, medicines and oxygen. They will also arrange for sanitisation of the campus. My Children Foundation (an NGO), Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah, the alumni of the school and the college at the ashrama and the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Mukundapur, have extended help in various ways. The safe home at Shilpamandira is about 100 metres from Belur Math. It will cater to patients from the Belur, Bally and Liluah areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Sunderbans thirsts for water||Around 1.2 lakh residents of the Namkhana, Patharpratima and Sagar blocks in the Sunderbans have been struggling to fetch drinking water since Cyclone Yaas, which made landfall last Wednesday, left large swathes of the region flooded and inaccessible. Thousands of villagers from far-flung areas of the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas, who have lost their home and livelihood to the storm, have no option but to walk several kilometres every day to collect drinking water, said forest department officials who are conducting surveys of the affected areas and engaged in relief work. The deep tubewells that became dysfunctional after the cyclone were repaired in the Namkhana block, where around 24,000 people live, the official said. But potable water is still scarce in other areas of the storm-hit Sunderbans. “The tubewells that are functional are too few compared with the number of people who depend on them. Adding to the problem, the rivers are still in spate, making the islands inaccessible from the mainland,” the official said. “We have been walking 2km every day since Thursday, carrying plastic jars and cans, to fetch drinking water from the nearest range office,” said Nilratan Das, a resident of Bhagabatpur village in the Namkhana block. “All deep tubewells at our village are under water. At home, there is not enough water to soak chira (flattened rice).” The Matla river, along with several other rivers in the Sunderbans, had witnessed an alarming rise in the water level during high tide on Wednesday under the combined effect of the full moon and Cyclone Yaas. The surging water breached embankments at many places, leading to flooding of villages and agricultural fields. “The rivers are still turbulent. Speed boats and watercraft are the only modes of communication. But driving them is a challenge now,” said another official of the forest department. On Sunday, parts of Saptamukhi, Patibunia and Kankramari in Namkhana and Ramganga and G Plot in Patharpratima remained out of bounds of agencies involved in relief operations. The South 24-Parganas administration, too, is finding it difficult to reach these areas, officials said. Only some parts of Mousuni island in Namkhana and Ghoramara in Sagar could be accessed. In Kultali, officials from the local panchayat and the forest department have set up a community kitchen for hundreds of homeless people. But even that is too little, officials said . “A few of our beat and range offices have been partly restored so that drinking water can be provided to some villagers,” the official said. "The water level during high tide will start coming down from Monday. Hopefully, we will then be able to start relief operations in full swing with the help of NGOs."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid rule flout fuels concern in Calcutta||A number of people who have tested positive for Covid or are direct contacts of Covid patients are flouting quarantine or isolation rules and some are even stepping out without masks, residents across the city said. During the first wave of the epidemic last year, the city witnessed the other extreme as neighbours tagged and barricaded homes of Covid patients. Public health experts said the sheer number of infected people this time has made it difficult for the authorities and others to identify those who are testing positive. With tens of people testing positive in every neighbourhood every day, even residents are at times unaware who among them are suffering from Covid or have come in close contact with patients. The irresponsible behaviour of some Covid patients and their close contacts, who are stepping out in violation of quarantine rules, at times without masks, is putting the lives of others at risk. Doctors said the coronavirus mutants in circulation in the country are more transmissible than the original virus. A resident of Kasba said he had seen the father of a man who had tested positive for Covid-19 step out of their home every now and then to buy vegetables and groceries. The father was often spotted without a mask. A grocer who the man used to visit later came to know from the domestic help of the family that the father had tested positive, too. Another Kasba resident shared a similar experience. “A neighbour and his entire family have tested positive. Today I saw the man outside his home without a mask. Other neighbours called him up and asked him to stay indoors. We assured him that we will deliver whatever the family needs at their doorstep,” he said. “This is unfortunate. We should not expect the government to do everything on our behalf. As citizens, we have some responsibilities in containing the pandemic. Some southeast Asian nations have managed the pandemic so well because their citizens have acted very responsibly,” said public health specialist Abhijit Chowdhury, who is also a member of the state government’s Covid task force. According to rules, a Covid patient with mild symptoms have to stay in isolation for 17 days from  the onset of symptoms. His or her close contacts have to stay quarantined for 14 days. “No person who has tested positive for Covid should step out. Their contacts should undergo a test on day 5 or day 6 from exposure. The current strain of the virus is highly transmissible. There are multiple examples where all other family members tested positive within a week of the first person in the family testing positive,” said Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist. “If the contacts have any symptoms, they should get tested immediately. Even if they do not have symptoms, it is advisable to get tested on the 5th or 6th day from exposure. The moment someone in the family shows Covid symptoms, the person should isolate himself or herself to reduce the risks of infecting others in the family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: 101 CMC clinics reserve jab window for senior citizens ||Ward health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will reserve four hours in the morning from Monday to vaccinate those who are above 60 and who find it difficult to stand in long queues or book slots using the chatbot technology. While the CMC is working out plans to reduce harassment of recipients, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is administering the doses from only two hospitals, despite having 41 ward offices and six borough offices. This is leading to long queues outside the hospitals. In Calcutta, 101 ward health clinics of the CMC will administer both first and second dose of Covishield to those above 60, between 9am and 1pm. Civic officials said they were expecting “manageable queues” for senior citizens from 9am. Only 100 doses will be administered every day from each of the 101 clinics in the 9am-1pm slot, said a CMC official. From 1pm to 4pm, vaccines will be administered to those who have booked their slots through the WhatsApp chatbot. “A person above 60 who has booked a slot through the chatbot should turn up at the specified time, which will be after 1pm. They should not come between 9am and 1pm because that four-hour slot is reserved for the elderly people who are not in a position to wait in queues or book slots through WhatsApp,” said official in the CMC health department. To start the booking process, one has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. In 41 other ward health clinics across the city, the Covaxin second dose will be administered to anyone above 45. None of the clinics will vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group, except those who fall in priority groups such as hawkers, traders and construction workers. People in the priority groups will be vaccinated at 12 dedicated centres in the city. “A small number of 18-plus recipients who had taken their Covaxin first dose at private hospitals in early May will soon become eligible for the second dose.They have to take the second dose at private hospitals,” the CMC official said. Despite the plans, officials are worried about the turnout during the periods meant for senior citizens. “The vaccination will be on a first-come-first-served basis. We do not want senior citizens to stand in a queue for long. If the queue gets too long, the first 100 will be given tokens and the rest will be asked to come another day,” said the CMC official.  People can get the list of the CMC clinics administering the first and second dose of Covishield and the ones administering the second dose of Covaxin from their nearest civic health clinic. In the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, the only two places where shots are being administered are Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake and Narayanpur Matri Sadan hospital in Rajarhat. “The supply is erratic. We cannot say when we can start giving the first dose to people of all age groups,” said an official of the civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Theft at Raja Rammohan Roy Museum museum, one held||Several brass items were stolen from Raja Rammohan Roy Museum, on Acharya Prafulla Chandra Road in north Calcutta, allegedly when the caretaker was away in his hometown, police said. A man identified as Sanjay Jaiswal, 53, a resident of Kailash Bose Street in north Calcutta, has been arrested for the theft. “The stolen items have been recovered from him,” said an officer. A complaint lodged by the museum with Amherst Street police station on Saturday stated that 16 brass chains (used to secure display areas), seven brass decorative balls, six door handles made of brass, 18 brass handle-holders, 24 brass rings, five brass bolts and Rs 5,000 had been stolen from the museum when it was allegedly left unguarded from May 13 to 29. “We launched a search for the accused as soon as the complaint was filed. It was apparent the thief had scaled the boundary wall of the museum compound,” said an officer of Amherst Street police station. An officer said it was apparent that someone who lives close to the museum and knew that the caretaker of the museum had left for his hometown had committed the theft. Among the exhibits are belongings of Raja Rammohan Roy, including his books, and commemorative items such as stamps related to the 18th century reformist. The police said they were trying to ascertain if more people were involved in the theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Calcutta||‘Old and ailing’ tiger dies in Sunderbans||An “old and ailing” tiger in the Sunderbans died while being taken to a medical camp by a team of foresters on Sunday. A video shared by a forest official shows a guard pouring water into the mouth of the tiger — lying almost motionless on the ground — with his bare hands. The tiger was first spotted near the Harikhali beat area of the Harindanga forest range, under the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, early on Saturday. “The tiger looked extremely weak and ailing. On Sunday morning, it managed to reach near a water body but fell and could not get up,” said an official of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve. The male tiger, aged around 12 years, died while being taken to the medical camp in Sajnekhali for treatment, said the official. “It seems the tiger died of old age and frail health. A preliminary examination did not reveal any marks of injury or any other obvious reason for death,” he said. A video, apparently shot a little while before the big cat died, has been shared widely on social media. It shows the tiger lying on the ground, surrounded by a group of people, with one of them trying to give the animal water. Tigers have the largest canines of all big cat species and a single bite can be lethal. A swipe of a tiger’s paw can crush the skulls of creatures stronger than human beings. But the forest guards surrounding the beast, especially the man pouring water into its mouth, seemed calm and composed. A voice in the video says: “Baagh er gaal e jol dichhi, ki soubhagya (I am pouring water into a tiger’s mouth. I am very lucky).” V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said foresters in the Sunderbans have years of training in dealing with tigers. “Our men had been tracking the tiger for close to 48 hours. We tried to feed it from a distance but it would not eat anything. Tranquilising old and weak animals is fraught with risk. A minor variation in the dose can turn fatal. Our men did the best that they could,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Rs 40 lakh withdrawn from ATMs detached from bank server||Around Rs 40 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from three ATMs of a private bank between May 14 and 22 after detaching the machines from the bank’s server, police said on Sunday. All three ATMs — in New Market, Jadavpur and Cossipore — were unmanned. Investigations revealed that the fraudsters had opened the “hood” of the ATMs and identified the cable that connected each machine to the bank’s server, an officer said. “This is called the ‘man-in-the-middle (MiTM)’ attack that involves inserting a small device in the machine to create a proxy server. The ATM is thus disconnected from the bank’s server and it starts taking commands from the proxy server,” said an officer of Calcutta police. Three such cases were reported in the city between May 14 and 22, the officer said. When a user keys in the secret PIN and the amount he or she wants to withdraw, the ATM sends the commands to the bank’s server through “end-to-end encrypted” communication. “The server reads the command and sends a ‘reply’ to the ATM to validate or decline the transaction. By setting up a proxy server, it becomes possible to get a transaction validated even without connecting to the bank’s server. Once the ATM gets connected to the proxy server, one can withdraw money keeping the bank in the dark,” the officer said. A string of similar cases was reported in Delhi a few weeks ago, following which all banks were asked by the Reserve Bank of India to upgrade their security features in the ATMs and further secure the end-to-end encrypted communication between the ATMs and the banks. An official of the bank defrauded in Calcutta told the police that the management knew that the end-to-end encryption in the communication between ATMs and the bank’s server had been breached and alerted the private company hired to maintain the ATMs. “The company apparently did not upgrade the system,” a police officer said. Sources said the police would question officials of the company. The bank has mentioned in its complaint to the police that Rs 18.8 lakh was withdrawn from an ATM in the New Market area, Rs 13.8 lakh from an ATM in Jadavpur and Rs 7 lakh from an ATM in Cossipore. Sleuths have collected footage of CCTV cameras in the ATMs and adjoining areas. They will also examine the footage of CCTV cameras in the ATMs in Delhi subjected to MiTM attacks. A few years ago fraudsters had used skimming machines to fraudulently withdraw money from several ATMs in Calcutta and duped more than 100 customers who had unknowingly swiped their cards through the skimmers installed in the machines. The skimmers were designed in a way that they collected all data from the ATM cards that were swiped through them. After that, almost all ATMs in the city installed a burglar’s alarm that would be activated if anyone tried to break or tamper with the machine. “From the way the MiTM thefts were executed, it is clear that at least one insider who has full knowledge about the machine’s technology was involved in the crime,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
