08-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG opens city’s first steel utensil bank to eliminate plastics||To eliminate the need for single-use plastics, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has opened the city’s first steel utensil bank in Sector 10, said officials on Monday. Residents who want to do away with the use of single-use plastics can avail steel utensils free of cost at the bank. MCG officials said that the bank will help do away with disposable and single-use plastic utensils, which are used in local community gatherings and weddings.“The opening of a steel utensil bank is a part of our continuous effort to remove plastics from Gurugram. In gatherings, especially at the local community level, disposable or semi-disposable plastic spoons, forks, cups, glasses, and plates are used. With the help of RWAs, local councillors, and active citizens, we will be reaching out to the organisers and offer them our utensils instead,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, MCG.Kuldeep Singh, MCG brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission, said that the bank, which was opened on Sunday, has around 2,000 utensils and the civic body is in the process of opening more such banks in wards 15 and 29 by next month to ensure a city-wide coverage.“Our overall aim is to open such banks at every ward so that there is micro-coverage. Along with the local councillor and MCG officials, we are in the process of opening the banks in wards 15 and 29 by next month,” said Singh.To avail of the service, MCG officials said that residents can contact them at 9599959886 or 9700774213.Brahm Yadav, local councillor of Ward 13, MCG, will collaborate with Buland Awaaz, an NGO, to supervise the bank from his office, officials said.Since December last year, MCG has undertaken various initiatives to remove plastics. The civic body has distributed cloth bags to shopkeepers at the markets of sectors 46, 23, 4 and Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok-1. This was done to make these areas polythene-free and eradicate the need for plastics.MCG’s bank is launched exactly a month after the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) opened its own steel utensil bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-opens-city-s-first-steel-utensil-bank-to-eliminate-plastics-101615227922226.html
08-03-2021||Gurugram||Strong winds help to improve city’s air quality||The city’s air quality remained in the poor category for the second consecutive day on Monday, recording 204 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. However, this was a marginal improvement from Sunday’s AQI reading of 218 in the same category. Experts said that the air quality had improved on account of stronger winds that aided better ventilation. VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) environment monitoring and research centre, said that strong winds had prevailed during the day on Monday, due to which the AQI had improved. “Strong winds with speed ranging between 8-12kmph prevailed during the day, as a result of which some improvement was seen. The skies are clear and easterly winds are prevailing. Winds are not blowing from the dust-prone regions as yet,” said Soni. He added that a further improvement in the air quality could be expected in the next few days. The level of ultra-fine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5) — the city’s primary pollutant — was recorded at 141.12 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 175.05µg/m3 on Monday. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in the moderate to poor category on Tuesday. The AQI is expected to be in the ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ categories over the next five days.While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record either the minimum or maximum temperatures on Monday, the IMD’s AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 20.1 degrees Celsius. The city’s maximum temperature stood at 31.1 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 32 and 16 degrees Celsius respectively on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/strong-winds-help-to-improve-city-s-air-quality-101615227919803.html
08-03-2021||Gurugram||Unsold EWS flats to be auctioned to general buyers||Under a new policy for EWS housing, the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has decided that if the houses meant for beneficiaries eligible under these categories are not allotted despite repeated efforts, then these would be sold to general category applicants through an e-auction.Under the policy for economically weaker sections (EWS), developers have to reserve 20% of the total number of plots in plotted housing projects and 15% of flats in group housing projects. The area of the plots will be between 50 and 125 square metres and the area of flats will range between 200 square feet and 400 square feet, the policy stipulates.In the policy document, the principal secretary of TCP has given a special dispensation for the sale of such units to the open category, as it noted that despite repeated efforts, the housing board of Haryana has not received an adequate response from EWS/BPL beneficiaries in the last two years. As per the new mechanism, the policy states that one last and final opportunity will be given to targeted beneficiaries after which the remaining inventory, if any, may be sold to general open category beneficiaries of the Haryana domicile.The policy, which was notified on February 26, further states that in the future, two attempts shall be made by Housing Board, Haryana, to sell the new properties transferred by developers under the EWS category, to the targeted beneficiaries. “Thereafter, these properties may be sold by the boards to general/open category beneficiaries of Haryana domicile. Sale of all such properties shall be by way of an open e-auction widely advertised on print and electronic media,” it stated.The policy also allows housing units to be earmarked for rental housing.As per an estimate of the DTCP, there are around 50,000 plots and units that have been developed under the EWS category in the past three decades. Earlier, these units were allotted by developers themselves but in 2018, the Haryana government decided that EWS units should be transferred by developers to the Haryana Housing Board, which shall allot these plots and flats to the eligible applicants.DTCP officials in Gurugram, meanwhile, said that this policy would help in increasing housing supply and curb illegal colonisation as a number of buyers of smaller units are buying properties in illegal colonies.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that it would be a wise strategy for the housing board to sell these units to general category applicants if there are not enough buyers from the EWS category, as there is a high demand for affordable units. “As the size of these units is smaller, there would be a lot of buyers for such properties in an e-auction. Also, selling them would give more option to buyers who are end-users and have low buying capacity, particularly in Gurugram, where property prices are higher,” he said.Vinod Behl, a city-based real estate expert said that this policy would increase the availability of such units in cities and attract more interest from all buyers. “The key to the success of this policy is strict monitoring and implementation. This will also boost rental housing for low-income workers, who need such housing, but can’t buy houses in the city,” he said. However, he cautioned that checks and balances must remain effective.Buyers looking for cheaper options and smaller properties, meanwhile, said that it was almost impossible to get an EWS unit without a premium till a few years ago as private developers were engaged in the allotment. “I can recall how hundreds of EWS plots and flats were sold and bought by individuals who were not eligible. The e-auction system would also bring transparency,” said Anup Kumar, a mechanic, who is looking to buy a small unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/unsold-ews-flats-to-be-auctioned-to-general-buyers-101615227919237.html
08-03-2021||Gurugram||Women lead farm protests at Haryana-Rajasthan border||Women farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur-Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border led the protests on Monday, on the occasion of International Women’s Day. Besides the women who are already camping at the protest site, women from various social organisations also joined them to celebrate the day. Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers celebrated the day with folk songs and dances, while the stage and course of events for the day were helmed by women protesters. “Women from various places, such as Alwar, Sikar, and Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan and Rewari and Mahendragarh in Haryana, were a part of our celebrations. Women play a crucial role in strengthening our protest and through the programmes today, we got a chance to recognise their contributions,” said Madhav. Farmers across the country have been agitating against the three contentious farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year, for the past few months. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Nirmala Chaudhary, a 26-year-old farmer from Sikar in Rajasthan, who has been camping at the protest site with her family since last December, said that they had been protesting in the harsh winter conditions and will continue to do so in summer, but the government was indifferent to their struggles. “My family, including my grandmother, have been here since December. Despite all the difficulties, we have persisted. The government should understand that our struggle will not end since our livelihoods are at stake,” said Chaudhary. She said that farmers were facing financial losses since they were camping at the borders, but the government was not taking cognizance of their demands. “We have already suffered so much. Farming is suffering, there is no one to take care of the cattle back home, but the government has left us with no choice but to protest,” she said.Sumitra Chopra, a member of All India Democratic Women’s Association, said that women farmers were a crucial pillar of the ongoing movement and it was only through their support that the movement had continued for over 100 days. “Today, on International Women’s Day, we joined ranks with the protesting women farmers to extend our support to the farmers’ agitation. Along with women who have been camping here for months, we celebrated Women’s Day together. The government should see the unity of women and understand that we are united in our struggle against these unfair laws,” said Chopra. She said that the farm laws posed a danger to the lives and livelihoods of farmers across the country. “The manner in which the government has ignored the interests of farmers shows that democracy in the country is under threat. We appeal to the Prime Minister to roll back these laws or else, the agitation will be intensified further. Women farmers will struggle in tandem with men, but there is no question of giving up,” said Chopra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/women-lead-farm-protests-at-haryana-rajasthan-border-101615227918659.html
08-03-2021||Gurugram||Anganwadi worker felicitated by CM for her Covid relief work||For the last 10 years, Poonam Ghatwal has been working as an anganwadi worker at Aklimpur village of the Badshahpur block in the city. But last year was unlike any other for her. While people were confined to their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic and maintaining strict social distancing, 34-year-old Ghatwal spent her days reaching out to women and children in shelter homes and slums, guiding them on how to protect themselves against the infection. Ghatwal distributed sanitary napkins to women and girls in slums and dry ration to families, who had no source of income due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Ghatwal’s earnest effort made her win state-level recognition from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday at the International Women’s Day celebration in Panchkula. “It was an unusual year due to Covid-19. It was especially challenging for women and children living in shelter homes or in slums. Like others, they too were unaware of the disease and had to be protected against the infection,” said Ghatwal in a telephonic conversation with HT on Monday.“The challenging part was explaining these families about the new disease during the house visits,” she said. “They had questions regarding the need to wear a mask or had apprehensions about the fact that they did not have enough space to maintain social distance. So, we used to tell them about symptoms of the infection and the consequences they might face due to illness.” This basic understanding of Covid-19 management helped her in counselling people, especially reaching out to women. “Women required extra help during the lockdown. Many women and girls could afford to buy sanitary napkins even before Covid-19. But due to lockdown they had no access to feminine hygiene products altogether as they could not move out. It was our task to reach out to women in rural areas and guide them regarding the precautionary norms to be followed,” said Ghatwal, who also distributed masks and dry rations in slums of Badshahpur. “During the afternoon hours, our team used to conduct home visits and distribute dry ration packets to children and families who could not afford food due to the lockdown,” she said. Her constant efforts in reaching out to people helped her clear a state-level exam — one of the steps required to apply for the award. She made her way by appearing for a block-level exam last year by the department of women and child development to test the knowledge and skills of anganwadi workers “The question paper comprised questions related to Covid-19 management at the rural level and various government schemes. After clearing the block-level examination, I appeared for district level exams, where I stood first. Thereafter, I took the state-level exam and bagged the first position,” said Ghatwal. According to her, she has been the first anganwadi worker to win an award for Gurugram.The award consisted of a certificate and a cash prize of ₹21,000. Across the state, 29 women were felicitated, including Harshita Goyal and Santosh Rathod — two women entrepreneurs from Gurugram. Four students from Gurugram were also awarded by the women and child development department at the state level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/anganwadi-worker-felicitated-by-cm-for-her-covid-relief-work-101615227917923.html
08-03-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, officials chalk out measures to achieve monthly vaccination target||Ghaziabad: At the end of the first week of March for the vaccination against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease for senior citizens, the Ghaziabad district saw coverage of only about 7% of its target for March assigned to it by the Uttar Pradesh government. Taking note of the sluggish pace, health department officials said they have chalked out measures to increase coverage.According to official figures, the district covered 6,749 beneficiaries out of its target of 93,480 under senior citizen category from March 1 to March 7, which was seen through at 31 private hospitals and 25 government healthcare facilities. According to directions by the state government, private hospitals are to administer the shots for a minimum of four days in a week while government healthcare facilities are to do the same three days per week, barring the district hospital, which undertakes the drive six days a week.“Given the slowness in the vaccination process, we are trying to increase participation of private hospitals and have communicated to them to increase the daily vaccination coverage, as well as procure more stock. At government healthcare facilities, we have a total of 42 teams deployed while eight more will be roped in soon,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.Going by the state government’s directions, the district was to vaccinate about 3,000 beneficiaries per day this month. The average of 965 beneficiaries vaccinated per day in March so far in Ghaziabad pales in comparison.“We have now planned that the private sector will ensure coverage of about 50,000 beneficiaries while the government sector will cater to about 40,000 of the monthly target in the district,” Dr Gupta added.However, officials said that private hospitals could procure only about 10,000 doses in the first week of March. As per government rules, private hospitals can charge a maximum of ₹250 for the shots while vaccination at government centres is free.In the private sector, the vaccine is administered through hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PMJAY) and hospitals empanelled under the health insurance scheme(s) of the state government.“To augment the engagement of the private sector, we have written to the UP government seeking special permission to rope in four more private hospitals which are not covered under the two categories of empanelled hospitals. Once these hospitals begin administering the jabs, we will have better vaccination coverage which can help meet the target,” Dr Vishram Singh, district immunisation officer, said adding that consent for administering the doses has been received from 35 private hospitals in Ghaziabad so far of which 31 have been allowed. The vaccination drive is almost over for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) who received their first doses and are now in the process of getting a second dose. According to official records, till March 7, a total of 19,269 out of the listed 25,003 HCWs have received their first dose while 14,480 out of these have taken their second dose as well. For the FLW category, a total of 10,592 out of the listed 18,897 have been given their jab and 747 out of these have been given their second dose so far, while more are expected to take it in coming rounds. The Ghaziabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association said the city still lags behind in terms of awareness.“People are still apprehensive of getting themselves vaccinated, besides the fact that the staff of some of the government departments did not take the jab. Just like the health department created awareness about wearing masks, adherence of social distancing, etc., during the initial months of the pandemic, they must now go to the ground level to spread awareness about the vaccines,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of IMA – Ghaziabad. “Private hospitals are trying their best to increase coverage and the IMA is ready to help,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-officials-chalk-out-measures-to-achieve-monthly-vaccination-target-101615226717877.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Domestic help runs away with ₹12 lakh, booked||Noida: The Noida police have registered a case against a domestic help for allegedly stealing ₹12 lakh and around 50 grams of gold from his employer’s office in Sector 4 and running away.The suspect was identified as 46-year-old Raju Rai, who is a native of Sitamarhi in Bihar.Vijay Pandey, security in-charge of the company, filed a complaint at the Noida Sector 20 police station on Saturday. Pandey said in the complaint that Rai worked as a cook in Rajeev Jain’s farmhouse in Delhi’s Chhatarpur for 26 years. “Rai used to come to the office at times,” he said.“Rai visited the Noida office on February 10, 2021. He went inside Jain’s cabin for some work. Jain, who left the room for 15 minutes for some urgent work, asked Rai to stay there till he returns. Jain returned after 20 minutes, but Rai had left by that time. The next day, Jain searched the locker and found out that ₹12 lakh cash and around 50 grams of gold were missing,” Pandey said in the complaint.“We contacted Rai and asked him to report to the Noida office on February 12. However, he left for Bihar the same day, without informing us. We contacted him several times and requested to return, but he refused. Later, we filed a complaint against him,” Pandey said.Later, Pandey found out that Rai was planning to marry his daughter in February-end.Noida Sector 20 police station in-charge RK Singh, who was promoted as the deputy superintendent of police on Monday, said that a case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant). “Primary investigation shows that Rai stole the money and gold, and escaped to Bihar. We will send a police team to Bihar to arrest him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-domestic-help-runs-away-with-12-lakh-booked-101615226657792.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Tackling crime against women, 56 convicted in 3 months: GB Nagar Police on Women’s Day||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police said on Monday that it is “rigorously tackling crime against women”.It felicitated public prosecutors, investigating officials and other police personnel in a programme organised in Noida Sector 108, to celebrate the International Women’s Day on Monday. GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh said the commissionerate system has started a parallel vertical for women safety headed by DCP Vrinda Shukla. “DCP Shukla and her team created a strong vertical and have raised awareness. We also adopted western methods for solving crimes. We also launched a strict enforcement and pursued the case in the court, which resulted in these case convictions,” Singh said. Police said 56 cases resulted in conviction in three months. These are rape and sexual harassment cases, and several under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The police team, through Mission Shakti and Swayam Siddha team, conducted enforcement drives and also arrested over 6,000 people in three months for drinking in public places, Singh added.He said the Gautam Budh Nagar has been selected as a safe city project and 1,500 CCTV cameras will be installed soon. “A data centre will be developed, which will analyse the footage and help in ensuring enforcement,” he said, adding that police are “trying to make Gautam Budh Nagar an international city in true sense”. “There is an immense investment opportunity due to the development of Noida International Airport in Jewar. We have discussed this issue with the Yamuna authority which has planned to set up two women police stations near the airport along the Yamuna Expressway. These initiatives will further empower women, and ensure their safety,” Singh added. District government counsel (DGC Criminal) Brahmjeet Bhati said the coordination between police, administration and legal department has increased in the commissionerate system, which leads cases to conviction. “Police are investigating the cases in a time bound manner, and also collecting evidence and interrogating witnesses. This plays an important role in the convictions,” Bhati said.The Noida police has also selected three candidates for their suggestions in improving women’s safety in the city. Deputy commissioner of police (women safety) Vrinda Shukla said Meena Yadav, Suraj Kapoor and Nidhi Telang were the top three winners. They won ₹5000, ₹3000 and ₹2000 cash prizes.“Yadav will be made assistant commissioner of police (ACP) for a day in the coming week,” Shukla said. Meena Yadav, first prize winner, suggested that the women should be allowed to volunteer with the local police to learn the legal issues and women safety issues. In a statement, the Noida police said that as suggested by Yadav, women would be allowed to do so.A similar programme was organised at a private college in Greater Noida on Women’s Day, where the commissioner, the district magistrate and other officials were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tackling-crime-against-women-56-convicted-in-3-months-gb-nagar-police-on-women-s-day-101615226597771.html
08-03-2021||Noida||International Women’s Day: 1,000 take part in race in Noida||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Monday organised a race for women on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. The event that started at Noida Stadium in Sector 21A saw a participation of around 1,000 women, officials said. “We organised the race to honour women for their courage. We appealed to everyone on this day that they should work on sanitation services, in association with the authority, to make Noida number 1 city in the Swachh Survey 2021. We celebrated the women’s day as swachhta day,” said Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer, Noida authority.The race was held in three different categories -- 1km race for women below the age of 14 years, 2km for age group of 14 to 30 years and another 2km for women above 30 years. In each category, the authority selected five women and gave them prize money -- ₹51,000 for 1st position, ₹41,000 for 2nd, ₹31,000 for 3rd, ₹21,000 for 4th and ₹10,000 for 5th position in the competition. The event started at 7:45am and ended at 12pm, the officials said.The sanitation employees of the Noida authority also participated in the race and were honoured at the event.Meanwhile, the Greater Noida authority on Monday laid foundation of a pink toilet in Alpha commercial belt to celebrate the day. This toilet will be ready in the next three months, said officials.The Greater Noida authority will build eight new pink toilets across the city by the end of this year. Besides, It will build 30 toilets at public places in different sectors, including sectors 20, Alpha 1, and Beta 1, the officials said.“All toilets will be developed on build, operate and transfer model. The private company will recover its cost by earning revenue through advertising boards to be put up at toilets,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The Greater Noida authority is building the toilets under ‘Mission Shakti’, a UP government’s programme that aims to provide safety to women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/international-women-s-day-1-000-take-part-in-race-in-noida-101615226477788.html
08-03-2021||Noida||On women’s day, ‘inquilabi mehndi’ steals the show at farmers’ protest in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Bindu Ammini, a Dalit rights and women’s rights activist from Kerala, was part of a group who sat on a 24-hour relay fast at the UP Gate on Monday, when women took over the reins of the farmers’ protest to mark the International Women’s Day.Hundreds of farmers, women as well as men, have been camping at the UP Gate since November 26 last year demanding complete rollback of the three central farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.“We all are one in the fight against the three farm laws. On women’s day, it is our message not to underestimate women. We have broken caste-related, religious and linguistic barriers to come together to fight for the cause. It is a crucial issue which needs to be resolved,” Ammini said, adding that she wants the country to be rid of any gender bias.She was joined in the relay fast by women from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana at the dais at the UP Gate site, which was managed by women farmer protesters on Monday.The women also applied “inquilabi mehndi” (henna of revolution) to their palms.“This is inquilabi mehndi. This gives out a message that women use mehndi not only to enhance beauty but to bring about revolutions as well. The Prime Minister wished women on women’s day, but they are not listening to us who have been on the road for the past three months,” said Babli Singh, a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) from Hapur, who said she has stayed put at UP Gate since day one of the agitation. She added that camping at open borders around Delhi is tough considering that women face issues of proper toilets, bathing areas and sleeping in roadside tents.Women at UP Gate wrote slogans such as “inquilab zindabad” (long live the revolution) and “kisan ekta zindabad” (long live farmers’ unity), over their palms with henna and started with the activities since early in the day. “On Monday, 18 women observed the 24-hour long relay fast and also applied mehandi on their hands. On this occasion, we have also come up with a ‘women’s point’ where women can engage in creative activities, reading, discussions and exercises,” said Ravneet Kaur, the coordinator of the event at UP Gate. “They told us to go back home. But they won’t be seen doing so when it comes to voting. With active participation from women, this agitation will continue till our demands are met,” she added. Apart from those from neighbouring states, women from far off villages and states such as West Bengal and Maharashtra were also part of the events at UP Gate. Men, meanwhile, prepared gulab jamuns and served it to their women counterparts, who gave speeches from the dais and recited poems. “I think it is time that the Prime Minister comes forward and intervenes, so that a decision is arrived at. Instead of sending ministers time and again during talks, the PM should have come forward himself and the issues would have been decided by now. But we feel that the government sides with the corporates and does not listen to our issues,” said Surinder Kaur, from Rudrapur in Uttarakhand. Seventy-year-old Kala Bai arrived from Satara in Maharashtra dressed in traditional saree. She said that she had come along with her son but decided to stay back after he left.“I farm my fields back home and we have output of 10 quintals, while my sons have their private jobs. There is also an agitation going on in Satara district and when I heard about Delhi, I decided to come here. I was very much impressed by the active participation of women farmers here,” she added. Krishna Adhikari, who is from Nadia in West Bengal and lives in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit was also part of the women’s group at UP Gate. “Farmers in West Bengal know about the agitation going on at the borders of Delhi but there is hectic political activity in the state due to the upcoming elections. However, the agitation will soon spread in states like Bihar and West Bengal and women will also be at the forefront. We have been fighting the patriarchal setup for long and we have shown that we can also fight to take this farmers’ agitation forward,” said Adhikari, who is also the UP president of Akhil Bharatiya Pragatisheel Mahila Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/on-women-s-day-inquilabi-mehndi-steals-the-show-at-farmers-protest-in-ghaziabad-101615226418384.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Women’s Day: GB Nagar admin makes three vaccination booths for women||NOIDA: To celebrate the International Women’s Day, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday made three exclusive vaccination booths for the women beneficiaries in the district. Only female staff were deployed at these booths at the district hospital, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and primary health centre in Jewar, officials said. District magistrate Suhas LY said that to prioritise women for the vaccination drive against Covid-19, the district health department reserved these booths for them. “Women over 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities were administered the vaccine. Even those who had not registered for the Monday’s drive were allowed to get the shots there,” he said. District vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that as many as 251 women beneficiaries were inoculated at the three booths. Health officials said that a total of 4,132 senior citizens and comorbid 45-plus beneficiaries were vaccinated at different booths in 16 government and 26 private facilities on Monday. “Apart from it, 743 health-care workers and 1,475 front-line workers also took their second dose on Monday,” Tyagi said.In GIMS, various programmes, including poster and slogan competition, cancer health camp and self-defence training, were held on the occasion of the women’s day. GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that the medical college has made all efforts to make the environment safe and friendly for female staff and students. Even the private hospitals had made pink vaccination booths dedicated to women. At Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, a booth was specially constructed to honour the women who came to get the vaccine. Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of the hospital, said that employees and doctors of the hospital were asked to come in pink clothes. “A total of 269 people were vaccinated on Monday at the Sharda Hospital. While 214 were given the first dose, the remaining 55 received their second dose of vaccine,” he said. A pink booth – exclusively for women – was also made in Fortis Hospital Noida. “Altogether 230 persons were vaccinated in the hospital on Monday, of which 82 women got their jabs at the pink vaccination booth,” said the hospital’s PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/womens-day-gb-nagar-admin-makes-three-vaccination-booths-for-women-101615226417766.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Air quality improves, minimum temperature rises in Noida||Noida: The air quality of Noida on Monday improved to ‘moderate’ levels as the wind directions changed from north-westerly to easterly, said weather analysts.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while the wind speed slightly picked up on Monday, it’s the direction that mattered. “Noida received easterly winds against north-westerly on Monday. The north-westerly winds bring along with them the vented pollutants from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana, due to which Noida is often at the receiving end. However, this is not the case with easterly winds. This is the reason that the air quality improved for Noida,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday was 192 against 278 (poor) a day earlier. Similarly, air quality of Greater Noida and Ghaziabad also improved on Monday. While AQI of Greater Noida was 196 against 270 a day earlier, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 230 against 329 on Sunday. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. On Monday, the minimum temperature for Noida soared by 3 degrees Celsius (°C) against 4°C at Safadarjung observatory considered average for NCR, as per IMD.The maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida were recorded at 30.8°C and 19.5°C respectively, against 33.3 and 16.3°C on Sunday. The minimum and maximum temperatures at Safdarjung observatory were recorded at 18.9°C (five degrees above the season’s average) and 32.2°C (three degrees above the season’s average). “The maximum temperatures will remain above average, but there will not be any steep rise till March 13 due to another western disturbance. Thereafter, the maximum temperature for Noida may rise to 35 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava added.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may deteriorate over the next 24 hours due to poor wind speed.“Surface winds are east-northeasterly and moderate. Lower-level winds are likely to be easterly-northeasterly for the next three days. A marginal decrease in surface winds is forecasted for the next 24 hours. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate but in the higher end of the moderate to poor category for the next two days. An increase in dust concentration is likely in the coming days,” said a SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-minimum-temperature-rises-in-noida-101615226298418.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Noida airport Phase I to cost ₹5,730; NIAL calls it ‘economically feasible’||GREATER NOIDA: The estimated cost for the development of the first phase of the Noida International Airport in Jewar will be ₹5,730 crore, said Zurich Airport International AG, the concessionaire of the project.In a statement issued on Monday, the Swiss company said that its term loan was rated stable by the India Ratings and Research which assigned an ‘A’ to its proposal. The project will be funded in debt:equity ratio of 65:35 with ₹3,724 crore to be raised through debt, and ₹2,006 crore as equity, the company said.The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the project, will get over 1,334 hectares of land to commence the construction work in Jewar by June this year. It is estimated that 44% of the estimated cost will be spent on establishing the terminal.Officials of the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the nodal agency for the project, said the stable rating assigned to the term loan of the concessionaire shows that the project’s debt structure is suitable and financially sustainable for all investors and stakeholders. “The ratings indicate that the Noida International Airport is economically feasible. It also reiterated the fact that the state government is committed to support the project, and make it sustainable and the best infrastructure,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, NIAL.The Swiss firm will provide 40% of its share upfront — that is little over ₹800 crore. Once all the conditions of the project are fulfilled, YIAPL will get three years to flag off the first commercial flight from the airport.Last week, NIAL and the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration started the process of rehabilitating families affected due to the project. It is likely that the land will be handed over to the YIAPL in three to four months, the officials said.While evaluating the YIAPL’s proposal, the rating agency was of the view that the “hybrid till approach” shall augur well for the company. Only up to 30% of the non-aeronautical revenues (parking, rentals, food and beverages, among others) can be used to cross-subsidise aeronautical charges under the hybrid till approach, which was introduced in the aviation sector in India in 2016, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-airport-phase-i-to-cost-5-730-nial-calls-it-economically-feasible-101615226297775.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Residents complain of poor water quality in Noida||NOIDA: Residents of several areas in the city have complained about the poor quality of drinking water being supplied to households. They also complained of low water pressure and said that the Noida authority should look into the issues related to drinking water.The situation is worse in urban villages such as Barola, Nagli Wazidpur, Sorkha and Harola, said the residents.“We face issues of poor quality of water and also of low pressure. The Noida authority provides only groundwater in our village. We have to buy bottled drinking water as the authority has failed to supply Ganga water to the village,” said Deepa Chauhan, a housewife from Nagli Wazidpur.Similarly, residents of a high-rise in sector 74 have flagged concerns of poor water quality in the past one week, while that of sector 45 highlighted the low pressure problem on Monday morning.“The groundwater is hard in most of the sectors and it tastes salty. We have demanded that the authority should supply Ganga water for drinking purposes in all sectors. In some sectors, the authority supplies groundwater mixed with some Ganga water which is not enough to make it sweet. We have been demanding for 100% Ganga water for a long time,” said PS Jain, president of Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Associations (Conrwa), an umbrella body of RWAs.Noida authority officials said that multiple issues have resulted in inconvenience to the residents. “I will get the all complaints addressed properly. There are issues of hardness, but we are addressing these issues properly. We are mixing Ganga water with groundwater to supply good quality drinking water. In villages like Nagli Wazidpur, we will start supplying Ganga water once our pipeline laying work is finished,” said RP Singh, deputy general manager of water works department.Singh also said that over the past one month, supply of Ganga water was disrupted since a new network was being laid down along the Delhi-Meerut Expressway in Ghaziabad.In Noida, only 40% residential areas get supply of Ganga water, according to official records. Sectors 128, 129, 130, 132, 133, 134, 135, 150 and 151, among others, depend only on groundwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-complain-of-poor-water-quality-in-noida-101615226237854.html
08-03-2021||Noida||Noida entrepreneurs raise objections as discom serves advance electricity bills||NOIDA: To meet its revenue target for the current fiscal, the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), has served electricity bills in advance for the month of March to nearly 10,000 entrepreneurs in the district who have commercial or industrial power connections. The discom has also made it clear that in case of non-payment, connections will be snapped.Usually, the discom issues the monthly bills after the end of the month, on the basis of units consumed. So for instance, for power consumed during February, the bill would be sent in the first few days of March, and the last date would be the last date of March. This time, however, the bill has been sent for February as well as for March, and the last date of payment is March 31, 2021.Kulmani Gupta, president of the Noida chapter of Indian Industries Association (IIA), alleged that the power supply company has been “targeting” Noida entrepreneurs since long. “Does the responsibility of the discom meeting its fiscal target rest with entrepreneurs? On one hand, businessmen struggle to file their taxes to save themselves from being blacklisted by the government while on the other, power companies target them in order to catch up with their revenue targets. We’ve raised this issue with the government to save Noida entrepreneurs, who have already suffered huge losses due to the lockdown,” he said.He added that how the advance bill has been calculated is beyond him as it is more than the monthly bill usually raked by a respective enterprise per month.“Even their calculation method for advance bills is not uniform. For the advance bill for the month of March, they have added a little more than the amount of bill for February,” Gupta said.Officials, meanwhile, maintained that serving advance electricity bills to entrepreneurs is not a new phenomenon. “We have been sending advance electricity bills in the month of March every year to these (commercial) consumers since the past five years. Advance bills were issued even in March 2020, but the discom withdrew it due to lockdown last year,” Virendra Nath Singh, the PVVNL’s (Noida division) chief engineer, said.The PVVNL has over 2.5 lakh domestic and nearly 50,000 commercial/ industrial consumers.He further said that since the PVVNL has to meet the stipulated target of collecting revenue of ₹400 crore, it has issued advance bills to nearly 10,000 commercial consumers. “The advance bill given to them varies between ₹5,000 and ₹5 lakh, which is not very whopping or unusual, considering their monthly consumption. Also, we have made clear that all advance amounts paid will be compensated in the electricity bills of April 2021,” the chief engineer said, adding that no advance bill has been issued to any domestic consumer in the district.When contacted, state energy minister Shrikant Sharma confirmed that the matter has come to his knowledge. “I’ll look into it and after discussion with officials, an amicable solution to this problem will be given by the government,” he said.Surendra Nahata, the chairman of the Noida Micro, Small and Medium Entrepreneurs’ Association (MSMEA), said that the discom issues such advance bills every year, with the warning of disconnection. “However, officials finally make it optional. The disconnection drive has never taken place over non-payment of advance bills. This year, too, it is not going to happen as the matter has been brought to the notice of the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-entrepreneurs-raise-objections-as-discom-serves-advance-electricity-bills-101615226177770.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Leader of opposition slams govt over financial mismanagement||Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, while initiating a debate on the state’s budget for the year 2020-21, slammed the government for financial mismanagement. Agnihotri said that the state’s 2021-22 budget presented in the state assembly by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur indicated the bankruptcy of the state government. He said all important issues had disappeared from the budget and there was no mention of where gap funding will be from. The Congress leader alleged that on one hand the government cited the high traditions of the House and on the other hid everything from the house. He said that there was neither a mention of the debts on the state in the budget nor a provision for money to implement the recommendations of the pay commission for employees.Agnihotri said the budget was full of flights of imagination. “A debt of ₹61,567 crore has been incurred by the state and by the end of this year it is expected to mount to ₹70,000 crore. By the time the term of current regime will be over, the state would be under an estimated debt of ₹85,000 crore. The contribution of the Jai Ram Thakur-led government to the debts will be ₹35,000 crore,” said Agnihotri. The leader of Opposition said there was no mention of generating resources and income in the budget. “Where did the money go when nothing was spent last year due to the pandemic. As per the economic survey, the state has gone into negative growth,” he said. The government’s budget is based on borrowings, he said, adding that most of the 1.25 lakh employees of the state had been depressed due to the budget. “Neither the contract period was reduced for employees nor any provision made for a new pay scale,” Agnihotri said. He also accused the state government of discriminating with daughters. The Shagun scheme discriminates against girls on the basis of caste. The scheme should be extended to the girls of all categories. The Congress leader termed the 30,000jobs announced in the budget as the biggest scam in the future of the state and asked the saffron party to remember the fate of former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leader-of-opposition-slams-govt-over-financial-mismanagement-101615225878367.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||38 Rajasthan MLAs take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine||Seventy-seven people, including 38 MLAs, took their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Monday at the Rajasthan Assembly.Minister of State for Higher Education Bhanwar Singh Bhati said the country and the state are on the verge of being liberated from Covid-19 but the number of infections has started increasing."Therefore, I will urge the people of the state that there are no side effects. Everyone should get vaccinated," Bhati said.Minister of State for Medicine and Health Dr Subhash Garg said the general public was becoming fear-free as ministers, legislators and public representatives were getting vaccinated.Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore got the vaccine first. He was followed by former Speaker and MLA Deepender Singh Shekhawat, legislators Babulal Nagar, Amin Khan, Rajkumar Sharma, Narayan Singh, Balwan Poonia, Gyan Singh, J P Chandelia and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/38-rajasthan-mlas-take-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-101615224994619.html
08-03-2021||Other||Portal not updated: State shows no deaths, but dist health office report 13 fatalities in Pune||PUNE Confusion over updating of portal has state showing no deaths, but dist health office reporting 13 fatalities in Pune Due to an issue with updating the portal, the state health department reported no deaths in Pune district on Monday, while the district health office reported 13 deaths due to the Covid-19 infection.As per the state health department, Pune district reported 1,395 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 4,22,557, of which 3,95,386 have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,141. A total of 19,030 active cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “The difference is due to portal updation. The district office will update it in a day or two and it will be reflected in the state tally.” As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 248 new cases which takes its count to 1,01,005, with a death toll of 2,165. Pune city reported 782 new cases which takes the progressive count to 2,15,804, while the death toll stands at 4,591 PCMC reported 365 new cases, taking the progressive count to 1,05,748. The death toll stands at 1,336. The state also saw 9,068 patients discharged which takes the discharged total to 20.77 lakh Covid-19 patients, after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.21%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.36%. Currently, 4,41,702 people are in home quarantine and 4,098 people are in institutional quarantine.100% vaccine targetOn Monday 24,387 beneficiaries out of 24,286 got vaccinated in Pune, including first and second doses. Of the 24,286 who got the jab, 16,505 were senior citizens who got their first dose; and 1,965, were those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities. Also 3,543 were healthcare workers and 2,273 were frontline workers. In the past three days the district has reported over 100% vaccination against the target set for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/portal-not-updated-state-shows-no-deaths-but-dist-health-office-report-13-fatalities-in-pune-101615223297668.html
08-03-2021||Ranchi||NHRC notices to Jharkhand govt, ministry of social justice over delay of pension||The NHRC has issued notices to the Jharkhand government and the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment over reported "delay and denial" of pension and "diversion of funds" meant for senior citizens, widows and the specially-abled, officials said on Monday.In a statement, the rights panel said it has taken cognisance of a media report, and observed that the contents of it, if true, raise a serious issue of human rights violation."The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the basis of a media report has observed that it appears the funds became a bone of contention between the Centre and the government of Jharkhand for a considerable period resulting in denial or delayed payment of financial assistance under various schemes, including the old-age pension and Covid relief payments under the Pradhan Mantri Gharib Kalyan Yojana, PMGKY, in the state," it said.Reportedly, since July last year that is in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, which disrupted the livelihood of lakhs of people across the country, the government of Jharkhand "stopped distribution" of pensions to nearly 10 lakh eligible widows, senior citizens and specially-abled citizen across the state, the statement said.Issuing notices to the Jharkhand government through its chief secretary and the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment through its secretary, the commission has expressed concern as to how the money received from the Centre under one head, was reportedly utilised for another head, "resulting thereby in denial of basic need for survival of the poor people", the statement said.The NHRC has also expressed concern over a "reported huge gap" between the beneficiaries on the roll, and those actually getting the pension under various categories. The state government and the ministry have been given six weeks to submit a detailed report, it said.The statement said that the media report highlighted the case study of a 62-year-old small farmer, with a meagre income, who had to borrow more than ₹10,000 from relatives to pay his hospital bills when his leg was fractured in Ukamar village in Latehar district in July last year.But for five months after his fracture, he did not receive any pension money of ₹1,000 per month, as per his entitlement under a central government scheme for senior citizens, it added.Reportedly, all the eligible persons are not being paid pension despite protest by people for long. There is a huge gap of about 64 per cent between the beneficiaries on the rolls, and the ones who are actually getting the pension under different categories, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/nhrc-notices-to-jharkhand-govt-ministry-of-social-justice-over-delay-of-pension-101615222214643.html
08-03-2021||Dehradun||Amid speculations of change in leadership, Uttarakhand CM leaves for Delhi||Amid the speculations related to change in the leadership of the Uttarakhand government following a sudden core committee meeting of the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday, the political temperature in the state again soared high after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat left for Delhi to meet the party's central leadership on Monday morning.Rawat had to attend a few programmes on Monday on the occasion of Women's Day, including one in the summer capital of Gairsain but they had to be cancelled due to his Delhi visit. In the national capital, the CM is expected to meet national BJP president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah.BJP leaders said that the CM left for Delhi with a few party MLAs loyal to him and would apprise the central leadership of the political situation in the state. They refrained from commenting whether he would be replaced although speculation was rife in the state capital about his possible replacement in the next few days.Also read: India's first forest healing centre inaugurated in Uttrakand's RanikhetEarlier on Saturday, after the sudden core committee meeting presided by state unit observers including former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh and state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, party state president Bansidhar Bhagat tried to douse the speculations of leadership change by saying that the meeting was to discuss the events for the completion of four years of BJP government ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. However, after Monday's development, the buzz around changing the CM again gained momentum.According to a senior party official who didn't wish to be named, "the CM left for Delhi in the morning at around 11.30 where he would meet party national president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah. He is accompanied by a Cabinet minister and a party MLA who are considered to be his close aides."He said, "His visit is significant considering the fact that the central leadership is likely to decide on the change of the CM in the next few days. The two observers who chaired the meeting had submitted the report to the national leadership who will now take the decision."However, amid the speculations, the CM, while talking to media before leaving for Delhi, said all the buzz has been created by the media."It has all been created by media. I am going to Delhi to meet the central leadership after getting their time for the same," said Rawat.Meanwhile, with sudden developments in the BJP state unit, most of the party leaders are tight-lipped, refraining to speak on the issue.However, a senior party office-bearer in the state said, "There are chances that the CM may be changed in the next few days with former CM and present Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj among the front runners for the position."On Saturday's core group meeting, Nishank had also come down to Dehradun where he met Raman Singh at the capital's Jolly Grant airport."Nishank's close aides have started saying that he is soon going to be the chief minister. Meanwhile, Maharaj is also believed to be vying for the chief ministership for which he had met several national leaders in the past few months as his equations with CM Rawat are not good, a fact which is known to all," said the leader.He added, "Even if the two aforesaid leaders are the frontrunners, the party is in a fix because to balance the caste equation in the state leadership. The state president Bansidhar Bhagat is a Brahmin and CM Rawat is a Rajput. Hence, a new CM would also have to be a Rajput because both party state president and CM cannot be Brahmins."With the "All is not well" situation in the state BJP, there are also reports that the CM could try to douse the fire by making the appointments on the three vacant ministerial positions in the state government by accomodating senior party MLA Vishan Singh Chufal who reportedly wrote a letter to the national leadership along with 13 other party MLAs demanding the CM to be removed citing their unhappiness with "CM's style of working.""It is possible that to control the damage, CM Rawat could make the appointments by accomodating Chufal and another MLA from Kumaon region Balwant Singh Bhauriyal. The remaining one position could be filled by Vikasnagar MLA and CM's close aide Munna Singh Chauhan," said a party leader privy to the developments.Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress attacked the BJP for creating a political uncertainty in the state in "hunger for power among its leaders."Former chief minister and Congress national general secretary Harish Rawat said, "What is happening in the BJP right now is a deplorable game of power for which they are ready to push the state in a state of crisis leaving the people to suffer."Rawat said, "BJP is reaping what it sowed during my previous government in which it took away three senior leaders from Congress by wrongful means and made them ministers in their current government. Now that move is biting them back."The BJP, however, denied the speculations about any leadership change even on Monday with party state president Bhagat saying, "CM Rawat would discuss the events on March 18 to mark the completion of four years of this government and the election strategy for upcoming state assembly elections to be held in 2022."If CM Rawat is replaced, he would join the league of former chief ministers in the previous governments in the state who failed to complete their full tenure of five years except for the first CM of the state ND Tiwari in then Congress government who succeeded in completing the full term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/amid-speculations-of-change-in-leadership-uttarakhand-cm-leaves-for-delhi-101615221653574.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Avg. daily ridership of Delhi Metro at 10 lakh, down from 57 lakh pre-lockdown||Before the COVID-19-induced lockdown last year, the average daily passenger journeys covered on the Delhi Metro was nearly 57 lakh, which has plummeted to about 10 lakh at present due to social distance norms in place, according to the Delhi Economic Survey report 2020-21 presented on Monday.As per directions of the government to check the spread of coronavirus infection, Delhi Metro train services were suspended from March 22 onwards in 2020. From September 7, services were resumed in a graded manner, in compliance with all the COVID-19 safety norms.Journey or line utilisation is calculated by the number of corridors passengers use to reach their destinations."Before the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the average daily passenger journeys on the Delhi Metro was about 57 lakh (including the Airport Line and Rapid Metro in Gurgaon)," as per the latest Delhi Economic Survey report.Post resumption of services, all steps were taken, e.g. maintaining social distancing, no-cash transactions, tokens not allowed, and running of more trains during off-peak hours, for ensuring safety of passengers, it said."Due to social distancing norms, presently average daily passenger journeys has decreased to about 10 lakh (including the Airport Line and the Rapid Metro in Gurgaon)," the report said.This new metric of daily average 'journeys' is being used by the DMRC authorities since mid-2018. Prior to that, the DMRC used to assess average daily ridership to count volume of traffic across its network.The Economic Survey report also said the average daily line utilisation in Delhi Metro was 50.64 lakh during the year 2019-20.In Delhi, the metro trains run from 6 AM till about 11 PM. The train frequency varies from two minutes and 44 seconds during peak time, up to 10 minutes in non-peak hours, it added.On the Phase-III work, the report said, work on the remaining stretch from Mayur Vihar Pocket I to Trilokpuri, is now scheduled to be completed by March 2021, and extension to Dhansa Bus Stand is scheduled to be done by September 2021.Completion schedule of these two stretches has been modified due to the impact of nationwide lockdown to check the COVID-19 pandemic, it said.The Phase-IV work of Delhi Metro project has been approved by the Delhi government, and three priority corridors have been sanctioned by the Centre.Work on the elevated sections of the corridors has also been started. For underground sections, the process for obtaining JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency) loan is in progress. Progress of work at site for these lines was also affected due to the lockdown. As per the advice of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, a revised DPR (detailed project report) for the remaining three corridors, has been prepared and under submission for the approval, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/avg-daily-ridership-of-delhi-metro-at-10-lakh-down-from-57-lakh-prelockdown-101615220270787.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra daily Covid-19 cases drop by 2,397; death toll reaches 52,500||Maharashtra recorded a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases on Monday, with 8,744 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the state’s health department said. There were 11,141 new infections on Sunday, 10,187 on Saturday and 10,216 on Friday, according to data. The western state’s tally stands at 22,28,471 and with 22 fatalities, its death toll has gone up to 52,500.The drop in Covid-19 cases comes in the backdrop of a reduction in the number of tests. Maharashtra tested 70,941 people in the past 24 hours - a drop of 20,294. The state’s Covid-19 bulletin on Sunday said that the state tested 91,235 people out of which 11,141 had tested positive.The number of people recovered from Covid-19 went up slightly with 9,068 patients recovering from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. The overall recovery rate in the state is currently at 93.21%. The number of active cases in the state is currently at 97,637 while the case fatality rate is currently 2.36%.Mumbai, which reported more than 1,000 cases daily last week, has 9,373 active cases. The city reported 1,014 fresh Covid-19 infections, which is slightly lower than 1,361 cases reported on Sunday, taking the tally to 11,508. The number of deaths remained below five over the past two days. Mumbai has reported 11,508 deaths due to Covid-19 so far.Pune and Nagpur districts reported a large number of active cases with Pune reporting 19,030 and Nagpur 12,291. Pune and Nagpur have reported 39 and 49 deaths respectively. Thane also reported a high number of active Covid-19 cases. The district currently has 10,397 cases and reported 31 deaths in the last 24 hours.Amaravati, Aurangabad, Akola and Jalgaon districts have more than 4,000 active cases. Nashik’s active cases also remained close to the 4000-mark as the district reported 3,884 active cases. Gadchiroli currently has the lowest number of active cases in the state with 169 cases followed by Gondia, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, all of whose number of active cases are below 300.On Monday, the Union ministry for health and family welfare pointed out that Maharashtra contributed 59.90% to the total number of daily new cases reported across the nation. The state’s health ministry has asked people to follow Covid-19 preventative measures in order to stop the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-by-2-397-death-toll-reaches-52500-101615220869781.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Survey: 69 per cent of students not satisfied with online lectures, demand reduction in syllabus||A total of 69 per cent of students are not satisfied with online lectures, according to a study conducted by a mathematics teacher in Mumbai. The students will be appearing for their class 10 and class 12 board exams this year through the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE).Dineshkumar Gupta, a maths teacher from Mumbai included 1,58,601 students from all 36 districts of Maharashtra in his survey.The students responded to the survey from March 4 to March 7, earlier this month.The study revealed that only eight per cent of students were satisfied with online learning. Only 11 per cent of students admitted that 100 per cent of the syllabus was taught to them in this academic year whereas 14 per cent of students admitted that only 50 per cent of the syllabus has been taught to them.A total of 20 per cent of students said that they have prepared 50 per cent of the syllabus all by themselves.Gupta who conducted the survey said, for rural students, the lockdown ended in November.“Online education was underway but many-faced problems like availability of smartphones, network. Many students faced a multitude of issues that have caused them distress,” said Gupta.Gupta also shared that it is possible to reduce the syllabus more, however, the board denied it.“There is a possibility of reduction of the syllabus for classes. The reduced syllabus is not completely 25 per cent. If we look at the CBSE, the reduction of the syllabus was uniform and so Maharashtra can also do that,” said Gupta.Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE said that the board cannot publish a list of possible questions for the examination.“The board cannot publish the questions and the syllabus will not be reduced for students. Also, taking the online examination for all students is not feasible. The numbers of students appearing for the board exam are around 30 lakh. The online examination at this scale is not possible to be conducted,” said Patil.Gupta added that many students have considered taking a drop due to the current scenario.“The data reveals that 33 per cent of students said yes and 44 per cent said no to dropping out. In such a situation, the authorities should take a quick stand to resolve the issue faced by students,” said Gupta.The survey highlights that 61 per cent students want an online examination, however, the board is not in a position to hold an online exam for 30 lakh students.Only 19 per cent of students want an offline examination to be conducted and 84 per cent of students have agreed that their syllabus should be further reduced.A total of 74 per cent of students have agreed that the exam pattern should be changed keeping the current situation in mind. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide parents’ association said that many students want online examinations or a pattern that includes online as well as offline examination for evaluation.“Class 10 and Class 12 are both important years for students. In such a case, students are not satisfied with online teaching. Many students have told us that they want online as well as offline examination to ensure that there is some balance. Moreover, many have requested a question bank and demanded that there should be a leave between two exam papers. A lot of students do not want practical exams. Instead, they are willing to do an assignment which can be evaluated instead of practical exams as they have not practised any practical this time,” said Sahai. In such a scenario, Sahai added that students are distressed and unsure about the exams which are scheduled in less then a month now.The Survey resultsAre you satisfied with online lectures?Fully Satisfied: 8%Partially satisfied: 1%Not satisfied: 69%Can’t decide: 22%Which mode of examination would you prefer?Online: 61%Offline: 19%Any: 20%Do you agree more syllabus should be reduced?Yes: 84%No: 7%May be: 9%Do you think the exam pattern be changed with the current situation in mind?Yes:79%No:10% Maybe: 12%Due to the current scenario, are you willing to take a drop?Yes:33No:44Maybe: 23If the exams are offline, do you have a mode of transport available?Yes: 27%No:53%Maybe:20%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/survey-69-per-cent-of-students-not-satisfied-with-online-lectures-demand-reduction-in-syllabus-101615220417508.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Born to climb: Eight-year-old Toshika treks seven forts in 15 hours 30 minutes||With solid determination and indomitable grit, eight-year-old Toshika Patil trekked seven forts in a day with a time duration of 15 hours 30 minutes. Patil, a resident of Nashik was under the guidance of Ruturaj Agawane, director of Bucketlist adventure and also received support from Rohan More, an international swimmer. Patil completed this landmark milestone on March 1 and before achieving the feat, she trekked Kalsubai with her family. It was decided to try and achieve the seven forts after the enthusiasm and stamina she displayed while trekking Kalsubai. “I was enjoying myself while climbing all forts. I felt a little tired after climbing three forts on a trot but I took some rest in the afternoon which boosted my confidence and I finished the milestone,” said Patil who also is a student of Karate. The climbing was started from Tikona fort in Maval, taluka at 5.30 am in the morning followed by Tung, Korigad, Lohegad, Visapur, Manaranjan and Shrivardhan. “After the third fort, we had a doubt whether she would be able to continue but after taking a two-hour rest, Toshika was ready to climb forts again,” said Dr Apeksha Patil, Toshika’s mother. Agawane who is an experienced climber made sure that Patil does not face fatigue and gets adequate rest between forts. “All the four of us were travelling in a car which allowed her to take rest in between. Physically Patil is strong and she is more matured than eight-year-olds are and that makes the difference. She even enjoyed climbing during the night,” added Agawane. Since the age of three, Patil enjoyed going uphill at temples and her parents never carried her on their shoulders. “Even when she was small, she used to walk on the steps of Jejuri temple. In the morning she does yoga, and she also loves to do cycling,” added Tushar Patil, Toshika’s father. Agawane added, “We will be active in climbing of forts. In the future, we will plan to take her on a big trek to see how she responds. If she continues to show her interest, then she could be a good mountaineer in the future.” Umesh Zirpe, president, Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh (AMGM) “It is a good achievement and now I suggest that she takes professional training in mountaineering and move step by step ahead into the world of adventurous sports.” Box Forts conquered by Toshika Fort; Height; Timings; Total hours Tikona; 3,500 feet; 5:30am to 6.38am; 1hr 8minutes Tung; 3,527 feet; 8am to 9:35am; 1 hr 35 minutes Korigad; 3,028 feet; 11.15 am to 12.33pm; 1 hr 18 minutes Lohegad; 3389 feet; 2.33 pm to 3.29 pm; 56 minutes Visapur; 3,553 feet; 3.48 pm to 5.15 pm; 1hr 27 minutes Manaranjan; 2700 feet; 7.15 pm to 8.07pm; 52 minutes Shrivardhan; 3000 feet; 8.07pm to 8.59pm; 52 minutes *Of the 15 hours and 30 minutes Toshika was climbing for 7 hours and 44 minutes while the remaining time was spent reaching the destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/born-to-climb-eight-year-old-toshika-treks-seven-forts-in-15-hours-30-minutes-101615220297478.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan teen confined for a week, says 12 including minor raped her: Cops||A 17-year-old girl in south Rajasthan was abducted and raped by nearly a dozen men over eight days, a senior police officer in Kota district said on Monday after arresting three key suspects.A woman, being described as an acquaintance, had lured her to travel to the adjoining district of Jhalawar on February 25 to get her a school bag as a gift, according to the girl’s statement. But the woman handed her over to 3-4 young men who confined her in different locations of Jhalawar where she was gangraped by strangers.The girl filed a police complaint after the woman brought her back to Kota from the adjoining district of Jhalawar on March 6. She is on the run.The rape survivor was later admitted to Kota’s Government New Medical College Hospital. She is reported to be out of danger.Sharad Chaudhary, superintendent of police Kota Rural, said the teenager came to the police station with her mother the same day. She could identify three persons who were allegedly involved in her abduction and confinement. The three have been arrested, Chaudhary said, adding that efforts were on to identify the other accused.The teenager told the police that she wasn’t kept confined in one place in Jhalawar but was moved from one house to another. She was repeatedly raped by different men through these eight days."All the 3 accused named in the FIR have been arrested while the rest 9 accused are still unidentified as the victim does not know them", Chaudhary said. The two adults have been identified as Shahrukh, 22, and Raja Khan, 20.The district police have formed three teams under Paras Jain, the additional SP Kota Rural who is leading the investigations.A police officer said they were also trying to ascertain why the rape survivor’s family did not file a missing report after she did not return home on February 25 or if there was negligence at any level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-teen-confined-for-a-week-says-12-including-minor-raped-her-cops-101615219746316.html
08-03-2021||Pune||State govt fails to act on Dange committee report on fee restructuring||After a conflict ensued between students, parents and the school and college administration over the payment of fees last year, the state government appointed the J P Dange committee to restructure the fees. It was an attempt to review the existing fee structure of colleges in the state, however, the recommendations have not been considered by the state government. The committee submitted its report last year in September, as students were demanding to reduce gymkhana, library, canteen and other expenses from the fees. The recommendations by the committee have neither been considered nor made public. Student organisations are now demanding to immediately take action on it as a large number of students are not taking admission for this academic year due to high fees. “As schools and colleges are closed for the last year, various infrastructural things like the library, laboratory, gymkhana, canteen and many other things are not being used by students. However, most colleges have not waived off these fees. Students from rural parts of the state are already suffering financially and on top of that paying such high fees is not possible for them. So, we were repeatedly demanding to review the fee structure, and accordingly, this committee was formed, they submitted their report in September last year and still, nothing has been done,” said Amar Ekad, president of Cops students’ organisation, Maharashtra. According to Ekad, there are a large number of students who are not taking admission for their desired course just because of the high fees. “The committee report should be made public, and we have the right to know what recommendations have been given, and why the implementation is delayed. We are continuously following up on this issue and until students get justice from the hiked fees we will not stop our fight,” he added. Kedar Jamane, a student said, “I wanted to take admission for MBA in finance this year, but when I approached the desired college, the fees were too high. I cannot afford the fees and lectures will be online until the government allows offline lectures. So why should we pay more fees for college infrastructure if we are not going to use it? At least for this year, there should be some concession given to students over fees.” Dhanraj Mane, director of state higher education department said, “We have not yet received any directives about it, once we get any order it will be worked upon accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-govt-fails-to-act-on-dange-committee-report-on-fee-restructuring-101615220237457.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar proposes ₹40 crore sugar museum in Pune||In a first of its kind, the Maharashtra government has decided to construct a sugar museum in Pune at the cost of ₹40 crore.Finance minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Monday, made the announcement on the floor of the house. Pawar said, “It is proposed to set up a sugar museum at Sakhar Sankul located at Shivajinagar in Pune. The cost of the project would be ₹40 crore. The museum will provide information on the progress made in the sugar industry in Maharashtra along with sugar and ancillary industries.” The museum will be a permanent exhibit and will show how the sugar industry in Maharashtra helped transform the rural economy and generate employment. A maximum number of sugar factories in Maharashtra are run by the cooperative sector which increases sugar production. The sugar industry has evolved with time and has even changed the cropping pattern. After it is complete, the sugar museum will educate people and create awareness about rural economy and how sugar comes to their home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-proposes-rs-40-crore-sugar-museum-in-pune-101615220117659.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar approves land acquisition for MSRDC’s Pune ring project||Finance Minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday gave a nod for the Pune Ring Road project and approved land acquisition along 170 kilometres of area. The total project cost of this road is ₹26,000 crore and will be constructed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). A total of 1,822 hector land is required for this project. The MSRDC had already floated the request for proposal for selection of the consultant for providing assistance in land acquisition proceedings and related activities for the construction of the ring road. Pawar said in his budget speech, “A large number of passengers and goods are transported from other parts of the state as well as from the Konkan, Marathwada and North Maharashtra via Pune. This puts a huge strain on the traffic of Pune city. To avoid this, it is necessary to undertake the construction of the ring road around Pune in order to save fuel and time. For this, the work of the Pune ring route will be taken on an eight-lane circular road with an estimated cost of ₹26,000 crore. The total construction will be around 170 km and the land acquisition work will be undertaken this year.” MSRDC stated, “The Pune ring road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune Metropolitan region, the decision was taken on June 2007. In the earlier stage, the proposed ring road was widening of the existing outer ring road but later it is modified and decided to align away from the city considering future growth and development of the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR).MSRDC proposes development in two packagesPackage 1: 90 kilometres starting from Khed Shivapur on NH4, popularly known as Satara road and culminating at Urse on Mumbai-Pune Expressway via Bhivari (Pune Baramati Road), Wadki (Saswad Road), Theur (Solapur Road), Lonikand (Ahmedngar Road), Kuruli (Nashik Road) and Talegaon (Old Mumbai Pune Road)Package 2: 85 kilometresKhed Shivapur (Satara Road), and culminating at Urse on Mumbai Pune expressway via Malkhed (Pune Panshet Road), Muttha Village (Pune- Lavasa Road), Ghotavade Phata (Paud Road).BOX 2Details of land acquisition(Eastern Part- Phase 1)Taluka/ villages affected/ area in HectorsMaval/9/171.71Khed/10/298.53Haveli/15/291.40Bhor/5/141.48Purandar/7/165Western Part - Phase 2Bhor/5/108.10Haveli/9/239.96Mulshi/14/272.41Maval/6/133.45Total 80 villages will be affected, and land required is at 1,822.24 hector||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-approves-land-acquisition-for-msrdc-s-pune-ring-project-101615220057465.html
08-03-2021||Pune||51-year-old car owner booked for death of two-wheeler rider||A 51-year-old man was arrested for causing the death of a 44-year-old from BT Kawade road area of Pune. The deceased man was identified as Nagsen Vishwambhar Nagtilak (44), a resident of Pawar Enterprises colony along BT Kawade road in Pune. The arrested man was identified as Anil Mandhare (51), a resident of Mahadevnagar, Manjari in Pune. He was arrested and later released on bail. The incident happened at 9 am on Sunday when the 44-year-old was riding a two-wheeler along Pune-Solapur Highway. The rider was headed towards Theur from Shewalewadi phata in Hadapsar when Mandhare rammed his car into the two-wheeler. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ketan Savane (23), the nephew of the deceased man. The complainant claimed that the car rammed into the motorbike from behind, causing him to fall and sustain grievous injuries. A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 279, and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132(1)c, 184, and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Hadapsar police station against the driver. Assistant police inspector Manoj Patil of the Hadapsar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/51yearold-car-owner-booked-for-death-of-two-wheeler-rider-101615219997458.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Maharashtra government allocates ₹302 crore for Pune metro||The Maharashtra government on Monday allocated a total of ₹490 crore for the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro) of which ₹302 crore is for Pune, and Rs188 crore for the Nagpur Metro. The state government allocated Rs188.95 crore for the ongoing Maha Metro Nagpur Phase-I project the state budget tabled today by Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar for the financial year 2021-22. Similarly, the state government allocated ₹302.19 crore for the Pune Metro rail project. Thus collectively, the state government allocated ₹491.14 crore for the two projects for 2021-22, said Maha metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-government-allocates-rs-302-crore-for-pune-metro-101615219937481.html
08-03-2021||Pune||47-year-old duped of ₹5 lakh in online fraud||A 47-year-old woman from Camp, Pune was duped of ₹5,00,500 by people who approached her through a social media profile. The transactions happened between June and August of 2020 during the lockdown months. The woman got a call from what the police believe to be multiple accused persons in the case. The woman was lured into sending ₹5,00,500 through multiple transactions in order to receive gifts from America. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at the Lashkar police station. Police inspector (crime) S Jambhale of Lashkar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/47yearold-duped-of-rs-5-lakh-in-online-fraud-101615219817456.html
08-03-2021||Patna||Bihar CM loses cool in council, asks RJD leader to 'follow rules'||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday lost his cool in the legislative council during the question hour and advised Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) member Subodh Kumar to follow the rules while he asked for supplementary.The incident took place when Kumar posed a supplementary to the rural works department's Jayant Raj over a starred question of the fellow party member Mohammad Farooq, who sought to know as to how long the department would take to improve the condition of Katsari (Sheohar)-Parsauni (East Champaran) road. Farooq alleged that the condition of the road, along with others in the area, had been deplorable for the past three months.The chief minister stood up on the chair barely after Subodh Kumar sought to pose a supplementary and said that the minister had replied in agreement, and apparently asked the RJD members to hear the reply and then put up the supplementary.However, Subodh Kumar refused to sit and contested that the ministers usually take many supplementary questions together and reply. “This has been the usual convention and more supplementary questions are posed by the treasury members,” the RJD member contented.Also read: Women take centre stage in Bihar Assembly, seek higher representation“You (Subodh Kumar) should know the norms. You sit down...” said the CM, asking RJD's senior Ram Chandra Pubey, who was sitting by the side of Subodh Kumar, to apprise him about the rule.Working chairman of the council Awadhesh Narayan Singh also requested Subodh Kumar to stay quiet and sit down but refused to oblige him and kept on arguing with the CM.The CM said that it was not the way to behave. “Would you keep arguing when I am speaking? You don’t listen,” said the CM, adding that the rulebook states that those who put up the original question are allowed to ask the supplementary question first. “You (Subodh) are allowed to ask once the minister replied to the supplementary to the main questioner. I don’t have any objection to anybody but I stand up to remind the rule when it’s observed in the breach,” said the CM.The chair, however, intervened and normalized the charged atmosphere in the House.In November last year, CM Kumar burst out in anger in the assembly when opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav had alleged that the former was involved in a murder case and a case of plagiarism was lodged against him by a JNU student. Taking all those present in the House by surprise, Kumar was seen standing up and screaming “jhooth bol raha hai yeh (Tejashwi is lying)”.The working chairman, when contacted in his chamber, refused to comment about the rules, saying that he did not comment on issues about the House.Talking to media persons later, Subodh Kumar said that the CM had reached the age where he should take retirement. “The CM gets inconvenient when the RJD members question the conduct of his ministers and ask for his clarification,” said the RJD member.Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra said the way the CM is losing his cool does not suit his image and the dignity of the post he holds. “Everyone in the House is empowered to question the government and every member has his self-respect. The CM’s conduct in the House appeared odd,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-loses-cool-in-council-asks-rjd-leader-to-follow-rules-101615217222914.html
08-03-2021||Gurugram||A Sultanate period tomb now serves as a village centre||Nestled in the midst of modern constructions and mustard fields in Gumat Bihari village is a historical tomb that dates back to the 14th or 15th century AD. The structure, located nearly 90 kilometres from Gurugram in Nagina block of Nuh district, stands out from afar due to its towering presence but navigating through the mesh of modern constructions to reach the tomb can be a tough task for history lovers and heritage enthusiasts.The village, residents said, grew around the tomb and hence, derives its name Gumat (tomb) from the structure. A narrow pathway leads to the tomb that is spread over nearly three to four acres.Little is known about the history of the tomb that stands out due to its unique three-tiered structure. The tomb demonstrates architecture from the Sultanate period, as per experts, and stands on an arched basement that serves as a platform for the upper structure of the tomb.Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director of the department of archaeology and museums, said that the tomb demonstrated the influence of Pathan infrastructure. “The architectural influence of the structure dates back to the Sultanate period (14th-15th century). This type of architecture is identified as Pathan architecture. The tomb is huge and unique, in terms of architecture,” said Bhattacharyya. She said that the structure was made of heavy stones, rubble and brick, and undergone renovations.On the outside, the tomb is decorated with niches that are now stuffed with hay and cow dung cakes. Intricate carvings and squinch work adorn the interiors of the tombs both on the first and second floor. The tomb is home to two unmarked graves. While one of the graves is located on the first floor, the second is within the basement, said locals. The grave located on the first floor is inscribed with verses from the Quran on all sides in multiple colours, mainly red, green and blue. While inscriptions have faded over the years, parts of the Arabic font remain legible.There are four sets of stairs, one at each corner. While three open into a closed balcony, one of them goes up to the first floor. The second floor of the tomb structure comprises a dome that is surrounded by turrets on all sides. Initially, six turrets stood around the dome. Due to damages sustained over the years, only two turrets remain at present. The interiors walls of the second floor have also been defaced with graffiti.“From the architecture, one can see that the place was renovated from time to time in the past. We can’t be sure if the first layer is the basement or the ground floor since the road height has increased over the years. It’s possible that back then, the current basement was the ground floor and hence, had sufficient space for people and animals to cross across the town,” said Bhattacharyya. She added that the basement of the structure consisted of a path for facilitating the movement of horses.Abdul Wahid, a 60-year-old resident, said that while the background of the tomb wasn’t known, it was crucial to the village’s origin. “Centuries ago, the gumat used to be very grand. Our forefathers used to tell us that horses and camels would pass through the tunnel in the basement. There is a tomb in the basement too. People from far off come to see it. We don’t know who got it made,” said Wahid.He said that the place was surrounded by sprawling gardens on all four sides in its early days but that these had vanished with time. “This place was surrounded by gardens and wells on all four sides. Now, two wells remain but they are dry. Back then, women from surrounding villages would come to rest on the ground floor while men would occupy the first floor as this place stayed naturally cooler. People did not have cooling facilities or electricity then,” said Wahid.At present too, locals often occupy the tomb complex during summer days. “During the summer, it’s relatively cooler here. It is used for holding panchayats and important gatherings,” said Ishfaq, another resident, who goes by his first name.Parul Munjal, associate professor at the Sushant School of Art and Architecture, said that historical structures from that time period were designed in a manner to beat the heat during summer. “The use of construction material, the thickness of walls and the high ceilings of such structures are among the factors that ensure they stay cool when it’s hot outside. Similarly, during the winter months, such places are likely to be warmer, ” said Munjal.Ibrahim Hussain Khan, 66, who owns a shop in the vicinity of the monument, said that locals used to offer namaz inside the tomb many decades ago. “When we were growing up, people used to offer namaz here. This was nearly 50 years ago. Even I have prayed here,” said Khan. He said that the portions of the tomb were used by local residents for storing hay or cow dung cakes.Fifty-five-year-old Fareeda, who visits the tomb daily for tending to her cows, said that while the basement of the complex was being used by locals for sheltering cows, they would willingly clear the premises if the government was ready to take responsibility for the tomb’s upkeep and repairs. “The government should get the tombs repaired and restored so that people can visit our village for tourism. It is our historical legacy, and we want people to know about it,” said Fareeda, who goes by her first name.The structure has sustained considerable damage over the years due to the vagaries of nature and human intervention. Portions of the dome and the basement and the peripheral walls are broken in parts. Over the years, locals have used brick and mortar to cover up two of the gateways that open into the inner enclosure of the tomb. A gate has also been installed to ensure that trespassers do not access the dome of the tomb.According to the villagers, a government school used to be run on the structure and later, housed an anganwadi office until about five years ago. Since then, the place has remained unoccupied and is taken care of by the villagers, who use the premises for holding village council meetings.Over the years, locals have reached out to authorities seeking protection of the monument but to no avail. “We have made many efforts to get this place cleaned and reached out to MLAs, but no steps have been taken. Around two months ago, a delegation of 20 people met the local MLA to request him to get this repaired but apart from mere assurances, no concrete step has been taken,” said Wahid.Intezar Aalam, a resident, said that villagers had approached the district administration multiple times seeking urgent intervention for protecting the monument. He said that locals fear that the structure would get encroached if steps for its upkeep are not taken immediately. “Earlier this month, I filed a fresh plea at the CM window seeking support from the government for the upkeep of the tomb. The tomb complex is an important part of our local history but has received no attention. We want the government to develop this place as a tourist spot so that our present and future generations can appreciate its importance,” said Aalam.Nuh’s deputy commissioner, Dhirendra Kharagata, said that he had learned about the presence of the heritage structure and the administration had made an initial inquiry about its present status. “Neither is the structure under the watch of ASI (Archaeological Survey of India) nor the state department of museum and archaeology. We need to check the historical value of the structure and reach out to appropriate agencies to see if the protection of the structure is their mandate. If neither the ASI nor the state departments are able to act, the district administration will try to work out a solution,” said Kharagata.He said that there were a number of similar structures in Mewat and the administration was trying to gather information about them. “Local organisations are helping us in collecting information. We have tied up with some of them,” said Kharagata.In response to an email query, Ashok Khemka, principal secretary of the Archeology and Museums Department, said that the department will get the heritage structure and its protection status re-examined. “This was examined and not cleared at the level of director earlier. I will get it re-examined,” said Khemka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/a-sultanate-period-tomb-now-serves-as-a-village-centre-101615217537372.html
08-03-2021||Other||PMC seals 3 city labs over incomplete Covid-19 reports||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sealed three private laboratories in the city, following incomplete Covid-19 reports presented by these laboratories. The three labs are Metropolis labs, Suburban diagnostic centre and Krsnaa Lab. There was no official response from the labs till the time of going to press.The laboratories will not be able to test any samples for Covid-19 in the city, henceforth. The letter sent by the civic body claims that the labs failed to provide the complete addresses of the positive patients, which hampered contact tracing by the civic body and could lead to more cases in the future. Earlier, the civic body had raised this issue, that private labs are not providing reports on time, and with incomplete information, leading to delayed contact tracing. The civic body had sent an official letter to these labs on February 25, asking for an explanation and telling them to follow the state government guidelines. The civic body, in its letter, mentions repeated conversation with representatives from the labs, despite which they have refused to follow the guidelines. “In some cases it has been found in the reports that only “Pune” is mentioned as the location, which hampers the contact tracing process and could further lead to a surge in the number of cases,” the letter states. The letter, informing the labs of their closure, has been signed by PMC additional Commissioner Rubal Agarwal and is the under the Epidemic diseases act and the Disaster management act. It was submitted to the labs on March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seals-3-city-labs-over-incomplete-covid-19-reports-101615217357283.html
08-03-2021||City||Assam's ruling alliance, opposition fronts keep choice of CM candidate open||With parties announcing their first lists of candidates and filing nomination papers, the race for the Assam assembly polls has begun. But neither the ruling coalition nor the opposition alliances seem sure of who will head the next government in the state.Despite having an incumbent chief minister in Sarbananda Sonowal, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has not projected him as the party’s choice for the top post. This has led to speculations on whether it’s a poll strategy or something else within the party.On Friday, when the BJP’s first list of 70 candidates was announced in New Delhi, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said the decision on the chief minister candidate would be taken by the party’s parliamentary board after the election.The BJP, which came to power in Assam for the first time in 2016, is contesting the polls in alliance with the old ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), which is contesting 26 seats, and new ally United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) which will put up candidates in eight seats.“The decision on the chief minister is taken by the party parliamentary board after the election. We announce a CM candidate in states where we are not in power but in those where we are in government, we don’t do that. We will abide by whatever decision the party takes on this,” Assam BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass told NDTV on Sunday.Also read: CM Sarbananda Sonowal says people of Assam eager to bring back BJP-led govtIn 2016, the BJP had projected Sonowal as the CM candidate, this time around, there are speculations that the choice is open between him and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who is the convener of BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a regional front of anti-Congress parties.Sarma had earlier declared that he was not interested in contesting the assembly polls and had intimated his decision to the party leadership. As a caveat, he had added that any decision on him contesting would be taken by the party and he would abide by it.While Sonowal would be contesting again from Majuli this time, Sarma will continue with his home constituency of Jalukbari. There are rumours that if Sonowal continues as the CM for another term, Sarma could be given a place in the Modi-led government at the Centre or if Sarma is given the charge, Sonowal could head to Delhi."There is a tussle between Sonowal and Sarma for the CM's post and BJP doesn't want to risk its election campaign by projecting one or the other as the face for the top post at present. Though the party is quiet on this tug of war between both leaders, it is clearly getting visible that Sarma is increasingly being projected as someone who can lead the campaign as well as take charge after the polls, if required," said Akhil Ranjan Dutta, political columnist and professor of political science at Gauhati University.On the other hand, the Congress-led grand alliance, which comprises the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), three Left parties and a newly formed regional party, has also decided not to put forward the name of a chief minister candidate.Bickering within Congress’s senior leaders as well as differences with allies on a choice for the top post is believed to have forced the grand alliance to keep the decision on the CM in abeyance till after the polls.The regional alliance of Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), which were formed last year as an outcome of the violent anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019, have also refrained from naming a CM candidate. While the AJP is headed by Lurinjyoti Gogoi, jailed activist Akhil Gogoi is the president of the Raijor Dal.The election in Assam will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assams-ruling-alliance-opposition-fronts-keep-choice-of-cm-candidate-open-101615214726805.html
08-03-2021||Other||₹70 lakh “Shivkalin park” to be built at Sinhagad fort||PUNE Soon Punekars will be able to get a feel of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj era when visiting Sinhagad fort.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun the work on a “Shivkalin park” at the fort. This park will come up near the samadhi of Narveer Tanhaji Malusare and a budget of ₹70 lakh has been allocated for this. Also, a historical “selfie point” is going to be developed at the park. PMC corporator Dilip Barate, who has taken the initiative to carry out the project work, said, “Sinhagad fort is one of the historical places in Pune and we need to conserve it properly. We have carried out various works on the fort, like developing the samadhi of Narveer Tanaji Malusare. Also the entire history of Sinhagad fort, the battle and Tanaji Malusare’s bravery has been depicted here.” “Nearby there was an open piece of land where this new “Shivkalin” garden will now be developed. A budget of ₹70 lakh has been sanctioned by the PMC, the tender has been passed and work has started. Also a historical selfie point will be built here for tourists coming to the fort,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-70-lakh-shivkalin-park-to-be-built-at-sinhagad-fort-101615216277249.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Dharavi logs 18 fresh Covid-19 cases; highest spike in nearly 5 months||Dharavi on Monday registered 18 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which pushed the caseload of Asia’s largest slum to 4,166, a senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) told news agency PTI. Monday’s case count has been the highest in nearly five months, according to data.Prior to Monday’s tally, Dharavi had seen a spike in Covid-19 cases twice this year. Sixteen people were found out to be positive for the disease on February 26, which had been the highest since October last year. And on February 24, Dharavi saw 10 new cases or the highest since mid-January this year. As many as 3,764 people have recovered till now while the active cases have climbed to 86.Dharavi, which has a population of more than 650,000 and is spread over an area of 2.5 square kilometres, had set an example across India of containing the pandemic in its peak during which Mumbai and the entire state of Maharashtra had become the worst-hit areas. The first coronavirus disease case in Dharavi was recorded on April 1 last year, more than two weeks after Mumbai had seen its first patient of the viral disease.On October 23, 2020, 18 cases were added to the area’s tally and after that, the numbers went down significantly. Fifteen people were detected as Covid positive on December 3. On December 25, Dharavi saw no cases since the beginning of the outbreak. While on January 17 this year, 10 more cases were found and after this day, the daily count remained in single digits. On February 2, Dharavi saw no cases for a second time and cases were in the range of (0-5) in the first week of the month. However, the overall Covid-19 situation has been worsening in the region since the second week of February.Amid the worrying trend, BMC pointed out on Monday that Covid-19 cases were increasing because aggressive testing had started on all suspected patients again. “We are aggressively testing as many people as possible to curb the spread,” a ward officer of the civic body told PTI. The official also said that teams were ‘specifically identifying’ crowded areas including religious sites and making sure that adequate tests were performed there.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-dharavi-logs-18-fresh-covid-19-cases-highest-spike-in-nearly-5-months-101615215460692.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Batla House encounter: A timeline of the 2008 case||A Delhi court on Monday held Indian Mujahideen terrorist Ariz Khan guilty of killing inspector Mohan Chand Sharma in the 2008 Batla House encounter. Khan, whose sentencing has been scheduled for March 15, was arrested at the Banbasa border point between India and Nepal in 2018 after being on the run for 10 years. The Batla House encounter, which took place in the Okhla area of the national capital, led to the death of Delhi Police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma while two other officers sustained injuries.Khan, who is a native of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, is also said to be the mastermind of the 2008 serial blasts across Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh in which 165 people lost their lives and 500 people were injured.Following is the series of events leading to the Ariz Khan’s conviction in the Batla House encounter case:September 19, 2008: An encounter takes place at L-18 Batla House in Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, six days after serial blasts ripped through the capital killing 30 people, between a raiding team of Delhi Police special cell and suspected IM operatives. In the encounter, Delhi Police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma loses his life. Ariz Khan, Shahzad and Junaid escape. Two suspected terrorists, Atif Amin and Mohammed Sajid, are killed in the shootout and one suspected IM operative, Mohd Saif surrenders.January 1, 2010: Shahzad is arrested from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh.April 2010: A charge sheet is filed in a Delhi court in the case which says that the encounter was part of a probe into September 13, 2008, serial blasts at Karol Bagh, Connaught Place, Greater Kailash and India Gate. Junaid is declared a proclaimed offender.February 15, 2011: Court frames charges against Shahzad of murder, attempt to murder, conspiracy and various other sections under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).July 20, 2013: Court reserves judgement in the case.July 25, 2013: Court holds Shahzad guilty of murdering inspector Sharma and assaulting other police officers.July 30, 2013: Court sentences Shahzad to life imprisonment.February 13, 2018: Ariz Khan is arrested at the Banbasa border point between India and Nepal. Khan had shifted base to Nepal after absconding in 2008.March 8, 2021: Ariz Khan is convicted. His sentencing is scheduled for March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/batla-house-encounter-a-timeline-of-the-2008-case-101615210961908.html
08-03-2021||Pune||State okays Pune-Nashik railway plan||Pune: Ajit Pawar, Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister, has okayed the pending Pune- Nashik railway project in his annual budget 2021-22. Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal, managing director, Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (MahaRail) said, “The state has approved the Pune-Nashik railway project. Once we get the requisite approval from the central government’s cabinet committee and the Prime Minister’s office (PMO), the work would start on ground. We have already begun land acquisition process for the project.” Pawar said, “The proposed length of the medium high speed railway line is about 235 km and 24 stations are planned on the route. The speed of the train will be 200 km per hour and the expected cost of the project is Rs16,039 crore.” Shirur MP Amol Kolhe said, “For the last one year I was following the project and gave a presentation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Pawar. Post the Covid outbreak, we were worried about land acquisition issues, but the state’s approval will push the plan forward.” Port plans get green signal Pune airport The government has given administrative and financial approval for the construction of a new International airport at Pune. Shirdi airport Work is in progress on a new air traffic control tower, flight service at night and passenger facilities at Shirdi airport Solapur airport The process for land acquisition for greenfield airport at Boramani, Solapur district, is underway Kolhapur airport Work is in progress to widen the runway of the airport at Ujalaiwadi, Kolhapur, and for night flights||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-okays-pune-nashik-railway-plan-101615213997152.html
08-03-2021||Bangalore||Congress terms Karnataka budget as 'hollow'||The Opposition Congress on Monday dubbed the budget tabled by Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in the assembly as 'hollow' and one which does not supplement development. "This is not a budget that supplements development. It has no vision or target. Its a hollow budget," opposition leader Siddaramaiah told reporters. He said budgets presented so far in the state had allocated funds department wise, but it had been done away with this time and divided into six sectors. "Dividing the budget into sectors will not help understand how much is to be spent department wise," the former chief minister said, adding, that there were no adequate statistics in the budget and it lacked transparency. Earlier in the day, the Congress had staged a walkout ahead of the tabling of budget, alleging that the BJP government was 'carrying a bundle of sins' and has no moral right to continue in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-terms-karnataka-budget-as-hollow-101615211430480.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi government says 87.8 lakh Covid-19 tests done till Dec 31, 2020 in Outcome Budget||A total of 87.8 lakh Covid-19 tests, including 31.3 lakh RT-PCR ones, were conducted till December 31 last year as part of the Delhi government's strategy of aggressive testing to combat the pandemic, according to its Outcome Budget presented on Monday.The national capital has reported over 6.41 lakh cases of the coronavirus so far.The Delhi government's 'Outcome Budget' for 2020-21 was presented by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday, showing the education, health, public works and environment departments as top performers."As on 31st December 2020, which is the reference period for this status report, a total of 87.8 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted which included 31.3 lakh RT-PCR tests. At its peak, over 90,000 tests were conducted per day, which is not just the highest tests per capita for any city or state in India, but also globally," as per the city government's performance report.In the report, the deputy chief minister was quoted as saying that the government believed that the "only way to stop the spread of this virus is to test aggressively" and isolate those found infected in a timely manner, before they can spread the virus to others."Just as a comparison, when Delhi was testing at the rate of 4,400 tests per million population daily, Kerala which was second highest in tests in India, was testing at the rate of 2,300 tests per million daily whereas the all India average was 1,300 tests per million daily," the report said.For aggressive testing, the Delhi government set up 330 testing labs and centres at its hospitals, dispensaries and Aam Aadmi mohalla clinics. Out of 87.8 lakh tests, 6.25 lakh patients were found positive which translates into 7.12 per cent positivity rate, for that period, as per the Outcome Budget.Also, up to December 2020, 6,09,322 patients had recovered from Covid-19 whereas 10,536 patients lost their lives. The fatality rate of Delhi in this period stood at 1.68 per cent, it said.Responding to the surge in cases during this period, the Delhi government had innovated and created the "world's first home isolation programme", the report claimed.The Delhi government also ensured timely augmentation of hospital infrastructure by rapidly increasing Covid-19 designated beds in response to rising number of cases and to reduce mortality, as per the report."Including government and private facilities, the Delhi government ensured that 135 dedicated Covid hospitals, 15 quarantine, dedicated Covid Care Centres and six Covid Health Centres, with a strength of 18,718 beds, 8,273 beds and 882 beds respectively, were made available to the people of Delhi," it said."In all, 1,79,241 patients needed hospitalisation and were admitted in these quarantine Covid Care Centres, health centres and hospitals. It is a testimony to our sound planning that at all times, despite three waves, total number of Covid beds were more than twice the number of cases," the report said.Also, 496 Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics (AAMC) have been established up to December 2020, against the target of 750 clinics. On an average, each AAMC handles 97 patient visits per day, it said.According the Delhi economic survey, on the healthcare sector front, the government also said that the sanctioned bed capacity in medical institutions in Delhi is 54,321.About 14,000 new beds are planned to be added by way of completion of ongoing, new projects and remodelling or expansion of existing hospitals.Also, per capita expenditure on health in Delhi has increased from ₹1,996 in 2014-15 to ₹3,029 in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-says-87-8-lakh-covid-19-tests-done-till-dec-31-2020-in-outcome-budget-101615208906990.html
08-03-2021||Patna||Women take centre stage in Bihar Assembly, seek higher representation||On the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday, Bihar Legislative Assembly witnessed woman legislators cutting across party lines and raising their demand for increased participation of 33 per cent in the state Assembly as well as Lok Sabha.Bihar was the first state to give a 50 per cent quota for women in the panchayats. Some women members stated it was high time for the state to allow a 50 per cent quota for women in the legislative bodies to add meaning to the slogan of equality in society.The women's reservation bill has been pending in Parliament for nearly a decade and a half.As soon as the House assembled, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha congratulated the woman legislators and spoke about the big strides women have made in different fields. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary suggested that women be given greater opportunity to ask questions and preside in the second half o the women’s day as a mark of respect. He said the kind of work the Bihar government has done for women empowerment is an example for not only the country but is also appreciated across the world.Also read: Bihar slow to push generic drugs using PM’s Janaushadhi projectWith the woman legislator empanelled in the list of presiding officers absent at that time, the senior-most member present in the House, Gayatri Devi, was asked to preside in the second half. Though several women legislators were not present in the House, all their questions were taken up first out of turn and most of the questions were addressed to the home department.Women legislators also took the lead from both treasury and opposition benches to participate in an engrossing debate. All the parties gave an opportunity to them. While the treasury benches lauded the state government’s achievements in providing a 50 per cent quota in panchayats and teachers’ recruitment and 35 per cent in government jobs, the Opposition countered it with issues of women safety and corruption. The woman legislators said that the females needed to get the equality they deserve and it should not be lost in sheer symbolism.While RJD woman legislators lauded the Bihar government’s move for 50 per cent quota in panchayat bodies, others pointed out that there were just two women in the Nitish cabinet - one each from the JD-U and the BJP - and reminded that it was the RJD that gave Bihar the first woman CM as Rabri Devi.In the present Vidhan Sabha, the number of women legislators dropped to 26 (10.2 per cent) from 28 (11 per cent) last time. In 2010, the number of woman legislators was 34 (14 per cent), the highest representation in the last seven decades. The disconcerting trend is that in the last two Vidhan Sabha elections, it has been declining despite a lot of hype about women’s empowerment, their greater participation at the panchayat level and higher voter turnout in elections than male counterparts.Congress MLA Neetu Kumari drew the attention of the government towards the lack of basic amenities like toilets at public places, bus stands, markets and block offices. “I urge the government to not only look into the matter but also implement it. This will be a gift to all women,” she added.Rural development minister Shravan Kumar, during the government’s reply on his department’s budgetary demand, which was passed by the Assembly, accepted the demand and said the government would build toilets at public places as several woman legislators have demanded.“Nitish government is committed to women’s empowerment and several schemes and quota for women in this regard are a testimony to this. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, Jeevika Didis made masks for the people and now they will also make school dresses for children to make their financial inclusion a reality. The women have been actively involved in village governance and economic activities due to the Nitish government’s initiatives,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/women-take-centre-stage-in-bihar-assembly-seek-higher-representation-101615208794290.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 239 fresh Covid-19 cases, number of active cases also drop||Delhi recorded 239 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, lower than the infections reported over the weekend, taking its tally to 641,340, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Monday. The Capital reported 286 new infections on Sunday but there was a marginal spike in the number of active cases as 24 new ones took the tally to 1,803, compared to the 1,779 on Saturday.It reported 312 and 321 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and Saturday respectively. Authorities in the national capital were advised by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to keep a check on the number of rising cases after the daily infections reported on March 5 and March 6 went above 300.Monday’s bulletin also showed that the Capital reported three fatalities, which took the death toll to 10,924. The number of active cases in the state has fallen to 1,730.The Union health ministry also said on Monday said that Delhi, along with seven states, is showing an upward trend in the number of daily Covid-19 cases. The other states which have been showing a similar trend are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Gujarat. The ministry pointed out that these areas have a higher weekly positivity rate that the national average of 2.29%, according to a report from ANI. The health ministry had earlier urged these states to increase the pace of vaccination.The number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours also fell to 47,689, Monday’s bulletin said. On Sunday, Delhi had conducted 91,614 tests. The number of tests in the Capital conducted so far has reached 12,873,806. The case fatality rate has remained at 1.70% and the city recorded a positivity rate of 0.50%.The health bulletin also showed that 309 patients have recovered from the disease taking the number of recovered people to 628,686. The number of people under home isolation has increased to 947.According to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government, the number of containment zones has also dropped to 536 from 591 on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-239-fresh-covid-19-cases-number-of-active-cases-also-drop-101615208339701.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister’s 'Sushant' jibe at Centre as NIA gets Mukesh Ambani case||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday took a jibe at the Centre over the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput after the investigation into the explosive-laden vehicle found near Reliance Industries Limited chairman Mukesh Ambani’s house was handed to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) by the Union ministry of home affairs.Also Read | NIA to probe recovery of explosive-laden vehicle outside Ambani residence“ATS (anti-terror squad) was probing the case where a gelatin-laded car was found at Mukesh Ambani’s residence but the NIA took over. Earlier Mumbai Police was probing the Sushant Singh Rajput case when it was taken over by the CBI. Surprising that they still can’t say if it was murder or suicide,” Deshmukh said, as per news agency ANI.Deshmukh also clarified that the ATS would continue to probe the death of Mansukh Hiren, the businessman who owned the SUV which was found abandoned close to Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in the metropolis on February 25. On March 5, Hiren’s body was recovered from the Kalwa creek, hours after his family reported him missing. He had reported the theft of his car on Feb 18, a day after it was stolen. ATS has registered a murder case against ‘unknown persons’ in connection with Hiren’s death.Also Read | Mansukh Hiren death: Maha ATS registers murder case against unidentified persons“It is the right of NIA to take this case but the Maharashtra police ATS was probing it well. But the Mansukh Hiren case and the theft of the car will be probed by the ATS alone,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said.It is the right of NIA to take this case but Maharashtra Police ATS was probing it well. But the Mansukh Hiren case and theft of the car will be probed by ATS alone: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil DeshmukhRajput, 34, was found dead at his flat in Mumbai on June 14 last year. Amid controversy over whether he died by suicide or was murdered, the Supreme Court, in August, asked CBI to probe the case. Last December, Deshmukh had urged the central agency to release its findings in the public domain saying ‘five-six months have passed in the investigation.’Watch: CBI report on Sushant Singh Rajput death: Maharashtra minister’s appealThe Maharashtra home minister was interacting with the media after the Union home ministry directed NIA to conduct an investigation into the Ambani case. Twenty gelatin sticks were found in the abandoned SUV and the police later released details of a letter found in the car, which warned the Ambani and his wife, Nita, of how this was just a ‘trailer.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-s-sushant-jibe-at-centre-as-nia-gets-mukesh-ambani-case-101615207543725.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||Shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in Rajasthan, says health minister as state sees rise in cases||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said on Monday there is a shortage of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for 6.7 million people in the state, who are eligible in the second phase of the drive, adding that a request had been placed for 6 million more doses. “We have been assured by the Centre of receiving required doses in March,” the state health minister said, according to news agency ANI.Sharma, along with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, was administered the first vaccine dose at the Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on March 5 as Rajasthan kicked off its second phase of the vaccination drive on March 1 to inoculate people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities. Vaccination is being done free of cost at all government hospitals while a sum of ₹250 has to be paid at private hospitals.The Centre has approved doses for 6.8 million residents above the age of 60 but electoral rolls show the number of people falling in the criteria is 8.6 million. A senior official of the state’s health department said that more than 4,000 sites had been set up across Rajasthan for the entire drive.On Monday, current and former legislators of Rajasthan along with their families were vaccinated at the state’s assembly. “It is for the first time that MLAs, ex-MLAs and their family members are being vaccinated at the state assembly. The move will motivate others and send a message to the masses. It will also put an end to any kind of apprehension,” Congress leader Mahesh Joshi had told news agency PTI on Sunday.COVID19 vaccination booths will be set up in Vidhan Sabha for MLAs & their families. We don't have enough doses for 67 lakh beneficiaries, I've requested 60 lakh more doses. We have been assured by the Centre of receiving required doses in March: Rajasthan Health Minister pic.twitter.com/OHLgg13F3BRajasthan has registered more than 321,000 coronavirus disease cases and 2,789 deaths till now. The recoveries are nearing 317,000 while 1,703 people continue to remain under treatment. More than 2.1 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated since the start of the first phase of the drive on January 16.The daily cases in the state have been increasing since March with CM Gehlot appealing to the public last Saturday to adhere to all Covid-related restrictions and saying that otherwise, the government would have to take stringent measures. “Cases of coronavirus infection are continuously increasing since the beginning of March. Last month, less than 100 cases were being reported each day. But the figure is now above 200,” he said in a tweet.The state government on Saturday had made it mandatory for travellers coming from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to produce a negative Covid-19 test report not older than 72 hours before entering Rajasthan. This comes in the backdrop of these neighbouring states witnessing an uptick in their cases. The government also ordered the closure of Anganwadi centres and schools for students up to Class 5 till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-rajasthan-says-health-minister-101615206977913.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi moves SC against Haryana for clean water supply: AAP's Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board (DJB), the agency responsible for the supply of potable water to the national capital, has moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana government for the water crisis, its vice chairperson Raghav Chadha said on Monday. Chadha said the agency has moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana government to immediately stop the discharge of untreated pollutants into the Yamuna river and to release sufficient water to Delhi.Before this, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader had also urged the Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to intervene in the matter and direct the Haryana government to release the water supply and curb contamination.@DelhiJalBoard is in constant contact with Haryana Govt requesting them to address these issues on war-footing, but to no avail.I urge Hon'ble @MinOfJalShakti GOI, Sh. @gssjodhpur to kindly intervene & direct Haryana Govt to release Delhi's share & curb rising levels of ammonia.Chadha on Sunday accused the Haryana government of reducing the water supply to the national capital which was resulting in water scarcity. "Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, as a result we are facing a shortage in water production. Currently, Haryana through CLC Canal is supplying only 549.16 cusecs (against 683 cusecs) and DSB Canal is supplying 306.63 cusecs (against 330 cusecs)," Chadha said.The AAP leader also said that the state government is dumping sewage water into the Yamuna river as samples checked by the quality laboratory in Delhi had shown the presence of a high level of contamination or ammonia. "Wazirabad and Chandrawal WTP's water production has reduced by 30% and Okhla WTP's production has reduced by 15%. Further, Haryana Govt's lackadaisical attitude has led to unchecked dumping of sewage into the Yamuna. Samples picked up by our Quality Lab show high contamination/Ammonia," he said on Sunday.Also Read | Women deployed aboard Indian Navy warships after almost 25 yearsThe water treatment plants of the DJB have the capacity of 0.9 parts per million ammonia concentration in the river water. In case the contamination is higher than this then the water is diluted with fresh water from the upper Ganga Canal or the Munak Canal, PTI reported the officials as saying. The production capacity of water treatment plants is said to reduce when there is not enough clean water for dilution.Chadha said DJB has been constantly asking the Haryana government to address the issue on a war footing but it has not been resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-moves-sc-against-haryana-for-clean-water-supply-aap-s-raghav-chadha-101615202163651.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Survey shows average levels of pollutants in Delhi in 2020 lowest in seven years||Average levels of various pollutants, including PM10, PM2.5 and nitrogen dioxide, in Delhi last year were the lowest since 2014, according to the Delhi Economic Survey report.Government data also showed that average levels of the major pollutants in the city have been decreasing steadily over the years.The annual average concentrations of PM2.5, fine particulate matter that is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases, decreased from 149 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) in 2014 to 101 µg/m3 in 2020, it said.The annual average of PM10 also decreased from 324 µg/m3 in 2014 to 187 µg/m3 in 2020, according to the Economic Survey report, tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in the Delhi Assembly on Monday.PM6 levels below 40 µg/m3 and PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India.The annual average for PM2.5 and PM10, at all the monitoring locations, exceeded the prescribed standards, the report said.Nitrogen Dioxide's annual average concentration has decreased from 82.45 µg/m3 in 2014 to 40.30 µg/m3 in 2020.The yearly average of carbon monoxide concentration has dipped to 1.27 mg/m3 in 2020. It was 2.07 mg/m3 in 2017, the highest in the last seven years.The safe limit for CO levels is 2 mg/m3.However, no significant variation was observed in the annual average value for Sulphur dioxide, which emanates during the burning of fossils fuels, between 2014 and 2020.The annual city average for SO2 at all the monitoring locations is within the prescribed standard i.e 50µg/m3, it said.Various studies conducted in the wake of Co-19-induced lockdowns have shown that air pollution levels have fallen significantly across the world due to the reduced traffic and restricted industrial activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/survey-shows-average-levels-of-pollutants-in-delhi-in-2020-lowest-in-seven-years-101615204224490.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport to resume domestic operations from Terminal 1 from March 10||After almost a year, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is set to resume operations for domestic flights from Terminal 1 (T1) from the midnight of March 10, said airport officials. It will be used by five domestic airlines and will witness 102 flight movements across 27 destinations on the first day of its revival.Airport officials said the resumption of services via T1 will help maintain social distancing measures, uphold passenger safety and ensure a seamless transit.This domestic terminal will see a total of 51 departures and 51 arrivals. Not only will the terminal cater to all domestic flight operations of GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet, but also select flights of IndiGo (with subset series 6E 5500 – 6E 5900). The rest of the IndiGo flights will continue to operate from Terminal 2.Also Read | All-women team takes charge of traffic control operations at Delhi’s IGI airportCSMIA spokesperson said, “The airport will have 38 check-in counters operational across the five domestic carriers to avoid crowding. We have also placed eight Common Use Self Service (CUSS) kiosks on the curbside of the terminal to enable passengers to complete their check-in process without direct interaction with airport personnel. Passengers can use the kiosks to print their boarding pass and generate their baggage tag before proceeding for security check.”The airport will also be resuming its lounge services, retail, and food and beverage services.CSMIA’s T1 will host eight registration desks and six testing booths for passengers who wish to undergo the RT-PCR test at the airport for a fee of ₹850.“Adhering to the protocols laid down by governmental and regulatory bodies, a dedicated room has also been identified for the isolation of any suspected symptomatic passenger before transferring them to the designated facility. Hand sanitisers have been strategically placed through the premise, and contactless payments will be encouraged,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-to-resume-domestic-operations-from-terminal-1-from-march-10-101615204517911.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Army paper leak: Arrested major sent to seven days in police custody||An Indian Army major arrested in the army recruitment exam paper leak case was remanded to seven days in police custody by a special court in Pune on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Major Thiru Murugan and was brought to Pune on Sunday from Tamil Nadu where he was posted. He will be in the custody of the Special investigation team (SIT), constituted by the Pune police to investigate the matter, until March 15. The remand was granted by the court of special judge SR Navander with public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal and advocate RA Lonandkar as the defence advocate. Assistant commissioner of police Laxman Barate of Pune police crime branch was present as the investigation officer. “After the arrest of the first accused in the case, the investigation led the police to the present accused. The paper was 100 per cent stolen. It was forwarded from his WhatsApp account. The investigation is about where he got it from. Some of the earlier arrested were found with copies of the question paper,” said PP Agarwal. The police and the PP added that some messages were deleted by the accused and further investigation in the matter is needed. The defence lawyer argued that the phones of the present, as well as theearlier accused, have already been seized. Therefore, further custody is not required as experts can retrieve the erased information. To this, the judge asked for the case diary from ACP Borate and after going through it, he read the order stating, “The accused is the key person in the conspiracy of leaking the paper. There may be various links to this conspiracy. Due to the unlawful activity, the entire recruitment process has been stopped and the entire procedure has been postponed. Sufficient custody has to be granted for further investigation.” An application to add sections of the prevention of corruption act was also submitted in the court. The original case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-paper-leak-arrested-major-sent-to-seven-days-in-police-custody-101615204276684.html
08-03-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa announces ₹7,800 crore for Bengaluru, mostly for ongoing projects||Even though the Karnataka government set aside ₹7,795 crore for the development of Bengaluru in the 2021-22 budget, most of the schemes announced were old.Projects such as the Peripheral Ring Road, fast-tracking the implementation of the suburban rail project, doubling railway lines, creating tree parks and automatic ticketing system, were either part of earlier budgets or the recently announced Mission 2022 plan.One of the prominent announcements was speeding up the development of the Peripheral Ring Road in Bengaluru to ease the traffic situation in the city. Land acquisition for the project had started in 2006 itself. The only new aspect in the budget was the introduction of a private party for the land acquisition.Also Read | K’taka Budget: No burden of additional taxes on common people, says CMDuring his budget speech, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced the construction of Bengaluru Signature Business next to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The agency responsible for construction, Karnataka State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, had listed this project on their website in 2018 itself.A grant of ₹850 crore has been announced for the year 2021-22 for the suburban rail project, which is underway.Other projects, such as developing 52 stations to accept One Nation, One card; the doubling Yeshwanthpur-Channasandra and Bommanahalli-Hosur railway and the construction of three foot overbridges in Bengaluru were announced earlier as well.The development of Experience Bengaluru Centre on the land belonging to Mysuru Lamps Works Limited, the implementation of the K-100 project at an expenditure of ₹169 crore to develop Koramangala Valley as a tourist attraction, the development of tree parks in NGEF situated in Byappanahalli and in three other places, had already been announced as part of CM Yediyurappa’s Mission 2022.The budget, however, did detail some new projects, such as a new multi-speciality hospital in North Bengaluru. A 50-bed capacity sub-centre of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology in KC General Hospital at the cost of ₹20 crore and the sstablishment of Janarogya centres at an expenditure of ₹10 crore in 57 wards of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-budget-allocation-for-bengaluru-is-old-wine-in-a-new-bottle-101615203197336.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Decentralised vaccination plan helps cover over 1.46 lakh people in Pune||Pune: From just 31 vaccination sites where 1,802 health care workers (HCW) who were the first beneficiaries in phase one on day one (January 16), the district is now inoculating over 15,000 beneficiaries, including senior citizens and those with comorbidities at 122 sites. The administration has risen to the occasion as senior citizens stormed the vaccination sites in a fight against the infection. Authorities and public are hoping to get the shot and win the Covid war, unlike last year during this time when they were unaware of the danger lurking around. The district administration has now decentralised vaccination at multiple centres. Of these 71 locations, 44 are government and 27 are private hospitals and at two hospitals in the city, Kamala Nehru and Sassoon hospital, women special session was also planned. With a population of over one crore in Pune district, if about 15,000 people are vaccinated per day then it would take about two years for the entire district to be vaccinated with the first dose, given that the supply of the dose is continuous and that everyone comes forward to take the jab. However, the local administration has multiple limitations given that they have to strictly abide by the guidelines provided by the central government. Rubal Agrawal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said, “We do not have any roadmap as of now regarding vaccinating the rest of the city as we are awaiting further instructions from the Centre. We have to follow the instructions. For now, we have to vaccinate those eligible under phase one and two and for that we are opening up more centres each day as there has been an enormous response from mainly senior citizens. Even non-empanelled private hospitals have shown interest in vaccinating people and we are sending out letters to the central government for permission.”As of March 8, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) alone has begun vaccination at 71 locations which was only 4 on March 1. In view of the increasing demand, the session sites have been increased and at some hospitals multiple sessions are being conducted in two shifts. A senior PMC official said, “We have 70 hospitals, including primary health centres and major hospitals, of which 45 have space for vaccination. We need three rooms for vaccination as per protocol — waiting room, vaccinating room and observation room. At some of our primary health centres construction is going on, some are the mobile clinics where we cannot do vaccination and also some are the smart city clinics. So, we can have maximum 45-47 PMC centres while the remaining would be private ones.” In the rural areas too, the administration is ready to take up vaccination centres as and when needed. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “As of Friday, we had 40 locations where we vaccinated about 5,040 beneficiaries, including first and second dose, as against our target of 4,000. We will further increase the vaccination centres if need be.” The district has not seen any major adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) since the first day, except in 2-3 cases where the beneficiaries had to be hospitalised as a precautionary measure. Also, since the beginning of phase two of the vaccination for senior citizens and those aged 45-59 years with comorbidities, not a single AEFI has been reported. This is boosting the morale of senior citizens as more are rushing to the vaccination centres.Despite technical glitches which were reported earlier, citizens did not avoid vaccination. A huge response was seen for walk-ins at vaccination centres and even today (March 8) only nominal numbers are vaccinated through advanced registration while most prefer walk-in registration despite the administration’s appeal to prefer online registration. As of Sunday, Pune continues to be the most affected district in the country with most active cases and accounting for almost one in every ten new Covid-19 cases. The spread of the infection and the possible fear of a second wave are also causing citizens to rush to vaccination centres where often the most vulnerable may face risk infection as social distancing norms are not followed at some centres. However, with such an enthusiastic crowd, the administration now has the challenge to meet up to their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decentralised-vaccination-plan-helps-cover-over-1-46-lakh-people-in-pune-101615202656608.html
08-03-2021||Lucknow||Action against Prayagraj hospital sought in alleged medical negligence case||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Richa Singh on Monday said she wrote to the National Medical Commission (NMC) and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), along with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), demanding strict action against a private hospital for alleged medical negligence, leading to the death of a three-year old girl in Prayagraj.The girl was admitted to the private hospital for 16 days before being referred to a government-run hospital of the city. Singh, a former Allahabad University students’ union (AUSU) president, said the parents of the child were asked to move to another hospital due to lack of money and there was gross negligence in treatment. Attaching reports and videos with her letter to NMC, she demanded cancellation of the hospital’s licence.In her letter to NCPCR, she said although the commission had asked the district administration to initiate an inquiry on the issue and the probe was now underway, no action had been taken against the hospital so far. The letters sent to NMC and the PMO also requested that action be taken, said Singh.Kareli resident Mukesh Mishra's three-year-old daughter was suffering from acute intestinal obstruction. She was admitted to the private hospital on February 15 and underwent two surgeries on February 24 and March 2 before being referred to the government-run children’s hospital under the SRN Hospital on March 3, the hospital claimed.However, the girl’s father alleged she was forced out of the private hospital owing to the family’s inability to pay more. He said he rushed her to different hospitals, eventually admitting her to the government’s children’s hospital on March 3. He left the government hospital with the child on March 4. The girl died on March 6. The parents alleged that she died following negligence by the private hospital, located under the Pipri police station of Kaushambi.Must Watch: 'PM Modi bought ₹16,000 crore planes but...': Priyanka Gandhi to UP farmersThe hospital has categorically denied the allegations. There was uproar after the child’s death. Video clips of the child went viral on social media that led to the Prayagraj district administration ordering an inquiry. An FIR was registered at the Pipri police station on the father's complaint. The post-mortem of the girl was carried out on the intervention of Kaushambi police before her cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/action-against-prayagraj-hospital-sought-in-alleged-medical-negligence-case-101615200820113.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||Religious yatra is not show of strength, it’s show of devotion: Vasundhara Raje||Former Rajasthan chief minister and national vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Vasundhara Raje on Tuesday said that her religious yatra was not a show of strength but of devotion.“Many people are watching this program through the spectacles of power demonstration. Maybe they are not aware - it is not a power demonstration; it is a devotional demonstration. In this program, not politics, religion is the policy, whose path I have been following from the beginning,” said Raje at Adi Badrinath Temple in Bharatpur.The former CM started the day, also her birthday and International Women’s Day with prayers at Badri Nath Temple in Bharatpur.People in large numbers reached there to wish her on her birthday. Locals also welcomed her during the trip from Adi Badrinath to Kedarnath temple.“Along with my birthday and International Women's Day, we also have the birth anniversary of Panna Dai (a lady famous for sacrifice of her own son to save king's son from enemies). I salute such a braveheart. Such a large number of people from all over the state came to wish me a happy birthday. I am deeply grateful to all of them,” she said.“Today's program is a happy coincidence. Today, I have completed my 36 years as a legislature after I was elected a first time MLA on March 8, 1985 from Dholpur. All 36 communities in the state have always been supporting me with regards and love. I was inspired by my mother Vijayaraje Scindia to run on a spiritual policy,” Raje added.The national vice-president said her government had spent ₹550 crore for development of 125 temples and ₹110 crore for beautification to set up religious tourism. We have to root out Ashok Gehlot government to develop the state again.“The government is stuck in its own politics hence the development of Rajasthan has stalled. But you should not worry, Atal ji had said that darkness will be sorted - lotus will bloom. We will nourish lotus in Rajasthan again,” Raje said.Also Read: Rajasthan police officer accused of rape suspended with other senior officersReacting to the statements made by Raje, state health minister in Congress government, Subhash Garg said, “I don't agree with the statement of Vasundhara Raje that no development work in the state was taking place in the present government. The (developmental works) are going on at a rapid pace under the leadership of Ashok Gehlot.”Garg added that Raje was the BJP’s biggest leader in the state just like Ashok Gehlot in Congress. We respect her as she believes in devotion; however, the factionalism in the state BJP is very much visible these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/religious-yatra-is-not-show-of-strength-it-s-show-of-devotion-vasundhara-raje-101615199507889.html
08-03-2021||Budget||Maharashtra budget 2021: Farmers can repay farm loans with 0% interest, announces Ajit Pawar||Farmers in Maharashtra will be allowed to repay their farm loans with 0% interest and the amount will be borne by the government, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Monday while presenting the budget in the assembly. Pawar said the move is aimed at increasing the income of farmers. “Farmers can now repay their farm loans with 0% interest. The interest amount will be borne by the government. No interest will be charged on crop loans amounting up to ₹300,000,” Pawar said.Pawar said the announcements have been made to express the Maharashtra government’s gratitude to the farmers. “We want to express our gratitude to farmers and the state government is committed to increasing the income of farmers,” he said.During the budget presentation, Pawar also said the government has taken measures to encourage women to invest in real estate. The deputy chief minister introduced a measure allowing home buyers to get a waiver of 1% on stamp duty if a house is purchased solely in the name of women.“As part of the women empowerment initiative, if a house purchased under the name of a woman, the buyer can then avail a discount in stamp duty. The state government will give concessions on stamp duty if any house is purchased solely in the name of the woman. This is to encourage them to become homeowners,” Pawar said.Pawar also announced that women in rural areas can travel free on state transport buses in rural areas. He also announced that the fiscal deficit of the state for the financial year 2021-2022 is pegged at ₹10,226 crore. The state also allocated ₹9,573 crore for coastal road development between Revas in Raigad and Redi in Sindhudurg.A high-speed railway project has also been approved between Mumbai and Nashik. The project which is worth ₹16,039 crore will be partially funded by the state government. The high-speed trains will run at 200kmph. The state also has allocated ₹400 crore for constructing a Bal Thackeray Memorial in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/budget/maharashtra-budget-2021-farmers-can-repay-farm-loans-with-0-interest-101615199100615.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan police officer accused of rape suspended with other senior officers||The station house officer (SHO) of Kherli police station in Rajasthan’s Alwar was suspended, and 18 policemen along with the circle officer (CO) were shunted for their alleged role in shielding a sub inspector accused of raping a complainant. The main accused sub-inspector, who was arrested on Sunday after intervention by senior police officers, was also suspended on Monday, said a senior police officer.“The SHO of Kherli police station Ram Sahay and accused SI Bharat Singh have been suspended. The circle officer (CO) Ashok Chauhan has been put on APO (awaiting posting order). 18 policemen of the station will be sent to police lines. The process to terminate the accused will be started once the charge sheet is filed. Everybody’s role is being probed,” said Tejaswani Gautam, Alwar superintendent of police (SP). She added that the victim’s statement has been recorded.SI Singh was arrested on Sunday evening for allegedly raping a 26-year-old woman who came to the police station to file a harassment complaint against her husband.Singh was booked under section 376 (punishment for sexual assault) and 376(2)(a)(ii), (a police officer committing rape in the premises of any station house) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).On Sunday evening, Jaipur Range inspector general (IG) Hawa Singh Ghumaria and Alwar SP Tejaswani Gautam reached the police station to take stock of the situation after it came to light that officials there had tried to hush up the matter in order to protect the SI.According to the complaint filed by the woman, when she went to the Kherli police station at around 5.30 pm on March 2 to file a case against her husband, the SI identified as Bharat Singh lured her into a trap, offering help in the case including counselling to the couple.Also Read: R54 lakh notice to late vice-president Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s son“The SI allegedly took the victim to her quarter and sexually molested her. When the victim reached the police station Sunday evening to get information about action in her case, the SI again attempted to molest her. The victim reported this to another police officer and that’s how the matter came to the knowledge of Alwar SP, who asked for filing a case against the accused SI. Medical check-up of the victim has been done in a local community health centre (CHC),” said Gautam.She added that an ASI posted at Aravali Vihar police station identified as Randeep Gurjar has been suspended too. “A complaint of sexual abuse was also registered against the ASI on the basis of which he has been suspended,” said the Alwar SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-officer-accused-of-rape-suspended-with-other-senior-officers-101615197693003.html
08-03-2021||Bangalore||K'taka Budget: No burden of additional taxes on common people, says CM||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa presenting the state budget 2021-22 on Monday, said he has not put the burden of additional taxes on the common people."The year 2020-21 due to Covid-19 pandemic has caused untold miseries to the general public. I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people," Yediyurappa said.Presenting the Budget 2021-22 in the legislative Assembly, he said, the state government levies Karnataka Sales Tax (KST) on petrol and diesel and it is already lesser compared to the other southern states."Despite this in the 2021-22 budget, no taxes including Karnataka State Tax on petrol and diesel has been increased and the budget has been formulated in such a way so as not to increase the financial burden on the common man," he added.Yediyurappa who also holds the Finance Portfolio presented the state budget, his eighth in the legislative assembly Monday.The Chief Minister said, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) has seen a fall due to lockdown for controlling the Covid-19 pandemic during the year 2020-21, and as per the initial estimation based on fixed prices the GSDP has contracted by 2.6% in comparison with that of 2019-20.He further stated that in spite of Covid and occurrence of floods in North Karnataka during 2020-21, growth of 6.4 % is observed in the agriculture sector and said however, the industrial and service sector witnessed a decline."During 2020-21 contraction in the industrial sector is 5.1% and in the service sector is 3.1%," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-budget-no-burden-of-additional-taxes-on-common-people-says-cm-101615195467578.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's GSDP contracts by 3.9 pc to ₹7.9 lakh crore in FY 21: Economic Survey||The advance estimates show Delhi's gross state domestic product (GSDP) at current prices during 2020-21 at ₹798,310 crore, marking a contraction of 3.92 per cent over the previous year, the Economic Survey showed on Monday.The GSDP at current prices increased by about 45 per cent in the last six years -- from ₹550,804 crore in 2015-16 to ₹798,310 crore in the current financial year, according to the survey presented by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.The per capita income at current prices is estimated at ₹354,004 against per capita income of ₹127,768 at the national level, which makes Delhi's per capita almost three times the national average.The state has maintained its consistent revenue surplus which was ₹7,499 crore during 2019-20 as compared to ₹6,261 crore during 2018-19, the survey showed.There is a fiscal deficit of ₹3,227.79 crore during 2019-20 as compared to ₹1,489.38 crore in 2018-19 which is 0.39 per cent of GSDP as compared to 0.2 per cent during 2018-19.According to the survey, the state provided a budget allocation of 74.77 per cent for social service sectors under schemes or projects.The education sector remained to be on the top with a maximum share allocation of 23.83 per cent. The state government has a total of 1,230 government and government-aided schools.The gender gap in literacy in Delhi has declined moderately over the years from 12.62 per cent in 2001 to 10.1 per cent in 2011. The happiness curriculum has been implemented in all government schools and approximately 7.95 lakh students have been benefitted during 2019-20.The education sector was followed by transport with a budget allocation of 14.67 per cent, medical and public health sector with 13.39 per cent share, social security and welfare with 13.11 per cent budget allocation, housing and urban development with 12.62 per cent and water supply and sanitation with 12.62 per cent share allocation.Under the scheme Business Reform Action Plan, Delhi has ranked 12th in 2019 among all states and union territories.According to the survey, peak demand for electricity increased from 5,846 MW in 2015-16 to 7,409 MW in 2019-20.The per capita expenditure on health in Delhi increased from ₹1,996 in 2014-15 to ₹3,029 in 2019-20.The state government is implementing a four-tier health care infrastructure model having Mohalla clinics and polyclinics at tier-one and tier-two for providing primary and secondary health care services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-gsdp-contracts-by-3-9-pc-to-rs-7-9-lakh-crore-in-fy-21-economic-survey-101615195521789.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||SSR death case: NBC arrests three, including a drug supplier, from Goa||The Narcotics Control Bureau arrested three persons, including one who allegedly supplied drugs to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, from Goa on Sunday in two separate operations, and also seized a huge amount of drugs from them. The NCB has been probing the drug angle in the actor’s death case.The bureau’s Mumbai zonal unit and Goa sub-zonal team arrested Ugochukwu Solomon Ubabuko, from Nigeria, and John Infinity alias David, from Congo, and drug supplier Hemant Sah alias Maharaj.Ubabuko was arrested earlier by the Goa Police in 2013 in connection with a narcotics case but was out on bail. Raids were also conducted at the premises of one Prasad Walke, said NCB officials.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said earlier investigation revealed that Sah supplied drugs to Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal -- two drug suppliers whose names came up during the probe -- who, in turn, allegedly supplied them to Rajput. Both Keshwani and Mahakaal had allegedly confessed that Sah had supplied LSD and charas to them.Also Read | SSR drug case: NCB files charge sheet, names Rhea Chakraborty, others as accusedOfficials from Goa sub-zonal unit and an operations team from Mumbai conducted searches in Mazal Wado, Assagao area, late on Sunday where they apprehended the two African nationals. They also allegedly recovered 41 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), 28 gm of charas, 22 gms of cocaine, 1.1kg of marijuana, 160 gms of a white powder believed to be a narcotics drugs, 500 grams of a blue crystal substance suspected to be a psychotropic substance, and ₹10,000 in cash. In the second operation, officials of the Mumbai unit nabbed Sah from Miramar, Panjim, in Goa. Sah is a native of Madhya Pradesh and has been running a shack in Morjim area, Goa, for the past several years. Wankhede said the agency conducted raids at his premises on Sunday evening and recovered 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity) and 30 grams of charas from there. During a search of Keshwani’s Khar residence in September last year, the agency allegedly seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, ₹185,200 and 5,000 in Indonesian currency.His interrogation led the NCB to Regal Mahakaal who allegedly supplied drugs to Keshwani. Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra in June last year following which the Mumbai Police conducted a probe and said he died by suicide. The case was later handed over to the Central Investigation Bureau and the Enforcement Directorate and NCB were also roped in to investigate the money laundering and drugs angle respectively. (With inputs from Gerard de Souza in Goa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssrdeath-case-nbc-arrests-three-including-a-drug-supplier-from-goa-101615196177084.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro shuts Green Line stns between Tikri Kalan, Brigadier Hoshiar Singh||The Delhi Metro has temporarily closed off the entry and exit to stations from Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on the Green Line (connecting Kirti Nagar and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh Metro stations). Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), on Monday at 10am, said on Twitter that the gates will remain closed.“Security Update: Entry/exit gates of stations from Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on green line are closed,” DMRC tweeted.Also Read | Women protesters join ongoing stir demanding repeal of ‘black laws’Senior officials of the Metro said that the gates were closed on the directions of the Delhi Police as a safety measure to maintain peace at the farmers’ protest site. “Once we get a go-ahead from the police we will resume movement,” a Delhi Metro official said. Deputy commissioner of police (Metro) Jitendra Mani Tripathi said, “The trains are being terminated at Tikri instead of Tikri border. This is being done as per the outer district’s request.”According to DCP Metro, the gates were reopened around 4pm and things are normal now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-shuts-green-line-stns-between-tikri-kalan-brigadier-hoshiar-singh-101615195817003.html
08-03-2021||Dehradun||CM Trivendra Singh Rawat leaves for Delhi amid speculations of leadership change in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat left for Delhi on Monday amid growing speculation about a leadership change in the state.An official at the chief minister's office here confirmed his departure but said the visit was of a "routine nature".BJP sources said the party high command summoned Rawat to the national capital for “further discussions” after a meeting of the state BJP's core committee presided over by central observers was held here on Saturday.However, Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat claimed there was no leadership change likely in the state and Saturday’s meeting discussed events to mark the completion of the Rawat-led government's four years in office. Rawat had to attend several programmes in Gairsain and Dehradun on Monday but they had to be cancelled following the summons from Delhi.While the issues of growing resentment among party MLAs and a long overdue cabinet expansion keep raising their heads from time to time, speculations about a leadership change in the state gained momentum after BJP national vice president Raman Singh and state party in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam arrived here on Saturday to preside over an unscheduled meeting of the state party's group.The core group meeting was held at a time when most of the party MLAs and ministers including the chief minister were in Gairsain to attend the important budget session of the state assembly.The budget session was brought to an abrupt end after passing the state's budget for 2021-22 fiscal and all MLAs and ministers were called to Dehradun for the core committee meeting.Core group members Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Bansal, Tehri MP Mala Rajya Lakshmi Shah, former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat, state BJP general secretary Ajeya Kumar among others attended the meeting which went on for over two hours.Raman Singh, the former Chhattisgarh chief minister, talked separately to each member of the core group to get their feedback.He also went to the chief minister's official residence where around 40 party MLAs had gathered and later visited the RSS office here.Another member of the core group and Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ too met Raman Singh at the Jolly Grant Airport late in the evening.Meanwhile, Bhagat said the core group meeting discussed celebrations to be held in 70 assembly constituencies in the state on March 18 to mark completion of the BJP government's four years in office.He claimed there was no leadership change likely in the state and also refuted reports that there was resentment among party legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-leaves-for-delhi-amid-speculations-of-leadership-change-in-uttarakhand-101615194128506.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||In Batla House case, court pronounces Ariz Khan guilty of killing Delhi Police inspector Mohan Sharma||A Delhi court on Monday held Ariz Khan guilty of killing inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, along with his accomplices, in the Batla House encounter which took place in the national capital in September 2008. Thirty-five-year-old Khan was arrested by the Special Cell of the city police in February 2018 after being on the run for 10 years.He has been convicted under sections 302, 307, 333 and 353 (which deal with assault or grievous hurt to a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 186 (which has provisions of punishment for people who prevent a public servants from discharging their duties), 34 and 174A of the Indian penal Code (IPC) as well as Section 27 of the Arms Act (which provides for jail sentence to those who are found in possession of arms illegally)."It has been proved on record that Khan, with his associates, intentionally and knowingly caused the murder of Sharma by a gunshot from a fire arm," additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav said. The arguments on sentencing will be held on March 15.The judge further said that Khan managed to flee and did not appear despite being declared a proclaimed offender.The court said that through evidence adduced on record, including ocular, documentary and scientific, prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that Khan along with accomplices, in furtherance of common intention, obstructed inspector Sharma in discharge of public function.The court also said that Khan, along with his accomplices, also fired gunshots at head constables Balwant and Balvir Singh and asked the investigating officer to ascertain the financial position of the convict to decide on the amount of compensation to be given to the victim's family.Khan was present in the court, but showed no reaction to the order.On April 28, 2010, the police filed a chargesheet against Khan (then on the run), alleged Indian Mujahideen terrorist Shahzad Ahmad, Atif Ameen and Mohd Sajid, accusing them of killing inspector Sharma on September 19, 2008, six days after serial blasts in Delhi. At least 30 people were killed and over 100 injured in the blast.Shahzad Ahmad to sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with the Batla House encounter case by a trial court in July 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-batla-house-case-court-pronounces-ariz-khan-guilty-of-killing-delhi-police-inspector-mohan-sharma-101615193149179.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Number of road accidents in Delhi dropped in 2020: Delhi Police||Accidents and fatalities on the streets of the national capital saw a significant decrease in 2020 due to the nation-wide lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, compared to the previous year 2019.According to Taj Hassan, Special Commissioner Police, Traffic, Delhi Police there was a 26 per cent drop in the number of accidents. A total of 5,610 accidents, including 1,433 fatal ones, were reported in 2019, while 4,178, including 1,163 fatal accidents were reported in 2020.There was an 18 per cent decrease in deaths and 29 per cent decrease in injured due to road accidents. In 2019, 5,152 injuries and 1,463 deaths were reported, while in 2020, 3,662 injuries and 1,196 deaths were reported.Non-injury accidents, meanwhile, dropped by 65.4 per cent.Amid the challenging year, traffic police adapted to the new realities of life and tweaked enforcement strategies. Owing to the necessity of social distancing, prosecution, which requires face-to-face interaction with the traffic violators was suspended and electronic prosecution is happening through Violation on Camera App.Throughout 2020, the Delhi Police laid emphasis on enforcement of discipline by road users through quality prosecutions, particularly violations of unauthorised parking, improper parking, lane driving, riding without helmets, triple riding and similar violations.Special drives were carried out against over-speeding, drunken driving, improper parking and public transport vehicles, prosecution of e-rickshaws, enforcement of no-entry restrictions and pollution-related drives were carried out.Alongside this, more emphasis has been laid on regulation than prosecution, especially in light of restrictions and effects of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/number-of-road-accidents-in-delhi-dropped-in-2020-delhi-police-101615187714604.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to waive farm loans worth ₹1,186 cr of 1.13 lakh farmers||The Punjab government will waive farm loans worth ₹1,186 crore of 1.13 lakh farmers and ₹526 crore of landless farmers in 2021-22. Amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal made the announcement while presenting the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government’s fifth budget worth ₹1,68,015 crore as the cash-strapped state goes to the polls early next year. Badal announced free power for agriculture pumpsets in 2021-22 at a cost of ₹7,180 crore. A sum of ₹200 crore will be allocated for understanding crop diversification measures. This year, Punjab contributed 27% of paddy and 32% of wheat to the central pool and the state paid ₹13,774 crore on account of servicing of the cash credit limit (CCL) gap taken over by the previous SAD-BJP government till March 2021, he said. Badal announced the K3P, Kamyaab Kisan Khushaal Punjab, scheme and said ₹1,104 crore would be spent in 2021-22 and a total of ₹3,780 crore would be spent in three years. A total of ₹300 crore has been earmarked for sugarcane farmers and an allocation of ₹60 crore is proposed for modernisation of sugar mills of Gurdaspur and Batala. A sum of ₹24 crore would be spent on setting up a postgraduate institute of horticulture research and education in Amritsar.Pension hiked, Shagun scheme grant up The state finance minister announced to raise the old age pension from ₹750 to ₹1,500 a month. He also announced an increase in the amount under the Shagun scheme from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000. The monthly pension of freedom fighters will be increased from ₹7,400 to ₹9,400. Free travel for women, students in govt buses All women passengers and students can travel free of cost in government-run buses and a sum of ₹170 crore has been allocated for the same. Seven working women hostels will come up in Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Mohali, Mansa, Barnala and Amritsar.  ₹90 crore for Punjabi University, Patiala A sum of ₹90 crore has been allocated for the cash-strapped Punjabi University, Patiala. The state government will set up an Interfaith Institute in Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev by spending ₹432 crore.  ₹100 crore has been earmarked for the celebration of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur. A museum will also be set up in the name of the father of the Indian Constitution, BR Ambedkar, in Kapurthala by spending ₹100 crore. An artificial intelligence enabled video surveillance and monitor system will be set up at all 10 central jails of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-waive-farm-loans-worth-rs-1-186-cr-of-1-13-lakh-farmers-101615188736508.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Women's Day: Maharashtra sets up vaccination centres only for women||On the occasion of the International Women's Day, the Maharashtra government on Monday set up five Covid-19 vaccination centres in each district of the state exclusively for inoculating women.These centres will remain operational only for the day, a health official said.Women willing to take the vaccine can go to these centres during the day, he said."Every district has set up five such centres today. However, there are 19 such centres in Thane district due to higher demand there. There are 189 such centres in the state exclusively for vaccinating women," the official said.Maharashtra on Sunday added 11,141 new cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 22,19,727.The state has so far reported 52,478 deaths due to the viral infection, as per official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/womens-day-maharashtra-sets-up-vaccination-centres-only-for-women-101615185172475.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Entry, exit at Delhi metro stations between Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on green line shut||The entry and exit at several Delhi metro stations, near the Tikri border where farmers have been protesting against farm laws, on the green line was closed on Monday. “Security Update Entry/exit gates of stations from Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on green line are closed,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a tweet.While there was no reason cited by the DMRC, it may be noted that on the occasion of International Women’s Day, women farmers, students and activists turned up in huge numbers at the Tikri border near Delhi to extend their support to agitators who have been at the site for over 100 days now.According to news agency PTI, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers take centre stage, who are a “big but unrecognised” part of the farming community.Kavita Kurugranthy, who is also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told PTI that to mark women’s day, they will take the stage and address the farmers too. “And there will be a small march at Singhu border, the details for which will be shared later. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites,” she told PTI.The demonstrators want a repeal of the three laws enacted by the government in September last year to facilitate free farm trade. The farmers, however, say that the legislation will hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. Multiple rounds of talks between the central leadership and farmers have failed to break the deadlock as the government has ruled a complete roll back and offered to make amendments but farmers are adamant on their demand.Meanwhile, farm union leader Rakesh Tikait is holding kisan panchayats in several states across the nation. He will be in Madhya Pradesh on Monday where farmers have warned that they will intensify their agitation if the Bharatiya Kisan Union BKU national leader is arrested in connection with a previous case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/entry-exit-at-delhi-metro-stations-between-tikri-kalan-to-brigadier-hoshiar-singh-on-green-line-shut-101615185486456.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||11 districts in Rajasthan to join hands with Unnat Bharat Abhiyan||Central government’s flagship program, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA), is all set for launch in 11 districts of Rajasthan. Secretary at the department of higher and technical education (HTE) has recently directed the principals of government and private colleges in all the 11 districts to connect with the mission for the economic and social betterment of rural communities.The UBA, started by the ministry of human resources and development, connects higher education institutions with villages, with the intention to enrich rural India, said state officials.The HRD ministry has identified IIT Delhi as the national coordinating institution (NCI). Later, for better coordination and quick action under this mission, NCI has identified some regional coordinating institutes (RCI). In Rajasthan, MNIT Jaipur has been identified as the RCI.The role of RCI is to facilitate, mentor and monitor the activities of the participating institutions on a regular basis and to promote & facilitate UBA network in the designated region of the state. Now, in partnership with IIT Delhi, MNIT Jaipur will explore the possibilities to boost livelihood opportunities and income generation for rural communities.The 11 districts of Rajasthan where UBA is all set for a launch are Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bundi, Dausa, Dhaulpur, Jaipur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk and Sikar.Dr Namita Mittal, associate professor at MNIT has recently written to the secretary, department of higher and technical education (HTE) to connect educational institutes of Rajasthan with the UBA. Following which, on February 26, Dr Saumitra Nath Jha, joint director (academic) at HTE Rajasthan directed principal of government and private colleges in all the 11 districts to connect with Unnat Bharat Abhiyan.The Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is inspired by the vision of transformational change in rural development processes by leveraging knowledge institutions to help build the architecture of an inclusive India, as per the defined overarching objective of the programme.Also Read: ₹54 lakh notice to late vice-president Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s sonUnder the program, the knowledge base and resources of the premier institutions of the country will be leveraged to bring in a transformational change in the rural developmental process by creating a vibrant relationship between the society and the higher educational institutes, with the latter providing the knowledge and technology support to improve the livelihoods in rural areas and to upgrade the capabilities of both the public and private organisations in the society.The programme will help in identifying developmental challenges and evolve appropriate solutions for accelerating sustainable growth. The main goal of the program is to build an understanding of the development agenda within institutes of higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/11-districts-in-rajasthan-to-join-hands-with-unnat-bharat-abhiyan-101615185993017.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||₹54 lakh notice to late vice-president Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s son||The general administration department (GAD) of Rajasthan government has issued ₹54 lakh notice to Vikramaditya Singh Shekhawat, adopted son of late vice-president Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, over a government bungalow located in city’s posh Civil Lines area, said officials.Vikramaditya is the son of BJP MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi and Ratan Kanwar, daughter of Bhairon Singh Shekhawat. The GAD wants Vikramaditya to vacate the bungalow allotted to Shekhawat, when he was the vice-president.The notice issued to Vikramaditya states that the additional district magistrate court on October 7, 2019 directed that the house be vacated in 15 days, which was challenged by you in session court - the appeal was quashed on November 16, 2019.The GAD’s notice has asked him to deposit ₹5,430,000 as rent for the bungalow, pending since November 2019, at a rate of ₹10,000/day in the office of director estate.After the death of Suraj Kanwar, wife of Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, the GAD in 2015 (during the previous BJP government’s tenure) had served notice to vacate but Vikramaditya expressed inability citing his mother’s “poor health”. Thereafter, the GAD in 2017 started the eviction process at the additional district magistrate office (estate officer).Also Read: Rajasthan police officer arrested for raping woman complainant in Alwar“We will be challenging the ₹54 lakh notice in the court. Already a case is undergoing in the high court for terming Vikramaditya an illegal occupant, despite regularly giving rent for the property, as decided by the GAD,” said Narpat Singh Rajvi.He agreed that Vikramaditya is not entitled to be allotted this house. They have termed him an illegal occupant in the case filed by GAD during the previous government’s regime, which is unjustified as he is regularly paying the rent. “We will fight a legal battle till the illegal occupant term is removed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rs-54-lakh-notice-to-late-vice-president-bhairon-singh-shekhawat-s-son-101615184055025.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan police officer arrested for raping woman complainant in Alwar||A 54-year-old police sub-inspector (SI) posted at Kherli police station in Rajasthan’s Alwar district has been arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping a 26-year-old woman who had came to file a harassment complaint against her husband.On Sunday evening, Jaipur Range inspector general (IG) Hawa Singh Ghumaria and Alwar superintendent of police (SP) Tejaswani Gautam reached the police station to take stock of the situation after it came to light that officials there had dried to hush up the matter in order to protect the SI.According to the complaint filed by the woman, when she went to the Kherli police station at around 5.30 pm on March 2 to file a case against her husband, the SI identified as Bharat Singh attended to her and lured her into a trap claiming he would help her in the case including providing counselling to the couple.Also Read: Raje kicks off religious yatra, vows to oust Gehlot govt in Rajasthan“The SI took the victim to her quarter and sexually molested her. When the victim reached the police station Sunday evening to get information about action in her case, the SI again attempted to molest her. The victim reported this to another police officer and that’s how the matter came to the knowledge of Alwar SP, who asked for filing a case against the accused SI. Medical check-up of the victim has been done in a local community health centre (CHC),” said Ashok Chauhan, deputy superintendent of police, Laxmangarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-officer-arrested-for-raping-woman-complainant-in-alwar-101615182399006.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani security: ATS registers murder case in SUV owner’s death||The Maharashtra Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) has registered a case of murder against unknown persons in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiren, the owner of the explosive-laden car found near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25.Hiren, 48, whose body was recovered from Kalwa creek on March 5, hours after his family reported him missing, had told the police the Mahindra Scorpio found parked near Ambani’s house was his. He had reported it stolen on February 18 at Vikroli police station, he said. Senior ATS official confirmed the FIR was registered on the basis of the statement of Hiren’s wife Vimala on Sunday. The security scare case was transferred to ATS after Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded an NIA investigation into it. The murder case has been registered under section 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons.Also Read | Uncovering truth behind Mansukh Hiren’s death crucial for MVA: Sanjay RautAn ATS team also visited the Kalwa creek in the afternoon and inspected the area where the body was found, said ATS official. Hiren had reportedly written to the home department, Thane police commissioner and Mumbai police commissioner, alleging that he was repeatedly called in for enquiry. He reportedly said he felt harassed over being called in for questioning by different agencies.In their statement, his family said Hiren was at his shop in Naupada around 8pm on March 4 when he got a call from someone claiming to be a police officer from Kandivali and asking him to meet at Ghodbander road. Hiren left around 8.30pm to meet the person. The family started calling him around 10pm but his phone was switched off. The family then approached the police and registered a missing person’s complaint in the early hours of March 5.His body was spotted stuck amid the silt of the creek at 10.30am the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-security-ats-registers-murder-case-in-suv-owner-s-death-101615180816265.html
08-03-2021||Patna||Bihar slow to push generic drugs using PM’s Janaushadhi project||Bihar was behind the national average in terms of growth in sale of medicines through Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP), as the Prime Minister announced on Sunday that Ayush medicines would now also be available under the scheme to patients, along with generic allopathic medicines at 50% - 90% cheaper rates than branded drugs.The state registered 57% upswing in sales under the PMBJP during the last 11 months. This was, however, 3% less than the national average growth of 60% till February, said officials.Though Bihar, during this period, has been able to increase the number of PMBJP centres from 161 to 222, the pace of opening such centres has been far from satisfactory, said an official of the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers, requesting anonymity.As per the Centre’s roadmap, Bihar should have had at least 534 such stores — at least one in each of its 534 revenue blocks. Of the 222 existing outlets, 29 are in Patna alone. Sixty-one more such centres are to open across the state by the end of the year.“Bihar does not have a standard operating procedure (SOP) on how to open such stores in the state. As a result, it leads to inordinate delay in processing any request for opening of the PMBJP outlet at a government health facility,” he said.“A state facility has to give its consent for opening such an outlet on its campus. This does not happen smoothly even in Patna. The situation is worse in districts, where civil surgeons are generally not proactive,” said the officer, who requested anonymity.In Patna, for instance, the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the AIIMS do not have PMBJP outlets. The two facilities, however, have Amrit stores, which provide implants and generic drugs at subsidised cost.Amrit stores are owned and run by the PSU HLL Lifecare. Here the government caps the price of drugs purchased through distributors. In case of PMBJP, procurement is done directly through drug manufacturers by asking them to compete in tender, floated through the Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India, a PSU of the Central government. As a result, the common man generally gets a higher discount on drugs purchased through PMBJP outlets.The Nalanda Medical College Hospital and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) are among the few centres in Patna to have an Amrit store as well as PMBJP outlet on their campuses.Another reason for the less than the national growth in sale of generic drugs in Bihar was the reluctance among doctors to prescribe them.BJP MP from Aurangabad Sushil Kumar Singh acknowledged this fact and requested doctors to prescribe generic drugs.“Our Prime Minister has named you (doctors) Corona warriors. My earnest request to you is to prescribe maximum generic drugs. Branded drugs should be prescribed only under compelling circumstances, so that the financial burden on patients is reduced,” said Singh at a function at the IGIMS.IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said the institute had already issued instructions to its doctors to write generic drugs on their prescriptions after a PMBJP store was opened on its campus on September 24, last year.Talking of red tape in Bihar, Pawan Kejriwal, who runs the PMBJP store at IGIMS said, “I had to wait for four years to open the store. The authorities cancelled three of my previous allotment orders during this period before I competed the fourth time last year.”The Centre had initially advised states to earmark land on its hospital campuses to open Amrit stores, to provide affordable and reliable generic drugs, stents and implants under the PMBJP, re-launched in November 2016.Bihar was slow to soak in the concept when generic drug stores were first mooted in 2008 under ‘Jan Aushadhi’, a project for sale of generic drugs through exclusive outlets called the ‘Jan Aushadhi medical store’. It was not before 2017-18 that the first Amrit store opened at Patna’s IGIMS.Also Read: Bihar Congress leaders in competitive show of strength to lead state unitIn September 2015, the 'Jan Aushadhi scheme' was revamped as 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana' (PMJAY). To give further impetus to the scheme, it was again renamed as ‘Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana’ in November 2016.Two years back, Bihar had only 132 (approx) generic drugs stores as against thousands of retail outlets selling branded medicines. Darbhanga, Lakhisarai, Sheohar and Sheikhpura were then among a few districts which did not have any generic drugs store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-slow-to-push-generic-drugs-using-pm-s-janaushadhi-project-101615179679755.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI in moderate category, no improvement likely till tomorrow||Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9am stood at 192. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 256.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that the air quality in the Capital was going to remain in the poor to moderate category.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted“The overall Delhi air quality is in the poor category. Surface winds are moderate and easterly as forecast. Moderate ventilation is likely for the next 48 hours. AQI is forecast to stay in the poor to moderate category for the next two days,” Safar said in its daily bulletin on Sunday.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to be 31°C.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 18.9°C and the maximum temperature was 34°C -- both five notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-no-improvement-likely-till-tomorrow-101615179315937.html
08-03-2021||Patna||Bihar Congress leaders in competitive show of strength to lead state unit||As the deadline for the long-awaited revamp of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) is drawing closer, prominent Congress leaders, particularly those aspiring to lead the state unit, are mobilising resources and manpower for a show of strength in the last leg of Kisan Satyagrah Yatra led by Bihar Congress in-charge Bhakta Charan Das, starting March 13, said party leaders aware of the developments.During this four-day tour to Mithilachal, Das would meet party’s functionaries in seven districts, including Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Arwal and Jehanabad. He is expected to pick leaders for the new state committee after the Kisan Satyagrah Yatra-cum-consultations with party’s functionaries across the state. Das was nominated as the Bihar Congress in-charge on January 11, replacing Shaktisinh Gohil, and embarked on a three-phased Kisan Satyagraha Yatra on January 26.Soon after taking over as the new All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das had announcedSensing the significance of the last leg of the yatra, many senior leaders have toured their respective areas of influence, particularly in Mithilanchal, to encourage their supporters to put up an impressive show, said some party leaders on condition of anonymity.Former AICC general secretary Shakeel Ahmad, who had earlier rebelled against the party and thereby got suspended, AICC media panelist Prem Chandra Mishra, former Congress legislature party leader Ashok Kumar, et al, held preparatory meetings with party workers in Madhubani and Sitamarhi districts on Sunday, apparently to leave a lasting impression on the party in-charge before he undertake the reshuffle exercise, said party leaders.Also Read: Bihar aims to vaccinate 1 lakh women on International Women's DayBihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha and party’s campaign committee chief and Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad have already visited the areas to be covered by Das during the last phase of campaigning. Former BPCC vice-president Pravin Singh Kushwaha, who put up a massive show of strength in Bhagalpur during the second phase of the yatra, has also reached Patna after meeting a string of AICC seniors in Delhi to coordinate with the programme.BPCC spokesman Rajesh Rathore said Das would arrive in Patna on March 12 and start his journey from Samastipur the next day, where he is expected to address a farmers’ conclave to mobilise against the newly-enacted farm reform laws. Das is set to attend seven farmers’ conclave in the last leg of the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-congress-leaders-in-competitive-show-of-strength-to-lead-state-unit-101615178730456.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal celebrates role of women police personnel||In its golden jubilee year, Himachal Pradesh is celebrating the contribution of its women police personnel this Women’s Day. It is among the first states in the country to have recruited policewomen.Congratulating the personnel, state police chief Sanjay Kundu said on Monday, “As Himachal Pradesh celebrates 50 years of statehood, this time we are celebrating the contribution of our women colleagues.” Twenty-eight women officers will be felicitated by governor Bandaru Dattatreya at a programme on the Ridge in Shimla. Besides the parade by an all-woman contingent and a motorcycle show, the programme will showcase the journey of women cops from the grassroots to the highest ranks in uniform.Pioneers become role modelsRani Devi, 66, was among the first three women to have joined the police as a constable in 1973, inspiring many to follow suit. Rani served the police for 40 years before retiring as deputy superintendent of police in 2013. “My service in the police force makes me feel proud even today. I’m glad that many young women went on to choose a life in uniform and serve the country,” she said.In November 1975 when Himachal Pradesh was just four years old, the state police recruited its second batch of 27 women.Major milestones in journey to topPunita Bhardwaj joined the Himachal Pradesh Police Service in 1986 and set another benchmark in the history of the state’s police. She was inducted into the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 2001 and was awarded the police medal for meritorious service in 2011.Satwant Atwal Trivedi became the first woman IPS officer in the state in 1996 and went on to become the first woman superintendent of police at Una besides the first woman officer from the state to serve the National Investigation Agency and Border Security Force. She is credited with initiating the implementation of artificial intelligence in the BSF. A gold medallist in clinical psychology and German, at present she heads the BSF’s intelligence directorate and is the joint secretary of National Intelligence Grid or (Natgrid) to counter terrorism.Other women who have done the state police proud include Gulshan Negi, who became the first woman assistant sub inspector in 1994, and Babita Rana, the additional superintendent of police at Sirmaur at present, who was the first woman sub inspector in 1996. She was the first woman officer to head a police station at Kihar in Chamba.Bollywood in praise of state policeActors Hema Malini, Anupam Kher, Aruna Irani Aamir Khan, singer Hans Raj Hans and director Prakash Jha have felicitated women police personnel on the occasion. In video messages, they congratulated Kundu for organising the event in Shimla to recognise the contribution of women cops. “Women empowerment leads to a strong nation,” said Kher, who is from Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-celebrates-role-of-women-police-personnel-101615178476375.html
08-03-2021||Bangalore||The voiceless communities of Karnataka||In 2013, Shekar Kudri, then a 27-year-old from Muralgi village of Belagavi district became possibly the first person in the Dakkaliga community, a nomadic tribe in Karnataka, to land a government job.By their own estimates, there are about 3,000 people who belong to this community, classified as Scheduled Caste (SC), in Karnataka. Kudri’s appointment presents a stark reflection of how smaller and relatively unknown caste groups in the state get so little from reservation, depriving them of opportunities and a chance at social justice.“My parents were agricultural labourers and did not know about reservations. I gathered information when I was studying, pursued it and applied for a government job,” said Kudri, now a 35-year-old physical education trainer in a government school in Muralgi.His relatives at Chikkanayakanahalli in Tumkuru district, however, have not been so fortunate.Most of the families that live next to the cemetery in the village continue to beg for a living while a few others sell cheap plastic goods to eke out an income.“We have been fighting to get the government to allocate grants for the construction of houses,” Shantharaju, a small-time trader from the same community, said. Most families in this settlement live in huts, put together with plastic sheets, straws and other material. He described the living conditions of the community as “heenayakara” or deplorable.Communities like the Dhakkaligas are one of the hundreds, if not thousands, whose lives have not changed with the image of India, whose economic might is often showcased worldwide.The rise in per capita income, industrial progress and technological prowess has had little or no impact on their lives or livelihood, enunciating the already glaring social and economic inequalities in India. The Covid-19 pandemic exacerbated this situation as it forced those who tried to break out, right back into poverty.But few are aware of the so-called benefits of reservation due to the lack of education, employment and awareness.The conditions of these people are rarely ever deliberated on by the political class, who spare no opportunity to identify with their own caste groups.The rise of caste-specific ‘mathas’ or monasteries are instruments to uphold the interest of the community and as a consolidation measure to prove strength that would also be used as a political bargaining chip, experts said. There are at least three prominent communities—Panchamasali, Vokkaliga, Kuruba and Valmiki—where a sizeable strength of people from these groups are in active politics, high offices and avail benefits from government schemes and programmes.To be sure, most of the benefits even within these dominant communities are cornered by a few who are in power, leaving the remaining as vote banks or support systems with little or no benefits other than the name of the community itself.Experts and social activist groups said the biggest problem for the state is that it does not have adequate information on these communities, their living conditions or their whereabouts since they are nomadic and often move around for livelihood.The other problem is an argument often used to appropriate the higher allocations to larger communities based on their population, experts said.“Few communities grab benefits meant for more deprived groups,” CS Dwarakanath, the former chairman of the Karnataka backward classes commission and a civil rights activist, said. He added that there is no source of information to gauge the actual benefit of representation availed by any community.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015 undertook a survey to determine the actual living conditions, population and social, economic and educational status of all caste groups in Karnataka. The survey is yet to be released.Siddaramaiah had initiated the study based on the recommendations of Professor Ravivarma Kumar’s report in 2000. However, analysts said, Siddaramaiah’s reasons may have been more political as he, a Kuruba, who stormed into power with the help of AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits), wanted to challenge the dominant caste theory in the state, dominated mostly by Lingayats and Vokkaligas, who are believed to be the largest with significant political influence.There are broadly five categories of caste classifications in Karnataka apart from reservations for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes (SC/ST).But atrocities against people in the name of caste, religion and subsects, among other reasons, continue to thrive unabated.A group of 15 people, who see themselves as upper-caste, stormed and assaulted a group of youngsters from the Madiga community in Koppala district, about 351 km from Bengaluru, in October last year.The youngsters had visited a local eatery where they got into a scuffle with a few people from upper caste boys, who objected to their presence.Madiga is a term used for over 50 Dalit sub-castes that have been treated as untouchables for centuries in Karnataka and other places. Though untouchability and casteist slurs are punishable offences, few are charged with these crimes as it is accepted as a way of life for many across Karnataka’s rural landscape, experts said. “Many times they do not even have the courage to file a complaint,” Sanna Hanumantha, a social activist in Koppala district, said.A 2019 study by Swabhimani Dalit Shakti, a social advocacy group in Karnataka, found that the practice of untouchability was rampant in nearly 87 villages in Haveri district, where they were not allowed to draw water from the wells, enter temples or even get a haircut.“We put up advertisements in newspapers when we visit any district to get more people from marginalised communities approach us and share their grievances,” K Jayaprakash Hegde, former member of parliament and chairman of the Karnataka Backward Class Commission, said.Hegde said there are cases where spelling mistakes deprive members of marginalised communities a chance to procure a caste certificate, which is mandatory to avail any benefits of reservation.The lack of awareness is one of the biggest challenges in reservation that leads to abject poverty, exploitation and malnutrition and even genetic problems due to the practice of marriage among close relatives within the community, experts said.A group of 50 members of the Yerava community, who mostly work in coffee plantations in Kodagu and Chikmagaluru districts, gave a reservation-related representation to the local police as they did not even know who the relevant authorities were.Bhavya, a 23-year-old woman at Ponnampet in Kodagu district said there are cases where caste certificates are illegally procured by people of upper castes or landlords with the lure of alcohol and money.Any effort to mobilise the marginalised caste groups is often met with brutal force by landlords, who see this as a threat, experts said.“Most of these nomadic tribes are people who do not have land, strength of numbers and even voting rights and hence are ignored by the political class,” Dasanuru Kusanna from the Institute of Socio-economic Change said.He added that the other problem is splintering of sub-castes from the main group, which then becomes a struggle within members of what is categorised as the same community to get benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/the-voiceless-communities-of-karnataka-101615177340699.html
08-03-2021||Bangalore||Sri Ram Sene’s Muthalik tries to join BJP again, seeks Belagavi bypoll ticket||Sri Ram Sene chief Pramod Muthalik on Sunday said that he has approached the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a ticket to contest in the upcoming parliamentary bypolls from Belagavi, about 500 km from Bengaluru.“I have approached all senior leaders of the party like Arun Singh, BL Santosh, CT Ravi, DV Sadananda Gowda, Pralhad Joshi and others and though they have not given me any assurance, their response has been very positive,” Muthalik (66) told HT.“I had tried to get a ticket before but the relations were not set properly. I have told them now that I am 66 years old and want to do some good work in the remaining three years,” he said.Union minister Sadananda Gowda told Hindustan Times on Sunday, “Yes, he (Muthalik) came to me but the ultimate decision will be taken by the core committee of the party.”Muthalik had made headlines when Sri Ram Sene assaulted women in a pub in Mangaluru in 2009. He has taken extreme positions against Valentine’s Day and his followers have targeted young couples and others in the garb of saving ‘Hindu culture’.He has had a love-hate relationship with the BJP which he tried to formally enter even in the past.In March 2014, Muthalik was inducted into the BJP in a grand event only to be removed just a few hours later after public outrage.The Belagavi seat fell vacant after Suresh Angadi, the central minister for railways died due to Covid-19. The dates for the bypolls are yet to be declared but the two main national parties--BJP and Congress--have already started work to secure a victory in the border district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sri-ram-sene-s-muthalik-tries-to-join-bjp-again-seeks-belagavi-bypoll-ticket-101615175990980.html
08-03-2021||Other||Rakesh Tikait in MP today; farmers warn of stir if he is arrested in 2012 case||Farmers in Madhya Pradesh have warned of intensifying their agitation if Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national leader Rakesh Tikait was arrested on arrival in Sheopur city Monday afternoon to address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in connection with an old case. “Rakesh Tikait will reach Sheopur in the afternoon from Delhi. If the police arrest him under the directions of the BJP-led state government, we will intensify our protest and the state government will be responsible for any untoward incident,” said BKU state president Anil Yadav.While the farm leader is coming to MP to garner support against the three new farm laws, and will hold three rallies this week, speculations are rife that he may be arrested on arrival. A police officer said on the condition of anonymity the arrest would be in connection with a 2012 case in which Tikait staged a protest against a power plant in Jaithari area of Anuppur district. Tikait, along with 100 others, was arrested under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with armed weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC but as released on bail. Later, he didn’t appear during a hearing and an arrest warrant was issued against him in 2016. Since then, he is absconding. However, Yadav pointed out, “Tikait has visited the state at least eight times since the court issued an arrest warrant against him. Why didn’t the MP police arrest him then? The government wants to suppress the protest and that’s why, ministers are making efforts to send farmer leaders behind the bars.” Anuppur superintendent of police Mangilal Solanki said, “I can’t comment over it but we will act as per the law.” Sheopur superintendent of police Sampat Upadhyaya said, “We don’t have any information regarding any arrest. We are just maintaining law and order in the district.” Heavy police force has been deployed in Sheopur as thousands of people are expected in the panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rakesh-tikait-in-mp-today-farmers-warn-of-stir-if-he-is-arrested-in-2012-case-101615176615935.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Batla House encounter: Delhi court to pronounce verdict on Ariz Khan’s role||A Delhi court on Monday will pronounce its judgment on the alleged role of Ariz Khan, one of the accused in the Batla House encounter of September 2008, where police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma and two alleged terrorists were killed during the showdown between the two parties.Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav at the Saket Court complex is likely to pronounce the verdict at 2pm. 35-year-old Khan was arrested by the Special Cell of the city police in February 2018 after being on the run for 10 years. According to the police, Khan was allegedly present at the scene of crime of the encounter with four other alleged terrorists but managed to flee the spot.Also Read | Inspector MC Sharma, killed in 2008 Batla House encounter, gets 7th gallantry medalOn April 28, 2010, the police had filed a charge sheet against Shahzad Ahmad, Ariz Khan (then on the run), Atif Ameen and Mohd Sajid, accusing them of killing Inspector Sharma on September 19, 2008, six days after serial blasts in the capital.The police have alleged that Khan was an expert bomb-maker and is accused of planning and executing serial blasts in six Indian cities, including Delhi, between November 2007 and September 2008. Those blasts killed 165 persons and injured 536, police had said at the time of his arrest.The incident (encounter) took place a week after five serial blasts occurred in Delhi on September 13, 2008, in which at least 30 people were killed and over 100 injured. Inspector Sharma of Special Cell was killed during the the encounter.A trial court in July 2013 had sentenced alleged Indian Mujahideen terrorist Shahzad Ahmad to life imprisonment in connection with the Batla House encounter case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/batla-house-encounter-delhi-court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-ariz-khan-s-role-101615175115968.html
08-03-2021||Patna||Bihar aims to vaccinate 1 lakh women on International Women's Day||Bihar is aiming to vaccinate about one lakh women against Covid-19 on International Women’s Day on March 8, with the government commemorating the event with festivity-like arrangements to make the women, turning up at vaccination centres, feel special, said state officials.To achieve the vaccination target set for the day, women associated with Jeevika, the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society and ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers in different districts have been asked to motivate women eligible for vaccination to turn up at the PHCs.“Women above 60 are eligible for this vaccination facility on International Women’s Day. Also, those above 45- years of age and below 59, who have been suffering from some kind of comorbidities, can also avail this facility,” Dr NK Sinha, state immunisation officer, Bihar State Health Society, said.As many women, especially those in rural and remote areas, may not be aware of this special drive for them, Jeevika and ASHA women have been asked to inform and motivate them to reach the PHCs, he added.‘We’re trying our best to achieve the target of vaccination of one lakh women on this occasion. Extensive sitting arrangements will be made for women at the venue. Those who need transport facility will also be helped in this regard,” Dr Sinha said. Those who have missed the registration process may also turn up at the PHC and get registered and vaccinated, he added.Also Read: Bihar police suspend 2 cops for forcing man to walk with son’s body for 3 kmBrajesh Kumar, administration officer at Jeevika in Madhepura, said, Jeevika women were very excited about the work they have been assigned. “It is believed that the number of participants may go up. Not less than 5, 000 women will be participating in the vaccination drive in Madhepura district,” he said.Umashankar Kumar, the district project manager of Jeevika in Nalanda district said, not less than 4,000 women from Nalanda would be attending the vaccination session on the International Women’s Day this year. “They feel the government has taken special care of women,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-aims-to-vaccinate-1-lakh-women-on-international-women-s-day-101615173670267.html
08-03-2021||Bangalore||100 years apart, a tale of Bengaluru's two pandemics||The year is 1898. As travellers arrived in Bangalore (now Bengaluru), they were checked. Only those unaffected by the plague were allowed to enter the city. Even those who tested negative were escorted by the police to their homes and kept under observation for 10 days. Their clothes were disinfected before entering the city.Over 100 years later, the people of Bengaluru experienced familiar scenarios during the Covid-19 pandemic, which hit India in 2020. From appointing a health commissioner to monitor the pandemic to creating isolation centres, there were many similarities in how the city dealt with the pandemic then and now.But most importantly, the years following the plague resulted in a change in the way people lived in Bangalore. This included developing new layouts and creating a new sanitation system, among others. Those studying history and contemporary Bengaluru feel that just like the Plague, even the Covid-19 pandemic will change the DNA of the city.The days of the PlagueAccording to government records, the first case in then Bangalore was reported in the city cantonment in August 1898. After the servant of the railway superintendent died due to the Plague, the disease was reported among the porters at the station. By the end of the pandemic, around 3,393 unofficial deaths areas outside the cantonment and 3,321 deaths were reported in the cantonment. Talking about how the city changed after the devastating pandemic, Meera Iyer of the National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) said that the first change was the development of a new, spacious layout system instead of the crowded markets like Chickpet. Basavanagudi, Malleswaram, Frazer Town and other areas were developed to ensure people didn’t live in congested areas.“There was a lot of emphasis on lighting, ventilation and hygiene post the Plague. This changed the way houses were built too. In the cantonment side of the city, especially in Fraser Town and Richards Town (which came up in 1911), there were the so-called plague-proof rules — country tiles allowed, no thatch roof, no mud floors, houses to be built slightly higher so that they were higher than the drains and so on,” she said. In the Maharaja-administered part of Bangalore, Chamarajapet and Seshadripuram had been built in 1892. “Basavanagudi and Malleswaram came up just six years later so they provided an interesting study of how the Plague had affected planning and architecture. For instance, Chamarajpet had quite a few row houses, but thanks to the plaque-induced horror of ‘congestion’ and ‘lack of ventilation’, Basavanagudi houses were mostly built with gardens,” she said.She also added that there was also an increased emphasis on proper sewage and drainage. Roads were built very carefully with proper drainage in mind. “Even today, you will rarely find flooding in Basavanagudi’s streets,” she added.In 1899, the Mysore government diverted ₹27 lakhs for sanitation work across the state. Several administrative experiments took place thereafter. Between 1898-1902, the post of Special Commissioner for Plague came into being. In 1913, the head of the Medical Department was designated as Sanitary Commissioner.The new pandemicThe Covid-19 pandemic too is an opportunity for such a change, say experts. Mohandas Pai, former director of Infosys said one of the first changes the city will see is the way it works, and work from home is here to stay, at least in a hybrid model.“The pandemic forced companies to rethink the way they operate. In the future, the idea of having a large office with all employees in one place will be obsolete. From an employee point of view, people are thinking of the quality of life, especially by wasting time travelling large distances within the city. A hybrid model which involves work from home and having small hubs across the city will be the way forward. Many are already doing it,” he said.V Ravichandar, a civic expert said that the city should and will have a ‘5 km city’ in the coming days. “The work from home culture will enable people to work and live in a 5km radius. Such a system will make Bengaluru a pandemic proof city to some extent. One thing this pandemic has taught us is that cases happen in bubble and travel results in the spread,” he further added.Both experts felt that a combination of hybrid work culture and removal of cross-city travel would not only decongest Bengaluru but also improve reliance on public transport.“Once the need for long-distance travel within the city is limited, we will see people walking or using cycles more in the 5 km hubs,” Ravichandar added.Such a move, however, requires a change in the government’s thought process. While Ravichandar asked for a relook at the city’s master plan with this new outlook, Pai said that areas across the city should be developed as hubs with all provisions, for which, people travelled across the city in the pre-pandemic era.“To give an example, Mysuru can be the new hub for the Bengaluru dwellers. The city provides a better quality of life and since work from home allows people to be away from the big city, more people could move there,” Pai said.A senior official of Bengaluru traffic police agreed to the assessment and said that since the pandemic, despite the economy opening up, the volume of traffic in the city has reduced considerably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/100-years-apart-a-tale-of-bengaluru-s-two-pandemics-101615173182005.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Assembly's budget session begins today, economic survey to be tabled on first day||The Delhi Assembly's budget session will begin from Monday with an address by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. It will go on till March 16, 2021. The ses is being held according to the Covid-19 norms which have been put in place to check the spread of the infection.On the first day, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will present the economic survey for Delhi, according to the list of businesses shared by C Velmurugan, secretary of the assembly.The 2021-22 state budget - the seventh by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) - will be tabled on Tuesday, HT has learnt.The Delhi government proposed a ₹65,000 crore budget outlay for 2020-21, the highest till date and around 8.33 per cent higher than the previous financial year’s expenditure. In the 2021-22 budget, the government is likely to further increase the total outlay, said the senior government official.The total outlay in the AAP government’s first budget, presented in 2015-16, was ₹41,500 crore.The much talked about thing in this year's budget in Delhi and the country is vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The budget is expected to have a special allocation for free Covid-19 vaccination at Delhi government hospitals. The Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi government facilities are likely to continue with the free jabs even after the drive opens up for everyone, irrespective of their age or health comorbidities, a senior government official said on Sunday.Currently, vaccination at government hospitals is free for elderly and those with comorbidities, while ₹250 is being charged at private hospitals.Vaccination is currently underway in Delhi at 192 hospitals, including 56 run by the Delhi government, for people aged 60 years and above and those in the age group of 45-59 years having comorbidities.India getting ready to celebrate 75 years of its Independence is also expected to feature prominently in Delhi government's budget proposals. In fact, the theme of this year's budget will be patriotism and the AAP government may allocate funds for a series of events in the city for 75 weeks till August 15, 2022.Apart from these things, the budget is also likely to have proposals to open 'Sainik Schools' in Delhi and promote yoga at a widescale in the city, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-s-budget-session-begins-today-economic-survey-to-be-tabled-on-first-day-101615173139456.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Multiple borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed for vehicular movement fully or partially on Monday as farmers continued to protest against the three farm laws for over a 100 days at the city’s borders. For motorists coming to Delhi from UP, the Ghazipur border remains closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The commuters can also choose the Chilla border which was cleared of farmers soon after the Republic Day violence. Also Read | Women to take centrestage at farmer protest sites at Delhi borders todayThe entry and exit points between the national capital and Haryana -- passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh -- continued to remain closed on Monday. The traffic police have advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.The police have also diverted traffic from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road.The Jharoda border, which was partially closed all this while, also reopened fully for traffic on Sunday evening.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws for over 100 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101615172484077.html
08-03-2021||Ranchi||2 arrested for raping and killing a pregnant Jharkhand teenager in Palamu||A Jharkhand youth accused of raping and killing a minor girl was arrested by Palamu police along with his friend, an accomplice in the murder of the girl, said police. Preliminary investigations show that the youth killed the minor since she was pregnant and insisting on either marrying him or undergoing an abortion.The girl went missing from her home in Hussainabad police station area in Daltonganj on 21 February. Six days later, on February 27, her body was recovered from a river bed. Her family members suspected their relatives’ involvement in the murder.The Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Kumar said, “A special investigation team formed to crack this case found some leads based on the mobiles calls made to the girl. Further investigation revealed the involvement of her lover and his friend in the crime. The boys called her over the phone, took her to an isolated place, killed by stabbing her and dumped the body under sand in the river bed.”Also Read: Forest fire in Ranchi and surroundings poses threat to wild animals, environmentThe arrested youth are identified as Niraj Kumar Singh aka Nanhe (18) and Om Prakash Singh (18), both residents of Barahi village under Hussainbad police station in the district.The police also seized the bike used in the crime along with two mobile sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/2-arrested-for-raping-and-killing-a-pregnant-jharkhand-teenager-in-palamu-101615172221789.html
08-03-2021||Lucknow||Women cops to lead from the front!||Celebrating the International Women’s Day on March 8, women cops of Lucknow police will be taking charge at some of the major intersections of the city, said Commissioner of Police Dhruv Kant Thakur. He added that at prominent crossings, women cops will be leading from the front and distribute flowers to female commuters. 15 crossing have been identified which includes Atal Chowk (Hazratganj), 1090 , Gole Market, Polytechnic, Kamta (Shaheed Path), Kapoorthala, Engineering College. “Every day these women cops are performing their duties as an individual and police officer. This is just to give the message to the public that they are working shoulder-to-shoulder with their male counterpart,” he said. The presence of women police brigade in form of pink patrol feet and pink booths dotting the city have given a new perspective to policing and Lucknow became the first city in the state, to get a pink patrol fleet under the smart city, project. Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel flagged off 100 two-wheelers and 10 SUVs driven by woman cops in October 2020. Pink booths that have come up all over the city have women cops and cater to women complainants who are hesitant to walk in a police station. DCP women crime, Ruchita Chaudhury said that women help desk had been set up in police stations and when a women complainant walks in, they are attended by a female staff. Under Mission Shakti, 112-UP is providing night escorts for which PRV Vans have been commissioned and in all 300 female PRV Vans are running in the state and for create awareness amongst the women they are running awareness programmes all over, said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/women-cops-to-lead-from-the-front-101615171936780.html
08-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand man gets death penalty for sodomising and murdering 5-year old||A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court of Uttarakhand awarded death penalty to a man for sodomising and murdering a 5-year-old child in US Nagar. His parents were also sent to prison for concealing the crime, said an official.Vikas Gupta, special assistant district government counsel of Pocso court said, “Pocso court awarded a man a death sentence on Saturday for sodomising and later murdering a minor in Rudrapur. The crime was committed in February 2019.”Gupta said a child had suddenly disappeared from the roof of his house on February 19, 2019, in the Transit Camp Colony of Rudrapur in US Nagar. A missing complaint was filed in the Transit camp police station on February 21. The complainant said he saw his neighbour Harswroop was on their roof at midnight and he was seen opening the lid of the water tank. He fled on being spotted, he said.Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP core group meeting fuels speculation about major change in govtPolice took Harswroop into custody and questioned him, which led to the recovery of the child’s body, stuffed in a bag from his room. The post-mortem report revealed the child was sodomised and strangled to death.Gupta said police arrested Harswroop and his parents and sent them to jail after producing them in court. Eleven witnesses were produced in the court by the prosecution side.Vijay Laxmi Vihan, special judge Pocso awarded him the death penalty. The court awarded 4-year imprisonment to his father Papoo and 3-year imprisonment to his mother Roopwati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-man-gets-death-penalty-for-sodomising-and-murdering-5-year-old-101615170648777.html
08-03-2021||Ranchi||Forest fire in Ranchi and surroundings poses threat to wild animals, environment||Raging ground fire in forests of Ranchi and its surrounding is posing a threat to local wildlife and environment. Fires in forests in Jonha, Angara and Sitafall localities have caused heavy damage, wildlife experts said. The forest officials, however, said the situation is under control and village forest committees have been activated to tackle the fires.Experts say fire incidents in the area are shrinking animals’ habitats with burning of shrubs and insects, which are food for several animals. Birds are also leaving since the temperature around their habitats in these parts has increased due to fire.Forest officials and experts claimed most of the forest fires were man made. Fires caused by Mahua flower pickers are common in March and April in Jharkhand forests. But, the fires are expanding this year due to the prolonged dry season. The maximum temperature is hovering around 32 degrees Celsius, 1.5 degrees above the normal.Ranchi based environmentalist Nitish Priyadarshi, who visited the Jonha and Sitafall area on Saturday, said, “The birds are badly affected by the fire, as their shelters have turned hot. Besides, large numbers of animals are also migrating to other safe places to protect themselves from the fire and in search of food.”He said the huge plumes of smoke billowing out carbon dioxide are also impacting the environment and need to be addressed as soon as possible. “The forest dwellers are also suffering due to the fire,” he said.Priyadarshi said such fires are started in small patches, mostly to collect mahua flowers during this season. “However, the fire is breaking out in a large area due to the prolonged dry season and less moisture in the soil. Earlier, in Ranchi district, there used to be water in forest streams, which used to prevent fire from spreading. But, this year they have dried,” Priyadarshi said.Also Read:10th century Buddha Vihar discovered in Jharkhand’s HazaribagRegional chief conservator of forests (RCCF), Ranchi, AT Mishra said, “This is actually ground fire and not forest fire and is much under control. We have activated the village committees, who are actively dousing the fires, when reported.”Mishra said, “There are several reasons for spreading ground fire. Besides the mahua pickers, rural people or tourists throw burning cigarette or 'bidi' buds on the ground, which also causes ground fire in forests some time. However, the situation is not alarming. We are monitoring the situation closely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/forest-fire-in-ranchi-and-surroundings-poses-threat-to-wild-animals-environment-101615169544815.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Varavara Rao goes home on bail after release from hospital||Poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has been discharged from Nanavati Hospital, people in the know of the matter said.“Free at last ! Varavara Rao out of Nanavati hospital 11.45 pm, 6th March 2021,” lawyer Indira Jaising tweeted as she posted a picture of Rao smiling into the camera.The 82-year-old activist, who was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay high court on February 22, was discharged from the private hospital late Saturday night, they said.Rao, arrested in 2018, was admitted to the medical facility in November last year due to ill health. The HC had last month directed he be released immediately on bail after being discharged from hospital.While granting him bail, the high court had asked Rao to furnish a personal bond of ₹50,000 and two solvent sureties of the like amount. Rao later requested the court that he be allowed to furnish cash surety as the process of submitting solvent sureties was taking time. The court last Monday allowed Rao to furnish a cash surety of ₹50,000 and gave him time till April 5 to submit the two solvent sureties of the same amount.The case is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The HC while granting him bail imposed various conditions on his release, including a direction to remain in Mumbai, within the jurisdiction of the NIA court here.After the six-month period, Rao will have to either surrender before the trial court or approach the HC for extension of the bail period.The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the “Elgar Parishad” conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city.The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/varavara-rao-goes-home-on-bail-after-release-from-hospital-101615152495233.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi among top 3 states with most ‘contaminated sites’||Delhi has featured third on a list of states and union territories with most contaminated sites, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.The CPCB report released on Sunday said that there are over 112 sites in India that are contaminated by toxic and hazardous substances. Apart from this, another 168 sites were identified that might be contaminated, but require investigation and confirmation, the report said.The list is topped by Odisha, which has 23 contaminated sites, followed by Uttar Pradesh, with 21 such sites in the state and Delhi, which has 11.Delhi’s 11 sites are Bhalswa and Ghazipur landfills, industrial areas in Jhilmil and Wazirpur, New Friends Colony (NFC), Dilshad Garden and Lawrence Road. Apart from these, there are another 12 spots under the “probably contaminated” list in the Capital.According to the Union ministry of environment, contaminated sites are defined as delineated areas where the “constituents and characteristics of the toxic and hazardous substances, caused by humans, exist at levels and in conditions, which pose existing or imminent threats to health and environment”.Such contamination may happen at production areas, landfills, dumps, waste storage and treatment sites, mine tailings sites, spill sites, chemical waste handler and storage sites where the waste is either of hazardous nature or has the potential of turning hazardous.Municipal agencies in Delhi are responsible for the upkeep of landfills, and waste disposal and management.Delhi’s civic body officials refused to respond on the report.According to submissions made to the National Green Tribunal by respective state governments last year, remediation work has been started to clean up 14 contaminated sites across seven states: Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and UP.Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor, department of geology Delhi University, said, “Sites such as Ghazipur and Bhalswa are very old and have not been developed to scientifically to handle waste and as a result, the area’s soil and even groundwater have been severely contaminated. The lesson from this report should be that the same mistakes should not be made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-among-top-3-states-with-most-contaminated-sites-101615151772392.html
08-03-2021||City||'Don’t have much choice’: Rohingya face deportation||Trepidation prevailed in Jammu’s Bathindi locality a day after authorities in the Union Territory began the process of identifying illegal Rohingya immigrants in the region and sent 169 people to a holding centre in Kathua district late on Saturday night.Facing the prospect of deportation and an uncertain future, scores of Rohingya immigrants gathered with their luggage outside Mecca Masjid in the area on Sunday morning; some looking for safer lodging in the suburbs, while others said they were considering leaving Jammu.“Our family members didn’t return home on Saturday evening. In many families, either the men or the women have not returned. Under such circumstances, how could others stay here?” asked Rafiqa Bano.Asif Khan, a resident of Burma market in Jammu, said: “Many among us didn’t return home last evening. The police action has caused fear.”Several thousand Muslim Rohingya immigrants, fleeing Myanmar to escape persecution, have been staying in the Union Territory for years now. According to official data, nearly 5,700 Rohingya immigrants were settled in and around Jammu.“We will go back when peace returns to our country,” said Sufeera, 28, who said her uncle and brother had been sent to the holding centre, leaving her alone with her children.Another refugee, 48-year-old Sadiq, said members of his family had also been detained. “We have been told that we will be deported,” he said. “They took mother and father ... Who will take care of them?”On Saturday, the J&K administration started the verification process of the Rohingya. By late evening, 169 immigrants without valid travel documents were sent to a jail in Kathua, which has been declared a holding centre.On Sunday, dozens of queued up outside the stadium for verification following police orders.“This was done under section 3(2)e of the Foreigners Act. Due process of law was followed in this exercise. These immigrants were not holding valid travel documents required in terms of section (3) of the Passports Act,” Jammu IGP Mukesh Singh said on Saturday. On Sunday, he told AFP that after verification, details will be sent to the ministry of external affairs to be taken up with Myanmar for deportation.An estimated 40,000 Rohingya have taken refuge in parts of India over the years. Fewer than 15,000 are registered with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.Another immigrant, Kafiullah, who runs a grocery kiosk to make ends meet, said he will have to follow the government’s order. “We don’t have much choice with us,” he said.On Sunday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s J&K president Ravinder Raina said that illegal Rohingya immigrants were being sent to the holding centre following Myanmar’s assurance to take them back. “Myanmar’s external affairs ministry has assured India to take back its people, not only from India but wherever they live in other parts of the world,” he said.Former deputy chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Kavinder Gupta, too, said on Sunday the “deportation of Rohingya was on the BJP agenda since long... Now, the time has come to deport them.”With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dont-have-much-choice-rohingya-face-deportation-101615151467232.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Pandemic phase of Covid-19 is over: Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that test positivity rates remaining lower than 1% for more than two months indicated that the pandemic phase for Covid-19 was over in the national capital.“The pandemic phase for Covid-19 is over in Delhi. One has to look into the test positivity rate which has been lower than 1% for more than two months now. Covid-19 is now nearing an endemic phase in Delhi. Experts say some cases continue to occur in the endemic phase. Delhi witnessed a swine flu outbreak around 10 years ago, but still some cases are reported every year. Coronavirus is not going to end completely... we will have to learn to live with it,” Jain said in a press briefing.However, experts cautioned against Jain’s remark. “The decision about whether it is a pandemic or endemic has to be taken by scientific bodies like the WHO or ICMR. It cannot be a political decision and we cannot loosen our grip and guard against coronavirus infections at this crucial point,” Dr JA Jayalal, president of Indian Medical Association, told NDTV.An infection is said to be endemic in a population when it is constantly maintained at a baseline level in a geographic area. After reporting 300-plus cases for two consecutive days till Saturday, Delhi on Sunday recorded 286 new Covid cases and two related deaths, taking the city’s infection tally to 641,101 and fatalities to 10,921.The 286 cases came on the back of 91,614 tests – of which 71,250 were RT-PCR tests that are believed to be more accurate. The caseload stands at 1,803, a jump of 24 patients from the 1,779 reported on Saturday, the bulletin showed.Also, 260 patients were reported as recovered on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 628,377 at a recovery rate of 98.01 per cent, according to data. The bulletin also showed that 937 patients have been in home isolation and the city currently has 538 containment zones as of Sunday.On Sunday, the test positivity rate was recorded at 0.31%.On Friday and Saturday, Delhi recorded 312 and 321 new Covid-19 cases respectively – and the positivity rates were 0.53% and 0.63% — raising concerns at a time when several other states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala are witnessing increase in cases once again. In Delhi, the total number of tests also dropped below 60,000 over Friday and Saturday, records showed.The Union ministry of health and family welfare has categorised Delhi along with Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh as states in focus, after a surge in the number of daily new cases were observed.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday: “We are in the endgame of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.” He was speaking at the Delhi Medical Association’s (DMA’s) 62nd Annual Delhi State Medical Conference (MEDICON 2021) in collaboration with Dharamshila Narayana Hospital on Sunday.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research, said: “Pandemic and endemic are technical terms, best to be decided by experts on the basis of studies. As far as the numbers are concerned, Delhi is in stable shape now. However, Delhi government has to ensure that it does not scale down tests, contact tracing and surveillance. We have to learn from states which evidently went complacent with their policies and witnessed fresh uptick in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-phase-of-covid-19-is-over-jain-101615151015148.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||AAP smells a scam in Rani Jhansi flyover delay; baseless, charge, says BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption in the three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) and demanded answers with regard to expenses incurred and delay in construction of the Rani Jhansi flyover in north Delhi.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back, saying that the AAP should answer why the construction of the Signature bridge in north-east Delhi faced delays.The AAP is in charge of Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to municipal polls in 2022.The north Delhi municipal body inaugurated the Rani Jhansi flyover in October 2018 and the AAP government inaugurated the Signature bridge in November 2018. Both projects witnessed delays – Raji Jhansi flyover took 24 years and Signature bridge was supposed to be inaugurated in 2013.“The BJP claimed that the Rani Jhansi flyover will be completed in two years, then why did it take 24 years? They claimed that the flyover will be completed within a budget of ₹175 crore, then why did it take ₹724 crore. If not for corruption by the BJP leaders then why?” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor cited several hurdles in the work and rejected Pathak’s allegations. “These are baseless allegations. There were numerous hurdles ranging from legal to administrative that delayed work on the Rani Jhansi flyover project. The AAP should rather answer what took them five extra years to start the Signature Bridge, even though the project was not caught up in legal hurdles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-smells-a-scam-in-rani-jhansi-flyover-delay-baseless-charge-says-bjp-101615150871542.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Shots will stay free at all Delhi govt hospitals||The Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi government facilities are likely to continue with the free jabs even after the drive opens up for everyone, irrespective of their age or health comorbidities, a senior government official said on Sunday.Appropriate allocation of funds in this regard will be made in the upcoming Delhi budget that is likely to be presented this week, he added .The budget session of the Delhi government starts on Monday and it is scheduled to continue till March 16. HT has learnt that the economic survey and outcome budget 2020-21 is likely to be tabled on Monday, while the 2021-22 state budget — the seventh by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — will be tabled on Tuesday.The Delhi government had proposed a ₹65,000 crore budget outlay for 2020-21, the highest till date and around 8.33% higher than the previous financial year’s expenditure. The total outlay in the AAP government’s first budget, presented in 2015-16, was ₹41,500 crore.In the 2021-22 budget, the government is likely to further increase the total outlay, said the senior government official.This will be the first budget by the state government after the Covid-19 pandemic struck the Capital, with the infection and the consequent nationwide lockdown severely denting the state government’s revenue collection by at least 42%, finance department officials said.The 2020-21 budget had been tabled on March 23, even as Delhi planned a week-long lockdown, and plans for a nation-wide lockdown loomed.VACCINE PLANS“Covid-19 vaccines will remain free for all in the government centres. Funds for the same will be allocated in the budget in this regard,” said the first government official.Currently, Delhi has 402 vaccine centres spread across 192 locations. Of the total locations – 136 are in private hospitals and 56 are in government hospitals. The drive is currently open for health workers, front line workers, people aged over 60 years and people aged between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities as listed by the Central government. While the inoculation drive was launched across India on January 16, vaccine shots for the last two groups only started on March 1. Delhi, so far, has administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines to 75,673 people aged over 60 years and 11,095 shots to people with comorbidities aged between 45 and 59 years , government data showed.In a report published in HT on Wednesday, health minister Satyendar Jain said the government would take two to three months to cover the first dose for these groups. While there are 2.1 million people aged over 60 years in Delhi, government data showed, there is still no clear estimate of people aged 45-59 years with comorbidities from the Central government’s list.Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India, said: “Extensive vaccine coverage is needed even for persons below 60 years, because of a high prevalence of comorbidities in younger age groups. Many people with those health conditions are unaware of them, especially in the lower socio-economic groups. Both to protect such people and to slow down the transmission, vaccines have to be administered free of cost in government hospitals.”DELHI’S BUDGET THEMEThe theme of the upcoming budget of the Delhi government will be “patriotism” and there is likely to be an allocation of funds for a series of events to he held across the city over a span of 75 weeks – starting this Thursday with a programme in Connaught Place – to celebrate 75 years of independence in India in August next year and installing national flags across the city, said the senior government official.The senior official said that the upcoming budget is also likely to have a proposal for setting up a new Sainik school in Delhi, apart from allocation of funds for Delhi’s own state education board which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shots-will-stay-free-at-all-delhi-govt-hospitals-101615150689157.html
08-03-2021||City||BJP resolves to form next govt in J-K on its own||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Jammu and Kashmir unit concluded its two-day state working committee at Spiritual Growth Center in Katra with the adoption of its resolution.BJP national general secretary and J-K Prabhari Tarun Chugh, J-K BJP President Ravinder Raina, BJP Seh-Prabhari Ashish Sood, national secretary Dr Narinder Singh, former state presidents Dr Nirmal Singh (former deputy CM), Shamsher Singh Manhas (former MP), Ashok Khajuria (former MLC), Jugal Kishore Sharma (MP) and Sat Sharma (former minister), general secretary (Org.) Ashok Kaul, among other senior party leaders, addressed the meeting.Tarun Chugh, while addressing the meeting, said that in the strong leadership of Prime Minister Modi the 'Make in India' mission has been launched on a global platform. He said that the age-old notion of India being a soft nation has been dealt away with and now India has the capability to reply to every misdeed with even greater force.Also read: BJP plans new campaign to take on AAP after bypoll lossChugh said that now the global perception of India has transformed. Indians are looked at with respect all over the world as a result of the strong Indian brand developed by PM Modi. "With his strong leadership and innovative governance, India has now emerged as a global leader in these few years and we should be proud of this," he stressed."People from across the nation have an emotional bond with J-K and have sacrificed their precious lives for this region," Chugh said, adding that former CM Sheikh Abdullah ditched every other community of Jammu and Kashmir and now it is the time that the historical blunders are undone, the onus of which lies on the shoulders of BJP activists from J-K.Ravinder Raina, in his presidential address, paid respect to all those who lost their lives in securing the nation and the society from external and internal threats. He also remembered those who lost their lives in combating the menace of the Covid-19 pandemic.Raina vehemently thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the effective management of Covid-19 and the emergence of India as a world leader in coming out of troubled times. He also appreciated the dedicated effort of BJP activists from J-K who risked their lives to help those in need.Raina said, "the Modi government has strengthened the three-tier system of Panchayati Raj to give power to common masses". He thanked the residents of Jammu and Kashmir for enthusiastically participating in the DDC elections and bestowing the BJP with the title of the single largest party in the elections. "Only the BJP has ensured benefit to every single community of J-K," he said."Before going home from the working committee meet every BJP leader must pledge to form BJP's government and BJP's chief minister in J-K in the next assembly elections here," Raina said.Earlier, newly elected DDC chairpersons and vice-chairpersons were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-resolves-to-form-next-govt-in-j-k-on-its-own-101615150489868.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Indian water gun manufacturers giving China a run for its money||In November 2015, Deepak Vats went to Sadar Bazar to buy toys for his son. A toy importer in the market, who knew that Vats was a manufacturer of plastic containers, showed him a sophisticated Chinese pichkari (water gun) and asked him if he could try and make anything similar in his factory.“I accepted the challenge, though I had never produced toys before,” says Vats, sitting in his sleek, first-floor office in Narela industrial area on the outskirts of Delhi.Soon, Vats, a mechanical engineer by training, got down to the drawing board.His team did a 3D digital image of the Chinese water gun, and after three months of working in the tool room, Vats was able to make the required moulds to fashion out his own water gun. In February that year, just before Holi, he went back to the Sadar Bazar trader with the water gun he had produced and also the Chinese one.“The trader was surprised and failed to recognise any difference between the two. He immediately placed an order for 15,000 units, ” says Vats. “That is how I first started making water guns.”Six years on, Vats is one of the country’s biggest water gun makers in the organised sector, who makes about 80 different kinds of water guns under the brand name of Kittu Toys & Pichkaris. “I really do not know why we should have allowed Chinese water guns to overtake the Indian market in the first place ,” says Vats, the only water gun maker in Narela industrial area, which has about 300 factories that produce household plastic items. “Making a high-end water gun for Holi is no rocket science.”It is a Friday afternoon, and Vats is busy overseeing the production of the last lot of water guns this season. He starts production in November and stops it three weeks before Holi, after which he gets back to making packaging containers. The assembly floor of the factory, which has the capacity to make about 3,000 water guns a day, is packed with cartons ready to be shipped to states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Chennai. “I no longer supply them to Sadar Bazar. The trader I made the first water gun for, sold it as a Chinese product. Besides, our new models are easily copied by small producers in the unorganized sector running factories out of homes in and around Sadar Bazar,” says Vats.The process of making a water gun, Vats explains, starts with creating moulds in the tool room , which has a Computerized Numerical Control (CNC) Machine Centre, and several manual lithe, drilling, and milling machines. The mould is then taken to the injection moulding machines and blow moulding machines. Plastic granules are fed into these machine to be melted. The hot molten plastic is shot by the machine into the mould’s cavities. Then it cools, hardens, and, now a solid object—a part of the pichkari –is ejected. “Chinese factories are bigger and have more of the same machines we have. It is the quality of the mould and the quality of the plastic granules that determine how fine a water gun or any other toy is. We have matched China in both quality and pricing, despite their economies of scale,” says Vats.What also goes in desi water gun manufacturer’s favour, he says, is that raw material — poly proypelne, high-density polyethylene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene and polyvinyl chloride — is easily available in India. “But post-pandemic, the cost of the raw materials has gone up by up to 50 percent, which could make us less competitive compared to china. The government should regulate the prices of raw material and ensure its steady supply,” he says pointing to sacks of plastic granules in his factory produced by Indian petro-chemical companies.For the past two decades, a common refrain among water gun traders in Sadar Bazar is that Chinese pichkaris captured the Indian market because Indian manufacturers could not match China in terms of variety, quality and quantity.However, Lokesh Kataria, partner, Star Toys, a company that manufactures toys in Gurgaon, including water guns, disagrees. “That we cannot match China in quality and variety is a myth. I have come up with over 150 designs in the last four years,” says Kataria, who was a toys trader before he started manufacturing them, including water guns, in his factory in Gurgaon, four years ago. “I started making toys on a trial basis; today I do not import anymore from China,” Kataria adds.Kataria says Delhi’s flourishing toy cottage industry is responsible for the prevailing image that India produces poor quality toys compared to China. He is referring to many makers of water guns and other toys in areas such as Bara Hindu Rao, Quresh Nagar, Kasab pura, Azad Market, Shahadra, among others. “Operating out of homes, they are producing shoddy pichkaris because they do not have modern machinery and use scrap plastic as raw material, instead of virgin plastic granules,” says Kataria.Until the 1970s, brass pichkaris were most popular in the country, says Satish Sundra, 84, who runs Ram Chander & Sons , India’s oldest toy store in Connaught Place. Locally made plastic squirt guns became popular in the 1980s. “But the arrival of fancy water guns from China in the early 2000s, upended the market. Some of the oldest toy traders and manufacturers became importers. The Chinese invasion of the Indian toy market had begun,” says Sundra.Most toys, including water guns, are imported from the coastal city of Shantou in China’s Guangdong province.“I used to manufacture squirt plastic water guns until two decades ago, but stopped when there was a sudden influx of Chinese toys. I felt I would not be able to match them in price and quality, and switched to making plastic suitcases,” says Basant Somani, who, runs Somani Enterprises in Narela, which manufacturers a range of household goods. “Today, I think we gave up without a fight.”Vats says in the toy industry, the key to matching China is introducing new designs every year. He scours the Internet and makes a mandatory monthly trip to Sadar Bazar, “Just to see what is coming from China and how I can make my products different,” he says. His latest and bestselling model is called Water Gun Racing Car—a water gun whose water tank is shaped like a car and can be detached and used as a racing car toy.The Atam Nirbhar Bharat campaign, he adds, has helped his products get a thumbs up from big toy traders who earlier used to import water guns from China. “They are slowly realising that it suits them to buy from us; they get quality assurance, can buy on credit, and get timely delivery. When they import from China, they have to pay in advance, and if a certain model is selling well, it takes a lot of time to import it again, or it may not be available. We can supply them any model within days,” says Vats. “Most toys in India are made by small and medium scale industries. The government must bring together engineering institutions and MSMEs to help latter make special purpose machines.”Naresh Gautam, vice president, The Toy Association of India, says the government should set up a toy research and development centre, provide rebate on import duty of machines and moulds. “Most importantly, it should ensure supply of raw material at a reasonable rate, which will enable us to compete with China in toys. Many homegrown pichkari manufacturers are already beginning to give China a run for its money,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/indian-water-gun-manufacturers-giving-china-a-run-for-its-money-101615150282752.html
08-03-2021||City||Stalin gives 25 seats to Cong; promises 10 lakh jobs a year and 20 lakh houses||Having inked alliance with all seven parties, including the Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin on Sunday announced sops for people in the 10-year-vision plan, if the party comes to power in April 6 polls, while claiming that days of ruling AIADMK is numbered.Addressing massive state conference for its cadre in the outskirts of Trichy, Stalin said that the DMK government will give ₹1,000 every month to housewives and will create 10 lakh jobs every month.“We aim to lift 10 million people from poverty and increase per capita income by four-lakh rupees every year,” Stalin said.In the farming sector, Stalin aspired to bring Tamil Nadu among the top three states for cash crops and double crop cultivation from 10 lakh acres to 20 lakh acres. He promised 20-lakh concrete houses, piped drinking water supply and broadband connectivity for all households in villages.The announcement came on the day DMK is poised to fight 170 of the 234 assemblies with an aim to get a simple majority on its own. On Sunday, Stalin agreed to give 25 assembly seats and Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat to its main ally Congress. Kanyakumari seat fell vacant after the death of Congress MP H Vasanthakumar last year.Asked if his party was satisfied with the number of seats allotted by its ally, Congress Tamil Nadu in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said the only aim was to ensure the victory of the secular front led by DMK. The Congress had initially asked for 40 seats and the number is one of the lowest the party is contesting in the southern state for almost two decades.With this, the DMK has allotted 48 seats from its share to parties in the coalition (CPI, MDMK, VCK, IUML, MMK) with talks remaining only with the CPI(M) and a few smaller parties. Talks between DMK-Congress hit a roadblock as the national party wanted at least 30 seats but the DMK wasn’t willing to budge as they wanted to contest more seats and enter the assembly with a comfortable majority.“This election isn’t just for a change of government but for the DMK to remain in power continuously in Tamil Nadu,” he said while revealing his vision which he said was prepared in consultation with economists, educationists and experts.The high-voltage conference had mobilised more than one- lake cadre who had gathered in the outskirts of Trichy near Samayapuram toll gate at a 350-acre that was covered in red carpet. Stalin entered with fireworks and a DJ-team blaring his campaign song as he went on a one-kilometre ramp walk waving to the crowd.Trichy, being a stronghold of the DMK, is represented by MLA and party principal secretary KN Nehru and has had several such conferences in the past. “But this is the biggest I’ve seen in my lifetime,” said veteran leader Durai Murugan. Stalin recalled that decades ago, it was in Trichy where DMK founder CN Annadurai had held a conference and decided that they would enter the electoral fray.Three stages were erected for party leadership, legislators and second-rung leaders. The stages were enveloped by LED screens that displayed graphics as Stalin spoke of his vision.“People are yearning for a change,” said former Union minister A Raja on the sidelines of the conference. The cadre who had gathered from neighbouring districts said that they would win with more voter difference this election than in the 2019 LS polls. “From the crowd here can’t you tell that the DMK only will come to power? We have been waiting for ten years. People are fed up,” said K Saravanan, a farmer and party cadre from Villupuram.DMK will release its election manifesto on March 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalin-gives-25-seats-to-cong-promises-10-lakh-jobs-a-year-and-20-lakh-houses-101615148735467.html
08-03-2021||City||Haryana curtailing Delhi’s water supply, says Chadha||elhi Jal Board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Sunday said that Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, pushing the city to a major shortage in water production.In a series of tweets, Chadha said currently, Haryana through carrier lined channel (CLC) canal is supplying only 549.16 cusecs (against 683 cusecs) and Delhi sub-branch (DSB) canal is supplying 306.63 cusecs (against 330 cusecs). With the reduction in the supply of raw water, the production at Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants (WTP) has reduced by 30%, and production has gone down by 15% at the Okhla WTP.Senior DJB officials said that the shortage of raw water at the WTPs might not lead to an immediate impact on the supply, as it takes at least 24 hours for the water from these plants to reach the supply stage. However, if the shortage persists, parts of central and west Delhi will be the worst hit. Water supply to areas such as Janakpuri, Uttam Nagar, Vikaspuri, Mandi House, offices at Barakhamba Road, etc will be severely impacted, they said.“Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, as a result, we are facing a shortage in water production,” Chadha tweeted.“...Further, Haryana government’s lackadaisical attitude has led to the unchecked dumping of sewerage into Yamuna. Samples picked up by our quality lab show high contamination/ammonia levels,” he tweeted.He said on behalf of the DJB, he has reached out to the Haryana government to find a solution to the Capital’s water woes, and also asked the Union ministry of Jal Shakti to intervene in the matter to find a speedy remedy for Delhiites.“Delhi Jal Board is in constant contact with the Haryana government requesting them to address these issues on a war footing, but to no avail. I urge honourable ministry of jal shakti, government of India to kindly intervene and direct the Haryana govt to release Delhi’s share and curb rising levels of ammonia,” Chadha tweeted.This is not the first time that Delhi has been caught in a face-off with the Haryana government on Delhi’s share of water supply. On several occasions last year and earlier this year, Chadha blamed the Haryana government for the increasing levels of ammonia in Delhi’s water, which led to the water treatment plants being forced to operate with reduced capacity and hitting water supply to several areas in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-curtailing-delhi-s-water-supply-says-chadha-101615149825140.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Animal-friendly Ridge with no barbed fences||To make the Delhi Ridge safer for animals and birds, the city’s forest department is going to implement a detailed plan to ban the use of barbed wires and concertina fencing, which could potentially injure animals, senior forest department officials said.They said with the onset of summer, the department is also working on increasing the availability of water through natural channels in the Ridge for animals.A senior forest department official said district-level teams have been working towards minimising the use of barbed wires and concertina coils within the Ridge area. “The use of such potentially harmful items will be minimised so that animals, are not accidentally trapped and get injured. The wires will remain on the main boundary walls but inside the Ridge, they will be removed,” the official said.While instances of any major injuries to animals have not been reported from any part of the Ridge in the recent years, in July last year, a leopard died from his injuries in Coimbatore after getting trapped in a barbed wire. He sustained grave injuries to his stomach, neck.Delhi’s Ridge is home to several animal species, including Indian crested porcupine, Bengal fox, Nilgai, Golden jackal and blackbuck among others. There have also been sightings of leopards in Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and Yamuna Biodiversity Park.The forest department first floated the proposal to reduce the use of potentially hazardous material inside the Ridge in 2020. The matter was also put up for discussion before the Ridge Management Board (RMB) in September last year. The meeting was, however, cancelled as the file for the appointment of two of the independent members to the RMB was stuck with the environment minister.On Friday, during the first meeting of the board with the newly appointed independent RMB members, this proposal was discussed and was cleared. The RMB is a body headed by the chief secretary of Delhi, by the directions of the Supreme Court, for the preservation of the city’s ‘green lungs’.Currently, apart from having barbed wires and concertina coils in the fences, these items are used in various portions of the Ridge to demarcate sections and to stop encroachers from entering the protected areas of forest. For instance, in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, wires are used to stop residents from nearby residential colonies such as Sangam Vihar, from trespassing into the Ridge.With the onset of summer, when temperatures in Delhi soar, the forest department is working towards increasing the availability of water in the forest area through natural means. Officials said that water holes could be provided around areas with maximum animal habitation so that they do not have to solely depend of the natural springs.Experts said such initiatives will ensure that the only continuous green space in the national capital is preserved.Vimlendu Jha, executive director of environment NGO Swechha and the former member for the RMB, said, “All efforts for the preservation of the Ridge and its occupants are welcome. Depending on the nature of these water holes, it can also help recharge the groundwater. The focus should be on minimising the intervention of humans and man-made material that could potentially harm animals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/animalfriendly-ridge-with-no-barbed-fences-101615149588269.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||9 who delivered babies in PCR vans to attend Women’s Day at Delhi police HQ||Nearly a thousand women in labour were rushed to hospitals in police control room (PCR) vehicles last year, and a majority of these cases were reported during the lockdown when most vehicles were off the road, Delhi Police said on Sunday.Nine of these women, who delivered their babies in the police vehicles, have been invited to attend an event to celebrate International Women’s Day at the police headquarters on Monday. “These nine mothers have been invited by the commissioner, SN Shrivastava, as guests to attend the celebrations,” said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police’s spokesperson.“During lockdown when all modes of transports were suspended and ambulance service was also not available due to strike, PCR staff provided their service to expecting women,” said Biswal.One such delivery was conducted by a male PCR staff who sought the assistance of a woman tea seller in Palam when a woman experiencing labour pain was delivered her baby in the PCR van. All the seven children delivered in the PCR vans during the lockdown are healthy, the police said. “These police personnel are not trained to handle deliveries, but they didn’t let that come in the way of helping the women,” said Esha Pandey, deputy commissioner of police (PCR).At Monday’s event, the police will also felicitate 21 women police officers for their works during the pandemic. “Fifteen women Good Samaritans who helped the police during the pandemic will also be honoured,” said Biswal.A host of functions to honour women have also been scheduled at different police stations and DCP offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/9-who-delivered-babies-in-pcr-vans-to-attend-women-s-day-at-delhi-police-hq-101615149387800.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||BJP plans new campaign to take on AAP after bypoll loss||In the light of municipal bypolls debacle, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gearing up to take on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) with a new campaign plan and new strategy.Senior leaders aware of the matter said the Delhi BJP is planning to launch a campaign next month in which it plans to publicise the works done by the three party ruled municipal corporations “despite the fund crunch”. In the same campaign, the party also seeks to highlight the “failure of the AAP government in Delhi to deliver on its key promises”. The strategy for the municipal elections will be discussed in the Delhi BJP’s two-day long working committee meeting starting from March 12.Municipal polls are scheduled to be held in Delhi next year. In the bypolls to five wards, results of which were announced on March 2, the BJP could not manage to win a single seat. While the AAP won 4 wards, the Congress secured win on one seat.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “We are planning a mass outreach programme. We recently completed the puzzle parking in Lajpat Nagar. We have taken several steps to address the sanitation issues. We now plan to tell people about the achievements of the three corporations despite the fund crunch. We will start a campaign around mid-April when the corporations will complete four years of its third term in power.”Gupta has also started ‘mandal pravas’ (stay in each municipal wards) to connect with the party workers and supporters. “We have to go door-to-door and tell people about two things: achievements of the central government and the municipal corporations, and failure of the AAP government to deliver on its promises,” said Gupta, who will hold meetings in all municipal wards.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said there was a need to counter the “lies” of the AAP government. “Some of the policies of the AAP government are not citizen-friendly. We have to expose them. The government has paralysed the three municipal corporations by not releasing funds on time.From now on, as a responsible opposition while criticising the Delhi government for its failures, we will also offer our vision for those issues.”With over a year left for the municipal polls, senior party leaders say that there is a lot of time to strengthen the cadre and plan mass outreach programmes. “We are working on a plan to strengthen our base, especially in wards where we are not in power. In the upcoming working committee meeting, we will discuss the action plan and also work out a strategy for its implementation,” said Harsh Malhotra, Delhi BJP general secretary.Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak, however, rejected BJP’s contentions and said the recent bypoll results have shown that the people of Delhi are firmly supporting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “The people of Delhi are very happy with the development works done by the Kejriwal government. In the recent MCD bypolls, the AAP won four of the five wards while BJP got zero. The BJP is ruling the MCDs for the last 15 years and today, the MCDs have no money even to pay the salaries of their employees. The citizens of Delhi are tired and fed up with the corruption in the BJP-ruled MCDs. On the other hand, the Kejriwal government has fulfilled all its promises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-plans-new-campaign-to-take-on-aap-after-bypoll-loss-101615148923610.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee starts 101-bed dialysis facility||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Sunday inaugurated a 101-bed dialysis facility for patients with renal failure at Bala Sahib hospital complex in Sarai Kale Khan.The Panth Ratan Baba Harbans Singh Ji Dialysis block in Bala Sahib hospital complex started treating patients from Sunday. The block will operate round the clock and will provide dialysis to 500 patients daily. DSGMC said the facility is the largest in the country, adding that the centre’s capacity will be increased to 1,000 beds.Giving details of the new hospital block, DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “We have got the latest dialysis machines. The treatment will be free and we don’t have a billing desk in the hospital. We want to provide the best quality treatment to kidney patients. Any kidney patient in need of dialysis can come here and get treated; it is open to people from all religions.”DSGMC members said patients will only have to get necessary documents. A team of specialists will monitor the patients at the facility.The hospital block has huge halls with dialysis machines attached to each bed. It also has semi-private room facilities. Sirsa said special arrangements will be made to cater to dialysis patients with coronavirus disease. He also said free services to people will be provided from the Corporate Social Responsibility funds of corporate houses, contributions from those who are willing to pay for such initiatives and various government schemes. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait was also present at the inauguration of the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gurdwara-body-starts-dialysis-hub-101615148308543.html
08-03-2021||Other||Trade at Amritsar ICP dips to nine-year low due to covid||AMRITSAR Trade through the Integrated Check Post (ICP) Attari, situated at the India-Pakistan border in Amritsar, has fallen to a nine-year low for 2020-21 fiscal (till January) at ₹2,277 crore. The ICP facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and movement of passengers from India to Pakistan and vice-versa. Officials at the ICP believe that trade would not be able to cross ₹2,500 crore this fiscal. In its first year of operation in 2012-13, the ICP saw a trade of ₹4,800 crore. The highest trade of ₹5,443 crore was recorded in 2013-14 though the ICP.After the Pulwama terror attack in February 2019, the Centre imposed 200% duty on all items being imported from Pakistan. As a result the import of Pakistani goods reduced to all but zero while the export to Pakistan, and trade with Afghanistan remained as it was. Only rock salt was the main item which continued to be imported from Pakistan, due to its low cost.In August 2019, India abrogated Article 370 which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. In reaction to this, the Pakistan government, unilaterally, cut off all trade ties with India. The Pakistan government also stopped India to export its items to Afghanistan. Since then Afghanistan has been exporting through the ICP. Onion, apple, dry fruit major items, which Afghanistan exports through the land border.Before this, gypsum, cement, plaster of paris, caustic Soda (flake or liquor), glass, soda ash, coal and rock salt were among the major items exported by Pakistan and Afghanistan. Similarly, India had been exporting soya bean, chicken feed, vegetables, red chilies, cotton, spares of automotives, biscuits, newsprint, plastic granules, fresh mutton etc.A senior Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) official, from March 2020 to January 2021, when the covid-19 was its peak, 4,602 trucks imported goods, including onion, apple, dry-dates, from Afghanistan. He said, “In March 2020, before the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, 201 trucks were received from Afghanistan. In April, trade remained closed. In May, only one Afghan truck was received, as three in June and 65 in July. After this, import of onion from Afghanistan started and 500-1000 trucks started coming every month.”ICP’s manager Sukhdev Singh said, “Time and again, we hold seminars and meetings with the stockholders, including traders, to increase trade through the ICP.”Thousands of truckers and their drivers, porters and their helpers have suffered due to the dip in trade. Anil Mehra, president, Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association, said the Indo-Pak relationship had shown signs of improving and they expect a boost in trade. He added, “The Pakistan government should lift its ban on trade with India through the ICP. India should also remove the 200% duty. Once trade opens between the two countries, the potential is up to ₹10,000 crore and more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trade-at-amritsar-icp-dips-to-nine-year-low-due-to-covid-101615148114855.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hundreds of Punjab women leave for Delhi’s Tikri border to mark International Women’s Day||Hundreds of women from Punjab on Sunday left for Delhi’s Tikri border to observe International Women’s Day on Monday. The women activists under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha travelled in buses, tractor-trolleys and other vehicles via the Khanauri border in Sangrur while raising anti-Modi government slogans. All farmer unions decided to observe Women’s Day at the Delhi border where women will run the stage and manage other responsibilities to show their power and unity. The farmer unions were running a door-to-door campaign and holding meetings in villages and towns to mobilise women for a massive rally at the Tikri border. Over the past six months, women have already protested as a big force in protests against the farm laws at the borders of Delhi.In Dhanaula town of Barnala district, around 600 women assembled at a grain market and they moved in around 12 buses along with their children. “Women are ready to fight for their land. Earlier, our brothers were holding protests at the border but now women are moving in huge numbers,” said Jaspal Kaur, a farmer leader.“The farmers’ agitation spread awareness among women and they are participating in protests. Even our children know about the struggle and stand by us. We will also maintain gatherings at the time of wheat harvest,” she added.Harbans Kaur, another participant, said, “Women are already playing an important role in the farmers’ agitation. There is no need for new farm laws. If there was, we should have been defending these laws. Our struggle will force the Modi government to repeal the black laws.”Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said despite inclement weather, women marched to Delhi from across the state in hundreds of vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-of-punjab-women-leave-for-delhi-s-tikri-border-to-mark-international-women-s-day-101615148054509.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Women to take centrestage at farmer protest sites at Delhi borders today||From managing the stage, food and security to sharing tales of their struggles, and significance of taking part in the farmers’ agitation, thousands of women farmers, students and activists will take over key roles at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur protest sites at Delhi’s borders on International Women’s Day on Monday. Noting that women contribute significantly to the country’s farming sector, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers take centre stage and all the space under the sky to acknowledge the “big but unrecognised” part of the farming community. Thousands of women farmers especially from Punjab and Haryana will congregate at Delhi’s borders on Monday and the day will be entirely dedicated to women farmers, activists and students, farmer leaders said. Marked annually on March 8, International Women’s Day (IWD) is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity. “To celebrate women’s day, the stage will be managed by women, and the speakers too will be women. And there will be a small march at Singhu border, the details for which will be shared later. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites,” senior farmer leader Kavita Kurugranthy, who is also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told PTI. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over three months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, around 15,000 women farmers along with college principals, teachers and social workers will join the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri borders, the organisers said. “Women are a big part of the farming community but they don’t get recognised. In fact, they work more than the men. Approximately 10,000 women from different parts of Punjab and Haryana will come to the borders to be part of the women’s day program,” farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said. Sandhu said they have also asked women farmers to join the different protest sites in Punjab and Haryana on the occasion. Women protesters will talk about their rights, struggles and significance of participation in the movement at the two stages at Tikri border, one of the organisers said. “...Women will be taking over security roles at Singhu border. Hundreds of women from different parts of Punjab are coming in vehicles and will join us at the borders tomorrow. We are expecting a gathering of around 15,000 people at Tikri and 4,000 people at Singhu to mark International Women’s Day,” said Jagmohan Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Punjab. Farmer leader of Krantikari Kisan Union Avtar Singh Mehma also said that stage management at all borders will be done by women on the occasion of International Women’s Day. “Those delivering speeches on the stage will also be women, whether they are from a student organisation, a farmer organisation or simply an organisation doing social work,” Mehma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/women-to-take-centrestage-at-farmer-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-today-101615147937710.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||86% Mandi Gobindgarh industries issued show-cause notices for causing pollution||Taking a serious note of rising air pollution levels, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has issued show-case notices to 205 (86%) of a total of 239 rolling mills and other industries in Mandi Gobindgarh, also known as Punjab’s steel city, as why their approval to run the units should not be cancelled. These units have failed to switch over to piped natural gas (PNG) from coal, said the board in an action taken report it submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday (March 5). Mandi Gobindgarh is among Punjab’s 9 “non-attainment” cities, including, Dera Baba Nanak, Dera Bassi, Ludhiana, Nangal, Patiala, Khanna, Jalandhar and Amritsar. Non-attainment cities are those which consistently fail to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for PM 10 or NO2. The board has not served notices on industries in other cities so far. “We have issued notices for cancellation of consent under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, as only 34 industries in Mandi Gobindgarh have successfully converted their re-heating furnaces from coal to PNG. Besides, 123 units have entered an agreement with PNG providers and are in the process of shifting,” the report reads. A board official said there are some technical issues between the PNG suppliers and industries over some clauses of agreement and the cost of switching from coal. The shifting process involves financial cost of ₹25-30 lakh per unit and three months’ time. PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said they are making continuous efforts to push the industries towards clean fuel to curb air pollution. “Earlier, we had fixed the deadline of March 31, 2020, for this and later we extended it up to December 31. We will cancel consent if they fail to comply and they will not be able to operate their units,” he said “A meeting was arranged between the representatives of industries, gas provider agencies and the department to resolve the issues last month. In some cases, the units have been leased out and the lessees are in a dispute with owners over bearing expenses of the process,” Garg added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/86-mandi-gobindgarh-industries-issued-show-cause-notices-for-causing-pollution-101615147394532.html
08-03-2021||Other||Breather for millers on supply of fortified rice as state, FCI to draw up timeline||Chandigarh Punjab’s rice millers have got a breather, with the Centre asking the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the state government to work out a ‘comfortable’ time-line to supply 7 lakh tonne fortified rice into Central pool. Rice is fortified by adding a micronutrient powder that sticks to grains in layers with a vitamin and mineral mix in form of a coating. Millers had been worried after a communiqué from the FCI on February 16, asking the millers to deliver fortified rice and start delivery from March 1. Following this, rice millers from the state had Union food and public distribution minister Piyush Goyal on Friday seeking relaxations.“There are 15 fortified rice plants across the country. It is extremely difficult for Punjab rice milers to procure fortified rice and supply it back into the pool. State’s millers do not have the required machinery so the condition of fortified rice be made applicable from this year’s paddy season,” rice milers have said in their written communication to the Centre. Bal Krishan Bali, president of a section of rice millers association in Punjab, said most rice mills in the state are small-scale units and do not have the funds for installing the machinery that costs between ₹5 lakh and ₹25 lakh. He added that rice millers were ready to make changes, but some handholding from the government was required.Bali added that at the meeting with Goyal, they had offered that the bigger rice mill units capable and interested in setting up fortified rice units be allowed to do so with a fresh deadline. An agreement be signed for supply of fortified rice for a period of five years was also proposed. He demanded that arrangement be made for payment of delivered rice after a week, as it involved cost.Rice millers also demanded arrangement for additional space for storage of custom milled rice as in the current season 135 lakh tone rice is expected to come for storage. “The procurement of rice has been slowed, leading to a glut in the state and lack of storage space for other crops. We requested for additional space and the Centre has agreed to resolve the issue,” claimed Bali.ARHTIYAS ON STRIKE FROM MARCH 10A section of rice millers of state led by RS Cheema has announced indefinite strike from March 10 against the Centre’s move to make a direct payment to the farmers bypassing the arhtiyas. The Centre has sought land records from farmers for crop payment ahead of upcoming rabi procurement. “The state government is hand in glove with the Centre, as it is not taking up issue with the Centre for relaxation,” added Cheema, claiming that 28,500 arhtiyas in all 249 perennial mandis and 2,000 procurement centres were unanimous on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/breather-for-millers-on-supply-of-fortified-rice-as-state-fci-to-draw-up-timeline-101615147154609.html
08-03-2021||Jaipur||Rape victim says in video accused set her afire||A day after a 30-year-old rape survivor, who was set ablaze by the accused, succumbed to her injuries in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district, a video of the woman blaming the accused while being taken to the hospital has surfaced, police said on Sunday.“He (prime accused Pradeep Bishnoi) first called me out and then threatened me to withdraw the case. When I refused, he slapped me. Then again when I refused, he poured inflammatory material on me and set me on fire,” the victim is purportedly heard saying in the one-minute and 27-second video.“We have recovered the video and put that as evidence,” said Praful Kumar, inspector general of police (IGP), Bikaner range.An official said the video was recorded by a local resident who did not wish to be identified.According to the police, accused Pradeep Bishnoi, who arrested for raping the victim in 2018, was out on bail.On March 4, Bishnoi broke into the victim’s house and set her afire. She succumbed to the injuries the next day.Bishnoi and another person has so far been detained in the case and probe is on to ascertain the role of a few others, an official said. “We are establishing the link between the suspects and the victim. In one of the footages, a picture of one more suspect has been obtained and the role of two more people has surfaced. We are connecting the dots,” said Kumar.Bishnoi’s father, who was questioned by the police, however, maintains that his son is innocent. “Police should take fair action. It should not happen that an innocent gets punished,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rape-victim-says-in-video-accused-set-her-afire-101615146928798.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Villagers pitch in take care of land of farmers who are protesting at Delhi borders||With a large number of farmers leaving home for participating in the agitation against the three Central farm laws on the borders of Delhi, villagers and panchayats of their villages are also contributing to the struggle that started over a 100 days ago. Villagers have formed informal groups to ensure fields of farmers who leave for Delhi are not neglected and the required work is done.From arranging labour for the farms to spraying pesticides, fertilisers and feed for their cattle, villagers take care of everything, so that the protesting farmer can go without any worries.In the majority of villages, farmers in groups of 5-7 are sent to Delhi in turns for a week or so. After the group returns, another group is sent with the returning members taking care of the land and other work. A resident of Kishangarh village in Raikot, Gaganpreet Singh said,”This is the time to harvest the potato crop and I along with my friends from my village and adjoining villages have been involved in overseeing the work being done by the labour in farms of Andlu village residents, who are participating in the protest. Even before the agitation began, the villagers used to share responsibility. We need to support each other for the success of the agitation.” Villagers say monetary help is not required in most cases as farmers have arranged labour and they have agreements with shopkeepers for pesticides, fertilisers and other requirements. The farmer asks villagers to collect material and he makes the payment after returning. A panchayat member of Lakha Singh Wala village, Harbans Singh said, “Every time a group leaves for Delhi, responsibilities are fixed at the village level, if required. When no family member is available for taking care of farms, the farmer in adjoining farm or some one else from the village is given responsibility. I spent five days in Delhi in February and my fellow villagers took care of my farm.”Sudhar sarpanch Harminder Singh Gill said,”Villagers automatically extend support to those leaving for Delhi. We also ask owners of adjoining farms to look after the farms of the other. This fight cannot be won without unity. The panchayat also extends help to farmers joining the stir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/villagers-pitch-in-take-care-of-land-of-farmers-who-are-protesting-at-delhi-borders-101615146854770.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||International women’s day: The women in Maharashtra’s politics||While Maharashtra has never had a woman in the chair of the chief minister, or handling top portfolios in the state cabinet, on the occasion of Women’s Day, HT takes a look at three women who are playing a key role in Maharashtra’s politics, and are likely to substantially influence the state’s political landscape – Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Member of Parliament Supriya Sule; Rashmi Thackeray, the chief editor of Saamana, mouthpiece of Maharashtra’s ruling party Shiv Sena; and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary and former state minister Pankaja Munde. Among the things that stood out during the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was the role played by Supriya Sule, daughter of NCP chief Sharad Pawar. From crisis management for her father, after her cousin and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar tried to split the party to form a government with the BJP, to advising the party top brass on picking ministers, Sule remained instrumental in decision-making. She also did her bit in getting her cousin back to the party; leaders say they share cordial relations despite the talk of tussle for the position of senior Pawar’s political heir. In the year after the formation of the government, she has been constantly travelling in the state to strengthen the party and also connect with the people. Hemant Desai, a senior political analyst, said, “Sule is an intelligent leader with a sharp political acumen. She has been instrumental in strengthening the NCP’s social media presence.” Her independent work with women’s self-help groups or the issues she picks up in Parliament, such as triple talaq, are notable, according to Desai. Following the attempted political coup within the NCP in November 2019, Pawar is trusting his daughter to play a much bigger political role, making her a very influential leader. While taking oath as an MLA, then 29-year-old Aaditya Thackeray introduced himself as ‘Aaditya Rashmi Uddhav Thackeray’, not only a sign of his mother’s role in his life, but also an indicator of her influence within the Shiv Sena. Rashmi, the wife of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, is considered a friend and confidante by many Sena leaders. “We all go to her for advice. Her opinion is sought during all key or critical political decisions,” a senior Sena leader said. She took over as the chief editor of the party mouthpiece Saamana in May 2020, a sign that a member of the Thackeray family will continue to hold such a key position. Rashmi has stayed out of public glare. However, she has been Uddhav Thackeray’s most trusted adviser. According to Sena insiders HT spoke to, she played a key role in the Sena’s decision to break ties with the BJP and join hands with the Congress-NCP, when it became clear that the BJP would not concede chief ministership to the Sena, after the erstwhile alliance won the 2019 Assembly elections. When Sena leaders were housed in a hotel before the MVA was formed, after the 2019 Assembly elections, Rashmi is said to have visited them to continue building morale, and ensure they remain with the party. A senior Sena leader said, “Rashmi Thackeray or ‘vahini’, as she is referred to, keenly follows all political developments, has an opinion on them. She shares her opinion with us. She has worked very closely with the women’s wing of the Sena.” Manisha Kayande, Shiv Sena MLA, said, “She is carrying forward the legacy of her mother-in-law, Meena tai, who worked behind-the-scenes.” Pratap Asbe, another analyst, said, “She has a strong hold on the party. She may not be a mass leader, and is not in the rank and file of Shiv Sena, but she has influence on the first and second rank of Shiv Sena leaders.” The Thackerays were never directly in power until Aaditya contested and won his first election in 2019, and Thackeray took oath as the CM. “Rashmi Thackeray seems to have been instrumental in encouraging Thackeray to be the CM,” Asbe said. Sena leaders say she played a role in the entry of Aaditya Thackeray into politics. Aaditya is now a state minister and being seen as the undisputed political heir to his father.Pankaja Munde’s test of leadership was after the death of her father Gopinath Munde in 2014. She not only handled an unruly crowd of emotional supporters at the time of the funeral, but also managed to keep her flock together, even as things were not favourable for her within the party. A good orator with organisational skills, she has taken up the role of the BJP’s Other Backward Classes (OBC) leader, which also serves her support base, just like her father. Never hiding her ambition to be the CM, she survived allegations of corruption and a serious political setback when her cousin Dhananjay defeated her in the 2019 elections from the constituency she won since 2009. While there were speculations that she may join the Shiv Sena or NCP, Pankaja Munde stayed put. Recently, she was appointed the vice-president in party’s national executive and also given the responsibility to handle party organisation in Madhya Pradesh. She will now have direct access to the party top brass in Delhi. He said, “Her entire tenure between 2014 and 2019 was eaten up in infighting and a power struggle. ...Even her father had lost elections, but he stood like a rock afterwards.” Hemant Desai said, “Pankaja climbed up the ladder very quickly after her father’s demise. Despite losing the Assembly elections, she has managed to retain support from her voters in Marathwada and her relevance in the party.” Namita Mundada, BJP MLA from Beed, said, “The changes she has brought in have made it easier for women politicians like me to work in the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/international-women-s-day-the-women-in-maharashtra-s-politics-101615146674581.html
08-03-2021||City||Narcotics Control Bureau conducts multiple raids in Goa||The Narcotics Control Bureau is holding simultaneous raids at several locations in Goa as part of an operation to intercept narcotics moving between Mumbai and Goa, officials have confirmed.“We have conducted multiple raids at several locations in Mumbai and Goa and have made some valuable interceptions. The raids are currently ongoing so it will be premature to comment further,” an official of the Narcotics Control Bureau said requesting anonymity.At least one foreign national has been arrested, officials confirmed.NCB sleuths descended on the state as part of intelligence they had gathered concerning the movement of narcotics and it is believed that the raids will continue until the wee hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/narcotics-control-bureau-conducts-multiple-raids-in-goa-101615146264371.html
08-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The shrine’s best-kept secret||It’s one of the lesser known shrines of the capital and it is tucked within… oh well, another lesser known shrine.The historic graves of Hazrat Sarmad Shahid and Hazrat Hare Bhare Shah lie just outside Old Delhi’s Jama Masjid, and yet aren’t visited by many tourists, nor many pilgrims. Until recently, the shrine was identified by its red and green colours. Red symbolises Hazrat Sarmad, who was executed by Emperor Aurangzeb, and the green, or hara, commemorates Hazrat Hare Bhare. But as part of an ongoing renovation that began during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown last year, the shrine’s signature tiles are being gradually replaced by white marble from Rajasthan. This week, the outer wall too has been paved over by marble.Whatever, the two ascetics are buried next to each other, separated by a neem tree. For that reason, many consider the landmark as a twin shrine.That’s true only up to a point.The third grave—also of a mystic—lies in an almost-invisible corner, in a narrow gallery just by the entrance. The tiny place appears so dilapidated that not everyone will notice it, and it might as well be dismissed as an unused cupboard. The window screen is broken. The wall is defaced. The seeming neglect fills up the narrow place with melancholy. And the spot itself feels remote, like a cell for intense self-isolation.The grave belongs to Sufi ascetic Madni Shah Baba. Not much is known of him except the fact that he lived in the time of Aurangzeb. The shrine’s rose seller remarks that “these three tombs constitute a silsila (order) of mystics... Hazrat Sarmad was a shagird (disciple) of Hazrat Hare Bhare Shah, and Hazrat Madni Shah was a shagird of Hazrat Sarmad.”Meanwhile, the early impression of Madni Shah’s memorial lying in neglect dissipates on closer inspection. This morning, a fresh rose is lying on the chadar covering the grave. The ashes of the previous night’s incense sticks are piled up in a mound, while the dust-covered floor immediately beside the grave shows an array of footprints. Clearly, the third saint in the so-called twin shrine is visited by some devotees at least, even though he lies in such a cramped corner. This makes his resting spot a place for consolation and comfort for those who feel largely ignored by the world around them. For they reside fondly in the hearts of a few, at least.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-shrine-s-best-kept-secret-101615146135899.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Staff salaries not paid for 6 months, Bathinda govt sports school stares at uncertainty||The management of Government Sports Senior Secondary School, Ghudda, in Bathinda district is in a quandary ahead of the new academic session starting from next month as salaries to the staff members have not been paid since October last year. The arrears of staff at the school, run by a local committee headed ex-officio by the Bathinda deputy commissioner, have piled up to ₹83 lakh and the state government has yet not released any grant, it is learnt. The residential school offers 11 different indoor and outdoor sports for students of Class 7 to 12. Besides 13 coaches, there are nine subject teachers. The school has only two regular teachers and the principal is on deputation from the education department.The decade-old institute saw a ray of hope when the state sports department in December proposed to take over the school. It was proposed that it may be affiliated with the under-construction Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University, Patiala, to boost sports facilities at the local institute.But no decision has been taken as the admission process for the next session by conducting sports trials is already done.Officials said a nod in this regard was needed at the ministerial level.A brainchild of former CM Parkash Singh Badal, the school was set up in 2010 to identify and groom talented players. Officials blame the state government’s model wherein the sports department had no role in running the institute.“The education department manages the institute and coaches and faculty members are being hired on contract. The sports department used to give nearly ₹60 lakh annually to budding players. But it was suspended in 2019 after anomalies were pointed out in the annual audit,” said an official.When the school was launched by then SAD-BJP government in 2010, a fixed deposit of ₹15 crore was instituted. Education department officials said due to the scarcity of funds, the school depends on ₹30 lakh received quarterly as interest against the FD from the bank that is insufficient to meet expenses.Principal Amarbir Kaur said the monthly bill of the school is around ₹27 lakh and measures are being considered by the committee to reduce the financial burden.“A decision will be taken after the ex-officio chairperson returns from month-long leave. There is a proposal to shift students to another government school located in the same village for academics while sports training may continue on the Ghudda campus. We are also exploring the option to add about 100 new seats where additional students may pay nominal fees,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/staff-salaries-not-paid-for-6-months-bathinda-govt-sports-school-stares-at-uncertainty-101615146314330.html
08-03-2021||City||More fires in Similipal, rest of Odisha; officials say rain is need of the hour||Even as Odisha forest officials claimed that the raging fires in Similipal biosphere reserve, listed among the few biospheres of UNESCO for its critical resources, was by and large under control, Forest Survey of India’s fire alerts system and satellite pictures of NASA's Fire Information for Resource Management System showed that thousands of fires were raging over Odisha and Similipal.As per the Forest Survey of India’s fire alerts system based on SNPP (Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership), there were at least 19,233 fire spots over Odisha since February 28 while 23,859 forest fires were counted since November 1 last year, the highest among all the states. As per the FSI fire alert system, Odisha saw around 7,000 new fire points in the last 24 hours.The Near Real-Time (NRT) satellite observation from NASA's Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) aboard the Terra and Aqua satellites and NASA's Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) showed most of Odisha covered with red fire spots.Also read: Odisha doctor tests Covid-19 positive after vaccination, again tests negativeThe Similipal biosphere reserve in Mayurbhanj district on Sunday, which hogged the limelight over wildfire for about a fortnight, reported more and more fire spots as the inferno spread to more areas of the 5,569 sq km reserve. The fire alert system of the Forest Survey of India showed at least 127 fire spots over Similipal with almost all the fringe areas of the reserve seeing new fires."The rising temperature and lack of summer rain have made Similipal a tinderbox. In other years, occasional showers help keep the moisture in the reserve. But this year, there has been no rain for almost a month that has turned the reserve completely dry. A spark of fire is enough to start a fire. The tribals who live on the fringes have their own belief system and are still lighting up leaves in the forest to keep the forest bed clean. Though we have pressed over 1,000 people including 400 fire watchers, the task is becoming more and more difficult for us. Some amount of rain is necessary to keep more fires from coming up," said Regional Chief Conservator of Forest if Baripada circle, M Yogajayananda.However, Akshita Bhanja Deo, a member of the royal family of Mayurbhanj, said the tribal community is not being taken into confidence by the forest bureaucracy of Simlipal. "There is an immense trust deficit. Neither the local community have not got any incentive nor the civil society has been brought in with a detailed plan of action. Stripping away forest ownership from local communities means they are removed from the healthy upkeep of the forest. Even though NASA satellite images show the fire is active and burning, around the buffer zone smoke is visible from high altitudes. Fire can be seen on top of the hills. It is becoming impossible to walk through 2,000 hectares," she alleged.As per the data available with the Forest Survey of India, the number of large fire events detected in Odisha as of March 7 stood at a massive 918, which was more than 3 times what was reported on March 3 (296 large fires).Wildlife and forest expert Biswajit Mohanty alleged that this year the forest department has been caught napping as there was no proper and adequate plan of action. “It seems the state forest department is not alert. Since the alerts were issued based on satellite images, a readymade plan of action by the State Forest Department could have averted the spreading of the fire to new areas. The fire needs to be controlled at the ‘surface fire’ level only. The fire lines are also not maintained properly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-fires-in-similipal-rest-of-odisha-officials-say-rain-is-need-of-the-hour-101615145816169.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab budget today, focus likely on agri sector, jobs & healthcare||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal will present his budgetary proposals for financial year 2021-22 in the state assembly on Monday. The budget will be the last one of the present Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government ahead of the state assembly polls due early next year. The finance minister is expected to make fresh announcements and provisions for partially implemented or unimplemented promises with focus on the agriculture sector, jobs and healthcare, according to people associated with the budget exercise. The budgetary proposals also hold significance as they will be presented in the backdrop of the ongoing farmers’ agitation led by cultivators from Punjab and Covid-19 cases in the state are also on an upward trajectory again even as it has fallen behind others in vaccination drive. REVENUE DEFICIT GRANT, ADDITIONAL BORROWING Though the state’s revenues, including goods and services tax collections, have been hit due to coronavirus pandemic this year and only started showing signs of recovery in the past three-four months, the ₹25,968-crore revenue deficit grant recommended by the 15th Finance Commission, including ₹10,081 crore for financial year 2021-22, will help cushion the impact. Also, the additional financial borrowing of 2% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP), which has been allowed by the Centre to states, is also likely to give the state headroom of ₹12,000 crore. CHALLENGES FM NEEDS TO ADDRESS However, many challenges, which together paint a grim picture of the state finances, lie ahead for the finance minister. The state’s rising outstanding liabilities being a matter of concern for the past several years. The debt-GSDP ratio has risen to 40% from 31% in 2012-13 and much of these borrowings go into debt. “Expenditure is rising much faster than receipts in the state creating fiscal sustainability challenges. Its trend growth rate of total revenue expenditure was 11.3% against a trend growth rate of own revenue receipts of 8.5% from 2011 to 2019,” a recent report said. Then, committed expenditure of 62% of the total revenue expenditure in 2018-19 was the highest among major states in the country even as a pay hike has been long due for the state employees. “With the current resource base, Punjab needs to either increase own revenue receipts’ growth rate to 12% during the next five years or reduce total revenue expenditure growth rate to 8%,” the finance panel said in its report. Another area requiring attention is capital expenditure, which took a severe hit in the current fiscal, to create income-generating assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-budget-today-focus-likely-on-agri-sector-jobs-healthcare-101615145474275.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||One year of Covid-19: Online mode - a big lesson for education system||Months after the nationwide lockdown started in March 2020, 15-year-old Sahil Gaikar’s life was upended forever. He found out that his parents’ savings were nearly over. His father, Sandeep, a dabbawala, and mother, Kavita, a home-maker, had no money left to pay the rent of their Kalyan flat, buy food, or pay the fees for his sister, Pratiksha, and him. There was only one option left: to live with his grandparents in Junnar, Pune district. It was meant to be temporary. In October, Sandeep, Kavita, and Pratiksha returned to Mumbai – Kavita got a job at a local tailoring unit, Sandeep took up a job as a security guard as office-goers were still working from home and no one needed their lunch boxes delivered. Pratiksha got admission in a college. The money was still barely enough. Sandeep asked Gaikar to stay back with relatives in Sangamner in Ahmednagar, where he could join a junior college. Gaikar, who scored 73% in Class 10, wanted to join the Science stream, and that’s what he did, at a tenth of the cost. “I left behind all my friends and my house in Mumbai because we could no longer afford my studies in the city,” Gaikar said. But living on a farm, and attending college in a small town came with its own challenges. For one, his college does not have a proper functioning laboratory. Gaikar has no coaching classes nearby – something that he sorely missed. Internet connectivity is poor in the village and Gaikar has barely been able to attend classes after his college started in September 2020. “It has become really tough to study,” Gaikar said. Affected by inequality Millions of school and college-going students would agree with Gaikar. Online learning is revolutionary in many ways: it can take education modules to remote corners of the country and help supplement learning benchmarks for different age groups. However, when it became the only mode of learning during the lockdown months of 2020, the stark inequalities of class, caste and gender became immediately visible as thousands of children were forced out of the education system and thousands more faced learning setbacks. Between April and June 2020 the state education department collected data from schools in two blocks of each of the 36 districts to understand the means of communication that students had access to. Nearly 16% of the students who responded had no access to any medium of communication (radio, television or mobile phone); more than 26% students in the state did not have access to even a simple mobile phone. Inequities varied across the state. For instance, in Mumbai, nearly 88% students reported having access to phone. In another survey, this one conducted by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) before the beginning of the academic year in June, it was found that of the 5.98 million students who had access to a smart phone, only about 57% had internet connectivity. A total of 737 schools (private and state-run) and 6,855 students (between classes 1 to 10) were surveyed. Students in remote parts of the state like Gadchiroli and Palghar were simply unable to attend online classes due to poor network and lack of digital resources. Reshma Agarwal, an education specialist at UNICEF, said the survey team realised that many children had simply fallen off the radar. “When we did the survey in June, we got the phone numbers of a few students picked in a random sample and within that lot 3-4% students could not be reached. We got their contacts from their teachers, but we still couldn’t track them down. We need to tackle the loss of a learning environment along with loss of livelihood, and anxieties that come with migration.” In December 2020, Leadership for Equity, a Pune-based NGO that works closely with the state education department, conducted a community survey to assess the impact of the pandemic on learning. The NGO reached out to 382 teachers and nearly 400 parents across six districts, including Pune, Akola, Satara, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Nashik. Almost every teacher reported that at least two children from their class had failed to return to school. In Mumbai where mobile penetration is higher than other parts of the state, data compiled by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last month revealed that more than 60,000 of the 628,000 students studying in 2,387 municipality-governed schools, for which data was collected, have not been able to attend online classes due to varied reasons, including migration and lack of access to devices. Challenges for teachers“I started with a revision of all that was taught to the class over the last 10 months but realised that students had not understood quite a bit. It was shocking because I had never realised this until I took a physical session with them. In online classes, they seemed to respond well and also solved tests sent to them on their phones. But the fact that a large number of students struggled was left unaddressed till it became more apparent in the offline classes.” That was the experience of a 32-year-old Math teacher in Osmanabad with her Class 9 students on the first day back at school in November. Vikram Adsul teaches at a Zilla Parishad school in Karjat, Ahmednagar. The school is located in a small hamlet called Bandgar Vasti, home to members of the Dhangar community. When the school opened in January 2021, Adsul also realised what the loss of learning in a physical space meant. “We found that while foundational skills of students, including reading and writing were more or less intact, their ability to take up complex tasks and understand concepts in various subjects had drastically reduced. The response rate of students has definitely gone down and it is a cause of concern,” he said. The state education department allowed schools in the state to reopen for classes 9 to 12 from November 23, 2020 and for classes 5 to 8 from January 27, 2021. The final decision of reopening schools, however, rested with the local authorities. Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai decided to remain closed as the cases of Covid-19 infection were still high. Ashwini Sonavane, block education officer in Bhor in Pune district said parents fear that their children have lost a year altogether. “I worked in Bhamragad, Gadchiroli earlier and there, majority of the households barely have electricity. How can you expect students to attend online classes? The end result of this is learning loss and the risk of children dropping out. Girls, for instance, are likely to bear the brunt of this more because they are made to work in the household and in the farm instead of allowing them to study.” Efforts madeOn March 1, the state education department began a drive to identify the number of students who are not attending class across 100,000 schools in all districts. They will halt this drive on March 20. The idea is to get a sense of how many students have fallen out of the education net. MSCERT and UNICEF have also compiled some of these experiments into a small booklet which will be released this month. One of the teachers mentioned in this booklet is Smita Kapse, a 43-year-old Math and Science teacher in a Zilla Parishad school in Malewadi, Solapur. More than 50% of her students did not own a smart phone and could not attend Kapse’s online classes. So she came up with a strategy. Kapse reached out to her former students and formed a group that called itself Corona Fighters. This group, comprising 16 to 25-year-old students many of whom are either in college or working, began to hold physical classes for small groups of students in their own localities. “Each former student was allotted three students. Every week, I would meet them and guide them for the following week’s plan,” Kapse said. “Most of them are children of labourers who work on fields in the village. Their parents don’t even have permanent homes and having an Android phone is out of question,” she said. Between April 2020 and January 2021, Corona Fighters taught nearly 150 students. Snehal Suryavanshi, a class 12 student and one of Kapse’s former students, said she was happy to see the children keep up with their studies in tough times. “Kapse ma’am taught us to motivate these children to study by offering incentives like positive remarks or a toffee if they did well. This made learning fun for them. We are happy we could make a difference.” Meanwhile, Sahil Gaikar has made peace with the fact that he is stuck in Ahmednagar for now. He is keen to prepare for the army and navy entrance. “I miss my friends and my teachers and sometimes call them when I have some doubts with studies. But the pandemic has changed everything for me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-year-of-covid-19-online-mode-a-big-lesson-for-education-system-101615145414568.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA govt all set to present its second budget today||Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar will on Monday present the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s second budget, which is expected to register a revenue deficit of more than ₹1 lakh crore against the estimated revenue generation of ₹3,47,457 crore, in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and months-long subsequent lockdown. Although the state has hardly any room left for imposition of new taxes, it is expected to tap the possibility of hike in excise duty on liquor and toll tax on heavy vehicles. The economic survey of Maharashtra projected the state growth to be -8% in 2020-21 and Gross State Domestic Product to drop by ₹1,56,925 crore. The cumulative figures of revenue receipts show the government could generate ₹197,996 crore (or 57%) till January-end against its estimated generation in the financial year. With ₹50,000 crore expected to be generated from the remaining two months, the state still stares at a shortfall of revenue collection by about ₹1 lakh crore. “As the revenue generation in the past few months has improved, we may end up registering a revenue deficit of ₹95,000 crore to ₹1 lakh crore. This will result in reduction on the planned spending on development works and social schemes by about ₹40,000 crore. The gap between the revenue deficit and cut to the spending will be made up by the borrowing. The state’s debt burden, which is expected to be ₹5,20,717 crore in 2020-21 from ₹4,64,020 the previous year, may rise heavily the next financial year. It may be around ₹75,000 crore- ₹80,000 crore,” said an official from the finance department. The state suffered in revenue generation from major heads like GST, excise and stamp duty. “Against the target of ₹1,07,142 crore, the GST generation of the state was ₹54,717 crore till January-end, besides a huge compensation of more than ₹25,000 crore due with the Centre. Revenue generation from stamp duty was ₹17,456 crore by January-end, against the target of ₹30,000 crore. Excise collection was ₹10,989 crore against the target of ₹19,225 crore. In the remaining two months, we expect 70% of the revenue generation target to be achieved. The major drop in GST was a result of the industry and services sectors getting majorly affected during the lockdown,” the official said. The official said the new projects and schemes are unlikely to be announced as the thrust of the government would be to complete the old schemes announced earlier. The state is however expected to consider reduction in duty and cess on petrol and diesel. It may also announce incentive schemes for farmers paying their loans regularly and one-time settlement plan as part of the farm loan waiver scheme announced earlier. The state cabinet discussed the budget on Sunday. Ministers were informed about the deficit, GST dues from the Centre and restrictions on levying any new taxes or duties. The state cabinet will meet again at 1pm on Monday for nod to the final budget before it is presented in both the houses at 2pm. Mumbai University’s economist Neeraj Hatekar said, “The economy is expected to be revived in the next one to one-and-a-half years and the growth will come fast from tier 2 and 3 cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mva-govt-all-set-to-present-its-second-budget-today-101615145174612.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Aviation sector awaits successful vaccination drive; crawls towards normalcy||With the nationwide mass inoculation drive against Covid-19 underway, the aviation sector, which was severely affected last year with a two-month halt in flights followed by restrictions on domestic and international operations, has begun crawling towards some signs of normalcy.Last month, low-budget airline Indigo hired 32 new pilots who are currently being trained with 25 newly purchased jets, said an industry expert. “We have opened hiring for ground and operational staff,” an IndiGo official confirmed.To survive the economic impact of Covid-19 lockdown, all airlines had, in 2020, adopted cost-cutting measures such as layoffs, salary roll-backs or cuts, and leave-without-pay programmes. Private airport operators had also issued pay cuts to their employees. TeamLease Services, an employment portal that deals with entry-level and blue-collar jobs in all metropolitan cities, said while the impact of Covid-19 pandemic slowed down the pace of growth in 2020, the aviation industry is treading cautiously towards its growth trajectory. “While aviation industry salaries are better than national averages, the uncertainty around job longevity is very high too. Jobs of Indian pilots, flight attendants and ground staff took a severe hit during Covid,” said Deval Singh, business head, mobilisation (hiring), TeamLease Services.Singh added, “While India Inc. will see an average salary hike of 7% in 2021, most businesses seem to feel confident about their recovery and want to retain their talent. But the aviation industry, in comparison, will see a muted hike that will be less than the national average, owing to the fact that their road to recovery will be longer than other industries.”Stating that there was no reduction in 4,000-plus staff strength at Vistara during the pandemic, the airline’s spokesperson said, “In fact, we have been hiring for select operational roles, replacements of voluntary exits, strategic needs, etc. We will continue to invest in resources in line with our expansion plans.” Although domestic airlines are currently operating at 80% of their pre-Covid levels, passenger footfalls have recorded an increase with the roll-out of vaccines. Air traffic in January was recorded at 7.334 million; it was 7.327 million in December 2020 and 6.354 million in November 2020.Experts said the ministry of civil aviation is estimated to create 1,058 jobs this month which signals growing optimism in the industry. “Indian aviation sector is a critical enabler for India’s endeavour towards the $5 trillion economy. Financial year 2021-22, will witness a robust 78% year-on-growth in domestic air passengers, owing to the low base of 2020-21,” TeamLease said.In another indication that the aviation industry has resumed the recruitment process, Dr GK Chaukiyal, head of academics of Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University, an autonomous public central university in Amethi, said 25% students have been hired as operation staff in Hyderabad and Delhi in both commercial and cargo airlines. “Our students who completed their internships at Delhi and Mumbai airports have been hired by airlines and airports for operations and security-related jobs at the entry level,” said Chokyal. “Currently, companies in the aviation sector are preferring freshers to avoid paying higher salaries. Recruitment process will fasten only when flights start operating at 100% and after 30-40% Indians are vaccinated.”The Indian aviation industry is among the fastest growing aviation markets in the world. The country has 100 operational airports at present, and the government has also announced development of 200 airports in the next couple of years including airports, heliports, seaports and advanced landing grounds. Industry experts, however, said it will take at least six more months for airlines and airports to witness footfalls near pre-Covid levels. CS Subbiah, former chief executive officer of Alliance Air, said, “When we are not even allowing flights to operate at their full capacity (the government has allowed airlines only 80% of their flights’ capacity), how can the traffic reach pre-Covid levels unless the state governments ease their respective restrictions (like mandatory negative RT-PCR test report) and more people are successfully vaccinated?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aviation-sector-awaits-successful-vaccination-drive-crawls-towards-normalcy-101615145054134.html
08-03-2021||Other||Mumbai: Biker crushed to death after tree branch falls on him; one injured||A 41-year-old biker was killed after the branch of a huge tree fell on him at Chandulal Wadi, in Bhayander (West) on Saturday afternoon. His son, who was riding a pillion on the scooter, escaped with minor injuries.Jagram Prajapati, an interior designer and his son Amit, 18, were headed to the Bhayander railway station. When the bike reached Chandulal Wadi, near Cross Garden, a branch of a huge cluster tree fell on Prajapati. As per the video images, Prajapati and his son lost their balance and fell off the bike. Locals rushed Prajapati to the civic, Indira Gandhi Hospital in Mira Road, where he was declared dead before admission. The Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) garden department officials rushed to the spot and the fallen branch was cleared. Hansraj Meshram from tree department, MBMC, said that there was no complaint regarding the tree and its branches. Also, we regularly prune trees and the said tree grew on private property. However, we will carry a soil test of the tree will be carried out to know its stability said Meshram.The family members of the victim have blamed the MBMC for negligence. Auto rickshaws, bikers and pedestrians use the busy road that leads to the railhead and several autos and two-wheelers had passed by the tree minutes before the incident took place. The Bhayander police have registered a case of accidental death and the owner will be questioned said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-biker-crushed-to-death-after-tree-branch-falls-on-him-one-injured-101615144994092.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Topic of emergency should be buried once and for all, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Sunday said the topic of India’s Emergency of 1975 is “outdated” and must be “buried once and for all”, as the current situation in the country is much worse. “The present situation in the country prompts us to say the situation during the Emergency was better,” Sena MP Sanjay Raut weekly column’s RokhThok in party mouthpiece Saamana said. Raut said newspapers and media houses are being controlled, many opposition leaders are jailed, public property is up for sale, and only some people are gaining from it, and those who point out this is wrong are termed ‘enemies of the country’. Those who speak frankly and sometimes criticise the actions of the government, including persons from the film industry such as Anurag Kashyap and Taapsee Pannu, were raided by the income tax department. “How is this any different from the Emergency,” the column questioned. Talking about the arrest of the Disha Ravi, the 22-year old environment activist for sedition, Raut said, “Why is the government afraid of a 22-year old? Does this suit the world’s biggest democracy? Such incidents erode the basis of democracy.” After a huge stadium was renamed after Narendra Modi, it is a resounding reminder of the slogan coined during the Emergency, “Indira is India”. Now Indira’s place has been taken by Narendra Modi, the mouthpiece said. The column also questioned if it is necessary for Rahul Gandhi to express that emergency was wrong and revisit the topic? “That topic has now become obsolete,” the editorial said. Praising Rahul Gandhi, the editorial said he is frank hearted, and what he spoke simply became a talking point. State BJP’s media cell head Vishwas Pathak said, “The Sena’s support to Emergency is understood. Even Sena founder the late Balasaheb Thackeray had supported the Emergency in 1975. The Sena is helpless and has to support Congress.” Shiv Sena’s Ratnagiri MLA and higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said, “Shiv Sena is with the locals who are still against the project. We have already cleared our stand and have opposed the project. Any party or its chief has every right to put forward their stand on any issue. The decision over it will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.”Shiv Sena’s publicity department released a video on Suday in which Raj Thackeray is seen staunchly opposing the project. “We would not allow the project to set up, let the government do whatever it wants to,” he had said in a public rally when the protests against the project were at their peak .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-topic-of-emergency-should-be-buried-once-and-for-all-says-shiv-sena-101615144875158.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Over 11,000 railway passengers fined for not wearing mask||Over the past five weeks since the general public were allowed to travel in local trains, 11,707 passengers were fined for not wearing facial masks on the suburban railway stations. A total of ₹19.9 lakh was collected as fine from the passengers. On Western Railway, 5,530 passengers were booked till March 6, including 4,017 passengers fined in the month of February. On Central Railway, 6,177 passengers were fined till March 6 of whom 4,846 were fined in February. The fine amount collected on Western Railway is ₹8.83 lakh and for Central Railway it is ₹11.15 lakh. “We urge passengers to follow coronavirus protocol while travelling by local trains. Commuters are requested to maintain social distancing and wear face masks during their commute,” said Anil Kumar Jain, senior public relations officer, Central Railway.On an average, around 200 passengers are booked everyday on the suburban railway network. Wearing face masks while travelling by local trains has been made compulsory by the Maharashtra government. Currently, nearly 3.4 million passengers commute by trains operating on both the zonal railways every day after general public were allowed travel by trains from February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-over-11-000-railway-passengers-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-101615144874026.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||U-turn by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena: Raj says revive Nanar to get jobs for locals||In a complete U-turn, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray, has demanded revival of the refinery petrochemical project at Nanar in Ratnagiri, which was scrapped by the previous Fadnavis government in 2019 after all political parties other than the Bharatiya Janata Party opposed it. Raj has written a letter to his cousin and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to take steps for the ₹3-lakh crore project which, he said, has the ability to change the fate of the Konkan. In his four-page letter written on Saturday, Raj said that owing to the pandemic-ensued lockdown, lakhs of Maharashtrian youth have lost their jobs and the project can provide a much-needed boost in the employment sector. Raj wrote, “The locals had opposed the project fearing they will lose out on their lands, the ecology will be affected and there were also concerns about temples. All these are justified concerns but we have to find a way out of this. The state government should take initiative to convince the local with the help of experts from the field.” He further wrote that Maharashtra cannot afford to lose this project while referring to (without naming) American electric vehicle giant Tesla opting to set-up its office at Bengaluru and not Mumbai. He also wrote, “The government must try to make the locals understand. I know all political parties, including MNS, had opposed the project. However, times have changed now.” He said that the government can sign an agreement with the company to provide jobs to the Marathi youth. He also said the government can make use of technology to minimise the damage caused to ecology. “MNS will extend full support to the state. We will also work on a development plan and submit it to the state,” he wrote. Locals said they will continue to oppose the the project. “Raj Thackeray’s U-turn is surprising for us. MNS workers had vandalised refinery office in protest. We believe the CM is firm on his stand. The demand for the revival of the project is out of vested interests of the investors and business from Mumbai,” said Ashok Valam, president, Konkan Refinery Prakalp Virodhi Sangharsh Sanghatana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uturn-by-maharashtra-navnirman-sena-raj-says-revive-nanar-to-get-jobs-for-locals-101615144574038.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Professional course institutes grapple with time crunch to finish syllabus||Delay in admissions to professional courses this year has led to serious trouble not only for students, but also colleges. Colleges have been grappling with separate class and exam schedules for their first-year batches as compared to rest of the batches. However, most regulating bodies have clarified that there will be no condensing of curriculum for the first-year batches, despite most colleges commencing regular lectures only in February, leaving colleges and students with very little academic time to complete the prescribed curriculum.“Colleges started online classes for their existing students in September-October 2020 whereas classes for first-year batches started only in February. Our teachers have been working non-stop. Now, our concern is that classes for batches other than first-year will end by April, but first-year classes will go on till June-July at least. There’ll be no breather,” said the vice-principal of a city-based engineering college.The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), which is the regulating body for engineering, pharmacy and management colleges, has clarified that colleges will have to adjust holidays and conduct extra lectures to ensure that the entire portion is covered for first-year batches.“We have asked colleges to use weekends and extend the academic calendar by a month or so in order to cover the portion. Condensing curriculum is not the solution. Colleges can instead cut-down on vacations as well as try to finish the portion by end of May or June,” said Anil Sahasrabuddhe, director, AICTE. He added that the next academic year might also witness a delayed start because of delays in the current academic year.Colleges, however, were not impressed. “There are two semesters to cover for the first-year, and with classes beginning only in February, we will be in a position to finish the first semester only by April or May. We don’t know how to finish the curriculum for the entire academic year by June,” said Dr RK Srivastava, professor and head of department at Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship Education (SIMSREE).Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months this year, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court (HC) for clarity on the status of Maratha quota. In December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make necessary changes to their admission form after the state government decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of the socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) quota.The worst affected in this lot are law aspirants, admissions for whom are still in the process. The second seat allotment list for law students is scheduled to be released this week by the state common entrance test (CET) cell, and in all probability, regular lectures for first-year law students will not begin until the end of this month.“There’ll be a good possibility that the first-year batch for the 2020-21 academic year and the next academic year will end up studying together. The state CET cell has made a mockery of the admissions process. To make matters worse, the state government has not raised any concern about the fact that it is March and first-year law students are yet to start lectures,” said Sachin Pawar, president, Student Law Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-professional-course-institutes-grapple-with-time-crunch-to-finish-syllabus-101615144514040.html
08-03-2021||Other||Kalyan shop fire: Body of a 12-year-old found||A burnt body of a 12-year-old boy was found in a shoe shop which was burnt in a fire, last week, in Kalyan. The reason for the fire is unknown. The shopkeeper, who was cleaning his shop on Sunday, found the minor’s body inside the debris. Police have registered an accidental death report. Senior inspector, N Bankar, said, “ The body is completely burnt. We have the body to Sir JJ Hospital for post-mortem and forensic analysis. Initial reports of the doctor, state that the body is of a 12-year-old boy. Previously, shop owners registered a few theft complaints and harassment from drug addicts who would take shelter under his shop for their illegal activities. Very few people knew that a small part of the shop had an entry from the backside road. We suspect that the boy entered inside from a secret entry and while lighting the cigarette, the shop would have caught fire. We are checking in nearby areas for details of the missing boys. So far, we have registered an accidental death report. ” On March 1, a fire broke into a small shoe shop of owner A Gupta, near Kalyan railway station. The fire brigade had doused the fire and the shop was closed till Saturday. On Sunday morning, Gupta went to clean the shop with some workers when he found a burnt body in the debris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kalyan-shop-fire-body-of-a-12-year-old-found-101615144454402.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 1,300 new Covid cases mark after October||The city on Sunday recorded 1,361 new Covid-19 cases, crossing the 1,300-mark after October 28, when Mumbai had recorded a daily caseload of 1,354. On October 23, Mumbai had recorded 1,470 cases. Mumbai also recorded four deaths, taking the total to 11,504, and a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.4%. Mumbai’s case tally stands at 333,569, of which 9,319 are active, with a recovery rate of 93%. The doubling rate has dropped to 231 days, from 294 days on February 24, when Mumbai first reported over 1,000 cases since November, and from over 455 days in mid-February. Mumbai’s overall growth rate is now 0.3%, up from 0.24% on February 24 and 0.19% in mid-February. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has conducted 3,416,761 tests so far, of which 23,369 tests were conducted on Saturday. The positivity rate at present is 9.7%, and Saturday’s positivity rate was 5.8%. There are 18 active containment zones in the city at present that are slums or chawls; 190 sealed high rise buildings. Owing to the rising number of covid-19 cases in the city, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had directed the BMC administration to tighten containment rules, and begin sealing of the building more than five cases were found in it. The BMC has also been cracking down on restaurants, bars, and marriage and banquet halls that violate covid-19 rules such as not maintaining social distancing, and not wearing of face masks. Restaurants presently can operate at 50% of their capacity. Not more than 50 people are allowed at wedding ceremonies. Currently, there are 13,540 beds in hospitals and jumbo facilities for Covid-19 patients, an additional 1536 ICU beds, 947 ventilator beds, and 8,027 beds with oxygen points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-1-300-new-covid-cases-mark-after-october-101615144334504.html
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder sets 7-point agenda for his govt in final year before polls||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed all ministries and departments to adopt a proactive approach towards realising the seven-point ‘Agenda 2022’ that he had unveiled in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday. The seven-point agenda includes, protecting the wealth and land (zarr and zameen) of the state; ensuring peaceful co-existence (Shantmayee Samaj); saving lives and livelihood (Jaan and Jahan) of all Punjabis against all odds; reaching out to every needy person (Zarrorat Mand) to alleviate his economic miseries, and providing them their due benefits under the socio-economic programmes of the government; empowering youths (Sashakt Naujawan); providing adequate food, and shelter at affordable prices (sasti roti and pakki chhat); and developing every village and town of the state so that everybody gets an equal opportunity to live a quality life. The overarching goal of the agenda is to ensure the development of a ‘Kaamyab and Khushal Punjab’. Pointing out that of the 546 promises that his party had made in the manifesto during the 2017 state elections, Capt Amarinder said that the remaining commitments will also be fulfilled in the time left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-sets-7-point-agenda-for-his-govt-in-final-year-before-polls-101615144274088.html
08-03-2021||Kolkata||Battle for Bengal: At mega Kolkata rally, PM Modi sharpens attack on Mamata||Promising a 25-year development plan for West Bengal, if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wins the imminent assembly polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday sharpened attack on chief minister Mamata Banerjee at his first rally in Kolkata this year. The PM accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief of getting blinded by the affection for her nephew Abhishek Banerjee and looting common people to an extent that her regime might win had there been an Olympics on corruption.Taking on the TMC’s popular election slogan, ‘khela hobe’ (let’s play) Modi, during his 72-minute speech, said, “How long will the extortion and torture continue? People want an answer and they (TMC) are scared. That’s why they are talking about playing a game. They have played enough. There is no game left. Even ration sent by the Centre was stolen. I want to appeal to all people. Do not be afraid. Vote for the BJP without fear. End the anarchy. Victory for Bengal means victory for India.”"You have played with the lives of people. Khela sesh (the game has ended)," said Modi who used Bengali words several times while speaking in Hindi.Brigade Parade Grounds, the venue of Modi’s rally in the Maidan area, witnessed an impressive turnout, thanks to a few lakh people who came from the districts in trains and buses with innovative and colourful props. Modi’s plane arrived at Kolkata around 1.30 pm and he flew to the Maidans in a chopper.Also read: 'PM Modi bought ₹16,000 crore planes but...' - Priyanka Gandhi to UP farmersThe prime minister's speech focused on the BJP’s plans for Bengal’s development, corruption during the TMC regime, the plight of women in the state during the last 10 years and, not surprisingly, the Left-Congress coalition that has triggered the possibility of a three-way split in votes in some districts. Modi did not mention cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front which is part of the third coalition.While addressing a rally in north Bengal’s Siliguri town, about 570 kilometres away, Mamata Banerjee unleashed a more scathing counterattack around the same time. “I have never seen a prime minister lying so much. The only syndicate India has is the one run by Modi and Amit Shah. The prime minister talks of cut-money (illegal commission). A poor man may take ₹5 or ₹10 as cut-money. But what about selling national assets?” said Banerjee.The TMC rally and roadshow was held in protest against the rise in the price of LPG. “I am giving free ration to all people but they have to buy LPG cylinders for ₹900 to cook their food. You have to provide LPG for free. Tell them when it will be provided free,” said Banerjee. Turning at the crowd she said, “Do not vote for the BJP till LPG comes free.”Banerjee accused Modi of unethically helping big industrialists, who she referred to as the prime minister’s friends.Modi shot back in Kolkata.“The opposition says that I work for my friends. We all make friends in places where we grow up. I can feel the difficulties faced by my friends. I will always do so. I am working for my friends in Bengal. I have given my friends in Bengal 70 lakh homes and toilets. People working in the tea gardens are my special friends and for them, the Union budget has allotted ₹1,000 crore,” said Modi.Reciting a couple of lines from a Sanskrit scripture, Modi said, “When someone gets angry because of excessive affection, the person makes more mistakes and eventually loses everything.” He did not name Abhishek Banerjee whose wife and sister-in-law were recently questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the coal smuggling case.“Even I am not spared. Sometimes I am called Ravana, sometimes a demon and sometimes a ruffian. Why do you get so angry Didi?” Modi said referring to some of the comments Banerjee made in recent rallies.“The lotus is blooming because you (Banerjee) deprived the poor, kept youths unemployed. I know Didi for years. This is not the Didi who fought for Bengal. She is now being controlled by others. The remote control is in the hands of someone else,” said Modi.“The whole of Bengal is now saying aar noi anyay (no more injustice, the BJP’s slogan). The entire nation needs to hear this. This is the voice of the Bengalis," he said."The sons and daughters of Bengal are asking you questions after 10 years. They choose you to be their elder sister but you limited yourself to being the aunt of just one nephew. What about the millions of nephews and nieces? You could not escape from the same family politics that you spoke against,” said Modi.Indirectly referring to the TMC’s official poll slogan, ‘Bengal wants to its own daughter,’ Modi talked of last week’s incident when the chief minister somehow managed to save herself from a fall from an electric scooter that she rode in protest against rising fuel prices.He said, “You are not the daughter of Bengal only. You are the nation’s daughter. When you rode the scooty, everybody prayed that you do not fall. Thank God you did not because if you did, the state where the scooty was made would have become your enemy. However, instead of going to Bhawanipore, your scooty went to Nandigram. I do not want to see anyone getting hurt but what can I do if the scooty has decided to fall in Nandigram?"Naming some prominent Bengali women who took part in the freedom struggle, Modi said, “I am fortunate that in the last six years our daughters and sisters have been the beneficiaries of our welfare schemes. Home and toilets have been built for them. The Centre’s Jan Dhan Yojana benefits women too. They were given LPG during the pandemic.”“Is it not our job to think about the poor? It is a pity that the TMC government is lying to the poor. The state government could not spend a lion’s share of central funds. Is the TMC government not guilty? It has locked up central funds. Didi is determined. She will not work and won’t let others work as well,” he said.Pointing at the crowd at the Brigade Parade Grounds, the venue of many historic rallies since the 1960s, Modi said, “This ground has seen many patriots. And, this ground has also seen those who blocked the state’s development, those who conspired to stop progress with strikes. People of Bengal have withstood these for generations. It is because of their willpower that people never gave up the hope to see change.”He talked of bringing in ‘asol poribarton’ (real change) and building ‘sonar Bangla’ or golden Bengal.“You (the people) trusted Mamata Banerjee. But she and her cadres destroyed your dreams. They broke your trust. They insulted the people of Bengal. They tortured our sisters and daughters but could never destroy their hopes. This crowd is the living proof of that hope. Bengal wants sonar Bangla, they want peace, progress and prosperity,” said Modi.“In this election, there is TMC on one side, there are the Left and Congress on another side while there are the determined people of Bengal on the third side. The fact that a few million have turned up today proves that all people want is Bengal to follow the path of progress. I have come to assure you that there will be change. There will be investment, industrialization and 21st-century technology. The state’s culture and heritage will be protected. We will work 24x7 for the development of Bengal. We will live every second for you and your dreams. We will serve you. We will win your hearts with our service. The development will be for all,” said Modi.“We will build a Bengal where infiltrators will not find any place. People know what Bengal has lost since Independence. I have come with the determination to announce that whatever has been robbed from here will be returned. The next 25 years are crucial for Bengal. The coming polls will launch the first phase. The next five years is important. In 2047, when India will celebrate its 100th year of Independence, Bengal will once again lead other states as it did in the past,” said Modi.“Kolkata is the city of joy. It has the legacy and the possibility of a great future. There is no way it cannot be made the city of the future. A few days ago, a list of top cities was published. People want to see Kolkata in that position. Once you have the double engine government (the BJP at both the state and the Centre) all obstacles will disappear. Because of corruption, a lot of work has been stalled. The smart city project will get a new boost. All flyovers will be set up on time. Even slum dwellers will get new homes. Hawkers will get benefits from Central schemes. Other cities of Bengal will also contribute to the dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)," said Modi.“The national education policy will be enforced in Bengal. Engineering and medicine will be taught in Bengali as well. The daughter of a poor man can become a doctor or engineer even if she does not know English,” said Modi.Taking on other opposition parties, Modi said, “Was it an Indian who founded the Congress party? The Left, on the other hand, was inspired by Karl Marx and Lenin. The BJP is the only party that is inspired by Indians and Bengal. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee inspired it. BJP has Bengal in its DNA. BJP can pay back this debt.”“The Congress came to power because of Independence. It worked for a few years but started the politics of vote bank in Bengal. The Marxists took this forward ahead. They said they would crush the black arms of the Congress. That is how they came to power and stayed for 30 years. I want to ask how those black arms of the Congress suddenly turned white,” said Modi, referring to the Congress-Left alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/battle-for-bengal-at-mega-kolkata-rally-pm-modi-sharpens-attack-on-mamata-101615141307693.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lab operator arrested over false Covid -19 report||Shivaji Nagar police arrested a pathology lab owner on Friday for allegedly giving a forged negative report to a 71-year-old Covid-19 patient. The arrested accused identified as Abdul Khan, 31, is currently in police custody till March 9. During investigation, police found that Khan had collected swabs of people who had symptoms of Covid-19 and allegedly generated false reports without even conducting tests for monetary benefits, said senior inspector Kishor Gayke, Shivaji Nagar police station.According to the police, Khan has taken a franchise of a pathology lab in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi which collects blood samples and swabs of people to test for Covid-19. He later sent samples to another lab for test. The incident came to light in October when a 71-year-old man, resident of Shivaji Nagar area, approached him in the first week of October last year for Covid-19 test, said Gayke.Khan collected his swab and blood samples for test and sent those samples to a lab in Turbhe, Navi Mumbai. However, Khan then generated false negative report and gave it to the senior citizen, added Gayke. The victim suspected some foul play in the report as he had symptoms, so he got tested at another lab which came positive. He then approached Khan and the Turbhe lab, the letterhead of which was used for the report, and showed him the second report from the other lab which had come positive, added the officer.During inquiry it was found that the senior citizen had tested positive according to Turbhe lab, but before they sent the report, Khan generated false report on the letterhead and gave it to the senior citizen, said Gayke. “We found that Khan has duped at least seven to eight people by giving false reports without even conducting tests and took the money. Further investigation is going on,” added Gayke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lab-operator-arrested-over-false-covid-19-report-101615144033996.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Shakti bill delayed further as govt seeks time for deliberation||The Shakti bill which has the provisions of stricter punishment for heinous crimes like rape, acid attack, social media abuse against women and children is likely to be delayed again at least by four months. The state government has proposed the extension to the joint select committee (JSC) appointed to deliberate on the bill, till the monsoon session to be held in July.The bill, named as Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, along with Maharashtra Exclusive Special Court (for certain offences against women and children under Shakti Law), was sent to the JSC of 21 legislators in December. Opposition benches and some women rights group had opposed the bill, after which, the state government decided to send it to the JSC for further deliberation.“The committee held several meetings, met activist, lawyers in Nagpur, Pune and Aurangbad, and has received hundreds of suggestions and objections. The JSC is yet to complete its work and finalise the revised draft of the bill. The committee needs more time, hence it was decided unanimously to seek more time for the final draft to table in the houses,” said Bharti Lavhekar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) and member of the JSC.Lavhekar said the JSC is looking at all the aspects including suggestions from some male organisations, and delay in the assent by the president to Andhra Pradesh’s Disha Act on which Maharashtra’s Shakti bill is modelled. “We want to ensure that the bill passed in the legislature is full proof and should be passed with due deliberation,” she said.Home minister Anil Deshmukh has proposed the extension to the JSC till the last day of the monsoon session expected to be held in July. The extension motion will be moved in both houses on Monday.By amending the sections in the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso), Shakti bill has hiked the punishment to the death penalty and fine up to ₹10 lakh for the heinous crimes against women and children. The bill has also made it mandatory to complete the investigation and filing of charge sheet in 15 days and completion of the trial in 30 days after filing of the charge sheet.According to leaders from the ruling parties the state government also wanted to avoid discussion on the crimes against women in the backdrop of the controversial cases raked up against two of their ministers recently. Social justice minister Dhananjay Munde and former forest minister Sanjay Rathod faced allegations of involvement in two separate cases related to women. Rathod had to resign from the post after BJP alleged his involvement in the suicide case of a Pune woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shakti-bill-delayed-further-as-govt-seeks-time-for-deliberation-101615143973990.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid-19 women in science juggle with chores, childcare, research||The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown amplified challenges faced by women. On International Women’s Day, HT speaks to women pursuing careers in science and are simultaneously juggling childcare, household responsibilities and research. While some have managed to overcome challenges, others have either put their careers on hold or given it up completely.‘It has been a learning curve’In February last year, just ahead of the first lockdown, Rohini Karandikar, 36, had completed her postdoctoral studies from the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). She was looking forward to joining as a curriculum and innovations manager at a city-based startup.However, with lockdown in place, navigating her new job from home, while engaging her five-year-old son was an exhausting task. “The first few weeks were filled with anxiety as I had to call-off meetings because my child needed me. The daycares were shut, hence the job of engaging him in activities had fallen on my shoulders,” said Karandikar, who was also engaged in other voluntary research projects. Her husband, a research scientist at a pharma company, is an essential worker and could contribute in shifts.“I made frantic calls to my friends to ask them how I could keep my son busy while I am working. Fortunately, my employers were understanding and supportive,” Karandikar said. She worked out a system of scheduling meetings when her husband was home. Along the way, she has found creative ways to keep the five-year-old occupied. “One of the things that worked well was asking my relatives to join in on a video call with my son. It was exhausting to look for those 15-minute gaps when I could concentrate on my work,” she said. Karandikar says it has been a learning curve but she’s resorted to scheduling meetings at 11.30pm after her son has slept off.Going from full-time PhD to part-timeThe plan to complete her PhD in 3.5 years seems near impossible now to Sneha Swami, 28, a research scholar from the Centre for Policy Studies at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). In the third year of her PhD, Swami had to start her field-work all over again in June last year.“My primary research work is in the area of the electricity distribution system. This means a lot of fieldwork and during the pandemic, it had to take a back seat,” said Swami. While she was pursuing her fieldwork in Pune, in June last year, following her marriage, Swami moved to Nashik. “I had to start over and make new contacts in the electricity offices in Nashik and get the relevant permissions,” said Swami.While earlier, living on campus in the institute, Swami spent around six-seven hours a day on her research work, now, on her own, she can barely work three-four hours a day.“Sitting at home, with no access to libraries, working a few hours has led to a lot of anxiety. I have always been inclined towards fieldwork, but since I was helpless, it started affecting my mental health,” said Swami. Marriage, too, has brought in responsibilities that keep her away from work at times.“From a full-time PhD student, now I have become a part-time one. I miss being in a lab and discussing problems with other researchers. Our team meetings are also few now. Fortunately, I have found a library here to keep myself busy,” said Swami.Working odd hours to fulfil research demandsArchana Iyer, 34, is a researcher at the department of biological sciences at TIFR and also a mom to a two-year-old daughter. At the onset of the pandemic, with the sudden closure of the daycare, non-availability of maids, Iyer and her husband found themselves in a fix.“I was involved in a research story that was close to publication but needed key experiments to be fulfilled within a limited time. My husband on the other hand is the owner of a company and had to work from home. The fear of Covid-19 brought uncertainty and tribulations and it was important to adapt to these overwhelming changes,” she said. The duo took turns to take care of their child, stand in grocery queues, clean the house, cook food, all the while engaging their daughter.“Since I lived on the institute campus, I managed my experimental demands by working at odd hours. We realised that the pandemic related trials would last long and we had to make the best of it. The biggest comfort was in the realisation that we could now spend much more time with our child,” said Iyer.She and her husband have now reorganised their daily chores such that they can contribute to their respective professional lives and yet manage their personal tasks. “This new routine became the new normal. It was certainly difficult but finding little positives all along we were able to cope,” said Iyer.Key takeaways:Domestic duties: “Doing all the household chores by myself stole a lot of time. It made me realise the contribution of household helpers and the role they play in our lives,” said Rohini Godbole, Centre for High Energy Physics, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.Found time for family: “The pandemic has been brutal and exhausting, as well as rewarding. Having teenage boys at home meant producing mass quantities of food. I’ve attended webinars and meetings while stirring a pan of veggies. However, this was the first time in ages that we, as a family, could share a meal during the day,” said Shubha Tole, neuroscientist, TIFR.Missing the lab: “One of the key aspects of research is getting together with other researchers and faculty members to discuss a problem. There’s so much scope to learn from these face-to-face experiences. While we all work online, the importance of discussing a problem and looking for solutions as a group is immeasurable,” said Amruta Muthal, a machine-learning researcher from IIIT Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-19-women-in-science-juggle-with-chores-childcare-research-101615143373996.html
08-03-2021||Other||Lodhi Club polls: Thumping victory for Mahajan group||After three executive committee members were elected unopposed, the elections for the remaining seven posts of the Lodhi Club executive committee were held on Sunday. The voting was held on the club premises and the results were announced in the evening.Two groups, namely the Mahajan group, led by former general secretary Nitin Mahajan, and the Sachdeva group, led by former vice-president Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, were fighting it out for the top posts at the club. The candidates of Mahajan group bagged six out seven posts.Nitin Mahajan outdid Dr Gaurav Sachdeva by 512 votes to become the general secretary of the club yet again. The former got 1,171 votes while the latter got 658 votes.Kawaljeet Singh Dang beat Jodhesh Gupta by 217 votes and became the vice-president.Jagatvir Singh Bittu, who was in the fray for the bar secretary position, outdid Sachin Goyal by 333 votes.Nishit Singhania (1084) defeated Dr Avinash Jindal (743) and became the mess secretary.Ram Sharma beat Vibhor Garg by 448 votes for the post of sports secretary.Dr Sarju Ralhan outdid Amrit Bhambari Manga by 455 votes to become the joint secretary.A neck and neck race for the post of executive member resulted in CM Jindal beating Rajiv Gupta by a close margin of 24 votes.Three members of the executive committee who had been elected unopposed include Munish Gupta as finance secretary, Mohanjit Kaur as cultural secretary, and Niti Gupta as lady executive member.Earlier in the day, family members and supporters of all candidates could be seen trying their best to woo voters even as polling for the executive committee was taking place.While strict Covid norms were adhered to inside the club, particularly in the polling booth area, a heavy rush was witnessed outside. Most of the people were standing in close proximity, not giving two hoots about the Covid guidelines.The rush also led to a traffic jam which left many city residents stranded. Later the traffic police were deployed there to streamline the traffic flow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lodhi-club-polls-thumping-victory-for-mahajan-group-101615143313957.html
08-03-2021||Other||Speeding truck runs over scooterist in Ludhiana hit-and-run||A scooterist, on his way to pick up his three children from school, was run over by a truck in a hit-and-run accident in Sherpur on Saturday. The victim, identified as Munna Kumar, 35, lived in Rajiv Gandhi Colony, where he also ran a grocery shop. He was the sole breadwinner of the family.His brother, Hare Ram, complained to the police that Munna’s two daughters, Khushi, 14 and Kavya, 8, and son Rohit, 11, studied at the government school in Sherpur.On Saturday, he was going to pick them up from school on his scooter. As he reached near Aarti Steels factory, a speeding truck hit him from behind and drove off. Hare said locals rushed his brother to the hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the unidentified truck driver under Sections 279 (rash driving), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are scanning CCTV cameras near the accident site for clues to nab the truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-truck-runs-over-scooterist-in-ludhiana-hitandrun-101615143135042.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Things to keep in mind during tax assessment||While announcing the budget this year, one particular announcement was greeted with particular cheer by high-income group (with an annual income equal to ₹50 lakh or more) earners: they would not have to pay extra towards coronavirus related cess. While there were no changes in income tax slabs, tax rates, or deductions, some investments that were tax-free will now be taxed, which means the investments we make from a taxation point of view will need to be revisited. With the deadline for self-assessment of tax fast approaching, here’s what you need to know.EPF contributionsContributing regularly towards employee provident fund (EPF) is one of the few investments that several of us rely upon. However, the Budget 2021 surprised many high-income taxpayers as the non-taxable portion of the fund’s interest has been capped at ₹2.5 lakh. Budget 2020 had capped the non-taxable PF contribution and interest each to ₹7.5 lakh. To save on taxes, the best way out is to stop making large voluntary employee provident fund contributions.ULIP investmentsULIPs investments had an EEE (Exempt-Exempt-Exempt) feature: The three exempts referred to the annual premium towards ULIPs; the interest accumulated over the period; the income generated from the investment However, now, ULIPs bought or issued on or after February 1, 2021, will not be exempt from tax if the annual premium payable on them every year exceeds ₹2.5 lakh. For taxation, these ULIPs will be treated like equity-oriented mutual funds. “The government is seeking to ensure that all investment options are treated similarly. However in case of the unfortunate death of the insured person, the death benefit will continue to remain tax-free,” Vivek Jain, head of investments, Policybazaar.com, a financial services marketplace, explained. In case the total annual premium of ULIPs bought after February 2021 is greater than ₹2.5 lakh, then the gains at maturity will be considered as long term capital gain. The current tax rate is 10% tax beyond a gain of ₹1 lakh in any financial year. This will be applicable whenever the policyholder makes partial or full withdrawals any time after five years. The idea behind this rule is to encourage people to stay invested in ULIPs for prolonged periods.Tax on propertyThe government is trying hard to boost the real estate sector. Even home loans have been reduced to boost people’s interest in residential property. Tax norms have been eased on purchase of residential property in which the property price varies with the stamp duty charges. During property purchase, taxpayers should check if the stamp duty charges exceed the agreement value by 20%. If the stamp duty costs more than the agreement value by 20% or more, the difference will be taxable. This means taxpayers buying residential property, sold in distress, can heave a sigh of relief as the stamp duty would not be more than the agreement value. However, this tax relief is subject to certain conditions. “The increase of gap between the circle rate and the notional deemed sale consideration for taxation purpose will help the developers liquidate their existing inventory. This is a relief for distressed sellers,” Sudarshan Lodha, Co-founder, a commercial real estate investment platform said.“In times of Covid-19, when property values under stamp duty laws are higher than what a property can get, a notional tax on a deemed value is a significant deterrent for the correction of property prices. A 20% deviation from the stamp duty value allows for prices to be reasonable and benefits both the seller and the buyer,” Sridhar R, Partner, Grant Thornton Bharat, an integrated Assurance, Tax and Advisory firm, said.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thing-to-keep-in-mind-during-tax-assessment-101615143134043.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC stays termination of Solapur university senate members||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday stayed a February 4 order of Solapur University wherein the membership of five members of the senate, management council and board of studies were terminated after it came to light that they had given false information to the media about the vice-chancellor of the university. The court held that the provisions of the Maharashtra Universities Act, under which the membership of the members were terminated, was applicable to students and could not be applied to senate members, hence the court stayed the termination order and asked the university to file its reply before the next hearing on April 6.A division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Milind Jadhav, while hearing five petitions filed by the terminated members, was informed by advocates NV Bandiwadekar and Milind Deshmukh for the members that the petitioners were duly appointed to the senate, management council and board of studies after, following the due procedure laid down in the Maharashtra Universities Act.The advocates submitted that on February 4, the university issued them a notice section 71(10)(c) of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016 stating that their membership was terminated as they had provided some information without evidence to news reporter against the vice-chancellor of respondent No.1 (Solapur University) which was later on found to be incorrect.The advocates then argued that the provisions under which the members were terminated dealt with conditions of residence, conduct and discipline of the students of the universities, colleges and recognized institutions and the action to be taken against them for breach of discipline and misconduct within or outside universities. They concluded that as the petitioners were teachers and elected members of the said bodies the same provision could not be applied to them.Advocates PN Joshi and Nikhil Pujari for the university submitted that the termination of the membership under section 64 of the aforesaid Act particularly to clauses (f) and (h) was valid and sought time to file reply affidavits.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “On a reading of the said provisions we find that those can be invoked to disqualify membership from the above authorities if there is omission or commission on the part of the member to carry out the provisions of the act, statutes or ordinances or disclose or cause to disclose to the public any confidential matter concerning examination or evaluation.” The court then held that as the grounds on which the memberships were terminated were not as per the provisions, stayed the termination as an interim measure and directed the university to file its reply before the next hearing on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-stays-termination-of-solapur-university-senate-members-101615142654003.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Virtual Data Science conference on March 8||Pune - A 24-hour virtual conference will be held by Women in Data Science (WiDS) on March 8, coinciding with the International Women’s Day, in collaboration with Stanford University – ICME Department. The Data Science Community will get an opportunity to listen to global influencers, thought leaders and experts selected by Stanford University’s ICME WiDS team and WiDS Pune.“We are into the third year of our journey. Through our community learning based startup initiative, we continue to work towards encouraging everyone to adopt technology to solve business problems, upskill themselves in the field of Data Science. This conference is designed in response to global pandemic to align with time zones across three continents – APAC, EMEA and Americas and the conference goes live with an opening session at 6.30 am IST,” said Sucheta Dhere, WiDS Pune 2021 Ambassador. There will be three main parts of the conference — “Global sessions” track - live stream from Stanford, “WiDS Pune” track featuring regional speakers catering to local eco system and the virtual “Exhibition area” for personal interactions and career guidance. The conference is run by Data Science Community in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/virtual-data-science-conference-on-march-8-101615142593352.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC relief for Malad animal welfare society as derecognition order set aside||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday set aside a December 2020 order by the Animal Welfare Board of India which suspended and derecognised the Universal Animal Welfare Society at Malad on the grounds that cruel activities were being carried out at the centre run by the society. The centre undertakes welfare activities such as animal birth control (ABC) programmes. The HC, while setting aside the suspension held, that before taking such drastic action, society should be given enough opportunity to be heard.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing a petition filed by the advocates Eknath Dhokale and Ahmad Abidi on behalf of Universal Animal Welfare Society, an NGO, was informed that on December 14, 2020, the Animal Welfare Board of India had issued a notice suspending the recognition of the society. The bench was informed that apart from the suspension, the society was also ordered to close down its ABC programmes at the Malad centre on the grounds that cruel animal welfare activities were found to be carried out at the centre. The advocates submitted that as the society was not allowed to give any clarification, its rights were violated, hence the suspension order should be set aside. Advocate RP Ojha for the Union of India and the Animal Welfare Board submitted that the notice was issued based on an inspection after the board received certain complaints about suffering and pain to stray dogs due to the non-availability of proper feed. The inspection committee found that the society was running the ABC/AR programme, SOP and ABC (Dogs) Rules, 2001, without adhering to the norms stipulated by the animal welfare board.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the inspection report of December 11, 2020, completely lacked particulars and said, “Before taking such drastic action of suspension of recognition granted to the petitioner for conducting Animal Birth Contract Programme and closing down the centre of the Petitioner-Society, the Petitioner-Society ought to have been given an opportunity of being heard.”In light of these observations, the bench said, “We set aside the impugned order dated 14- 12-2020 (society). If the Animal Welfare Board of India desires to take action against the petitioner, it shall first issue a show-cause notice and share the relevant material with the petitioner.”The court then directed the society to file a reply on receiving the show cause notice and a decision to be taken thereafter by the board. Thus saying the bench disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-relief-for-malad-animal-welfare-society-as-derecognition-order-set-aside-101615142478056.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MIDC police recover 117 stolen, lost mobiles in a special drive||The MIDC police, Andheri, this month, traced the users of around 200 lost or stolen phones within its jurisdiction in 2019 and 2020. The users of 117 of the 200 mobiles have returned the handsets to the MIDC police, as they were not aware that they were using a stolen or lost mobile phone. A six-member team, comprising three officers and three members of the constabulary - made hundreds of calls a day for almost the entire month, to trace the users of 200 (of the total 300 mobile phones) stolen or lost phones. MIDC police had started the drive after Maheshwar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police, zone 10, had directed all the six police stations in the zone to try to solve and close about 2,200 small cases registered in 2019 and 2020 within the zone. The six-member team then started tracking all the 300 mobile phones, reported stolen or lost within its jurisdiction in 2019 and 2020. “For a week we put surveillance on the mobile phones and found that about 200 out of the 300 phones were switched on and were being used,” said sub-inspector P Thombre, who was part of the six-member MIDC police station team. “We tracked down the IMEI numbers of the 300 phones and found 200 of them were switched on and were being used in different states of the country,” he added. Thombre said that the rest of the 100 phones were either dismantled or were being used after changing their IMEI numbers. It was not easy tracking these phones, as along with the locations we also needed a call data record of the 200 phones. We called the dialed numbers to find out where and by whom the stolen or lost phones were being used, he added. “With the help of software, we eventually reached out to the 200 people who were using the robbed or missing mobile phones located at in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Chennai etc.,” said Thombre. “We called up the users and informed them that they had been using a robbed mobile phone which made them an accessory to the crime, and they could be arrested for the same. We then asked the user to courier the phones to MIDC police station,” said Thombre, adding that we ultimately received 117 of the 200 tracked handsets. He added that the users from UP and Bihar were non-cooperative, but users elsewhere sent their mobile handsets which we have returned to their rightful owners. Twenty-two-year-old Niyati Menon, who works at a private firm at SEEPZ in Andheri (East), was one among those to get back the phone. She was boarding a rickshaw in 2019 when two men on a motorcycle had snatched her mobile phone and fled. The woman, who lost all her contacts, photos in a moment, approached MIDC police.She had forgotten about the phone and lost all hope when she received a call from the MIDC police last week that they had traced and recovered her stolen mobile phone. Menon’s phone was traced after a month of tracking, obtaining a call data record and contacting the user of her phone in Delhi. He was not aware that he was using a robbed mobile, said the officer, adding that he couriered the handset to the police station. “I had done a similar operation in Chandrapur which was successful and thought of replicating it here,” said DCP Reddy. “Today a mobile phone is more precious than money, for people are now storing all their contacts and other important details in their phones,” he added. He added that other police stations in his zone too recovered a few phones but MIDC police station got back the maximum. Five other police stations in the zone have together recovered 28 stolen and lost mobiles. It included the recovery of seven phones by Jogeshwari police station, three each by Andheri and Sakinaka police stations, five by Powai police station and 10 by Amboli police station. Encouraged by the success, MIDC police station has decided to also try track remaining stolen and lost mobiles, including about 100 handsets whose IMEI numbers are subsequently changed. “We will continue this operation and recover the remaining phones stolen,” said Reddy. A police officer attached to MIDC police station said maximum phones were traced to Karnataka which is emerging as a new market for robbed or missing phones, “Second-hand phones are easily available in Karnataka and many robbers travel there to sell the stolen mobiles,” said Thombre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-midc-police-recover-117-stolen-lost-mobiles-in-a-special-drive-101615142414336.html
08-03-2021||Pune||SPPU first semester exams postponed, students, teachers seek more clarity||The first-semester examination at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has been delayed. Earlier, the exam was scheduled to start on March 15, however, no schedule or timetable has been declared by any departments. The examination has now been moved to the month of April, and it has made students and affiliated college administrations confused about exam preparations. “The first semester exams are being postponed to April and conducting exams so late will not be right for the academic year. Most of the principals are of the opinion that the first and second semester exams should be held together. Since the decision is delayed, it is impacting student preparations. The colleges are not getting any clear idea about conducting exams. We will discuss this issue on priority in the SPPU management council meeting soon,” said Prof Sudhakar Jadhav, secretary of state college principals mahasangh and also a member of the SPPU management council. On the other hand, the college administration and faculties are confused about the examination. Sopan Rathod, president of SPPU teachers’ association said, “If the SPPU administration had begun the preparation of the exam in the month of January, things would have processed smoothly. As the exam process is getting delayed, now it is demanded that both the semester exams should be held together and many things need to be cleared for us, students and the college administration.” Last year, from October 12, 2020, the SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day onwards, both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the declaration of results. For offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a one-hour duration. The condition of students who are preparing for the examination is similar. Priyanka Munje, a second-year science student said, “I am regularly studying for all the subjects of the syllabus, but as we don’t know when exams are going to be held it is becoming difficult to plan our timetable. We hope that SPPU doesn’t declare the exam schedule suddenly since we need some time for revision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-first-semester-exams-postponed-students-teachers-seek-more-clarity-101615142353397.html
08-03-2021||Pune||IMD forecast: Warmer temperatures in Pune this week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted the day temperature to rise as high as 37 degrees Celsius this week. On Sunday, the day temperature in the city was reported at 36.4 degrees Celsius. The day temperature was 1.5 degrees Celsius warmer than normal whereas the night temperature was 15.3 degrees Celsius which was 0.5 degrees warmer than normal. “Until March 10, there may be a cloudy sky towards the afternoon. After March 9, the day temperature is likely to rise to 37 degrees Celsius. Also, the night temperature will be around 16 degrees Celsius until the end of this week. The weather otherwise shall remain dry,” said IMD officials. After March 10, the weather department has forecasted very light rain along with thunderstorms in some parts of Vidarbha. On Sunday, Akola in Vidarbha reported a maximum temperature at 40.1 degrees Celsius which was the highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra. The day temperature at Akola was 3.8 degrees warmer than normal whereas, Jalgaon reported the lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra on Sunday with 14.2 degrees Celsius. The night temperature at Jalgaon was 3.7 degrees cooler than normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imd-forecast-warmer-temperatures-in-pune-this-week-101615142293991.html
08-03-2021||Pune||PMC to organise monthly collection drive at 300 centres for e-waste||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) solid waste department has decided to organize a monthly collection program at 300 centres for e-waste and plastic waste. Recently, the PMC organized a one-day e-waste and plastic waste collection received a good response. The PMC held a Swachhta week between February 20 to 27 for the awareness and collection of e-waste and plastic waste. On February 28 (Sunday), the civic body set up 300 collection centres and collected 15 tonnes of e-waste and eight tonnes of plastic waste in a day. The drive was organized with the help of a non-government organization. According to PMC, the Pune region, which includes Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, the cantonment areas around Pune and the IT belt in Hinjewadi, generates around 10,000 metric tonnes of e-waste per annum. E-waste is classified as a hazardous waste because it contains many toxic ingredients including halogenated compounds PCBs and heavy metals. Dr Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “We received a good response from people in the e-waste and plastic collection drive. We have decided to continue the 300 collection centres which were temporarily set up during the drive and conduct it on a monthly basis. Besides, we are continuously taking action under the plastic ban drive in the city.” Dr Ketki Ghatge, assistant medical officer of health, PMC solid waste management department said, “In this initiative, the PMC reached over five lakh people. We received a good response. The NGOs, self-help groups (SHGs), Mohalla committees took part in this campaign. On the background of the Covid-19 pandemic, there were a lot of computers, laptop and computer-related accessories in e-waste.” She further said, “We have decided to organize a one-day collection drive in a month. We will campaign on social media as well as distribute pamphlets and handbills for creating awareness on plastic and e-waste.” The Maharashtra government had in March 2018 issued a notification banning the manufacture, sale and use of single-use plastic bags. It also banned an array of plastic products including cutlery, straws and containers. The ban imposes a penalty between ₹5,000 and ₹25,000 for those violating the rules. The city generates around 2,100 tons of garbage daily in which the plastic share is around 12 per cent. It increases during festival seasons and reaches 15 per cent. Plastic waste contains milk bags, oil bags, food bags, yoghurt containers, plastic glasses, cooking oil canisters laminate tubes (toothpaste, medicines ), carry bags ( all micron thickness) blister packing, bubble wraps, shampoo powder bottles, empty sachets, detergent bags, wrappers cassettes, CD covers, plastic flowers, buckets among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-organise-monthly-collection-drive-at-300-centres-for-ewaste-101615142293451.html
08-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mobile thieves who targetted same train daily, arrested||The Borivli government railway police (GRP) officers on Saturday arrested two mobile robbers who stole phones of commuters of the same train every day. The police also recovered phones worth ₹1.6 lakhs from the robbers.Bhaskar Pawar, a senior inspector, said that a commuter Yogendra Yashwant Gharate, 25, had registered a complaint against unidentified robbers. He had boarded the 8.20pm from Malad last week. When the train halted at Kandivli station, he realised that his mobile phone was missing from his pocket. The police scanned the CCTV and pinned a man who looked suspicious.To catch the robbers red-handed, the police officers dressed in casual clothes, boarded the same train from Malad. As the officers felt someone trying to touch his pant pocket, they caught the man.The officer then checked the pockets of commuters who seemed suspicious. The two of the suspects attempted to flee. However, the officers caught the two who were later identified as Mohammed Abdul Sajid, 26, and Mohammed Ali Sayyed, 22. “We have arrested the two men and recovered seven mobile phones from the duo which they had robbed on Saturday,” said Pawar.On interrogating them, they revealed that they used to board the train at 8.20pm every day and within five minutes, until the next station, they robbed around four to five mobile phones and get off at Kandivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mobile-thieves-who-targetted-same-train-daily-arrested-101615142235168.html
08-03-2021||Pune||PMC stops Bhama Askhed water supply to Yerawada after high turbidity found||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stopped the water supply of Bhama Askhed project to residents from Yerawada due to the presence of high turbidity. Local residents of the area are complaining of illness due to the supply of turbid water. Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. Material that causes water to be turbid include clay, silt, very tiny inorganic and organic matter, algae, dissolved coloured organic compounds, and plankton and other microscopic organisms. After a long delay, the project to supply Bhama-Askhed water through a closed pipeline to the eastern part of the city was completed in December 2020. After the inauguration of the Bhama-Askhed water scheme in January 2021, the civic body began a trial run to supply water to the eastern part of the city. Two months later, the PMC has not been able to supply drinking water to the entire eastern part of the city as it is still facing problems of water turbidity in some parts of the Yerawada area. Anirudha Pawaskar, chief superintendent engineer of the PMC water supply department said, “There are some parts in Yerawada where people are getting turbid water. We have received complaints from local corporators and residents. Now, we have stopped the Bhama-Askhed water supply in that area and water is supplied from the Pune Cantonment water treatment and supply centre from where Yerwada used to get water earlier. The turbidity is high, and I have given instructions to engineers to wash pipelines and clear turbidity before starting the supply.” The project was initiated to provide water to Kalas, Sangamwadi, Yerawada, Lohegaon, Dhanori, Kalyaninagar, Vadgaonsheri and Kharadi. The 200 MLD project is expected to meet the water supply needs of the region until 2041 when the local population is estimated to have increased to 14.5 lakh. The project was started in 2013 and has been completed in December 2020. No water in Kharadi yet Bapu Pathare, former Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Wadgaonsheri area who pushed for the Bhama-Askhed water project during his tenure, said, “I took an initiative and pushed for the Bhama-Askhed water project, it is my brainchild. However, we are not getting water in the Kharadi area where I live. I have decided to conduct agitation on March 15 in PMC.” Pawaskar, Chief Superintendent Engineer of water supply department said, According to Pawaskar, there is some technical issues due to which some part of the Kharadi areas is not getting water Bham-Askhed water project. “However, it will be sorted out soon. Besides that, most of the eastern part is getting water from the Bhama-Askhed project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-stops-bhama-askhed-water-supply-to-yerawada-after-high-turbidity-found-101615142234029.html
08-03-2021||Pune||PI, API among three in police custody for corruption||A police inspector, an assistant police inspector and a constable were among three people arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau’s (ACB ) Pune unit for demanding and accepting a bribe to give a favourable submission in court in order to secure the release of the complainant’s uncle who was in judicial custody in a case of cheating. The three were identified as PI Arvind Daulat Chaushury (50), API Praful Prabhakar Kadam (33) and Hawaldar Mahesh Vinayak Daundkar (39), according to a statement issued by ACB. The three were remanded to three days in police custody by a local court in Pune on Sunday. Among the three officials, the complainant claimed that he had paid ₹1,00,000 in cash near his office along Pune-Mumbai road. The ACB officials had set a trap in order to catch the officials in the act. “The accusation against the accused has been falsely implicated. The complainant has a grudge against accused number 2 (Prafull Prabhakar Kadam) was the investigating officer in the crime that is mentioned in the FIR. The complainant has a grudge against the officer as he was also investigating a non-cognisable case against him,” said advocate Amol Dange representing the API. A case under Sections 7 and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at Kamshet police of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pi-api-among-three-in-police-custody-for-corruption-101615142233337.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Two minors killed in separate road accidents in two days||Two minors including a seven-year-old were killed in road accidents in Pune within two days. The minor deceased was identified as Dattatray Thorat (7), who was riding with his mother Manisha Dattatray Thorat (38), both residents of Mitraprem apartment in Shivnerinagar, Kondhwa, Pune. The minor boy and his mother were riding from their house in Kondhwa to meet her brother in Chakan around 2 pm on Saturday. The two were passing from the junction in front of the Regional Transport Office (RTO), Pune. The two were taking a left turn towards the petrol pump in front of RTO towards Jehangir Hospital chowk when a tanker driving from behind them hit them. The tanker, which was speeding, rammed into the two-wheeler causing the mother-son duo to fall on their left. While the mother was grievously injured, the child was killed in the accident. The tanker driver was identified as Ram Babu Khade (23), a resident of Avhalwadi area of Shirur. A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 337, 338 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 132(1)(c) with 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bundgarden police station. The accident happened one day after a 17-year-old rider was killed in a hit-and-run case in Tingarenagar, Pune. The deceased teen was identified as Gaurav Ankush Patole (17), a resident of Manjaba Vasti in Dhanori. Gaurav was riding home from a road in front of a gas agency in Tingarenagar when an unidentified tempo rammed into him and fled the spot without reporting the incident. A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 132(1)(c) with 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-minors-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-two-days-101615142173328.html
08-03-2021||Pune||CEO of sports event management company booked for cheating||The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of a sports event management company was among seven people booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for allegedly duping a Mumbai-based businessman for ₹1.5 crore. However, the CEO has claimed that the company only received ₹25,00,000 in their accounts and has offered to return the money through a legal notice. However, the complainant allegedly asked for the ownership of the company instead. The money was allegedly taken from him in the form of investment in the “Maratha Premier League” cricket event and promised regular returns of 20 per cent on investment. The CEO of the company was identified as Vincent John while the others booked in the case included his partner and five others. The company run by the accused man was identified as Squarecuts Sports Pvt Ltd. A complaint in the matter was lodged by M Jerome Saldahna (46), a businessman based in Miya Mohammad Chotani road in Mahim, according to the police. The complainant claimed in his submission to the police that John promised 20 per cent monthly returns while taking an investment of ₹1,48,39,000 from three people through the complainant. “My client is not even aware of this case registered against me. The deal was that he was supposed to invest ₹20 crore in our company and we were supposed to give him an equity share. We made a resolution (in March) to you that within sixty days, we will give you the equity share. He did not follow his promise and we dissolved the resolution. We also sent him a legal notice to ask him to take his money back and asked him for his bank account details. Now he is only looking to create a nuisance because it is getting famous,” said advocate Rakesh Umrani, the legal representative of the company. A case under Sections 406, 420, 465, 468, 471, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ceo-of-sports-event-management-company-booked-for-cheating-101615142113392.html
08-03-2021||Pune||Cops arrest major-rank officer of army in paper leak case||The Pune police have arrested a major-rank officer of the Indian Army in the case of question paper leak for the recruitment of soldiers that was to be held in 40 centres all over the country on February 28. “The military and police are working together, and further investigation is on,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police. The officer was arrested from Tamil Nadu and has been brought to Pune, an officer from Pune police confirmed. The case was registered based on inputs received by the police through Military Intelligence (MI). The Indian Army had also issued a statement that they will be working along with the police to investigate the matter. Two serving Indian Army officials were among seven people who were previously arrested in the question paper leak, according to an earlier written statement by the police. While one case was registered at Vishrantwadi police station, another case was registered at Wanowrie police station. The ones arrested in Wanowrie were identified as Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappersvihar Colony in Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a reading of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki. Koli works as a physical trainer at Training Battalion-2 and Auti works in the Regimental Police. The ones arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37). A Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed by the Pune police to probe the matter in which other higher-level officials’ arrest is expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-arrest-major-rank-officer-of-army-in-paper-leak-case-101615142114107.html
08-03-2021||Other||Under the shadow of uncertainty, students of foreign universities hope to pursue their dreams||PUNE Anush Chauthai, a 25-year-old student, was all set to fly to Canada on March 28, 2020 to pursue a university specialised course in Digital Forensic and Cyber Security when the lockdown in India grounded his plan. Anush is among the many students pursuing degrees or wanting to study from the foreign universities whose plans have been disrupted by the Covid pandemic. Their period of uncertainty has now changed into anxiety as the virus-related restrictions have extended in many parts of the world. “I had begun the application process for permanent citizenship in Canada two years back. After I received the clearance documents around March 13-14 last year, I had planned to leave on March 28, but all flights after March 20 were cancelled,” said Anush of Sinhgad road, who did his Masters in Computer Network from New Zealand. Like, Anush, another student Rohit Mahajan, a city architect, who wanted to pursue a post graduate degree in Construction Management from a university in the United States, had to postpone his date of joining the course due to the pandemic. “I had applied in August last year for the spring batch. It was supposed to start in January 2021. I had finalised to join the Texas A&M university. With the Covid outbreak, I waited till October-November hoping that the number of positive cases will drop. By December, I decided that come what may, I will go to the US and I started applying for the visa dates, but could not get the dates. I was told that there was a lot of backlog of previous applications as the visa offices were closed. Hence, I differed my intake to fall in July-end,” said Rohit. Meanwhile, most of the students who were studying in China and returned to India after they were evacuated last year are continuing their education online. Though, after a year, they are trying to get adjusted to the routine of virtual classes. On January 31, 2020, Jaydip Devkate, a 21-year-medical student from Pimpri-Chinchwad, left his college located in Xianning city in Hubei province in China with her 30 batchmates to return to India. He was looking forward to resume offline studies when the Covid situation would normalise. “We are still waiting for the official clearance to return. The Chinese government is yet to start the visa procedure,” said Jaydip. “While in college our lecture used to start at 7.30 am. Now, because of the early time difference (China is 2:30 hours ahead of India), we have to get up early for classes. We have requested the teachers to reschedule the online classes to suitable timings,” he said. To compensate for practical lessons, Jaydip is planning to do internship at a local hospital. Saloni Tribhuvan, a 23-year-old medical student from the same university, said that studying from home is not fruitful and she was looking forward to continue her college and hostel routine again. “We have been missing practical lessons for almost a year. We learn from videos though it is not enough. As medical students we will have more confidence if we see and do things personally. We cannot pay full attention at home like we do in a classroom,” Saloni said. Shreya Ranade, 21, is pursuing her bachelors in Chinese language and literature from Soochow University in Jiangsu province in China. Shreya returned to India in the first week of January 2020 during the spring break and was planning to return. “As a language student, it is essential for me to have a proper communication in the language I am studying. I need to regularly hear and speak the language that I am learning. So, if I get an opportunity to go back I would definitely do so,” Shreya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/under-the-shadow-of-uncertainty-students-of-foreign-universities-hope-to-pursue-their-dreams-101615142053422.html
08-03-2021||Kolkata||PM Modi: Bengal relied on Mamata for change but she broke people's trust||Launching a scathing attack on Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that West Bengal relied on her for ushering in a change, however, she broke the trust and insulted people of the state.Addressing his first rally at Brigade Parade Ground after the announcement of the West Bengal Assembly poll schedule, the Prime Minister said there are TMC, Left and Congress on one side and people of West Bengal on the other side."Bengal relied on Mamata didi for change. But didi and her cadre broke this trust. These people broke the trust of Bengal. These people insulted Bengal and tortured the sisters and daughters here. But these people could not break the hope and courage of the people in the state," he said."The dream of 'Sonar Bangla' will be fulfilled. I have come here today to assure you of Bengal's development, to increase investment here, to protect Bengal's culture and to bring change," he added."In this Assembly elections, there are TMC, Left and Congress, and their anti-Bengal attitude on one side. On the other side, there are people of Bengal," PM Modi said further.The Prime Minister started his speech with slogans of Vande Matram and Bharat Mata ki Jai.Also read: ‘No Bengal woman who hasn’t suffered’: Modi slams TMC over attack on 82-year-old"I have had the privilege of addressing hundreds of rallies in political life, but in such a long tenure I have never been blessed with such a mass of people. During my helicopter ride, I saw people rushing towards Brigade Ground," he said."This land of Bengal has given energy to our values. This land of Bengal given a new life in the freedom movement of India. This land of Bengal increased India's pride in the science of knowledge," he said."This Brigade Parade Ground has been witness to many great leaders and also witnessed those who have disrupted West Bengal's progress. People of Bengal never left their hopes for change. Kolkata and Bengal are very important places of inspiration for India. The slogan 'Brigade Chalo' has been echoed many times in the Brigade Ground in the past decades. This ground has seen many patriots," he added.Attacking the TMC further, PM Modi said the Brigade Parade Ground has also seen the policies and conspiracies of those who put the land of Bengal round the clock and strike in a bandh."This ground has also been a witness to the stalling development of Bengal. This ground has also seen the policies and conspiracies of those who put the land of Bengal round the clock and strike in a bandh," he said.West Bengal will witness Assembly election in eight phases starting from March 27 and polling for the last phase will take place on April 29. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.After winning 3 seats in the 2016 Assembly election in West Bengal, the BJP made deep inroads in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections winning 18 seats and reducing TMC's tally to 22. Out of the total 42 Lok Sabha constituencies in West Bengal, Congress won two seats, the Left drew a blank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-modi-bengal-relied-on-mamata-for-change-but-she-broke-people-s-trust-101615112577849.html
08-03-2021||World||US journalist arrested while covering protest goes on trial||A journalist went on trial Monday on charges stemming from her coverage of a protest against racial injustice in Des Moines last year, after Iowa prosecutors defied international pressure to drop a rare effort to punish a working reporter.Des Moines Register news reporter Andrea Sahouri, who was pepper-sprayed and jailed while reporting on a clash between protesters and police in May, is charged with failure to disperse and interference with official acts.If convicted on the simple misdemeanor charges, the 25-year-old could be fined hundreds of dollars and will have a criminal record. A judge could also sentence her up to 30 days in jail on each count, although that would be unusual.Advocates for journalism and human rights in the U.S. and abroad have pressed Iowa authorities to drop the charges, arguing that Sahouri was simply doing her job by documenting the event. But prosecutors in the office of Polk County Attorney John Sarcone have pressed forward with the case against Sahouri and her former boyfriend, Spenser Robnett, who faces the same charges.The pair are standing trial in a courtroom at Drake University in Des Moines as part of a program for law students. The university is broadcasting the proceedings, which are expected to last two days. Lawyers began selecting a six-member jury from a larger pool on Monday morning.The U.S. Press Freedom Tracker has not recorded any other trials of working journalists in the country since 2018. Sahouri was among more than 125 reporters detained or arrested during the civil unrest that unfolded across the U.S. in 2020. Thirteen, including Sahouri, still face prosecution although the majority of those arrested were not charged or their charges were dismissed, the group says.Employees in the Gannett newspaper chain, which owns USA Today, the Register and hundreds of other newspapers, have flooded social media with support for Sahouri in recent days. Columbia Journalism School, where Sahouri graduated in 2019 before joining the Register, expressed solidarity Monday by promoting the hashtags #StandWithAndrea and #JournalismIsNotACrime.Amnesty International launched a campaign to publicize her case and demand the charges be dismissed.Sahouri was assigned to cover a May 31 protest at Merle Hay mall, where activists were demanding better treatment for people of color after the death of George Floyd, a Black man who died after a white officer put his knee on his neck for about nine minutes.Some protesters threw water bottles and rocks at police, broke store windows and vandalized a Target store. Police responded by spraying tear gas to disperse a large crowd from an intersection. Sahouri reported the details live on Twitter.Sahouri was running from the gas when Robnett was hit in the leg with a projectile — likely a tear gas canister or rubber bullet launched by police. She briefly stopped to check on him before continuing around the corner of a Verizon store. Officer Luke Wilson then arrested her, burning her eyes with a blast of pepper spray and cuffing her hands in zip ties, Sahouri says.Wilson has said he didn't know Sahouri was a journalist until Robnett intervened during the arrest. Robnett told the officer that Sahouri was a Register journalist and tried to pull Sahouri away from him, Wilson says. Prosecutors say the officer did not activate his body camera during the arrest or use a camera function to retrieve the video after the fact before it was erased.Sahouri was not wearing press credentials at the time but repeatedly identified herself as press. A Register colleague who wasn't arrested also immediately vouched for her employment to police. Nonetheless, Sahouri was loaded into a police van and jailed for a couple of hours.Prosecutors have tried to defend the arrest by arguing that journalists do not have special rights to ignore police dispersal orders, including one that had been given roughly 90 minutes earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-journalist-arrested-while-covering-protest-goes-on-trial-101615224646634.html
08-03-2021||World||UK Covid-19 deaths continue to fall as country vaccinates more than one-third of population||More than one-third of the UK population have received a first dose of the coronavirus vaccine as deaths from the disease continue to fall.Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the milestone at a news conference on Monday, the same day the government took its first major step in easing lockdown restrictions by re-opening schools. “Today we’ve been able to take that crucial first step on what we hope is our cautious but irreversible roadmap to freedom,” he said. “The overwhelming feeling is one of relief.”Britain is leading Europe with its vaccination program and aims to offer a jab to all adults by the end of July. Shops and some pubs can re-open on April 12.Deputy Chief Medical Officer Jenny Harries said the effect of the vaccine roll-out is causing deaths to decline more rapidly than other indicators like cases and hospitalizations, yet warned about the risk of another wave.Harries said that the testing of children for the virus will take time to settle down, and that she is “optimistic”’ schools won’t have to close again.“There may be a very short period at the start of this program where everybody gets used to it, and a larger number of children come out of school,” she said. “It’s really important that when observing this, people think through the next three to four weeks, not the first one to two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-covid-19-deaths-continue-to-fall-as-country-vaccinates-more-than-one-third-of-population-101615224084685.html
08-03-2021||World||Italy's Covid-19 death toll tops 100,000||Italy on Monday surpassed the grim milestone of 100,000 official coronavirus deaths, amid warnings the spread of new variants is fuelling a fresh wave of infections.Just over a year since it became the first European country to be overwhelmed by Covid-19, Italy's health ministry recorded another 318 virus-related deaths, taking the total to 100,103.The figure is almost certainly an underestimate of the true toll, but is nevertheless shocking.When the pandemic started, "we could have never imagined that after a year ... the official death toll would have neared the terrible threshold of 100,000," said Prime Minister Mario Draghi, who took over last month.In a video message that represented his first public statement in three weeks, he added: "The pandemic has not yet been defeated, but with the acceleration of the vaccination plan, we can see a way out."As in many other European countries, Italy's vaccine programme has had a slow start, dogged in large part by a lack of jabs.It expects to have 50 million doses of coronavirus vaccines by the end of June, allowing for the vaccination of "at least half of our population" -- some 30 million people -- within the next four months, Health Minister Roberto Speranza said Sunday.Italy will start using the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine on people over the age of 65, while it also has high hopes for the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which could win EU approval on March 11.So far, Italy has fully vaccinated only 1.65 million people.However, Speranza warned Monday that Italy faced difficult weeks as it needs "to flatten this [infection] curve at a time when variants make the virus even harder to handle".New national lockdown? Weekly infection numbers rose by a third to more than 123,000 cases between February 24 and March 2, according to the GIMBE health think tank, the highest since early December.As hospital intensive care units are again coming under pressure, the government is considering new restrictions -- including extending the current 10:00 pm to 05:00am curfew and a national lockdown, according to media reports."With these numbers we need stricter measures," Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio wrote on Facebook, adding: "There is no alternative to stricter measures."Tough new nationwide restrictions would be another blow for the economy, which was plunged into a historic recession by last year's lockdown.But a poll published on the weekend by the Corriere della Sera newspaper suggested that 44 per cent of Italians would back it, up from 30 per cent two weeks earlier.Tighter restrictions took effect Monday as southern Campania, which includes Naples, joined Basilicata and Molise in the list of "red" regions under lockdown.Lockdowns have also been enforced at more local level in dozens of provinces and cities -- leading to the closure of bars, restaurants, museums and of all schools including nurseries.Face-to-face learning is now off for almost six million students, around two thirds of the total, according to specialised website Tuttoscuola.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italys-covid-19-death-toll-tops-100000-101615223518569.html
08-03-2021||World||On Women's Day, Joe Biden creates gender policy council within White House||President Joe Biden created a gender policy council within the White House as part of two executive orders he signed on Monday to mark International Women’s Day.The council will include a staff of four, three of whom will hold the title of special assistant to the president, according to a senior administration official who previewed the two orders.“Today, the global crises we now face have made abundantly clear both the contributions of women and the challenges facing women,” Vice President Kamala Harris said in remarks to the European Parliament. “If we build a world that works for women, our nations will all be safer, stronger and more prosperous.”The council’s mandate is to work across the federal government’s domestic and foreign policy to fight discrimination and bias, boost economic security, increase access to health care, and advance general equality through diplomacy, trade and defense.The second order asks the Department of Education to re-examine Trump administration policies and rule-making on Title IX, the 1972 law which governs the way sex-based discrimination in schools is handled. The goal, one of the officials said, is to ensure students have an education “free of sexual violence.”The Trump administration also scrapped key Obama-era policies and put forward their rules which, among other items, said transgender students couldn’t use the bathroom consistent with their own gender identities. Biden’s executive order instructs the agency to make sure all policies related to Title IX are consistent with the ethos of the Biden-Harris administration, the official added.“President Biden knows we need a government-wide focus on uplifting the rights of all women and girls in the U.S. and around the world, restoring America as a champion for gender equity,” said one of the officials.The Obama administration had a White House Council on Women and Girls. The new gender council reflects the idea, one official said, that gender discrimination can happen to people of all genders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-women-s-day-joe-biden-creates-gender-policy-council-within-white-house-101615222789833.html
08-03-2021||World||Vaccinated people can visit each other mask free, says CDC||Vaccinated people can visit indoors without masks, but must still wear them in public and avoid large gatherings when around those who aren’t immunized or are at high risk for contracting Covid-19, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Monday.The agency issued its long-awaited guidance for what fully vaccinated people can safely do, as inoculations rise but as health experts warn that the risk of the virus remains, especially with new variants.Broadly, the CDC recommended that fully vaccinated people can meet freely in private settings with other fully vaccinated people, but that several restrictions remain, including advising against travel and recommending mask wearing in public.Two weeks after people receive their final vaccine dose of the two-dose Moderna and Pfizer vaccines or their one dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, they’re considered fully immunized and can meet indoors with other fully vaccinated people without wearing masks or social distancing, the CDC said. Such gatherings are “low risk,” the CDC said.Those vaccinated also can meet with people who aren’t vaccinated from a single household who are at low risk, without wearing masks or distancing -- such as vaccinated grandparents meeting their unvaccinated adult child and that child’s children, providing they’re healthy and not at high risk.However, the agency estimated that just 10% of the population has been fully vaccinated so far, and recommends that those who are continue to take steps to curb the spread of the virus, particularly as more contagious variants emerge.“We believe these new recommendations are an important first step in our efforts to resume everyday activities in our communities,” CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said at a press briefing Monday.In PublicFully vaccinated people should wear masks and socially distance in public, if they’re visiting with unvaccinated people from more than one household, or when around unvaccinated people who are high risk, such as older people, the CDC said. Most fully vaccinated people don’t need to quarantine and test for Covid-19 if exposed to a case and are asymptomatic, the CDC said. There are some exceptions, such as residents of congregate settings like group homes.Everyone, regardless of vaccinations, should avoid medium or large gatherings, the CDC said. If they choose to attend anyhow, vaccinated people should wear a mask because they can still relay the virus to those who haven’t been immunized, the CDC said.The CDC recommendations didn’t include any changes to travel guidance. The CDC continues to urge that people delay travel.“Every time that there is a surge in travel we have a surge of cases in this country,” Walensky said. “We know that many of our variants have emerged from international places and we know that the travel corridor is a place where people are mixing a lot.”Travel GuidanceThe CDC is hopeful that by the next update it will have more scientific guidelines as to what vaccinated people can do, “perhaps travel being among them,” Walensky said.Covid-19 cases and deaths are declining across the country, and more than 9 million people have been fully vaccinated. In the past week, an average of 2.16 million doses per day were administered to Americans. The White House said that all American adults will be able to get a Covid-19 vaccination by the end of May.Last week Walensky warned of a fourth wave of Covid-19 infections without continued vigilance. President Joe Biden echoed her statement by urging all Americans to keep washing their hands, practice social distancing and wear masks.“Now is not the time to let our guard down,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccinated-people-can-visit-each-other-mask-free-says-cdc-101615223356389.html
08-03-2021||World||Adviser urges China govt to use ‘fist and palm’ salute in times of pandemic||A year into the Covid-19 pandemic, the contactless Indian form of greeting,“namaste”, could soon have a competitor - the traditional Chinese “fist and palm” salute.A Chinese political adviser has submitted a proposal at the annual meeting of China’s top political advisory body to revive the ancient Chinese greeting form, and urged the government to popularise it by adapting it for official functions, keeping social distancing norms in mind.Han Fangming, vice chairperson of the foreign affairs committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), argued that the greeting fits the changing lifestyles. The traditional “fist-and-palm salute” is often used as a greeting at weddings and special occasions, such as the Chinese New Year.“The oldest and most commonly used greeting in history is the fist and palm salute. And it’s a better way to greet people in the post-pandemic era,” Han told China.org, “This greeting etiquette greatly helps keep social distancing and reduce the spread of the virus.”“We need to vigorously promote the etiquette across the whole of China, as it demonstrates a profound social significance, not only for its role in pandemic prevention, but also for the inheritance of a part of ancient Chinese civilisation,” he said.A similar request from Yang Chaoming, head of the Confucius Research Institute in eastern China’s Shandong province, is already pending from last year.A short video of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro greeting a Chinese medical team with the “fist and palm” salute at his presidential palace in April 2020 was widely viewed and shared in China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/adviser-urges-china-govt-to-use-fist-and-palm-salute-in-times-of-pandemic-101615221738527.html
08-03-2021||World||Trudeau names task force on women in the economy ahead of Budget||Justin Trudeau’s government unveiled a women-only task force that will help advise policymakers on the economic recovery ahead of the spring budget.Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland and Minister of Middle Class Prosperity Mona Fortier said Monday the group will harness expert voices across the country to help the government with a plan to address gender equality issues laid bare by the Covid-19 pandemic. The announcement was made on International Women’s Day.Frances Donald, global chief economist and head of macro strategy at Manulife Investment Management, Hydro-Quebec Chief Executive Officer Sophie Brochu, former British Columbia Finance Minister Carole James and Atkinson Foundation fellow Armine Yalnizyanare among the group’s 18 members. The task force will hold its first meetings in early March, in the lead-up to the budget, according the new release.“Their diverse perspectives will help our government make smart, targeted investments through Budget 2021 and beyond to advance gender equity and address the systemic barriers and inequities faced by women, including Black, Indigenous, and people of color -- so that Canada’s economic recovery leaves no one behind,” Fortier said in the news release.The task force’s creation suggests the Trudeau government is taking steps to address the uneven impacts the pandemic has had on the labor market. Women have been hit particularly hard because they disproportionately work in service-sector jobs where physical distancing is difficult.Mothers have also had a hard time navigating school and daycare closures, sometimes having to sacrifice work to stay home with the kids. In the past 12 months, more than 80,000 women aged 15 and older have left the labor force versus 25,000 men, according to the release.“The government recognizes that a robust and inclusive recovery is necessarily also a feminist recovery,” it said in the release.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trudeau-names-task-force-on-women-in-the-economy-ahead-of-budget-101615218417663.html
08-03-2021||World||UK mulls postponing Brexit border checks on food||The UK government is considering postponing the introduction of border checks on imports from the European Union to reduce the risk of disruption to supply chains this summer.David Frost, the minister who negotiated the Brexit trade deal with the EU and is now leading the UK’s relations with the bloc, has asked officials to review the timetable of the new border paperwork requirements, which are due to start from April 1, according to two people familiar with the matter.Britain has so far taken a light-touch approach to imports from the EU since Brexit, waiving customs requirements and allowing goods to enter freely. In contrast, the EU imposed full border controls on trade going the other way on January 1, causing delays to shipments and a decline in freight volumes.Yet the UK’s lax stance is due to expire within weeks: From April, food products will require extra forms to enter the UK from the EU. And then, from July 1, stricter border inspections plus further documents for all EU imports are scheduled to begin.The extra trade burden is due to coincide with the re-opening of Britain’s hospitality sector as lockdown restrictions ease, when demand for food and drink is expected to surge. About 80% of imported food in Britain’s supermarkets comes from the EU, according to the British Retail Consortium.Food has been one of the industries worst-hit by the post-Brexit trade deal, with exports ranging from fish to meat held up and spoiling because they lack the correct paperwork.“We will continue to work with business groups and the haulage industry to help them adapt to the new checks and new arrangements that are going to be put in place,” said Jamie Davies, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesman, on a call with reporters on Monday.Another problem for Johnson’s government is that much of the physical infrastructure to conduct the post-Brexit import checks is not ready. Many ports won’t have built their facilities in time for handling inspections of food products for the July 1 deadline, said Richard Ballantyne, chief executive officer of the British Ports Association, in a phone interview.Separately, the UK is facing legal action from the EU after unilaterally changing trade rules affecting Northern Ireland, going beyond what was agreed in their post-Brexit accord. The British government has extended a grace period for the introduction of export documents on food crossing from the rest of the UK to Northern Ireland which was due to lapse on April 1. The requirements will now start from October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-mulls-postponing-brexit-border-checks-on-food-101615216381213.html
08-03-2021||World||Thailand to cut quarantine for vaccinated foreigners to 7 days from April||Thailand will reduce mandatory quarantine from 14 to seven days starting April for foreigners arriving in the country who have been vaccinated against the coronavirus, Health Minister Anutin Charnvirankul said on Monday.Vaccinations must be administered within three months of the travel period and travellers will be required to show negative Covid-19 test results, he said, adding that those who have not been inoculated but have Covid-19 free certificates would be quarantined for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-to-cut-quarantine-for-vaccinated-foreigners-to-7-days-from-april-101615196338159.html
08-03-2021||World||Defying pandemic, feminists in Spain decry far-right attacks||Women in Spain are marking this year’s International Women Day with static protests, bicycle fun-rides and a myriad of small-sized events creatively organized to prevent gatherings that could trigger a new spike of coronavirus contagion.Spain’s Constitutional Court on Monday rejected last-minute appeals by unions and women’s rights groups to hold any kind of street protest in the Spanish capital, following similar recent rulings by lower-level courts.The decision has enraged many who argued it was possible to raise their voice in favor of gender equality and against discrimination without endangering public health.Over 100 protesters defied the order by gathering — while staying at a distance from each other — in Madrid’s Puerta del Sol central square. They shouted “Enough with patriarchal justice!" and held banners against fascism and calling for an end to violence and repression against women.Some activists have called for purple scarves to flood the balconies and windows of Madrid.The largest gathering is expected later in the day in Barcelona, although organizers have asked people to stand still instead of marching.Spain is home to a thriving feminist movement that has in recent years claimed a few victories, including the adoption of gender violence laws and forcing a judicial reform on sexual abuse of women. Activists say that the social and economic crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic has widened the salary gap between men and women and affected even more the work-life balance, especially among those in the trenches of the health emergency and care workers, many of whom are migrants.“Spain can’t continue to be built with women in the margins, with a few that break glass ceilings while the most vulnerable continue on sticky floors,” said Equality Minister Irene Montero, who was joined by Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez at an official event to mark March 8.A draft of a new Transgender Law has deepened divisions in the movement and within the left-wing ruling coalition, with the leading Socialist party opposing self-determination of gender without a previous mental health diagnosis.Far-right activists, meanwhile, have campaigned against gender violence laws they say discriminate against men, and lambasted the center-left government’s push to make consent in sexual relations legally mandatory.Twin street murals celebrating accomplished women in politics, arts and science were vandalized over the weekend in Madrid and a nearby city. The portraits of Rigoberta Menchú, Frida Kahlo, Nina Simone, Rosa Parks and seven more women were covered in paint, amid signs that read “terrorist” and “communist.”Sánchez, who said that only feminism will make societies advance and reach new levels of wellbeing, called extremist conservative voices who oppose feminism “a force for regression.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/defying-pandemic-feminists-in-spain-decry-far-right-attacks-101615206581802.html
08-03-2021||World||Man linked to 3 Ohio homicides dies after Detroit shooting||A man suspected in three homicides in Ohio has died in Detroit, four days after he was shot by police outside a motel in the city, authorities said.Chandra Moore, 55, died Friday, Detroit police Sgt. Nicole Kirkwood said.Moore was shot while exchanging gunfire with police outside the Rivertown Inn and Suites on March 1.He was wanted in Cincinnati after the deaths of his estranged wife, Brittany Wagoner, 28, and two men: Timothy Dugar, 33, and Andrew Wesley, 35, police said.Detroit police were watching the motel when Moore emerged from a room and began shooting at officers, Chief James Craig said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-linked-to-3-ohio-homicides-dies-after-detroit-shooting-101615210239021.html
08-03-2021||World||South Africans invested most in 55 years as Covid-19 crisis raged||South Africans invested the most last year in more than half a century -- even as the coronavirus crisis ravaged the economy and unemployment rose to a record.The country’s collective investment scheme industry saw net annual inflows of 213 billion rand ($13.8 billion) in 2020, according to statistics released by the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa on Monday. That was the highest figure since 1965.While Covid-19 lockdowns forced many companies to cut jobs, that could have contributed to the jump in investing as retrenched workers looked to save compensation payouts, according to Sunette Mulder, senior policy adviser at Asisa. Even so, “last year’s record-breaking net inflows came as a surprise given the volatility and uncertainty,” she said.South Africa was already in recession and battling high unemployment before the pandemic hit, and initially tough restrictions to contain the spread only worsened the situation. While the economy has since returned to growth, the jobless rate hit a record 32.5% in the fourth quarter of 2020.A less surprising outcome of Asisa’s research is that life insurers paid 522.7 billion rand to beneficiaries last year, an increase of more than 6%, while death claims jumped to more than 434,000 from 317,442 a year earlier.South Africa has been the worst-hit country by the pandemic on the continent, with more than 50,000 reported Covid-19 fatalities. To protect against the crisis, the life industry ended the year with more than double its legally required capital buffer in place, Asisa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africans-invested-most-in-55-years-as-covid-19-crisis-raged-101615214417201.html
08-03-2021||World||EU says it’s tired of being a scapegoat for slow vaccines||The European Commission is “tired of being the scapegoat” for the slow rollout of vaccines, its president, Ursula von der Leyen, said as she continues to face pressure over the EU’s uncertain response to the crisis.In a blistering counter-attack against criticism over the European Union’s sluggish Covid-19 vaccination program, von der Leyen refocused blame on manufacturers, notably AstraZeneca Plc, which she said hadn’t stockpiled doses as it started producing in Europe.As long as AstraZeneca “cannot explain why they did not deliver in Europe, we have a problem with seeing doses from Europe produced here in Europe going somewhere else,” she told a group of women journalists in Brussels. “I think it’s the responsibility of the company to organize its deliveries.”AstraZeneca has so far delivered about 10.7 million vaccines to the EU, according to data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.Italy last week blocked a shipment of AstraZeneca’s vaccine to Australia, using a recently introduced EU regulation for the first time.“If a company doesn’t not deliver, we cannot allow exports,” von der Leyen said. “From the very beginning I have supported Italy in its decision because as we see AstraZeneca is delivering below 10% of what has been contracted for the first quarter.”Von der Leyen said things were improving in the EU, where monthly vaccine production is to be doubled. The commission sees output of 90 million to 100 million doses a month by the end of March.“If you look at the rest of the world, we are very good where vaccination is concerned and the vaccination rates are rising,” von der Leyen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-says-it-s-tired-of-being-a-scapegoat-for-slow-vaccines-101615215557008.html
08-03-2021||World||Italy arrests Algerian national over links to 2015 Paris attack||Italian police said Monday they had arrested a 36-year-old Algerian on suspicion of belonging to the Islamic State group and helping the authors of the November 2015 Paris attacks.The man, identified by La Repubblica newspaper as Athmane Touami, is alleged to have "guaranteed the availability of forged documents" to the Paris attackers, police said."The investigations have made it possible to ascertain... the proximity of the suspect to radical jihadist environments, as well as his direct support to the authors of the terrorist attacks at the Bataclan theatre," police in the southern city of Bari said in a statement.Some 130 people were killed and 350 wounded in a night of carnage on November 13, 2015, when Islamist suicide bombers and gunmen attacked various sites in Paris crowded with people, including the Bataclan concert hall, the Stade de France and the Le Carillon bar.Touami is suspected of being part of an Islamic State cell operating in France and Belgium with his two brothers, according to La Repubblica.He is alleged to have been in contact with Belgian Abdelhamid Abaaoud, an IS extremist and mastermind of the Paris attacks, as well as Khalid Zerkani, the jihadist preacher in Brussels who recruited scores of young Muslims as jihadist fighters to Syria, it added.A source close to the French investigation, however, played down Touami's importance, telling AFP: "The link with the perpetrators of the attacks of November 13 is tenuous."'Forger' roleTouami was serving a two-year term in Bari for possession of fake documents and was due to be released in June, police said.The role of Touami and his brothers Medhi and Lyes was as "forgers at the service of terrorist organisations", able to provide logistical support and other help, according to the detention order cited by La Repubblica.French investigating magistrates have established that the perpetrators of the Paris attacks were in possession of 14 fake Belgian identity documents from the same manufacturer.The forgeries enabled them, according to the French judges, "to carry out preparations for the attacks and in particular to rent flats, to travel around Europe to set up the terrorist cell, to withdraw money."Living with his brothers in the Molenbeek neighbourhood of Brussels, Touami had contact with Zerkani, now in prison, whom Belgian investigators have described as the country's "biggest recruiter" of jihadist fighters.The detention order, according to Repubblica, states that Touami also had contact with Abaaoud, considered the coordinator of the Paris attacks who shot indiscriminately at cafe patrons that night, and his accomplice Chakib Akrouh.Abaaoud and Akrouh were killed in a police raid five days after the attacks.The order claims that since 2010, Touami and his brothers also had contact with Amedy Coulibaly and Cherif Kouachi, two of the extremists in the earlier Paris attacks of January 2015, who attacked a Jewish supermarket and the Charlie Hebdo newsroom, respectively.In a press conference in Bari, Prosecutor Federico Perrone Capano said Touami's brother Medhi was serving a 16-year prison sentence in Belgium for association with terrorists, while Lyes was killed in Syria."It's impressive how the family of Athmane Touami... was in contact with subjects most of whom have been sentenced in Germany, France and Belgium for terrorist crimes," Capano said, as quoted by La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-arrests-algerian-national-over-links-to-2015-paris-attack-101615215381413.html
08-03-2021||World||Austria stops using doses of one batch of AstraZeneca vaccine after nurse death||Austria will stop using doses from one batch of the AstraZeneca vaccine while the death of a nurse who received it is investigated, health officials have said.The decision had been taken as a precaution, the National Office for Health System Safety (BASG) said late on Sunday, adding that there was "no evidence of a causal link" between the jab and the woman's death.The 49-year-old nurse died two days after having the jab from "severe blood coagulation problems" and another woman who received a jab from the same batch developed a pulmonary embolism, but is now recovering.Both women received the vaccination at a hospital in the town of Zwettl, west of the capital Vienna.An autopsy is being carried out at Vienna's AKH hospital on the woman who died, with the results expected in the coming weeks."Based on the known clinical data, a causal relationship cannot be established, as thrombotic events are not one of the typical side effects of the vaccination," the BASG statement said."The necessary investigation is currently underway... to definitively rule out any possible link."Regional prosecutors confirmed to AFP that no judicial steps would be taken against the hospital as no anomalies in the delivery, storage or administration of the vaccine had been reported.Since inoculation campaigns began in earnest, isolated cases have been reported in some countries of people dying shortly after receiving a vaccine.None has been linked to the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-stops-using-doses-of-one-batch-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-after-nurse-death-101615214875467.html
08-03-2021||World||Treating Pak as 'normal neighbour' won't benefit Afghan peace process: VP Saleh||Reiterating that several Taliban leaders are based in Pakistan, the Afghan government on Monday said Islamabad is a direct party to the Afghanistan conflict and treating it as a "normal neighbour" would not help the peace process in the war-torn country.Speaking at the seventh anniversary of the death of Marshall Mohammad Qasim Fahim, Afghanistan First Vice President Amrullah Saleh said without Pakistan, talks with the Taliban is "useless", Sputnik reported."Pakistan is a direct party to the Afghan conflict and crisis. Treating them as normal neighbour won't help the peace process. Defining their role in war and peace must be part of the discussion. Silence, sugar coating, appeasement or simply ignoring it won't help. Taliban leaders are in Pakistan," Afghanistan First Vice President Amrullah Saleh said.Pakistan has been long blamed for providing support to Taliban terrorists in Afghanistan. It is no secret that scores of top Afghan Taliban leaders are hidden in Pakistan.In December, a series of videos surfaced showing senior Taliban leaders meeting their followers and Taliban fighters in Pakistan.In the videos, Taliban deputy leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the head of the Taliban political office, was seen holding a briefing with the Taliban cadre on the Afghanistan peace negotiations and acknowledging the presence of the Taliban's top leadership in Pakistan.Reacting to the videos, Afghanistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said, "The presence of Taliban leaders in Pakistan clearly violates Afghanistan's national sovereignty".Afghanistan had also urged Islamabad "not to allow its territory to be used by insurgents and elements who insist on continuing the war and bloodshed"."Meaningful peace and security will not come to Afghanistan until the issue of Pakistan's relentless disposition to meddle in Afghanistan's affairs is properly addressed, and it is wishful thinking to believe otherwise," Professor asserted that Pakistan needs to mend its ways.The UN Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team to the 1988 Sanctions Committee, which oversees sanctions on the Taliban, in its 2019 report had acknowledged that nearly 5,000 terrorists belonging to Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, which is based in Pakistan, were active in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces of Afghanistan alone.In December, former Pakistan senator Afrasiab Khattak said Pakistan is using the Taliban as a "tool" for its dominance in Afghanistan under the pretext of strategic depth."They [Pakistan] want dominance in Afghanistan under the pretext of strategic depth and they have pursued this policy. They see the Taliban as a tool for themselves," Khattak said in an interview with TOLOnews."We can say that their (the Taliban's) approach has changed if they stop violence and say that they will feel the people's pain," Khattak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/treating-pak-as-normal-neighbour-won-t-benefit-afghan-peace-process-vp-saleh-101615212548267.html
08-03-2021||World||Hungary’s Covid-19 mortality rises despite having high vaccination rate||Hungary’s coronavirus mortality rate has risen to one of the world’s worst, forcing Prime Minister Viktor Orban to severely tighten a lockdown even as the country is among the European Union leaders in Covid-19 vaccinations.Schools and nearly all retail outlets closed on Monday, denting optimism over the nation having jumped to second place in vaccinations per capita in the EU, behind tiny Malta. With more than 1 million jabs, Hungary has administered 13.2 doses per 100 people, compared with the trading bloc’s average of 9.1.The gains were propelled by hundreds of thousands of Chinese and Russian shots, which drew criticism from some member states for undermining EU unity.And at home, Hungarians are facing the yearlong pandemic’s highest daily infections over the weekend, with reports of hospitals struggling to keep up with the influx of coronavirus patients. The surge was seemingly a surprise for the government, which recently had been discussing easing previous curbs.Hungary has the third-highest Covid-19 fatality rate in the world after Mexico and Peru and is in fourth place in deaths per capita after the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom and Italy, according to Johns Hopkins University data.While Hungary doesn’t break down data for intensive-care units, the government reported that a record 806 people are on ventilators, double the number from two weeks ago. It plans to triple the number of available ICU beds, Chief Medical Officer Cecilia Muller said at a briefing on Monday.The worsening outbreak is creating an opening for the opposition, which plans to unify for next year’s election for the first time since Orban swept to power in 2010. Ater three landslide victories for the ruling party, the majority of polls this year show it consistently behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hungarys-covid-19-mortality-rises-despite-having-high-vaccination-rate-101615210093621.html
08-03-2021||World||Tesla enters Texas energy market, plugs gigantic battery to faulty grid||Elon Musk is getting into the Texas power market, with previously unrevealed construction of a gigantic battery connected to an ailing electric grid that nearly collapsed last month. The move marks Tesla Inc.’s first major foray into the epicenter of the US energy economy.A Tesla subsidiary registered as Gambit Energy Storage LLC is quietly building a more than 100 megawatt energy storage project in Angleton, Texas, a town roughly 40 miles south of Houston. A battery that size could power about 20,000 homes on a hot summer day. Workers at the site kept equipment under cover and discouraged onlookers, but a Tesla logo could be seen on a worker’s hard hat and public documents helped confirm the company’s role.Property records on file with Brazoria County show Gambit shares the same address as a Tesla facility near the company’s auto plant in Fremont, California. A filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission lists Gambit as a Tesla subsidiary. Executives from Tesla did not respond to multiple requests for comment.As winter storms pummeled Texas in February and left millions without power for days, Musk took to Twitter to mock the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or Ercot, the nonprofit group that manages the flow of electric power to more than 26 million customers. “Not earning that R,” he wrote. Musk, 49, recently moved to Texas and his various companies are expanding operations in the state.The battery-storage system being built by Tesla’s Gambit subsidiary is registered with Ercot. Warren Lasher, senior director of system planning at Ercot, said the project has a proposed commercial operation date of June 1. The site is adjacent to a Texas-New Mexico Power substation.While Tesla is known for its sleek, battery-powered electric vehicles, it’s always been more than a car company: its official mission is to “accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy.” Utility-scale batteries are needed to store the electricity produced by wind and solar, but they can also become lucrative opportunities. By storing excess electricity when prices and demand are low, battery owners can sell it back to the grid when prices are high.Tesla has spent years expanding into residential energy technology. Back in March 2015, Musk unveiled a home battery product, dubbed the Powerwall, with a splashy event at its design studio near Los Angeles. Scores of utility and energy executives attended. A year later Tesla acquired SolarCity, the solar-panel installer founded by Musk and his cousins. Musk then hawked a “solar roof” that has gone through several iterations without becoming a strong contender in the market.But the company’s product lineup already reaches beyond the home and into the electrical grid. The Tesla Powerpack and even larger Megapack were designed with utility customers in mind. Tesla’s battery project in South Australia, launched in 2017, is adjacent to a wind farm and can store surplus electricity generated on gusty nights for daytime demand. At 100 megawatts, it was the largest battery project in the world at its launch.While Tesla’s focus on energy often takes a back seat to the increasingly competitive business of manufacturing and selling electric cars, Musk and his executive team continue to highlight energy as a key part of their growth. “I think long-term Tesla Energy will be roughly the same size as Tesla Automotive,” Musk said during an earnings call in July 2020. “The energy business is collectively bigger than the automotive business.”Tesla’s battery packs are connected to Southern California Edison’s Mira Loma substation, located east of Los Angeles. The 20 megawatt system, which has been online since December 2016, supports grid operation during peak hours and helps the utility make the most of its renewable resources. In the San Francisco Bay Area, PG&E Corp. and Tesla are constructing a 182.5 megawatt system at an electric substation in Moss Landing that should be operational by August.Tesla Energy could represent up to 30% of the company’s total revenue by the 2030s, up from roughly 6% today, according to analyst Alexander Potter of Piper Sandler. His research has highlighted the potential for Autobidder, a software platform Tesla designed for utilities. Tesla Chief Financial Officer Zachary Kirkhorn has described Autobidder as an “autonomous energy market participation system that does high-frequency trading.” Potter has a $1,200 price target on Tesla stock, the highest on Wall Street.“Tesla’s energy storage business on a percentage basis is growing faster than their car business, and it’s only going to accelerate,” said Daniel Finn-Foley, head of energy storage at Wood MacKenzie Power and Renewables. “They are absolutely respected as a player, and they are competing aggressively on price.”Musk’s empire has numerous branches in Texas, and with the billionaire’s recent relocation from California, the Lone Star state now appears set to become the center of his universe. Space Exploration Technologies Corp., or SpaceX, is building and testing Starship, a new rocket and spacecraft designed to take humans to Mars, at a facility in Boca Chica on the southern tip of the Gulf Coast. Another rocket-testing facility is located in McGregor, near Waco.SpaceX has posted engineering positions in Austin for a “new, state of the art manufacturing facility” for Starlink, a space-based high speed Internet service. Tesla is also building a new factory in East Austin for its forthcoming Cybertruck, an electric pickup. Gigafactory Texas, as the facility is known, will create 5,000 mid-level manufacturing jobs and is supposed to produce the first vehicles by the end of this year.Musk’s focus on Texas comes as the dominant US energy hub—with its abundant natural gas, oil, solar and wind resources—is being transformed by the surging growth of renewables. For more than a century the Texas grid has transported power from large plants to customers over miles of transmission lines. The recent storms have highlighted just how fragile that legacy system is in the era of climate change. With the build out of giant batteries like those made by Tesla’s Gambit project and others, the state’s power grid could be remade around distributed generation that may prove more resilient.About 2,100 megawatts of battery storage and 37,000 megawatts of solar and wind are in advanced stages of connecting to Ercot’s grid. “It’s not only stunning but the financing is already in place,” Jigar Shah said on March 2, a day before the clean-energy pioneer was named as director of the US Energy Department’s loan finance office.The Gambit project was originally developed by San Francisco-based Plus Power, a privately held renewables company that has battery operations in several states. Scott Albert, the former city manager of Angleton, said it was obvious that Plus Power was working with Tesla. A project summary available on the city’s website features images of Tesla’s utility-scale battery products, and some of Plus Power’s principal staffers previously worked at Tesla. (Plus Power confirmed its sale of the project to an undisclosed party and declined further comment.)The Gambit project is not hard to find in Angleton, a small town of roughly 3,000 people in the middle of the Brazoria National Wildlife Refuge. But people on the construction site appear to have instructions to avoid drawing attention or answering questions from passersby. A photographer who attempted to observe from the front gate was told by a worker that it was a “secretive project.” White sheets obscured what appeared to be Tesla’s modular Megapacks.In Texas, Albert said, it’s common for developers in real estate or energy to begin projects with several potential partners or purchasers waiting in the wings. It made sense to him that the project ended up with the state’s biggest billionaire. “Elon Musk has a lot of activity in Texas right now,” said Albert. “It wouldn’t surprise me if Musk is thinking about starting his own power company.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tesla-enters-texas-energy-market-plugs-gigantic-battery-to-faulty-grid-101615211827383.html
08-03-2021||World||Close to 90% of Americans feel a woman could become US president by 2030||More than 90% of Americans think the United States could have its first woman president within a decade, a poll showed on Monday, as Vice-President Kamala Harris is increasingly tipped as favourite for the Democratic Party nomination in 2024.A Gallup poll conducted in 74 countries showed Americans were the most likely to say they thought a woman could lead their nation by 2030.The majority of respondents in only three countries - Mauritania, Belarus and Sri Lanka - said they did not expect to see a woman leader in the years ahead, found the poll conducted from 2019 to 2020 and released for International Women's Day.Women serve as heads of state or government in only 22 countries and 119 nations have never had a woman leader, UN Women data showed in January, while on average women hold just over a quarter of seats in parliaments worldwide.But Harris's election as the first female US vice president last year was a significant boost for efforts to boost women's political representation and help young women see themselves in top jobs, according to campaigners."We all believe (Harris) is going to run for president again very, very soon," said Sara Guillermo, executive director of California-based young women's political leadership organisation IGNITE, describing Harris's election as a "huge cultural shift"."That is really huge, not just for the little girls of the world but for the little boys, to be able to fully understand that both genders can serve in the highest leadership role," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in a video call.Harris, 56, who also made history by becoming the first Black American and first Asian American to win the second highest US office, is seen as an obvious contender for her party's 2024 candidacy should Biden, 78, decide not to run.Monday's poll findings follow a warning last week that despite recent high-profile appointments of women globally, wider progress towards equality in political representation and other key areas is faltering.A report by the Equal Measures 2030 partnership found half of the 129 countries it examined were lagging behind a target to reach gender equality by 2030 in five key areas including ministerial roles and workplace equity laws.Progress is "limping along" globally but "rapid change on gender equality is possible", said Alison Holder, director of the organisation, which assesses progress on an ambitious set of global goals against inequality set by world leaders in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/close-to-90-of-americans-feel-a-woman-could-become-us-president-by-2030-101615210490795.html
08-03-2021||World||EU executive criticises Belgium for Covid-19 travel ban||The European Union's executive criticised Belgium on Monday for extending its blanket ban on non-essential travel to and from the country despite the European Commission asking it to ease restrictions on movement.Highlighting how the bloc's 27 countries struggle to stick to a unified line in battling the Covid-19 pandemic, Germany has equally ignored a call from the Commission in late February to roll back its latest curbs on travel and borders.In laying out plans for gradually restarting more social and public activities from May, Prime Minister Alexander de Croo said last Friday that Belgium's ban on foreign travel would be extended by more than two weeks to Apr. 18."We were rather surprised by the Belgian authorities' announcement," said a spokesman for the Commission, which - as most EU institutions - sits in the Belgian capital Brussels."We have asked Belgium to replace that with more targeted measures," they said, referring to strict testing and quarantine requirements to discourage - but not ban - foreign trips.The Commission has said excessive limitations imposed recently to contain the spread of new variants of the coronavirus hurt the flow of goods, services and people in the bloc's cherished single market, already going through a record recession triggered by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-executive-criticises-belgium-for-covid-19-travel-ban-101615210185610.html
08-03-2021||World||As crime rises, New York prosecutor candidates vow to rein in office||Despite a recent rise in crime, many of the candidates in the crowded field vying to become the next Manhattan district attorney are talking about which crimes they won't prosecute, rather than those they will.This year’s race to succeed Cyrus Vance, who is unlikely to seek re-election, has become one of the most progressive campaigns in the country. Several candidates have vowed to stop prosecuting low-level crimes like prostitution, fare-beating and marijuana possession while two have pledged to ending gang conspiracy cases. At a recent online candidate forum, five of the people said they supported defunding the police.Whoever wins the June 22 Democratic primary is likely to shake up the office, to which only three White men have been elected in the past 79 years. The person will also take over the investigation that could turn into the office’s most historic prosecution -- that of Donald Trump.The most high-profile district attorney’s office in the nation — and the inspiration for the long-running TV series “Law & Order”— is responsible for prosecuting most crimes in Manhattan, from purse-snatching to corporate fraud to murder. Over its storied history, the office has won the convictions of Harvey Weinstein for sex crimes; David Berkowitz for the “Son of Sam” shootings; and former Tyco International Ltd. chief executive officer Dennis Kozlowski for looting his company. Vance has come under criticism for some missteps, including an initial decision not to prosecute Weinstein, but he has silenced some critics with his Trump probe.That case hasn’t come up much during the race though. Instead, the campaign has focused heavily on the racial- and social-justice issues that came to the fore following the deaths of several unarmed Black men and women at the hands of the police. In that respect, Manhattan could be set to join a progressive tide that in recent years has seen Los Angeles, San Francisco, Philadelphia and Brooklyn elect new district attorneys on pledges of sweeping reform.But the recent spike in violent crime in New York could test the appeal of such arguments. The five boroughs saw 468 homicides in 2020, the most in a decade, and shootings doubled from the year before, according to the New York Police Department. The first two months of 2021 have seen murders in New York fall slightly, to 47 from 49 during the same period last year, but shootings have increased 75%.Manhattan, where Trump barely received 10% of the 2020 vote, is certainly progressive territory. And relatively few Democratic primary voters will essentially decide the race long before Election Day — no Republicans are currently running and none has won the office since Thomas Dewey in 1938.‘Pendulum Swing’Manhattan district attorneys face a “constant balancing act,” said George Arzt, a longtime New York political consultant. “There is a pendulum swing in criminal justice where there is a call for law and order when people are sick of crime and shootings and then the pendulum swings back in the wake of cases like Eric Garner and George Floyd toward moderation and reforms.”The candidates largely reject any connection between rising crime and progressive reforms. They say the prosecutions they are foreswearing have unfairly targeted individuals and communities of color, and violent crimes would be better addressed by focusing on issues like gun control and mental health. Increased prosecutions and incarcerations only contribute to a cycle of recidivism, some candidates contend. Despite the recent increase, crime remains far lower than it was two decades ago — there were nearly 2,000 murders in New York in 1993.Competitive district attorney races in Manhattan have been rare events, with Vance’s predecessor, Robert Morgenthau, and Dewey’s successor, Frank Hogan, each staying in office for more than three decades. The diversity of the current field, which includes six women and a Black man, also mark a departure from the mold set by Morgenthau and Vance, both sons of cabinet secretaries.Historic First“It’s a large and interesting field who are really unknowns,” said Arzt. “There is a possibility there could be the first woman D.A. in history for Manhattan or the first African American man.”Where the race stands at the moment is difficult to judge, given the lack of polling. Two candidates have considerably outpaced the others in terms of campaign contributions, with Alvin Bragg raising $1.3 million and Tali Farhadian Weinstein raising $2.3 million.District attorney primaries are typically low-turnout affairs. Though there are 860,000 registered Democrats in Manhattan, Vance needed fewer than 50,000 of them to win his 2009 primary against two opponents. Running in a field of eight, the next district attorney might be elected by fewer than 30,000, said Daniel R. Alonso, a former Brooklyn federal prosecutor and top deputy to Vance who’s concerned that progressive reforms could lead to an increase in crime.“My biggest worry is that somebody is going to look in the mirror and say, ‘I am a Manhattan progressive, I was against everything Donald Trump stood for, so I need to vote for the most progressive candidate,’ without stopping to consider what that really means and the potential negative effect that that will have on public safety,” said Alonso.Rebecca Roiphe, a veteran of the district attorney’s office who’s now a professor at New York Law School, shares Alonso’s views. “The debate has been so focused on the ways in which these candidates are going to reform the office in a progressive manner that there is very little attention being paid to traditional law enforcement function like crime fighting,” she said.Defund the D.A.The three candidates staking out the most progressive positions — Eliza Orlins, a public defender, Tahanie Aboushi, a civil rights lawyer, and Dan Quart, a state assemblyman — have never worked as prosecutors before. Orlins wants to defund the district attorney’s office along with the police, vowing to cut its $120 million budget in half while replacing many of its staff with former public defenders or defense lawyers. Aboushi has said she’ll replace the unit that reviews initial arrests with one focused on diverting offenders out of the criminal justice system.Three former Manhattan assistant district attorneys — Lucy Lang, Liz Crotty and Diana Florence — are in the race, while Bragg and Farhadian Weinstein have both worked as federal prosecutors. The former prosecutors are also promoting progressive reforms, though. Lang has pledged to devise policies that divert incoming cases into programs that provide alternatives to prosecution. Bragg has vowed to create a unit of outside lawyers, social workers and community leaders to hold police officers accountable. Farhadian Weinstein has touted her work with Brooklyn District Attorney Eric Gonzalez’s office reviewing past wrongful convictions.Crotty has argued for stepping up white-collar prosecutions to “institute a culture of fairness” that targets wealthy offenders as much as poorer ones. Florence has cited her history of taking on real estate and construction fraud to demonstrate that she wouldn’t be afraid to pursue the rich and influential over what she calls “crimes of power.”When it comes to one particular case involving a rich and influential person, the candidates are mostly mum though. They have all said it would be inappropriate for them to speculate about possibly prosecuting Trump. With the investigation gaining momentum though, chances are growing that the former president could be at the heart of the next district attorney’s biggest decision to prosecute or not.The CandidatesTahanie Aboushi: The civil rights lawyer says she will shrink the district attorney’s office, implement a policy platform that “addresses the root causes of crime” and won't prosecute at least two dozen crimes. Promises to get tough on crime usually lead to policies criminalizing “people of color while catering to the powerful and privileged,” Aboushi said. “The easy or soft thing to do is turn to more police and prosecution and continue to conflate accountability with incarceration.”Alvin Bragg: A Harlem native, the former assistant Manhattan U.S. attorney and onetime chief deputy state attorney general says he won't prosecute low-level crimes like turnstile jumping and gang conspiracy cases against juvenile offenders. He promises to prosecute crimes like domestic violence and create a civil rights unit to investigate police misconduct. “I will work to reshape and repurpose the D.A.’s office to end racial disparities,” said Bragg, adding that he would “refuse to criminalize poverty.”Liz Crotty: The prosecutor-turned-defense lawyer is positioning herself as a moderate who has seen both sides of what the office does. She’s vowed to prioritize white-collar prosecutions for fraud, money laundering, enterprise corruption and other economic malfeasance. Though Crotty also says she won't bring charges for minor crimes like turnstile jumping and shoplifting, she’s been critical of the race’s focus on foreswearing prosecutions. “The job of the D.A. is to enforce the law of the state of New York and to run on a platform describing the kinds of crimes you won't enforce is disingenuous,” she said.Diana Florence: The 25-year veteran of the D.A.’s office won landmark convictions over wage theft, deadly work conditions and non-profit fraud. Florence, who has won significant union backing, says the criminal justice system needs to take on developers and landlords. “The discussion isn't about not prosecuting but it's about prosecuting the right types of crime that destroy our communities like domestic violence, violent crime and sexual assault,” Florence said. “It also means prosecuting in a fair way, making sure we don't give powerful people a pass and instead over-prosecute people who are low income and people of color.”Lucy Lang: A homicide and domestic violence prosecutor under Vance and Morgenthau, she now touts her support for alternative justice programs that provides for supervised release or restorative justice. “I’ve spent my career working with those most impacted by the system,” she said. “We don’t have to choose between ending mass incarceration and keeping our communities safe, because with the right leadership, we will achieve both.”Eliza Orlins: The Manhattan public defender vows to never prosecute misdemeanor cases, sex work and some drug possession cases. Calling the criminal justice system “rigged,” Orlins wants to curtail the office’s prosecutorial function and push for alternatives to incarceration. “We’ve been sold a false choice between public safety and incarceration,” she said. “The reality is that a punitive criminal legal system does not keep us safe and it never will.” Orlins is one of the more familiar faces in the race due to her past as a contestant on reality TV shows “Survivor” and “The Amazing Race.”Dan Quart: The state assemblyman for the Upper East Side lists at least 18 crimes he won't prosecute and says decarceration is his top priority. “For far too long, our criminal justice system has criminalized poverty and mental health instead of prioritizing public safety,” Quart said. “Instead of prosecuting low-level crimes that punish poverty, like fare-evasion and drug possession, I’ll prosecute violent and economic crime that harms Manhattanites and I’ll hold the police accountable for excessive force.”Tali Farhadian Weinstein: The former assistant Brooklyn U.S. attorney and onetime Supreme Court clerk calls herself as a “progressive prosecutor” who will pursue bail and sentencing reforms. She says she would create a unit focusing on domestic and gender-based violence. “The best prosecutors use their resources to fight the crimes that harm the most vulnerable and do the most damage to public safety,” she said. Farhadian Weinstein, the wife of Saba Capital co-founder Boaz Weinstein, has attracted significant financial support from hedge fund heavyweights like David Einhorn and Bill Ackman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-crime-rises-new-york-prosecutor-candidates-vow-to-rein-in-office-101615209711101.html
08-03-2021||World||Covid-19 in UK: Students back to school after 2 months of closure||British children returned to school on Monday after a two-month closure, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying he aimed to get the country “ moving closer to a sense of normality.”As part of the plan, millions of high school and college students coming back to UK classrooms will be tested for the first few weeks. Authorities want to quickly detect and isolate asymptomatic cases in order to avoid sending entire schools home.“We are being cautious in our approach so that we do not undo the progress we have made so far,” Johnson said as he urged people to get vaccinated.High schools and colleges could reopen in phases to allow for testing. The UK government has distributed nearly 57 million rapid “lateral flow” test kits to schools across the country, but there are concerns about the accuracy of the tests, which may result in pupils being forced to self-isolate unnecessarily.But Susan Hopkins, a director at Public Health England, told the BBC that evidence from testing over the past eight weeks suggested less than 1 in 1,000 tests resulted in a false positive.Britain has had Europe’s deadliest outbreak, with nearly 125,000 Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-in-uk-students-back-to-school-after-2-months-of-closure-101615209031092.html
08-03-2021||World||Syria's president Bashar al-Assad and his wife test positive for Covid-19||Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his wife have tested positive for the coronavirus, the president's office said Monday, with both having only mild symptoms of the illness.In a statement, Assad’s office said the first couple did PCR tests after they felt minor symptoms consistent with the COVID-19 illness. It said that Assad, 55, and his wife Asma, will return to work after spending between two to three weeks in isolation in their home.Both were in “good health and in stable condition,” it added.Syria, which marks 10 years of war next week, has recorded nearly 16,000 virus cases in government-held parts of the country as well as 1,063 deaths, but the numbers are believed to be much higher with limited amounts of PCR tests being done.Syria began a vaccination campaign last week, but no details have been given about the process. The health minister said the government procured the vaccines from a friendly country, which he declined to name.The announcement comes days after international and Israeli media reports revealed that Israel paid Russia $1.2 million to provide the Syrian government with coronavirus vaccines, as part of a deal that secured the release of an Israeli woman held in Damascus. The terms of the clandestine trade-off negotiated by Moscow remained murky; Damascus denied it happened and Russia had no comment.It was not immediately clear if Assad and his family members have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syrias-president-bashar-al-assad-and-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid19-101615207816263.html
08-03-2021||World||Germany ramps up use of AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine||Germany is looking to ramp up the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine after authorities last week gave the green light for it to be administered to people 65 and over.Hundreds of thousands of doses have been gathering dust in recent weeks due to the restrictions on who could get the vaccine and misgivings among some who were eligible. According to the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control, Germany has received 2.1 million doses of the AstraZeneca shot so far but administered just 721,000.Berlin is opening a sixth vaccine center Monday at the former Tempelhof airport in the center of the city that will administer only the AstraZeneca vaccine.Germany’s vaccine campaign has lagged behind Britain and the United States. By Sunday, Germany had given out 5.2 million vaccine doses, with 2.5 million people or about 3 % of the population fully vaccinated.Finance Minister Olaf Scholz told public broadcaster ZDF that he expects Germany to be able to administer up to 10 million shots a week by the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-ramps-up-use-of-astrazeneca-coronavirus-vaccine-101615206939231.html
08-03-2021||World||Saudi foreign minister meets Qatar's emir Hamad al-Thani in Doha: Report||Saudi Arabia's Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud held talks on Monday with Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani in Doha about improving relations between the two countries, the Qatar state news agency QNA reported.The visit to the Qatari capital comes after Saudi Arabia and its Arab allies in January agreed to end a bitter political row with Doha and restore ties severed since mid-2017 over accusations that Qatar supports terrorism, a charge Doha denies.QNA said the prince delivered a verbal message from Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud on enhancing bilateral ties as well as on regional and international developments.Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt have all restored travel links with Qatar since the deal backed by the administration of former U.S. President Donald Trump was announced at an annual Gulf Arab summit in Saudi Arabia.Egypt and Saudi Arabia have restored diplomatic ties with Qatar. The Saudi state news agency SPA said the charge d'affaires of the Saudi embassy in Doha, Ali al-Qahtani, was among those greeting Prince Faisal upon arrival on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-foreign-minister-meets-qatar-s-emir-hamad-al-thani-in-doha-report-101615207065137.html
08-03-2021||World||Meghan, Harry call out British media in Oprah interview. Tabloids react||The British media on Monday reacted sharply to Prince Harry and his wife Meghan’s highly-anticipated interview with Oprah Winfrey that aired in the United States on Sunday night. During the two-hour conversation, Meghan opened up about her life as a member of the British royal family, concerns raised by its members with respect to the colour of their baby’s skin and the intense media scrutiny they faced.The Daily Mail ran wall-to-wall coverage of the interview on their website with the interview summarised into a single headline. “Meghan claims she was suicidal when she was 5 months pregnant, Kate made HER cry and Royals refused to make Archie a prince because they were worried how 'dark' he would be, as Harry reveals their new baby will be a GIRL,” it said.Watch: Meghan Markle & Prince Harry’s biggest revelations in tell-all interviewThe website was dominated with its coverage and had more than 20 articles about the interview. The tabloid's website also included a prominent banner that read: "I WANTED TO KILL MYSELF," and featured a clip playing on loop from the interview, which showed Meghan saying, with subtitles: "I just didn't want to be alive anymore."The print edition of the Daily Mail on Monday highlighted the allegations about concerns of Archie's skin colour: "MEGHAN ACCUSES PALACE OF RACISM," the front page of the Daily Mail read. The tabloid also quoted royal expert Robert Jobson as saying that the couple were "self-obsessed".The Sun newspaper also followed suit. “Meghan Markle may never return to Britain after angering Royal Family with bombshell Oprah interview," its headline read. The front page of the Daily Express newspaper read, "Queen: Duty and family unite us." "That's public service for you, Harry and Meghan ... NOT a self-serving TV chat with Oprah," the paper wrote before the interview. The Daily Telegraph wrote that Queen Elizabeth II was the only member of the royal family to "emerge unscathed" from the interview.In the interview, Meghan said that it had become clear that there were double standards in how the media covered her and Catherine, the duchess of Cambridge and wife to Prince William. "I can see now what layers were at play there. And again, they really seemed to want a narrative of a hero and a villain," said Meghan.Harry’s mother, Princess Diana, had also faced similar media scrutiny which made him compare Meghan’s plight with that of his late mother’s. Harry said that his biggest concern was history repeating itself. “You know, for me, I'm just really relieved and happy to be sitting here, talking to you with my wife by my side because I can't begin to imagine what it must've been like for [my mother] going through this process by herself all those years ago,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meghan-harry-call-out-british-media-in-oprah-interview-tabloids-react-101615203655022.html
08-03-2021||World||Fashion giant H&M pauses placing orders in Myanmar, cites extreme concern regarding developments||Sweden's H&M, the world's second-biggest fashion retailer, said on Monday it was shocked by the use of deadly force against protesters in Myanmar and that it had paused placing orders in the country.Police and military have killed more than 50 people to quell daily demonstrations and strikes against a Feb. 1 military coup, according to the United Nations last week.H&M has around 45 direct suppliers in Myanmar, it said on its website, and has sourced in the country for seven years."Although we refrain from taking any immediate action regarding our long-term presence in the country, we have at this point paused placing new orders with our suppliers," Serkan Tanka, Country Manager Myanmar, said in an email."This is due to practical difficulties and an unpredictable situation limiting our ability to operate in the country, including challenges related to manufacturing and infrastructure, raw material imports and transport of finished goods."Two protesters were killed by gunshot wounds to the head in Myanmar on Monday, witnesses said, while shops, factories and banks were closed in the main city Yangon as part of the uprising against the country's military rulers.Tanka said H&M was extremely concerned about the situation in the country and that it was in dialogue with UN agencies, diplomatic representatives, human rights experts, trade unions and other multinational companies."These consultations will guide us in any future decision in relation to how we as a company can best contribute to positive developments in accordance with the will of the people in Myanmar," he said.Myanmar's garment industry is smaller than that of neighbouring countries Bangladesh, China and Thailand. However, its around 600 factories are significant employers, providing jobs for around 450,000 workers in 2020, according to the Myanmar Garment Manufacturers Association(Reporting by Anna Ringstrom; additional reporting by John Geddie; editing by Niklas Pollard)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fashion-giant-h-m-pauses-placing-orders-in-myanmar-says-extremely-concerned-101615206603647.html
08-03-2021||World||Taiwan President Tsai visits naval base amid Chinese threats||Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen visited a naval base on Monday to thank sailors and marines for their dedication to protecting the island amid renewed threats from China, vowing not to allow the loss of “any single inch" of territory.In remarks during her visit to the 131st Flotilla in the northern port of Keelung, Tsai said the bravery of servicemembers “demonstrated the determination of Taiwan’s national armed forces to defend the sovereignty of our country.”“We can’t yield any single inch of our land,” Tsai said.Tsai's tough talk comes amid stepped-up Chinese military exercises and near-daily incursions by Chinese military aircraft into airspace close to Taiwan. China claims the island, which broke away amid civil war in 1949, as its own territory and threatens to use its massive military to bring it under Beijing's control.China accuses Tsai and other members of her pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party administration of undermining security in the Taiwan Strait. Beijing cut off contacts over her refusal to recognize the island as a part of China and has sought to pressure her through diplomatic isolation and economic measures.Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday also demanded the Biden administration in the United States reverse former President Donald Trump’s “dangerous practice” of showing support for Taiwan, saying China’s claim to the self-governing island democracy is an “insurmountable red line.”Following Wang's remarks, the U.S. State Department expressed concern about Chinese attempts to intimidate Taiwan, stating “Our support for Taiwan is rock-solid.”Separately, Wu Qian, a spokesperson for China's Defense Ministry, reiterated that China would not “renounce the use of force and reserve the right to take whatever measures are necessary.”Tsai has made boosting Taiwan’s indigenous defense capacity a central pillar of her defense policy, while also buying billions of dollars in weapons from the U.S., including F-16 fighter jets, armed drones, rocket systems and missiles capable of hitting both ships and land targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-president-tsai-visits-naval-base-amid-chinese-threats-101615206715173.html
08-03-2021||World||Migrant workers brought under the ambit of vaccination drive in Singapore||Singapore will start vaccinating migrant workers against Covid-19 as part of its national immunisation strategy, starting with 10,000 people living in the country's five largest dormitories.This batch of 10,000 workers have never been infected by Covid-19, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said on Monday, announcing the vaccination programme for the migrant workers.The migrant workers, which include a huge number of Indians, make up about 90 per cent of Singapore's Covid-19 tally, which stands at 60,046. The death toll is 29.The packed dormitories housing the foreign labourers were the biggest infection clusters during the peak of the Covid-19 outbreak in the island last year.Infections among the foreign workers have fallen in the past few months, with no new cases reported on most days, according to a report by Channel News Asia.Workers who have received both doses of the vaccine would be subjected to a lower frequency of testing, ie., every 28 days, instead of the current 14-day cycle, the Channel reported.Vaccinations will progressively be made available to all other migrant workers, the MOH said.The ministry said the migrant worker dormitories are where large Covid-19 clusters could "rapidly develop and grow, with a high risk of transmission to the local community"."Vaccination of migrant workers living in dormitories is thus part of our national Covid-19 vaccination strategy to protect all Singaporeans and long-term residents," it added.The ministry also announced that later this month it will offer vaccinations to selected cargo drivers and accompanying personnel who enter Singapore from Malaysia via a causeway and a bridge on a regular basis."Vaccination will provide an additional layer of protection against Covid-19, ensuring that personnel can continue to deliver essential goods to Singapore safely," said the ministry.Singapore began its Covid-19 vaccination exercise on December 30, 2020, with healthcare workers at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases the first to get the jabs.About 379,000 people have since received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine as of Sunday, said the MOH.Of these, more than 217,000 have received their second dose and completed the full vaccination programme.On Monday, Singapore reported 13 new imported cases of Covid-19.The infected persons have been placed on 'stay-home notice' or isolated upon arrival in Singapore, said the MOH.No new locally transmitted infections were reported in the community or among the migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/migrant-workers-brought-under-the-ambit-of-vaccination-drive-in-singapore-101615203740398.html
08-03-2021||World||Myanmar protestors begin national strike, vows to defeat military||Myanmar protesters marched Monday in some of the country’s biggest cities, part of another nationwide strike to pressure the military to relinquish power after a February 1 coup.Thousands of demonstrators hit the streets in Yangon and Mandalay, Myanmar’s biggest cities, as well as other cities to keep up momentum for the pro-democracy movement. In the southeastern city of Dawei, the Karen National Union -- Myanmar’s longest standing ethnic armed group -- stood guard protecting protesters.At least three deaths were reported by witnesses and local media outlets across the Southeast Asian nation Monday taking the death toll in the harsh crackdown on protesters to at least 64 since the coup. Two protesters died of bullet wounds in Myitkyina city in Kachin State and a 30-years old man was shot dead in Pyapon of Ayeyarwady Region, news reports said. Police also cracked down on protests in Yangon and Mandalay.Eighteen labor organizations working in Myanmar jointly called for a nationwide work stoppage Monday in a bid to restore democracy after the military failed to recognize the November election win by detained leader Aung San Suu Kyi’s party. They called for all citizens to join the civil disobedience movement.“We are not content simply to create martyrs in the struggle for Myanmar democracy,” they said in a joint statement. “We must win this struggle, and the extended nationwide work stoppage is the path to the people’s victory.”Myanmar’s generals have come under more international pressure, with the United Nations envoy urging more action to halt the violent crackdown on protesters. While the US and UK have put sanctions on the generals, most other countries have resisted taking concrete measures even as they’ve pushed for a peaceful solution.The Myanmar Police Force released a statement late Sunday saying those who have instigated anti-state activities will be prosecuted in accordance with the law. Security forces will search and detain protesters for national security reasons, the statement said.The junta also warned on state-broadcaster MRTV that those who cause physical harm to security forces and persuade people to join the civil disobedience movement could be sentenced to a maximum of 20 years in prison in accordance with the existing laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protestors-begin-national-strike-vows-to-defeat-military-101615205686591.html
08-03-2021||World||Thailand charges more activists with sedition, royal insults||Prosecutors in Thailand charged 18 pro-democracy activists with sedition on Monday, while lodging additional charges of insulting the monarchy against three of them.The sedition charges, which carry a maximum penalty of up to seven years in prison, stem from an antigovernment rally in September, though details on the alleged offenses were not immediately clear.The three charged with violating the lese majeste law, which outlaws criticism of senior members of the royal family, are Panusaya Sithijirawattanakul, Jatupat Boonpattararaksa and Panupong Jadnok.Thai authorities have stepped up their legal offensive against those involved in a student-led protest movement that is pushing for Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha and his government to step down, the constitution to be amended to make it more democratic and the monarchy to be reformed to make it more accountable.The latter demand is the most radical and controversial because the monarchy has rarely faced any public scrutiny and is considered by many to be an untouchable pillar of Thai identity. Those found guilty of violating the law against criticizing or insulting key royals face up to 15 years in prison per offense.The protest movement has struck a chord with many Thais but alienated others, especially royalists shocked at its criticisms of the monarchy. The movement began to lose steam late last year amid differences among its factions, and because of a resurgence of the coronavirus in Thailand.Prosecutors last month charged four protest leaders with lese majeste and they were denied bail.Jatupat, who was imprisoned for violating the lese majeste law in 2017, said that if he and the other activists charged Monday are unable to post bail they will keep fighting from jail.“The movement outside will surely continue no matter what happens,” he said.Jatupat on Sunday completed a nearly 250-kilometer (155-mile) walk from Thailand's northeast to Bangkok's Democracy Monument. Along the way, he campaigned and talked to people about ousting Prayuth, amending the constitution and abolishing the lese majeste law.According to the group Thai Lawyers for Human Rights, at least 382 people, including 13 minors, have been charged in connection with the protests, which picked up momentum last summer. At least 60 of those people have been charged with lese majeste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-charges-more-activists-with-sedition-royal-insults-101615190703786.html
08-03-2021||World||Jill Biden helps honor women from 15 countries for courage||First lady Jill Biden says nearly two dozen women the State Department is honoring for their courage made an “intentional decision” to persist and demand justice despite their fear.The 21 women being recognized Monday with the department's International Women of Courage Award include seven from Afghanistan who are receiving posthumous honors.The first lady says that the women's stories make it easy to think of them as “mythical heroes or angels among us” but that they're also humans who want to enjoy life's simple pleasures.“Some of?these women have spent their lives fighting for their cause. Others are just starting out on a journey they didn't ask for,” Biden says in remarks prepared for the ceremony, which were obtained by The Associated Press.“Some were called to service, and some couldn't escape it,” Biden says. “They are fighting for their own lives and for their children. They?want to right the wrongs of our past, to?build a brighter future for everyone. They?aren't?immune to fear. No one is.”Biden says that in the course of ordinary?lives, each of the women made “an extraordinary?choice.”“You see, courage isn't really found,” Biden says. "It doesn't conjure away our doubts. It's an intentional decision made.”The ceremony is being held virtually and not at the State Department because of the coronavirus pandemic.The 14 living awardees are from Belarus, Cameroon, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guatemala, Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Turkey and Venezuela.“These women?made an extraordinary choice, to persist, to demand justice, to believe that, despite the obstacles and fear they faced, there is a future worth fighting for," Biden says.Monday is International Women's Day.Touching on the past year, the first lady says the pandemic shows “how the things that connect us — our love for family and friends, our hope that we will be together soon — transcend language and distance.” She says that diplomacy, “at its best, is a recognition of this connection” and that the United States, under President Joe Biden's leadership, will support women around the world.“We will make the choice to lead, to be bold and to lift up the women and girls everywhere who light our way,” Biden says in her prepared remarks. “For 15 years, we have honored women around the world who have made the extraordinary choice to fight for something bigger than themselves.”“Today, we recommit to being worthy of that courage, to understanding that our lives are tied together in immeasurable and powerful ways and to choosing, every day, to honor that connection,” she says. “We will stand with you as we build a brighter future for us all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jill-biden-helps-honor-women-from-15-countries-for-courage-101615203661523.html
08-03-2021||World||Russia slams Facebook over blocking media content||Russia accused Facebook on Monday of violating citizens' rights by blocking some media outlets' content in the latest standoff between a government and Big Tech.Communications watchdog Roskomnadzor at the weekend threatened Facebook with a minimum 1 million rouble ($13,433) fine and demanded it restore access to content posted by TASS news agency, RBC business daily and Vzglyad newspaper.It said Facebook blocked posts pertaining to Russia's detention of alleged supporters of a Ukrainian far-right group."I think this is unacceptable. It violates our national legislation," said Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of the lower house of Russia's parliament and a member of President Vladimir Putin's United Russia ruling party.In a statement, Volodin said Facebook had violated basic rights to disseminate and receive information, and legislation would be proposed to preserve Russia's "digital sovereignty."Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Like other nations, including Australia in a high-profile dispute with Facebook and India in a spat with Twitter, Russia has in recent months taken steps to regulate and curb the power of big social media companies.Bills passed in December allow Russia to impose large fines on platforms that do not delete banned content and to restrict access to US social media companies if they are deemed to discriminate against Russian media."They operate in our environment but at the same time they often don't obey any Russian laws," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told RIA news agency on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-slams-facebook-over-blocking-media-content-101615202708073.html
08-03-2021||World||EU's financial regulator hit by Microsoft email hack, takes down email system as 'precautionary measure'||The European Banking Authority, a key EU financial regulator, says it has fallen victim to a hack of its Microsoft email system which the US company blames on a Chinese group.Microsoft said last week that a state-sponsored group operating out of China was exploiting previously unknown security flaws in its Exchange email services to steal data from business and government users, believed to number in the tens of thousands so far.The "Hafnium" group was a "highly skilled and sophisticated actor," it said.Hafnium has previously targeted US-based companies including infectious disease researchers, law firms, universities, defence contractors, think-tanks and NGOs, it added.In a statement issued late Sunday, the EBA confirmed the attack on its email systems which it had decided to take offline "as a precautionary measure.""The Agency has swiftly launched a full investigation, in close cooperation with its ICT provider, a team of forensic experts and other relevant entities," it said.The EBA warned that as a result of the attack, personal data could have been accessed and it would provide advice on possible mitigation measures if necessary.Microsoft executive Tom Burt said last Tuesday that the company provided updates to fix the security flaws and urged customers to apply them."We know that many nation-state actors and criminal groups will move quickly to take advantage of any unpatched systems," he added.Beijing typically rejects US hacking charges out of hand and last year berated Washington following allegations that Chinese hackers were attempting to steal coronavirus research.In January, the US said Russia was probably behind the massive SolarWinds hack that hit large swathes of the government and private sectors, and which experts say may constitute an ongoing threat.Microsoft said Tuesday the Hafnium attacks "were in no way connected to the separate SolarWinds-related attacks."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eus-financial-regulator-hit-by-microsoft-email-hack-takes-down-email-system-as-precautionary-measure-101615201601994.html
08-03-2021||World||Mike Pence to give speech in South Carolina, his first since leaving office||In his first public address since the end of the Trump administration, former Vice President Mike Pence is traveling to South Carolina, set to speak to a conservative Christian nonprofit in the state that plays a crucial role in the presidential nominating process.Next month, Pence will keynote a dinner hosted by the Palmetto Family Council, a Pence aide told The Associated Press on Sunday. The aide spoke on the condition of anonymity due to a lack of permission to discuss the plans publicly.The Palmetto Family lobbies for what it considers to be “biblical values,” such as heterosexual marriage, and most recently helped push through a ban on most abortions in South Carolina. That law is now being challenged in court.Pence, who since leaving the administration has been doing work with the Heritage Foundation and Young America's Foundation, has not indicated if he plans a future run for office, but his choice of making his post-administration debut in South Carolina helps set down a marker for a potential 2024 presidential bid. The state holds the first presidential primaries in the South, and candidates of both major parties typically spend more than a year in the state ahead of those votes, introducing themselves and trying to secure support.As vice president, Pence made numerous trips to South Carolina, meeting several times with Gov. Henry McMaster for coronavirus-related forums. He also recently campaigned in the state for U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham and U.S. Rep. Nancy Mace.Throughout his political career, beginning as an Indiana congressman-turned-governor, Pence has long advocated for restrictions on abortion and has voiced support for the overturn of Roe v. Wade. The speech to Palmetto Family is advantageous for Pence in a state that Republican candidates use as a proving ground to test their “pro-life” mettle.The Pence aide described the former vice president's speech as one that will focus on traditional conservative talking points but will also tout what Pence sees as the accomplishments of the Trump administration.According to Dave Wilson, president of Palmetto Family, Pence will speak to between 450 and 600 guests at a ticketed, sponsored dinner at the Columbia Metropolitan Convention Center on April 29.Wilson told AP that he considered Pence a “prime person” to address the organization due to the “level of faith” the former vice president embodied while in office.“Vice President Mike Pence ... is very reflective of the ideas, policies and direction that we at Palmetto Family want to see in South Carolina: bringing faith to the forefront and growing the next generation of conservative leaders for our state,” Wilson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-to-give-speech-in-south-carolina-his-first-since-leaving-office-101615200360888.html
08-03-2021||World||INS Kulish, Sumedha arrive in Bangladesh to mark 50th anniversary of 1971 war||In the 50th year of Indian victory over Pakistan in the 1971 Liberation war, Indian Naval Ships arrived in port town of Mongla on Monday for a three-day visit to Bangladesh.The Indian Naval Ships is on three day visit between March 8 to 10."Celebrating Mujib Borsho and Joint Commemoration of 1971. In a historic first, two warships INS Kulish and INS Sumedha, with Cmde MV Raju, NM, Naval Officer-in-Charge Andhra Pradesh onboard, arrived at Mongla today and were accorded a ceremonial welcome by Bangladesh Navy," India in Bangladesh wrote in a tweet.According to the Indian Navy, the year 2021 is being celebrated as 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' being the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak war. However, 2021 is also the 50th Year of Independence of Bangladesh."This is the first time that any Indian Naval Ship is visiting the port of Mongla in Bangladesh and the visit is aimed at paying homage to the Bangladeshi and Indian combatants and citizens who laid down their lives during the Liberation War of 1971, and reiterate India's firm resolve and commitment to maintain peace, stability and good order in the region, in line with SAGAR - Security and Growth for all in the Region, as articulated by the Prime Minister of India," an official release stated.India and Bangladesh are celebrating 50 years of the liberation war in which the Pakistan Army was thrown out of Bangladesh and 90,000 of their troops were made to surrender. Meanwhile, a number of events are being organised by both countries to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the decisive war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ins-kulish-sumedha-arrive-in-bangladesh-to-mark-50th-anniversary-of-1971-war-101615199928949.html
08-03-2021||World||Myanmar security forces kill 2 anti-coup protesters||Security forces shot dead two people in northern Myanmar on Monday, local media reported, as the military government continued its attempt to stamp out opposition to its Feb. 1 coup.The Irrawaddy newspaper said the victims were shot in the head during anti-coup protests in Myitkyina in Kachin State. Graphic video on social media showed protesters in the street backing away from tear gas, responding with rocks, then fleeing after a fusillade of what seemed to be automatic gunfire.Demonstrators hurriedly carried away a number of casualties, including one apparent fatality, a person who had clearly sustained a severe head wound. A second body was seen a little later, on a stretcher, his head covered with a cloth.Security forces also clamped down on anti-coup protesters elsewhere Monday, firing tear gas to break up a crowd of around 1,000 people who were demonstrating in the capital, Naypyitaw. The protesters deployed fire extinguishers to create a smoke screen as they fled from authorities.Meanwhile, thousands of protesters marching in Mandalay, the country’s second-largest city, dispersed on their own amid fears that soldiers and police were planning to use force to break up their demonstration.Large-scale protests have occurred daily across many cities and towns in Myanmar since the country’s military seized power, and security forces have responded with ever greater use of lethal force and mass arrests.The coup and its violent aftermath have led foreign governments and international organizations to impose measures against Myanmar's military leaders.In the latest example, Australia suspended its defense cooperation with Myanmar and is redirecting humanitarian aid in the country because of last month's military takeover of the government and the ongoing detention of an Australian citizen.Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said Monday that diplomats and relatives had only been able to contact economic policy adviser Sean Turnell twice by phone since he was detained in early February. She described the access as “very limited consular support.”Australia announced late Sunday that it had suspended a defense training program with Myanmar worth about 1.5 million Australian dollars ($1.2 million) over five years. The program had been restricted to noncombat areas such as English-language training.Australian humanitarian aid will be directed away from Myanmar government and government-related entities. Instead it will focus on the immediate humanitarian needs of the most vulnerable and poor in Myanmar, including the Rohingya and other ethnic minorities, Payne said.On Sunday, police occupied hospitals and universities and reportedly arrested hundreds of people involved in protesting the military takeover.In Myanmar's largest city, Yangon, gunshots from heavy weapons rang out for a second straight night in several neighborhoods after the start of an 8 p.m. curfew. The sounds of what apparently were stun grenades could also be heard on videos posted on social media.The purpose for security forces using such weapons when protesters had left the streets appeared to be part of a strategy to strike fear in anyone who might think about defying the authorities. In a similar vein, many filmed incidents of police and soldiers in plain view showed them savagely beating protesters they had taken into custody.Some of the shooting was heard near hospitals, where reports said neighborhood residents sought to block the entry of police and soldiers.Security forces have often targeted medical personnel and facilities, attacking ambulances and their crews. Members of the medical profession launched the Civil Disobedience Movement, which is the nominal coordinator of the protests, frequently hailed on demonstrators’ signs by its CDM initials. Taking over hospitals would allow the authorities to easily arrest wounded people presumed to be protesters.Meanwhile, a Canadian-Israeli lobbyist hired by Myanmar’s junta has said the ruling generals want to get out of politics and shift the nation away from China after they grabbed power in the widely-condemned coup against the nation’s civilian government.Ari Ben-Menashe, who previously represented Sudan’s military leader and Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe, spoke to The Associated Press on Sunday from the U.S. after returning from his second trip in the past month to Myanmar.He said he was confident he can persuade the Biden administration to lift sanctions imposed on Burmese military leaders who directed the coup last month that deposed and detained Myanmar's elected leader, Aung San Suu Kyi.He said the U.S. and others in the West have reduced Myanmar’s political conflict to a black and white tale of military repression against pro-democracy activists that ignores the fraudulent exclusion of millions of minorities from voting in last year's election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-security-forces-kill-2-anti-coup-protesters-101615199197087.html
08-03-2021||World||Biden administration to review campus sexual misconduct rules changed by Trump||US President Joe Biden on Monday will order a review of changes the previous administration made to on rules on how colleges should handle sexual assault allegations and formally establish a White House Gender Policy Council, officials said.A Biden executive order he will sign later on Monday will direct the US Education Department to review all its existing regulations, orders, guidance, and "policies for consistency with the administration’s policy to guarantee education free from sexual violence," according to a White House fact sheet provided Sunday night.In 2017, the Trump administration reversed Obama-era guidelines that had spelled out measures schools should follow to try to prevent sexual assaults on campuses. Trump's Education Secretary, Betsy DeVos, argued the Obama guidelines resulted in too many students being falsely charged and the accused being treated unfairly.In May 2020, DeVos unveiled final regulations on how colleges should deal with sexual misconduct allegations on campuses. She said the rules would require "schools to act in meaningful ways to support survivors of sexual misconduct, without sacrificing important safeguards to ensure a fair and transparent process."Biden's order directs a review of the 2020 regulation "to determine whether the regulation and agency action are consistent with the policies of the Biden-Harris Administration," the fact sheet said.A second executive order will formally establish a White House council gender equality council, officials said.The council is part of "a government-wide focus on uplifting the rights of women and girls in the United States and around the world," according to a White House fact sheet.Jennifer Klein, chief strategy and policy officer at anti-sexual harassment activist group Time's Up, is cochairing the council with Julissa Reynoso, a lawyer who previously served as a diplomat and deputy assistant secretary of state during the Obama administration.As a candidate, Biden pledged to narrow the wage gap between men and women, invest in women-owned businesses and fight against work-place discrimination. His vice president, Kamala Harris, is the first woman to occupy the position.The council will work with other parts of the administration to address "barriers to women’s participation in the labor force, decreasing wage and wealth gaps, and addressing the caregiving needs of American families and supporting care workers," the fact sheet said.As of January, women accounted for slightly more than half of the 10 million jobs lost during the coronavirus crisis, even though they typically make up a little less than half the work force.More than 2.5 million women left the labor force between February 2020 and January of this year, compared to 1.8 million men.Biden will direct the council to submit a "government-wide strategy to address gender in policies, programs and budgets" and an annual report on progress, the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-to-review-campus-sexual-misconduct-rules-changed-by-trump-101615198227457.html
08-03-2021||World||Revealing Meghan and Harry interview with Oprah shakes UK royal family||Britain's royal family was absorbing the tremors Monday from a sensational television interview by Prince Harry and the Duchess of Sussex, in which the couple said they encountered racist attitudes and a lack of support that drove Meghan to thoughts of suicide.The couple gave a deeply unflattering depiction of life inside the royal household, depicting a cold, uncaring institution that they had to flee to save their lives.Meghan told Oprah Winfrey that at one point “I just didn’t want to be alive anymore” and had uncontrollable suicidal thoughts. She said she sought help through the palace’s human resources department, but was told there was nothing they could do.While most in Britain have yet to see the interview, which airs on Monday evening, anti-monarchy group Republic said the Winfrey interview gives a clearer picture of what the royal family is like — and it’s not pretty.“Whether for the sake of Britain or for the sake of the younger royals this rotten institution needs to go,’’ Graham Smith of the campaign group said.“Some people will say ‘well you would say that,’ but this interview has only served to highlight what a lot of people have known for years: The monarchy is rotten to the core and does not reflect British values.″In the soul-baring interview, Meghan, 39, admitted that she was naive at the start of her relationship with Harry and unprepared for the strictures of royal life.Meghan, who identifies as biracial, described that when she was pregnant with son Archie, there were “concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he’s born.”Harry confirmed the conversation, saying: “I was a bit shocked.” He said he would not reveal who made the comment.Harry, born a royal prince, described how his wife’s experience had helped him realize how he and he rest of the family were stuck in an oppressive institution.“I was trapped, but I didn’t know I was trapped,” Harry said. “My father and my brother, they are trapped.”Meghan, he said, “saved me.”The younger royals — including Harry, Meghan, Prince William and William’s wife Catherine — have made campaigning for support and awareness around mental health one of their priorities. But Harry described a royal family completely unable to offer that support to its own members.“For the family, they very much have this mentality of ‘This is just how it is, this is how it’s meant to be, you can’t change it, we’ve all been through it,’” Harry said.Sympathy for the couple poured in from the United States, where the two-hour interview was broadcast Sunday night. It will be shown later Monday in Britain, where some see Meghan and Harry as a couple who put personal happiness ahead of public duty.Tennis star Serena Williams, a friend who attended Harry and Meghan’s wedding, said on Twitter that the duchess’ words "illustrate the pain and cruelty she’s experienced.“The mental health consequences of systemic oppression and victimisation are devastating, isolating and all too often lethal,” Williams added.American actress Meghan Markle, a star of the American TV legal drama “Suits,” married Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II, at Windsor Castle in May 2018. Their son, Archie, was born the following year.In early 2020, Meghan and Harry announced they were quitting royal duties and moving to North America, citing what they said were the unbearable intrusions and racist attitudes of the British media. They have settled in Santa Barbara, California, and spoke to Winfrey from their home in the upmarket Montecito area.Harry said he had lived in fear of a repeat of the fate of his mother, Princess Diana, who was covered constantly by the press and died in a car crash in Paris in 1997 while being pursued by paparazzi.“What I was seeing was history repeating itself, but definitely far more dangerous — because then you add race in, and you add social media in,” Harry said.Both Meghan and Harry praised the support they had received from Queen Elizabeth II, Harry's grandmother.“The queen has always been wonderful to me,” Meghan said.But Harry revealed he currently has a poor relationship with his brother William, and said things got so bad with his father that at one point Prince Charles stopped taking his calls.“There is a lot to work through there,” Harry said about his relationship with his father. “I feel really let down. He’s been through something similar. He knows what pain feels like. And Archie is his grandson. I will always love him, but there is a lot of hurt that has happened.”In a rare positive moment in the interview, Harry and Meghan revealed their second child, due in the summer, would be a girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/revealing-meghan-and-harry-interview-with-oprah-shakes-uk-royal-family-101615198689196.html
08-03-2021||World||Israel's vaccination of Palestinians holding work permits ramps up||Israel on Monday launched a campaign to vaccinate some 100,000 Palestinians in the West Bank who hold permits to work in Jewish settlements in the occupied territory and inside the Jewish state.A pilot programme involving 700 Palestinian West Bank residents began on Thursday.The Israeli military branch responsible for civil affairs in Palestinian territories, COGAT, said the main campaign involving an estimated 100,000 Palestinians would begin this week.Israel's emergency medical service, the Magen David Adom, said in a statement that it was administering shots on Monday of the Moderna vaccine at spots set up at select checkpoints linking the West Bank and Israel.Vaccinations were also taking place at centres within industrial areas connected to Jewish settlements in the West Bank.About 475,000 Jews live in West Bank settlements, communities considered illegal by much of the international community.Thousands of Palestinians work in the settlements.Palestinians in east Jerusalem, which Israel annexed following the 1967 Six Day War, have been included as part of a vaccination campaign launched in December for the general Israeli population.Israel has given two of the recommended Pfizer/BioNTech jabs to roughly 40 percent of its nine million population.The country took another step towards post-pandemic normality on Sunday, opening restaurants, bars and cafes to vaccinated "green pass" holders.But in the West Bank, occupied by Israel since 1967, closures are being intensified to stem the spread of the virus.The governor of Ramallah on Saturday declared "a strict one week lockdown... over a spike in daily coronavirus infections and hospitalisations."That announcement came after the Palestinian Authority's health ministry last week warned of a worrying rise in infections and hospitalisations.Nablus went into lockdown last week, while Tulkarm governorate, in the northern West Bank, enters lockdown on Tuesday.Israel has faced widespread calls, including from the United Nations, to ensure inoculations of Palestinians living under occupation in the West Bank, and those in the Israeli-blockaded coastal enclave of Gaza.Israel has rejected those calls, insisting the PA is responsible for general vaccination in the West Bank and Gaza, which is controlled by Islamist group Hamas.The PA has reached deals with multiple vaccine providers, notably the makers of Russia's Sputnik V, but large-scale procurements have faced delays.More than 140,000 Palestinians in the West Bank have been infected since the beginning of the pandemic, 1,579 of whom have died, out of a population of 2.8 million, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israels-vaccination-of-palestinians-holding-work-permits-ramps-up-101615197387902.html
08-03-2021||World||French aviation industrialist Olivier Dassault killed in helicopter crash||A French billionaire aviation industrialist and member of parliament has died in a helicopter crash along with the pilot, authorities said.Olivier Dassault, 69, was heir to a powerful family business empire that made Falcon private jets and Rafale fighter planes and owned many other businesses including Le Figaro newspaper.A judicial inquiry for eventual manslaughter charges is underway after Sunday's crash in the town of Touques in Normandy, according to the regional prosecutor's office in Lisieux.The French national air accident investigation agency, the BEA, said the Airbus AS350 helicopter crashed just after takeoff from a private airfield. BEA investigators were travelling to the site on Monday.Forbes magazine listed Olivier Dassault as one of the world's top 500 richest people in 2020. He held executive positions at the family-owned Dassault Group as well as serving in the lower house of parliament as a lawmaker from the conservative Republicans party since 2002.President Emmanuel Macron paid homage in a tweet to a “captain of industry, parliament member, local elected leader, air force reserve officer" and said "his brutal death is a great loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-aviation-industrialist-olivier-dassault-killed-in-helicopter-crash-101615195661901.html
08-03-2021||World||Germany plans aggressive Covid-19 vaccine rollout after slow start||Germany will drastically speed up its vaccination campaign in the next few weeks with as many as 10 million weekly inoculations from the end of March, according to Finance Minister Olaf Scholz.In April, May and June, vaccination centers and doctors will have to handle millions of doses every week, Scholz said in an interview with ZDF television on Sunday night. “And I have seen to it that this will be well prepared for.”Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government has come under fire for the country’s slow coronavirus vaccination campaign. Germany has so far given 8.8 shots per 100 people, according to the Bloomberg vaccine tracker. That compares with more than 27 doses in the US and almost 35 in the UK.A rate of 10 million per week would be a rapid acceleration in Germany’s vaccination campaign. The country used a total of 7.33 million doses since inoculations started ten weeks ago, according to the tracker.In a move that will likely aid the rollout effort, Johnson & Johnson’s coronavirus vaccine is expected to be accepted at the European level this week, European Union internal markets chief Thierry Breton said on France 2 television. He said that the EU would double its monthly vaccine production and would see output of 90 million to 100 million doses a month by the end of March.“This month we will have even fewer vaccines, which means we have to supplement priorities and add flexibility,” Bavaria’s Prime Minister Markus Soeder told ARD television on Monday. “There is a feeling of ‘We could have more freedom if we were able to tackle the organizational hurdles’ like the fact that there aren’t enough vaccines available and that the bureaucracy surrounding immunization is so rigid,” he added.Germany’s sluggish vaccination pace has contributed to the need for a longer lockdown, with Merkel last week extending most curbs to March 28. Her government also unveiled a plan to gradually relax virus restrictions, but a further easing is dependent on a slowdown in Covid-19 infection rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-plans-aggressive-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-after-slow-start-101615194887614.html
08-03-2021||World||China's carbon market to grow 30-fold by 2030, says Citigroup||The size of China’s carbon market will expand more than 30-fold over the next decade as it covers more industries and polluting becomes more expensive, according to Citigroup Inc.The market’s physical turnover will rise from about $800 million this year, its first in operation, to around $25 billion by the end of the decade, analysts including Tracy Liao said in a March 8 note. The expected growth underscores both the massive potential of the emissions trading scheme, and the modest impact it’s expected to have at the outset as the government seeks to ease companies into compliance.China’s launch means that one-fifth of global emissions will now fall under a tax or trading scheme, according to Citi. At the same time, the pressure to cut emissions is likely to be inflationary and could leave Chinese factories more expensive relative to countries without controls, the bank said.“The Chinese national ETS as currently rolled out should play a limited role in reducing emissions at first,” Liao said. “We expect a series of developments to transform China’s ETS into the world’s largest effective carbon trading scheme and a key building block of the country’s 2030 peak emissions commitment.”China made the rules for its ETS official in February and wants online trading to begin by the end of June. The market will begin with the power sector, and will add other energy-intensive industries such as steel, petrochemicals and cement through 2025.Citi expects an initial carbon price of $4 a ton and emissions allowances representing about 200 million tons to be in circulation this year. Those are expected to rise to $25 a ton and 1 billion tons in circulation by 2030, the bank said, based on a survey.At $25 a ton, the carbon cost for a coal-powered aluminum smelter could rise to $375 a ton, equivalent to current profit margins, according to Citi.“If policies are stringent enough, this could precipitate the shifting of supply chains of emission-intensive industries from China to other countries that do not face the same regulatory costs,” Liao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-carbon-market-to-grow-30-fold-by-2030-says-citigroup-101615194099066.html
08-03-2021||World||Hong Kong to vaccinate teachers, cab drivers despite reports of adverse events||Hong Kong's top officials said on Monday that the city's vaccine programme would be expanded to include more priority groups including teachers and delivery workers, as fears grow over a series of adverse reactions following the vaccine rollout.At least two people have died and several fallen seriously ill after receiving a vaccination by China's Sinovac. The government has said it is still assessing the causality between the incidents and the vaccine and would report findings as soon as possible.Around 93,000 people have been vaccinated since the public rollout started on Feb 26."These serious adverse events are of much concern to us," Sophia Chan, the city's health secretary, told a news briefing on Monday. "We are still uncertain whether it was related to the vaccine. Once we have any information or conclusions, we would report the details to the public."Bookings for vaccinations have dropped in recent days according to government figures that show around 4,900 people booked their Sinovac vaccine on March 5, compared with 12,300 people on March 3.Chan said people who were unsure about their own medical situation should consult a doctor before booking the vaccine.Hong Kong is due to start administering the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine this week. Until now Sinovac has been the only option available.Patrick Nip, the city's secretary for the civil service, who was speaking at the same news conference, said seven additional preferential groups would be allowed to apply for vaccines including, those working in catering, in supermarkets and convenient stores and public transport workers such as bus drivers.To try to assuage fears, Matthew Cheung, the city's secretary for administration, wrote on his blog on Sunday that the government would do a "good job of vaccination monitoring and respond to social concerns to protect public health and give citizens peace of mind".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-vaccinate-teachers-cab-drivers-despite-reports-of-adverse-events-101615193570122.html
08-03-2021||World||Hong Kong's chief executive ''fully welcomes'' proposed electoral changes||Hong Kong's chief executive Carrie Lam said Monday the city's government “fully welcomes” changes to the city's electoral system that will substantially increase central government control over Hong Kong politics and exclude Beijing's critics.Chinese authorities have said the draft decision before China's National People's Congress would mean the largely pro-Beijing committee that elects Hong Kong's leader would also choose a large part of the legislature to ensure that the city is run by “patriots.” The Election Committee would also have the right to vet candidates for the Legislative Council, weeding out any suspected of being insufficiently loyal to China and the ruling Communist Party.Currently, half of Hong Kong's legislature is directly elected by voters, although the mass resignation of opposition legislators to protest the expulsion of four of their colleagues for being “unpatriotic" means the the body is now entirely controlled by Beijing loyalists.“There are loopholes in the electoral systems, there are also flaws in the systems in Hong Kong,” Lam said at a news conference after she returned from the meeting in Beijing. “I fully understand that this is not a matter that can be addressed entirely by the government.”“I'm glad that the central authorities have, again, exercised its constitutional powers to help address this problem for Hong Kong,” she said.She declined to elaborate on the views she had shared to the central authorities regarding the electoral reforms, and said many pieces of legislation in Hong Kong would have to be amended. The NPC, China's ceremonial legislature, will all but certainly endorse the draft decision, though it may not take immediate legal effect.Unconfirmed reports say the legislation will also expand the size of the Legislative Council from 70 to 90 and the Election Committee from 1,200 to 1,500. Seats on the Election Committee now reserved for directly elected district counselors will also be eliminated, further cementing Beijing's control over the body.Lam also said she could not confirm whether legislative elections — already postponed for one year last September ostensibly because of the coronavirus pandemic — would be further deferred due to the electoral reforms.She also said the central government authorities are “very sincere and very committed in trying to move towards the objective of universal suffrage,” which was promised to Hong Kong under the Basic Law, the city's mini-constitution that was drawn up when the British handed Hong Kong to China in 1997.Universal suffrage would give Hong Kong voters the right to vote for the city's leader, although only candidates approved by Beijing would be allowed to run.Hong Kong has in recent months cracked down on dissent, and most of the city's opposition figures — including pro-democracy activists and former lawmakers — are in jail or in exile.About 100 people, most of whom are pro-democracy activists and supporters, have been charged under the city's sweeping national security law since it was implemented in June. The NPC imposed the law on Hong Kong, bypassing the Legislative Council, saying it was necessary to restore order after increasingly violent anti-government protests in 2019.The legislation criminalizes secession, subversion, collusion with foreign forces to intervene in the city's affairs and terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-chief-executive-fully-welcomes-proposed-electoral-changes-101615193939189.html
08-03-2021||World||Google to provide $25 million to social enterprises working on women empowerment||Google.org, the philanthropic arm of the tech giant, on Monday said it will provide $25 million in grants to non-profits and social enterprises globally, including in India, that are working on empowering girls and women.The company, which has committed support one million rural women entrepreneurs in India, also stated that its Internet Saathi digital literacy training programme has benefitted over 30 million women across the country."In India, in the past few years, we have invested more than $40 million alongside the entrepreneurs, the innovators, the non-profits who are doing amazing work. We announced another million dollar initiative building on that work in particularly to help getting digital skills to those who are most vulnerable, including women," Jacquelline Fuller, Vice President at Google and President of Google.org, said in a virtual briefing.She added that one of the first initiatives under that effort is led by the NASSCOM Foundation, wherein the organisation is getting a $500,000 grant from Google.org to support one lakh women agri workers."They (Nasscom Foundation) are going to reach one lakh women farmers and provide digital skills and financial literacy. Learning these skills has been shown to increase their incomes by about 30%," she said.Talking about the new $25 million grant, Fuller said this is a global impact challenge aimed at non-profit organisations that are working towards helping women and girls."We are providing $25 million, it's an open call. So any non-profit or social enterprise anywhere around the world can apply. And the winners will get funding up to $2 million per organisation. We're also going to provide Googlers, so there'll be expertise, whether that's in software engineering or user experience, or even marketing to come alongside and help bring these projects to fruition," she said.Fuller noted that while more girls are now going to school and more women are represented in the workplace, the Covid-19 pandemic has had gender-regressive effects."The Covid crisis is one of the greatest threats we have ever seen to this progress. We know that globally, women are about twice as likely to have lost their jobs during the Covid crisis. And we see women who are doing double duty around the world while they are working, also teaching children at home in many places, providing caregiving," she said.She pointed out that around a billion children globally have seen their education being disrupted, girls are much less likely to return to school after the pandemic."At the same time, there's just not enough funding going to women and girls. If you look at all of the philanthropic funding, only about 1%-2% of all funding is targeted to women and girls. So that's why it's so important that we're we're doing this and we're doing this alongside of our partners," she said.Sapna Chadha, Senior Country Marketing Director at Google India and Southeast Asia, said based on learnings from the Internet Saathi program, the company has launched the Women Will web platform that will be complemented by community support, mentorship and accelerator programmes for rural women entrepreneurs.Available in English and Hindi, the Women Will platform is designed especially for women aspiring to explore entrepreneurship. Through a 'how to' curriculum on turning an interest into a business, managing an enterprise, and promoting it for growth, the platform will provide guidance and support to women who want to convert an existing hobby or talent such as tailoring, beauty services, home tuition, food processing, etc into income.To begin with, Google will work with 2,000 Internet Saathis to help other women gain from this resource and start on their entrepreneurial journey.Google, in partnership with Tata Trusts, had launched the Internet Saathi programme in 2015 to empower women across rural India with digital literacy skills and bridge the digital gender divide. The joint effort, upon completion, has reached across 3 lakh villages. Over six years, this pan-India effort has benefitted over 30 million women across India through training provided by over 80,000 Internet Saathis."Two in 10 women included in the Internet Saathi programme started small businesses of their own, and 73% of them stated an interest to learn new skills. And almost three-fourths of them felt they were able to start their own business in the future...The next leap with this insight is taking digital Literacy to digital livelihoods, to help women generate income, create livelihoods," she said.In a statement, Google and Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai said when women have equal access to opportunity, everyone can benefit from their perspectives, creativity and their expertise."Yet, when it comes to accessing opportunity, deep inequalities persist. Building on the Internet Saathi program success, we're making a new commitment to help one million women in rural villages in India to become entrepreneurs through business tutorials, tools, and mentorship,” he added.Ratan Tata, Chairman of Tata Trusts, said the organisations had embarked on training women trainers to familiarise other women on how to utilise the internet, all in the rural environment, that would otherwise never take place."In bringing today's technology, and perhaps tomorrow's technology, to bear for the benefit of rural women is a great move forward. Over time, these efforts will ensure that the true value of the internet can come into the fore. I would like to congratulate the two teams that have worked together to help make this happen," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-to-provide-25-million-to-social-enterprises-working-on-women-empowerment-101615193176010.html
08-03-2021||World||Suicide, racism and Queen: Key highlights from Meghan, Harry's interview to Oprah||The rift in the British royal family came out in the open for public scrutiny and inspection after Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle sat down for a tell-all interview with iconic talk show host Oprah Winfrey on Sunday.The interview with Winfrey was the couple’s first since they stepped down from royal duties and the two-hour special included numerous revelations likely to reverberate on both sides of the Atlantic.The interview aired in the United States a full day before Britain. The revelations aren't over: Winfrey teased additional bits of the interview would be shown Monday morning on CBS.Meghan on racism around son Archie and him not receiving the prince title:"They didn't want him to be a prince or princess, not knowing what the gender would be, which would be different from protocol, and (said) that he wasn't going to receive security."In those months when I was pregnant ... we have in tandem the conversation of, you won't be given security, not gonna be given a title and also concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born."Meghan declined to name who expressed those concerns: "I think that would be very damaging to them. That was relayed to me from Harry; those were the conversations that family had with him."Meghan on considering suicide:"I just didn't want to be alive anymore. And that was a very clear and real and frightening constant thought. And I remember how he (Harry) just cradled me."She said she went to senior people in the institution to ask for help."I went to the institution and I said that I needed to go somewhere to get help ... And I was told that I couldn't, that it wouldn't be good for the institution."I remember this conversation like it was yesterday, because they said, my heart goes out to you because I see how bad it is, but there's nothing we can do to protect you because you're not a paid employee of the institution."This wasn't a choice. This was emails and begging for help, saying very specifically I am concerned for my mental welfare."Asked if she thinking of harming herself, or having suicidal thoughts, while pregnant with her first child she said:"Yes. This was very, very clear ... and very scary."Harry on "blindsiding" the queen:Harry, asked whether he told his family about his plans to step away from his royal roles and about a newspaper story that they had "blindsided" the queen with their decision:"I've never blindsided my grandmother, I have too much respect for her."Meghan, too, was complimentary toward the queen, despite saying at one point she realised some in the palace were willing to lie to “protect other members of the family.”“The queen has always been wonderful to me,” Meghan said.Harry confirms Prince Charles stopped taking his calls:"I had three conversations with my grandmother, and two conversations with my father before he stopped taking my calls. And then he said, can you put this all in writing?"Asked why Prince Charles had stopped taking his calls:"By that point, I took matters into my own hands, it was like, I needed to do this for my family. This is not a surprise to anybody. It's really sad that it's got to this point, but I've got to do something for my own mental health, my wife's and for Archie's as well."Meghan on Kate making her cry before her wedding:Meghan, on a newspaper story that she made Prince William's wife Kate cry over flower girls' dresses before Meghan and Harry's wedding:"The narrative with Kate, which didn't happen, was really, really difficult and something that I think that's when everything changed really."Asked if she made Kate cry: "The reverse happened. A few days before the wedding she was upset about something, pertaining to ... the flower girl dresses, and it made me cry. And it really hurt my feelings.""There wasn't a confrontation and ... I don't think it's fair to her to get into the details of that because she apologised, and I have forgiven her. What was hard to get over was being blamed for something that not only I didn't do, but that happened to me.""I'm not sharing that piece about Kate in any way to be disparaging to her."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suicide-racism-and-queen-key-highlights-from-meghan-harry-s-interview-to-oprah-101615187716728.html
08-03-2021||World||British minister says on Meghan interview: 'No place for racism in our society'||Britain's children's minister said on Monday that there was no place for racism in society after Meghan, the wife of Prince Harry, accused someone in Britain's royal family of raising concerns about how dark their son's skin might be."There is absolutely no place for racism in our society," Vicky Ford told Sky News, though she said she had not seen the CBS interview which was aired overnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-minister-says-on-meghan-interview-no-place-for-racism-in-our-society-101615188662622.html
08-03-2021||World||Meghan, Harry say UK royals were worried ‘how dark’ their son Archie would be||Meghan Markle and her husband Prince Harry alleged in a tell-all interview on Sunday that the British royals were worried “how dark” their son Archie would be.The son would also not be accorded the usual royal titles, the couple told Oprah Winfrey, the legendary talk show host who conducted a much-anticipated interview for CBS.In another revelation that underlines the couple’s estranged relationship with Buckingham Palace, Harry and Meghan said they have been financially cut off by the UK royal family.Harry said his father Prince Charles had stopped taking his calls. The king-in-waiting of a monarchy struggling to stay relevant had barely just emerged from the setbacks he had suffered over his troubled marriage with Princess Diana.The deadliest blow in the interview came in the form of allegations of a potentially racist response from the royal family - from at least one unidentified royal - to the child that the couple were expecting.“All around this same time, we have in tandem the conversation of he won’t be given security, he’s not going to be given a title, and also concerns and conversations as how dark his skin might be when he’s born,” Meghan said, speaking of Archie, their first born. Archie was born on May 6, 2019.Meghan clarified that she hadn’t heard this particular conversation herself. “That was relayed to me from Harry from conversations that the family had with him,” she told Winfrey.Harry refused to elaborate when asked about it, saying, “That conversation, I am never going to share.”Meghan said she was told the son would not be granted a royal title or security even before he was born.“The allegation that there were discussions in the (Buckingham) palace about how dark Meghan’s first baby might be is a devastating one,” Jonny Dymond, the BBC’s royal correspondent, noted. “This is heading into ‘worst-case scenario’ territory for the palace.”Harry and Meghan stepped down from their official roles in the family as “senior royals” in March 2020 and relocated from London to California.The two former royals drew a picture of a cold and uncaring British royal family. Meghan said no one prepared her for her role as a royal, in a reminder, royal watchers said, of the reception accorded to Diana. Meghan added that she didn’t get any help when she reached out, eventually feeling suicidal.“I was ashamed to say it at the time and ashamed to have to admit it to Harry. But I knew that if I didn’t say it - then I would do it,” she said. “I just didn’t want to be alive anymore.”“That was clear and real and frightening and a constant thought,” said Meghan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meghan-harry-say-uk-royals-were-worried-how-dark-their-son-archie-would-be-101615188976895.html
08-03-2021||World||Joe Biden’s giant stimulus to easily pass House, say Democrats||President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion package will sail through the House when it takes up the bill on Tuesday, according to Democratic lawmakers and aides, even after proposals progressives championed were scaled back.The Senate’s changes to the House-passed bill, made to appease moderates and comply with parliamentary rules, are unlikely to prove enough to make progressive Democrats vote against it.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi can only afford to have four Democrats oppose a bill for it to pass, if all members are voting and Republicans are lined up in opposition, given her party’s thin majority. Two Democrats joined a united GOP in voting against the initial version of the stimulus.Pelosi on Sunday predicted the bill will pass.“In two days, the House will have a resounding, hopefully bipartisan, vote for justice,” Pelosi said in a letter to her caucus on Sunday. “We can then send it to the president and move quickly to distribute its life-saving resources.”Other senior lawmakers agreed.“I don’t think there is any trouble. What Democrat is going to vote against a bill that cuts poverty by a third, expands child tax credits and SNAP, gives $1,400 to 80% of their constituents?” said Budget Chairman John Yarmuth, a chief architect of the American Rescue Plan bill. SNAP refers to a federal food-assistance program.With Biden now cruising to his first legislative victory less than two months after proposing his relief bill, economists have baked its effects into their forecasts for a stronger recovery in 2021.Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists see the unemployment rate tumbling to 4.3% by year-end, from 6.2% in February, with employment climbing by almost 7.4 million for 2021, making up most of the 9.4 million plunge in payrolls last year.“Growth will be rip-roaring during the coming year,” Moodys Analytics chief economist Mark Zandi wrote Sunday, due to additional fiscal stimulus, the end of the pandemic and consumers emerging from lockdown.The outsize stimulus has propelled a surge in bond yields, with 10-year rates punching through to the highest levels in more than a year last week.Deadline NearsDemocratic aides said the looming March 14 expiration of enhanced unemployment benefits makes for a strong disincentive for any rank-and-file members to try to force a renegotiation with the Senate. That could risk missing the deadline, with assistance lapsing.Progressives who had expressed concern about any changes in the Senate so far are holding their fire, with the Congressional Progressive Caucus issuing a statement calling the upper chamber’s changes “minor.”Outside groups, like the Justice Democrats and Sunrise movement, were also quiet on the bill over the weekend.The Senate reduced weekly supplemental unemployment benefit to $300 per week through Sept. 6, compared with $400 through August in the House bill. The new version also now lets individuals earning up to $150,000 to collect $10,200 in benefits tax free.Senate’s TweaksWhile the ceiling for zeroing out stimulus checks was lowered to $80,000 from $100,000 by the Senate, the bill now made student-loan relief tax-free. A progressive attempt to add a phased-in $15 minimum wage to the package failed when eight senators in the Democratic caucus voted Friday against waiving budget rules to allow it in the bill.Marathon negotiations Friday night showcased the delicate balance of power in the Senate, and the sway of moderates. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer contended with a move by West Virginia Democrat Joe Manchin to back a GOP proposal to phase out the enhanced jobless benefits by mid-July.With Schumer arguing that such a change could cause trouble in the House, Manchin ultimately compromised, and backed the deal to keep aid going until September.Progressive House Democrats are already turning their attention to getting their proposals in a second budget reconciliation bill -- which allows for Senate approval by a simple majority, rather than the usual 60 votes to cut off debate. Congress is expected to take up the next reconciliation bill before the August recess.The White House is already engaged in crafting a “Build Back Better” package that is expected include both infrastructure investments and progressive priorities like funding for child and elder care.“There’s still work to be done, but this is a crucial down-payment on the $3-to-$4.5 trillion in stimulus needed to fully recover,” Congressional Progressive Caucus Chair Pramila Jayapal tweeted after the Senate passed the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-giant-stimulus-to-easily-pass-house-say-democrats-101615188149484.html
08-03-2021||World||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam 'fully welcomes' proposed electoral changes||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said Monday the city's government “fully welcomes” changes to the city’s electoral system that will substantially increase central government control over Hong Kong politics and exclude Beijing’s critics.Chinese authorities have said the draft decision before China's National People’s Congress would mean the largely pro-Beijing committee that elects Hong Kong’s leader would also choose a large part of the legislature to ensure that the city is run by “patriots.” The Election Committee would also have the right to vet candidates for the Legislative Council, weeding out any suspected of being insufficiently loyal to China and the ruling Communist Party.Currently, half of Hong Kong’s legislature is directly elected by voters, although the mass resignation of opposition legislators to protest the expulsion of four of their colleagues for being “unpatriotic" means the the body is now entirely controlled by Beijing loyalists.“There are loopholes in the electoral systems, there are also flaws in the systems in Hong Kong,” Lam said at a news conference after she returned from the meeting in Beijing. “I fully understand that this is not a matter that can be addressed entirely by the government.”“I’m glad that the central authorities have, again, exercised its constitutional powers to help address this problem for Hong Kong,” she said.She declined to elaborate on the views she had shared to the central authorities regarding the electoral reforms, and said many pieces of legislation in Hong Kong would have to be amended. The NPC, China’s ceremonial legislature, will all but certainly endorse the draft decision, though it may not take immediate legal effect.Unconfirmed reports say the legislation will also expand the size of the Legislative Council from 70 to 90 and the Election Committee from 1,200 to 1,500. Seats on the Election Committee now reserved for directly elected district counselors will also be eliminated, further cementing Beijing's control over the body.Lam also said she could not confirm whether legislative elections — already postponed for one year last September ostensibly because of the coronavirus pandemic — would be further deferred due to the electoral reforms.She also said the central government authorities are “very sincere and very committed in trying to move towards the objective of universal suffrage,” which was promised to Hong Kong under the Basic Law, the city’s mini-constitution that was drawn up when the British handed Hong Kong to China in 1997.Universal suffrage would give Hong Kong voters the right to vote for the city’s leader, although only candidates approved by Beijing would be allowed to run.Hong Kong has in recent months cracked down on dissent, and most of the city's opposition figures — including pro-democracy activists and former lawmakers — are in jail or in exile.About 100 people, most of whom are pro-democracy activists and supporters, have been charged under the city's sweeping national security law since it was implemented in June. The NPC imposed the law on Hong Kong, bypassing the Legislative Council, saying it was necessary to restore order after increasingly violent anti-government protests in 2019.The legislation criminalizes secession, subversion, collusion with foreign forces to intervene in the city's affairs and terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-leader-carrie-lam-fully-welcomes-proposed-electoral-changes-101615186732613.html
08-03-2021||World||Vietnam vaccinates Covid-19 front-liners with its 1st doses||Vietnam administered its first Covid-19 doses Monday to the front-line workers who made the nation's relative success in controlling the pandemic possible — health workers, contact tracers and security forces who handled quarantine duties.The Southeast Asian nation of 96 million people has a goal to inoculate at least half of the population by the end of the year.Thousands of doctors, nurses and technicians working at hospitals designated to treat Covid-19 patients lined up in the morning and received the first jabs of the AstraZeneca vaccine.“I have been waiting for this day for a long time,” nurse Nguyen Thi Huyen said after she got her injection. Huyen has been caring for Covid-19 patients at a tropical disease hospital in Hanoi the past year. Health protocols limited her time with family, among other challenges. “I hope the vaccine will be available for everyone so we can contain the virus and get back to normal life," she said.The first batch of over 100,000 doses in a 30 million-dose order of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and U.K.-based drugmaker AstraZeneca arrived two weeks ago. Separately, Vietnam expects to secure another 30 million doses of the same vaccine through COVAX, a U.N.-backed initiative created to ensure vaccine access to low- and middle-income countries.It is also negotiating with Pfizer for another 30 million doses, according to the health ministry.After Covid-19 first responders, the next group to be vaccinated will be diplomats, workers providing essential services, teachers, senior citizens and people with chronic illnesses.Vietnam has recorded 2,512 cases of Covid-19, a low number compared to other countries. Despite a fresh outbreak detected in two northern provinces in January, it has managed to contain the virus's spread and resume business activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-vaccinates-covid-19-front-liners-with-its-1st-doses-101615186761614.html
08-03-2021||World||Royal interview unlikely to affect New Zealand||New Zealand's prime minister says the country is unlikely to become a republic anytime soon or otherwise break from observing Britain's Queen Elizabeth II as head of state.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was asked by a reporter whether the unflattering picture of the British royal family painted by Harry and Meghan had given her pause about New Zealand's constitutional ties to Britain."I've said before that I've not sensed an appetite from New Zealanders for significant change in our constitutional arrangements, and I don't expect that's likely to change quickly,” she said.Asked whether Harry and Meghan had ever inquired about living in New Zealand, Ardern said they hadn't in any official capacity, as far as she was aware.And asked about her personal friendship with Meghan since the couple toured the country in 2018, Ardern said she had kept in touch."It is fair to say in the past I've had contact here and there,” she said. “But ultimately, the matters that are being canvassed here I see as for Meghan and Harry to respond to directly.These are matters about their personal lives and their personal decisions, and I don't think it deserves a commentary from anyone else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/royal-interview-unlikely-to-affect-new-zealand-101615188377203.html
08-03-2021||World||Pope leaves Iraq for Rome after historic whirlwind visit||Pope Francis on Monday wrapped up his historic whirlwind tour of Iraq that sought to bring hope to the country's marginalized Christian minority with a message of coexistence, forgiveness and peace.The pontiff and his traveling delegation were seen off with a farewell ceremony at the Baghdad airport, from where he left for Rome following a four-day papal visit that has covered five provinces across Iraq.As the pope's plane took off, Iraqi President Barham Salih was at hand on the tarmac, waving goodbye.At every turn of his trip, Francis urged Iraqis to embrace diversity — from Najaf in the south, where he held a historic face-to-face meeting with powerful Shiite cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, to Nineveh to the north, where he met with Christian victims of the Islamic State group's terror and heard their testimonies of survival.People gathered in crowds to catch a glimpse of the pope wherever he went, fueling coronavirus concerns. Few wore facemasks, especially during Francis' stops in northern Iraq on Sunday. That day ended with an open-air mass in a stadium that drew nearly 10,000 people. Security was tight and most events were strictly controlled.Public health experts had expressed concerns ahead of the trip that large gatherings could serve as superspreader events for the coronavirus in a country suffering from a worsening outbreak where few have been vaccinated. The pope and members of his delegation have been vaccinated but most Iraqis have not.Iraq is in the midst of another wave of the coronavirus, spurred by a new, more infectious strain that first appeared in the UK. Authorities in Iraq recorded 4,068 new infections on March 6, according to Health Ministry figures, up significantly from infection rates at the start of the year. In total 13,500 people have died among a total 720,000 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-leaves-iraq-for-rome-after-historic-whirlwind-visit-101615187272906.html
08-03-2021||World||Malaysia to buy more Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccines||Malaysia will buy additional doses of Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine, bringing the total secured to 32 million, enough to cover half of its population, the country's science minister said on Monday.The Southeast Asian country last month embarked on a nationwide vaccination programme, targeting to inoculate 80% of its 32 million people by February 2022."All of the Pfizer vaccines secured so far are expected to be delivered by this year," science minister Khairy Jamaluddin said at a virtual news conference.Malaysia is also considering dropping negotiations to procure a single-dose vaccine from US pharmaceutical firm Johnson & Johnson, in favour of a deal with Chinese company CanSino Biologics, which also requires only one dose, Khairy said."This is a better option for us compared to Johnson & Johnson, where supplies are expected to arrive only in the fourth quarter of the year," he said.The government said last month it had secured 66.7 million vaccine doses, more than enough to cover its population.In addition to the deal with Pfizer-BioNTech, Malaysia has also reached supply agreement with Britain's AstraZeneca AZN.L>, Russia's Gamaleya Research Institute, and China's Sinovac Biotech and CanSino.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-to-buy-more-pfizer-biontech-covid-19-vaccines-101615185177526.html
08-03-2021||World||As US mulls Afghan exit, activist sees long fight for women||Prominent activist Sima Samar has been fighting for women’s rights in Afghanistan for the past 40 years. She believes her struggle is far from over — especially at a time when violence is on the rise, peace talks between rival Afghan groups are stuck and the US mulls a May departure from her country.Samar, 64, worries about the future, noting that insecurity and instability in Afghanistan have reached frightening levels."No one knows what will happen tomorrow,” she said in an interview at her home in the Afghan capital, Kabul, protected by blast walls, guards and a German shepherd, who races to his vantage point overlooking the street when a car even slows as it passes.Yet much is at stake and “a lot of sacrifices have been made in these 20 years," she said, reflecting the anxiety among civil society leaders as the US searches for the best exit from its longest war.Under a 2020 deal between the Taliban and the Trump administration, all US troops are to leave Afghanistan by May 1. The Biden administration says it's reviewing the deal, suggesting it may not meet the deadline.Last week, Samar and other civil society representatives participated in a Zoom call with US peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad. He assured them that Washington stands with Afghanistan’s civil society to protect the gains made in the past 20 years.The call seemed last-minute to Samar — held just before Khalilzad was leaving Kabul for Qatar to meet with Taliban negotiators, following two days of face-to-face meetings with political leaders and warlords-turned-politicians.“I feel a little like history is repeating itself," said Samar, questioning the prominence given again to warlords and a political leadership that struggles to win over the trust of Afghans.When the Taliban regime was ousted in 2001 by the US-led coalition she had pressed for justice — that those who had committed crimes in previous regimes should be punished, that accountability, equality and justice should be given priority.At that time she warned in vain against having warlords — who had participated in the 1990s civil war and destroyed much of Kabul — in prominent roles in a post-Taliban administration. She received death threats and was targeted in a slander campaign as “Sima Samar, the Salman Rushdie of Afghanistan.”“I am not saying everyone has to go to jail but a crime is a crime,” she said. “They should be at least brave enough to say ‘I am sorry.’ That's a start."Samar said Afghanistan needs involvement by international community going forward, to make sure that promises made are kept and that cease-fires are monitored independently. Culprits should be punished, she said.The immediate question on the minds of many is who is systematically targeting and killing members of civil society. The Islamic State group has claimed several attacks. The Taliban have denied involvement in most incidents. The government and the Taliban often blame each other.The number of targeted killings tripled last year, according to Afghanistan’s Independent Human Rights Commission, which Samar launched and headed from 2002 to 2019.Commission spokesman Zabihullah Farhang said 65 women were killed and 95 wounded in targeted attacks in 2020. Attackers hit a maternity hospital. Twice they struck educational institutions, killing 50 people, most of them students. Several of the victims were journalists, rights activists, young judges, lawyers.“It is like taking the rarest pearls from our midst,” said Torek Farhadi, an analyst and former Afghan government adviser.In recognition of International Woman’s Day on Monday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is awarding six Afghan women, who were among those killed last year, with the International Women of Courage award.“These tragic murders underscore the alarming trend of increased targeting of women in Afghanistan and the United States condemns these acts of violence,” Blinken said ahead of the ceremonies.Blinken also proposed steps to help jumpstart the stalled peace process between the government and the Taliban, according to his letter to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani published Sunday by Afghanistan’s TOLONews.The letter calls for bringing the two sides together for a U.N.-facilitated conference with foreign ministers and envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US “to discuss a unified approach to supporting peace in Afghanistan.”Samar said much has been gained in the 20 years since the Taliban were ousted. Schools for girls are open. Women entered the workforce, politics, became judges — they are even at the negotiating table where the Taliban and the Afghan government are struggling to find a way to end war.But the gains are fragile and human rights activists have many enemies in Afghanistan — from militants and warlords to those who want to stifle criticism or challenges to their power.Afghanistan is second only to Yemen as the worst place in the world to be a woman, according to the 2019 Women, Peace and Security Index, compiled by the Georgetown Institute for Women Peace and Security and the Peace Research Institute in Oslo. The illiteracy rate among Afghan women is 82% and most of the women in Afghan prisons are jailed for so-called “moral” crimes like seeking a divorce.The road to justice and equality remains long, said Samar, who became an activist as a 23-year-old medical student with an infant son. At the time, the then-communist government arrested her activist husband, and she never saw him again.Samar, who says discrimination based on ethnicity and gender is still widespread, is a member of Afghanistan's minority Hazaras, who have faced discrimination for centuries. They are mostly Shiite Muslims in a majority Sunni Muslim Afghanistan and most often the target of Islamic State militants in recent years.Despite the persistent challenges, Afghanistan of 2021 is different, said Samar, a recipient of numerous awards who during a recent visit wore a T-shirt proclaiming “this is what a FEMINIST looks like.”Human rights, women’s rights and the rights of minorities are now at least being discussed. “At least we speak about violence against women now. Before it was not an issue in this country, except for some crazy ones like me," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-us-mulls-afghan-exit-activist-sees-long-fight-for-women-101615186964129.html
08-03-2021||World||China tells Biden to reverse 'dangerous practice' on Taiwan||China’s foreign minister warned the Biden administration on Sunday to roll back former President Donald Trump’s “dangerous practice” of showing support for Taiwan, the island democracy claimed by Beijing as its own territory.The claim to Taiwan, which split with the mainland in 1949, is an “insurmountable red line,” Wang Yi said at a news conference during the annual meeting of China’s ceremonial legislature.The United States has no official relations with Taiwan but extensive informal ties. Trump irked Beijing by sending Cabinet officials to visit Taiwan in a show of support.“The Chinese government has no room for compromise,” Wang said.“We urge the new US administration to fully understand the high sensitivity of the Taiwan issue” and “completely change the previous administration’s dangerous practices of ‘crossing the line’ and ‘playing with fire,’” he said.President Joe Biden says he wants a more civil relationship with Beijing but has shown no sign of softening Trump’s confrontational measures on trade, technology and human rights. Surveys show American public attitudes turning more negative toward China, which is seen as an economic and strategic competitor.Wang gave no indication how Beijing might react if Biden doesn't change course, but the ruling Communist Party has threatened to invade if Taiwan declares formal independence or delays talks on uniting with the mainland.The State Department later reiterated that the Biden administration's support for Taiwan was rock-solid and that the US stood with its regional friends and allies, including “deepening our unofficial ties with democratic Taiwan.”“We urge Beijing to cease its military, diplomatic, and economic pressure against Taiwan and instead engage in meaningful dialogue with Taiwan’s democratically elected representatives," said the statement issued late Sunday in Washington.Wang’s comments in a wide-ranging, two-hour news conference reflected Beijing’s increasing assertiveness abroad and rejection of criticism over Hong Kong, the northwestern region of Xinjiang and other sensitive topics.Wang defended proposed changes in Hong Kong that will tighten Beijing's control by reducing the role of its public in government. He dismissed complaints that erodes the autonomy promised to the former British colony when it returned to China in 1997.The changes announced Friday follow the arrest of 47 pro-democracy figures in Hong Kong under a national security law imposed last year following months of anti-government protests.Beijing needs to protect Hong Kong’s “transition from chaos to governance,” Wang said.The proposal would give a pro-Beijing committee a bigger role in picking Hong Kong legislators. That would be a marked reduction of democracy and Western-style civil liberties in Hong Kong. Mainland officials say they want to make sure the territory is controlled by people deemed patriots.“No one cares more about the development of democracy in Hong Kong than the central government,” Wang said. He said the changes will protect the “rights of Hong Kong residents and the legitimate interests of foreign investors.”Also Sunday, Wang rejected complaints Beijing’s treatment of predominantly Muslim ethnic minorities in Xinjiang amounts to genocide.Human rights researchers say more than 1 million people, many of them members of the Uyghur minority, have been sent to detention camps. Chinese officials say they are trying to prevent extremism.“The so-called existence of genocide in Xinjiang is absurd. It is a complete lie fabricated with ulterior motives,” Wang said. He blamed “anti-China forces” that he said want to “undermine the security and stability of Xinjiang and hinder China’s development and growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-tells-biden-to-reverse-dangerous-practice-on-taiwan-101615186465473.html
08-03-2021||World||UKPNP Chairman says part of J-K illegally held by Pakistan since 1947||Shaukat Ali Kashmiri, exiled Chairman of United Kashmir People's National Party (UKPNP) on Saturday (local time) said that Pak occupied Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan were a part of the erstwhile princely state of Jammu and Kashmir but have been illegally held by Pakistan since 1947.Speaking at a press conference at Geneva on human rights violations in Pakistan and the occupied territory of Jammu and Kashmir, he said UKPNP is opposed to the use of religion as a weapon and terrorism as a foreign policy tool.He said the Article 257 constitution of Pakistan is a provision related to the state of Jammu and Kashmir, "when the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir decide to accede to Pakistan, the relationship between Pakistan and that State shall be determined in accordance with the wishes of the people of that State."According to a UN resolution, Pakistan is obligated to ensure life, liberty, the dignity of the people of Pakistan-occupied and Gilgit Baltistan, he said.The people of Pak occupied Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan do not enjoy any basic political rights. The government represses political freedom, and controls the freedom of expression, Kashmiri said.He further said that anyone who wants to take part in public life in the country has to sign a pledge of loyalty to Pakistan while anyone who publicly supports or worries about Kashmir faces persecution.Those who favour independence risk being beaten and jailed. Numerous political leaders of Kashmir have been forced to live in exile and face the threat of being eliminated or languish in jail.Talking about a prominent political leader from Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), Sardar Arif Shahid, who was brutally killed in Rawalpindi seven-years ago, Kashmiri said that the issue was raised several times at different forums including United Nations to put pressure on Pakistan for a judicial inquiry but no action has been taken yet.In Pak occupied Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan, nationalist leaders and political workers and human rights activists are being booked for sedition, he added.Speaking about the China-Pakistan economic corridor (CPEC), he said, the project runs through disputed territories of Gilgit Baltistan and is a cause of environmental damage - air quality, water resources, and soil erosion.Kashmiri also said that UKPNP demands that the Pakistan government must take immediate actions against security forces and agencies those who kidnap citizens of Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir and make arrangement for the immediate release of all those who have disappeared.UKPNP recommends that the Jammu and Kashmir issue must be resolved through a process of dialogue and peaceful means, he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukpnp-chairman-says-part-of-j-k-illegally-held-by-pakistan-since-1947-101615185278675.html
08-03-2021||World||'Realised soon royal family wouldn't protect me,' says Meghan Markle||Meghan Markle told Oprah Winfrey that she realised soon after marrying Prince Harry that the institution of the royal family would not protect her.In their pre-taped interview on Sunday night, Meghan told Winfrey that “not only was I not being protected, but they were willing to lie to protect other members of the family, but they weren't willing to tell the truth to protect me and my husband.” She did not give specific examples.She said when she was first pregnant with son Archie, there were “concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born.” The statement led Winfrey to ask “What,” incredulously and sit in silence for a moment.Meghan declined to say who had this conversation with Harry that he relayed to her, saying revealing their name would be “very damaging.”Meghan also said she was stunned when she was told he would not be a prince and would not receive security from the palace.Meghan said she did not worry about being a divorced, mixed-race American actress entering the British royal family, but later she “thought about it because they made me think about it.”Meghan said it was not so much the royal family members themselves who treated her this way, but the people behind the institution.She emphasised that the queen herself “has always been wonderful to me.”Meghan Markle told Oprah Winfrey that she didn't “fully understand what the job was” when she married Prince Harry.Winfrey's hotly anticipated two-hour pre-recorded interview with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex began its airing on CBS in the US on Sunday night, with Meghan sitting alone with Winfrey.The two talked about the early days before the royal marriage, with Meghan saying “there was no way to understand what the day-to-day was going to be like."That's what was really tricky over those past few years, is when the perception and the reality are two very different things," Meghan said. “And you're being judged on the perception, but you're living the reality of it.” Meghan also revealed that she and Harry were technically married a few days before the ceremony watched by the world.After a brief intro with Winfrey narrating a recounting of the couple's wedding and subsequent announcement that they were stepping down from their royal duties, Meghan walked into the backyard garden setting of the interview.“You really are having a baby!” Winfrey shouted when she saw Meghan's baby bump under her black empire-style dress.Meghan said she would reveal the sex of the baby later in the interview when Harry joined them.Winfrey and Meghan said they were at the home of a friend of Winfrey's because they liked the setting.They clarified that no questions would be off limits and that Meghan and Harry would not be paid for the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/realised-soon-royal-family-wouldn-t-protect-her-says-meghan-markle-101615176916132.html
08-03-2021||World||It's a girl, Meghan Markle and Harry tell Oprah||Meghan and Harry say their second child is a girl.The two made the revelation in their interview with Oprah Winfrey that aired on Sunday night, a rare positive moment in a conversation that dwelt mostly on their struggles within the royal family.Their first child, son Archie, turns 2 in May.Harry said "to have a boy and then a girl, what more can you ask for? But now we've got our family. We've got the four of us and our two dogs."Harry, wearing a gray suit as he sat next to his wife at a distance from Winfrey, joined the interview after Meghan talked to Winfrey alone.He denied blindsiding the queen with the news that he and Meghan were stepping down from their royal duties, saying it was preceded by several conversations."I've never blindsided my grandmother," Harry said. "I have too much respect for her."He did however say that his father, Prince Charles, has stopped taking his calls.Meghan Markle told Oprah Winfrey that she had suicidal thoughts after marrying Prince Harry, and the palace prevented her from getting help.Meghan told Winfrey in the interview airing Sunday night that she “just didn't see a solution” to the mental suffering she had experienced since joining the royal family and that she told Harry she “didn't want to be alive anymore.”She said she went to a senior royal staffer and said she needed to get help for her mental health, but was told it would be bad for the family if she did.She described the moment as a breaking point leading to her and Harry stepping aside from their royal duties.Meghan said she “wasn't planning to say anything shocking" during the interview, “I'm just telling you what happened."Meghan Markle told Oprah Winfrey that she realized soon after marrying Prince Harry that the institution of the royal family would not protect her.In their pre-taped interview on Sunday night, Meghan told Winfrey that “not only was I not being protected, but they were willing to lie to protect other members of the family, but they weren't willing to tell the truth to protect me and my husband.” She did not give specific examples.She said when she was first pregnant with son Archie, there were “concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born.” The statement led Winfrey to ask “What,” incredulously and sit in silence for a moment.Meghan declined to say who had this conversation with Harry that he relayed to her, saying revealing their name would be “very damaging.”Meghan also said she was stunned when she was told he would not be a prince and would not receive security from the palace.Meghan said she did not worry about being a divorced, mixed-race American actress entering the British royal family, but later she “thought about it because they made me think about it.”Meghan said it was not so much the royal family members themselves who treated her this way, but the people behind the institution.She emphasised that the queen herself “has always been wonderful to me."Meghan Markle told Oprah Winfrey that she didn't “fully understand what the job was” when she married Prince Harry.Winfrey's hotly anticipated two-hour pre-recorded interview with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex began its airing on CBS in the U.S. on Sunday night, with Meghan sitting alone with Winfrey.The two talked about the early days before the royal marriage, with Meghan saying “there was no way to understand what the day-to-day was going to be like."That's what was really tricky over those past few years, is when the perception and the reality are two very different things," Meghan said. “And you're being judged on the perception, but you're living the reality of it.”Meghan also revealed that she and Harry were technically married a few days before the ceremony watched by the world.After a brief intro with Winfrey narrating a recounting of the couple's wedding and subsequent announcement that they were stepping down from their royal duties, Meghan walked into the backyard garden setting of the interview."You really are having a baby!” Winfrey shouted when she saw Meghan's baby bump under her black empire-style dress.Meghan said she would reveal the sex of the baby later in the interview when Harry joined them.Winfrey and Meghan said they were at the home of a friend of Winfrey's because they liked the setting.They clarified that no questions would be off limits and that Meghan and Harry would not be paid for the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/its-a-girl-meghan-markle-and-harry-tell-oprah-101615174216751.html
08-03-2021||World||Women can be fired for pregnancy in 28 nations, says World Bank’s Reinhart||There are still almost 40 countries where women can be fired from their jobs simply for getting pregnant, World Bank Chief Economist Carmen Reinhart said in a discussion on how the pandemic is making it even harder for women to escape poverty.Speaking on Bloomberg Television in a conversation with Ceyla Pazarbasioglu, director of strategy and policy at the International Monetary Fund, Reinhart said the economic fallout from Covid-19 had been “very regressive,” hitting the most vulnerable hardest, included women and girls.“We are seeing big setbacks on schooling, girls are taken out that will not return,” said Reinhart, speaking on International Women’s Day. She cited a report late last year that found extreme poverty was expected to rise for the first time in more than two decades with a disproportionately high share of women among the world’s new poor.The pandemic has contributed to an increase in violence against women and is reinforcing gender inequality in many countries, with women on average having roughly three-quarters of the legal rights of men, according to the World Bank.While laws have improved in some countries, women in many nations still face legal limits on economic opportunities, including restrictions on travel without a male guardian, the lender said.Pazarbasioglu of the IMF said it’s very important to have “a women’s lens in policies.”“That’s what we are pushing in our surveillance, in our lending, in our analytical work and in our capacity development,” she said.Pazarbasioglu and Reinhart wrote an opinion piece published by Bloomberg on Monday arguing for greater transparency in finance to help address growing inequality within countries and across borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-can-be-fired-for-pregnancy-in-28-nations-says-world-bank-s-reinhart-101615173550431.html
08-03-2021||World||Meghan Markle says British royals worried about her son's dark skin||Meghan, the wife of Prince Harry, said there were concerns about how dark her son Archie's skin would be before his birth and that such worries explained why he was not given the title of prince.Meghan, whose mother is Black and father is white, said she was naive before she married into the royal family in 2018, but that she ended up having suicidal thoughts and considering self harm after asking for help but getting none."They didn't want him to be a prince or princess, not knowing what the gender would be, which would be different from protocol, and that he wasn't going to receive security," Meghan said in an interview with Oprah Winfrey aired on CBS late on Sunday."In those months when I was pregnant, all around this same time, so we have in tandem the conversation of, 'you won't be given security, not gonna be given a title' and also concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born."She declined to say who had aired such concerns. Asked if she was silent or had been silenced, she replied: "The latter."The highly anticipated interview is set to intensify an already acrimonious row between Meghan and Harry on one side and the British monarchy on the other.The couple have stepped down from their royal duties and are starting a new life in the United States.Harry said he left because of a lack of understanding and because he was worried about history repeating itself - a reference to the 1997 death of his mother Diana.He said he had not blindsided his grandmother, the queen, as he had too much respect for her, although his father, Prince Charles, had stopped taking his calls."I had three conversations with my grandmother, and two conversations with my father before he stopped taking my calls. And then he said, can you put this all in writing?" Harry said.Their detractors say the couple want the glamour of their positions without the dedication it requires or scrutiny it brings.To their supporters, their treatment shows how an outdated British institution has lashed out against a modern, biracial woman, with undertones of racism.'QUEEN HAS BEEN WONDERFUL'There have also been allegations of bullying against Meghan which first appeared in The Times newspaper in the buildup to the couple's appearance.Buckingham Palace, which has made no comment so far on the interview, said it would investigate the claims, adding it was "very concerned."In response to the report, a spokeswoman for Meghan said she was "saddened by this latest attack on her character, particularly as someone who has been the target of bullying herself."Meghan told Winfrey that people within the royal institution not only failed to protect her against malicious claims but lied to protect others."It was only once we were married and everything started to really worsen that I came to understand that not only was I not being protected but that they were willing to lie to protect other members of the family," Meghan said."There's the family, and then there's the people that are running the institution, those are two separate things and it's important to be able to compartmentalise that because the queen, for example, has always been wonderful to me."Meghan denied a newspaper story that she had made Kate, Duchess of Cambridge, cry before the wedding and said it was a turning point in her relations with the media."That was a turning point," Meghan said. Asked if she made Kate cry, Meghan replied: "The reverse happened.""A few days before the wedding she (Kate) was upset about something, pertaining to yes the issue was correct about the flower girl dresses, and it made me cry. And it really hurt my feelings."Meghan said she had been naive before her wedding and did not realise what she was marrying into when she joined the British royal family."I will say I went into it naively, because I didn't grow up knowing much about the royal family," Meghan said.Meghan explained that she was not being paid for the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meghan-markle-says-british-royals-worried-about-her-son-s-dark-skin-101615173157661.html
08-03-2021||World||Meghan Markle says 'just didn't want to be alive anymore', alleges royal racism||Prince Harry's wife Meghan Markle on Sunday said she contemplated taking her own life after joining the royal family, and raised allegations of racism in the monarchy during an explosive television interview.Explaining the couple's dramatic exit from royal life, Meghan said she was denied help during her mental health crisis, was targeted by lies, and that there was official concern about the skin color of her unborn son.Meghan, whose father is white and mother is Black, spoke out in an interview with Oprah Winfrey that immediately became one of the most extraordinary chapters in recent royal history and was set to rock the British institution."I... just didn't want to be alive anymore. And that was a very clear and real and frightening constant thought," she told Winfrey.Asked if she was having suicidal thoughts, Meghan replied "Yes. This was very, very clear."Recalling how she felt at the time, she said that "I'm scared, because this is very real. This isn't some abstract idea. This is methodical, and this is not who I am."Meghan, 39, also told of royal "concerns" about "how dark" her son's skin would be, saying Harry revealed to her official concerns over Archie's appearance, as well as the security he would be entitled to, ahead of his birth on May 6, 2019.- 'How dark his skin might be' -"In those months when I was pregnant... we have in tandem the conversation of 'he won't be given security, he's not going to be given a title' and also concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born," Meghan told Winfrey.After the couple's surprise decision to move to North America, the former television actress has been portrayed in some British newspapers as headstrong, calculating and spoiled, and the couple reckless and selfish for quitting royal life.The two-hour interview with the queen of US television was the biggest royal tell-all since Harry's mother princess Diana detailed her crumbling marriage to his father Prince Charles in 1995.Winfrey reportedly sold it to US broadcaster CBS for $7-9 million, and retained the international rights to the interview, which will feed an appetite of interest about Britain's centuries-old monarchy -- and their troubles -- across the globe.Royal fans were offered a treat with the revelation by the couple of the gender of their second child -- the first senior royal due to be born outside Britain in 100 years."It's a girl!" Harry and Meghan chimed in tandem.But it was a rare light-hearted moment in the drawn-out interview -- and viewers who tuned in to see if the pair had scores to settle with Buckingham Palace since leaving the royal frontline were likely to be shocked at how far they went.- Knives out -Taking aim squarely at the royals, Markle flatly denied reports that she made Kate Middleton cry before her wedding to Harry -- saying the reverse was true."Everyone in the institution knew it wasn't true," Meghan told Winfrey of the reported incident -- pored over at great length by the gossip press."The reverse happened," Meghan added, saying that Kate "was upset about something, but she owned it, and she apologized.""A few days before the wedding, she was upset about something pertaining -- yes, the issue was correct -- about flower girl dresses, and it made me cry, and it really hurt my feelings."Meghan called the incident "the beginning of a real character assassination" and "a turning point" in her relations with the royal family."I came to understand that not only was I not being protected but that they were willing to lie to protect other members of the family," she said.Ahead of the broadcast, revelations emerged Meghan was facing an internal palace investigation into claims that she bullied royal household staff after she and Harry married in a fairytale wedding in 2018.Further reports the couple are facing a probe into their charitable foundation have been seen as a counter-offensive by the embattled royals in a bitter battle for public support and sympathy.Last month, when Buckingham Palace confirmed the couple would not return to their senior roles, it said they would not "continue with the responsibilities and duties that come with a life of public service."The Sunday Times said Queen Elizabeth II, 94, would not watch the interview.The weekly quoted unnamed courtiers as calling the situation a "circus," and the palace would "come out swinging" if individuals are attacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meghan-markle-says-just-didn-t-want-to-be-alive-anymore-alleges-royal-racism-101615172490690.html
08-03-2021||World||UK aviation industry calls on Boris Johnson for more financial aid||Heathrow airport, unionized workers and ground-handling staff issued a joint plea to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson for more state funding to help the aviation industry survive Covid-19 travel restrictions that put demand at just 2% of its usual level.A June estimate by the New Economics Foundation said a further 124,000 jobs in the UK were at risk across aviation and the industries it supports on top of workers who’ve already lost their places. Now a joint call from the Trades Union Congress, ground-handlers Swissport International Ltd. and Heathrow Airport Holdings Ltd. asks for:“Aviation has been an engine for creating high-quality skilled jobs and will serve as an important catalyst for economic prosperity post-Covid,” Heathrow Chief Executive John Holland-Kaye said in an emailed statement.“The budget set out the next phase of support available for businesses –- including the extension of government-backed loans and furlough payments, which build on around 7 billion pounds ($9.7 billion) of support already pledged for the aviation sector since the start of the pandemic,” a government spokesman said in an emailed response.“It’s almost a year since ministers promised a sector-specific support package for the aviation industry, but it’s yet to materialize,” the opposition Labour Party’s transport spokesman Jim McMahon said in an email. “It’s clear that government failure is costing jobs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-aviation-industry-calls-on-boris-johnson-for-more-financial-aid-101615167337175.html
08-03-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine 'disinformation' spread by Russia-backed outlets, says US||The United States has identified three online publications directed by Russia's intelligence services that it says are seeking to undermine Covid-19 vaccines produced by Pfizer and Moderna , a State Department spokeswoman said on Sunday.The outlets "spread many types of disinformation, including about both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, as well as international organizations, military conflicts, protests, and any divisive issue that they can exploit," the spokeswoman said.The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) first reported on the identification of the alleged campaign on Sunday. A Kremlin spokesman denied the U.S. claim Russia was spreading false information about vaccines to the WSJ.Russia's embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Russia approved its Sputnik V vaccine in August, before a large-scale trial had begun, saying it was the first country to do so for a Covid-19 shot. Peer-reviewed trials months later proved it was almost 92% effective in fighting the virus.Pfizer, headquartered in New York, and Germany's BioNTech, produced the first vaccine that was authorized in the United States, which regulators approved in December. The second, made by Moderna, headquartered in Massachusetts, was authorized later that month.The State Department's Global Engagement Center, set up to counter propaganda and disinformation campaigns, identified the three outlets, the spokeswoman said.News Front is controlled by Russia's federal security service, the center found. New Eastern Outlook and Oriental Review are directed and controlled by the Russian foreign intelligence service.A fourth outlet, Rebel Inside, controlled by the Russian army, was also named by the center but is largely dormant, the spokeswoman said."The Department will continue to expose Russia’s nefarious activities online," she added. "We will also continue to work closely with our allies and partners to provide a global response to countering disinformation."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-disinformation-spread-by-russia-backed-outlets-says-us-101615164978030.html
08-03-2021||World||Hire more police officers, improve intelligence capability: Capitol riot review||US House members on Monday will receive closed-door briefings with details of a top-level review that calls for security improvements to prevent another breach of the Capitol.Briefings from the task force led by retired Army Lieutenant General Russel Honore will be given to members of both parties, a person familiar with the matter said.Recommendations in the draft report include hiring more Capitol Police officers, streamlining the force’s command structure, improving its intelligence capability, and upgrading fences and security surveillance. It even suggests restoring horse-mounted patrols to the Capitol complex that were disbanded in 2005.The report acknowledges “institutional challenges unique to securing the Capitol,” including “the inherent tension between public access and physical security.” The complex is currently ringed by miles of temporary fencing topped by razor wire.Word of the briefings came after House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy issued a statement critical of Honore, including a suggestion that he’d been chosen by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reach a desired result: “turning the Capitol into a fortress.”Pelosi said last week that she’d received Honore’s draft of an initial security review of the Capitol complex security in the wake of the Jan 6. assault by supporters of former President Donald Trump. “It’s going to take more money to protect the Capitol,” she said.The report says the breach showed “the need to immediately improve the security” of the Capitol complex and of members of Congress. Those proposals include:While the draft doesn’t name a price tag, Pelosi has said a supplemental appropriations bill will be needed to boost spending on Capitol security and that work on drafting the legislation has started.Pelosi commissioned Honore to lead the task force on Jan. 15, with a brief to look at security infrastructure, inter-agency processes, and command and control. She called him “a respected leader with experience dealing with crises.”Honore, 73, is credited with turning around the federal response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005. He has experience dealing with the interaction between military and civilian authorities and with security in the Washington area.Pelosi’s call for an independent commission has some bipartisan support, yet the effort risks getting tangled in the bitter aftermath of Trump’s impeachment by Democrats over the deadly assault.‘Political Bias’McCarthy, in his statement, questioned Honore’s “political bias because of statements he made before his review,” including an “inflammatory accusation that Capitol Police officers themselves were complicit in the attack.”“While there may be some worthy recommendations forthcoming, General Honore’s notorious partisan bias calls into question the rationality of appointing him to lead this important security review,” McCarthy said.Pelosi has called for an independent commission to investigate the Capitol insurrection, similar to one set up in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington. But an initial draft of a bill to create such a panel is entangled in partisan fights, including over how many seats each party would get on the commission.Fencing OptionsAside from a “robust Quick Reaction Force,” the Capitol also needs “a fully integrated system of obstacles, cameras, sensors, and alarms, around the complex,” according to the report. “The current, temporary security fence surrounds such a tremendous area that it requires significant personnel resources to monitor its entire length.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hire-more-police-officers-improve-intelligence-capability-capitol-riot-review-101615164458989.html
08-03-2021||World||Game of drones: Chinese giant DJI hit by US tensions, staff defections||Chinese drone giant DJI Technology Co Ltd built up such a successful US business over the past decade that it almost drove all competitors out of the market.Yet its North American operations have been hit by internal ructions in recent weeks and months, with a raft of staff cuts and departures, according to interviews with more than two dozen current and former employees.The loss of key managers, some of who have joined rivals, has compounded problems caused by US government restrictions on Chinese companies, and raised the once-remote prospect of DJI's dominance being eroded, said four of the people, including two senior executives who were at the company until late 2020.About a third of DJI's 200-strong team in the region was laid off or resigned last year, from offices in Palo Alto, Burbank and New York, according to three former and one current employee.In February this year, DJI's head of US R&D left and the company laid off the remaining R&D staff, numbering roughly 10 people, at its flagship U.S. research centre in California's Palo Alto, four people said.DJI, founded and run by billionaire Frank Wang, said it made the difficult decision to reduce staffing in Palo Alto to reflect the company's "evolving needs"."We thank the affected employees for their contributions and remain committed to our customers and partners," it said, adding that its North American sales were growing strongly."Despite misleading claims from competitors, our enterprise customers understand how DJI products provide robust data security. Despite gossip from anonymous sources, DJI is committed to serving the North American market."It did not comment on the other U.S. staff departures that current and ex-employees spoke of, although it told Reuters last year its global structure was becoming "unwieldy to manage".DJI, which has become a symbol of Chinese innovation since it was founded in 2006, is one of dozens of companies caught in the crossfire of trade and diplomatic hostilities between Washington and Beijing, like Huawei and Bytedance.Staff sources and competitors say the company's brand reach, technical know-how, manufacturing might and sales force mean it won't lose its crown anytime soon in the multi-billion-dollar US and global markets for non-military drones.But a December order adding the company to the U.S. Commerce Department's "Entity List" along with the closure of its R&D operation in California could affect its ability to serve the needs of U.S. customers, according to three former senior executives and two competitors.       The Commerce Department listing, enacted over allegations including DJI enabled "high-technology surveillance", prohibits the company from buying or using U.S. technology or components. The same month, Romeo Durscher, DJI's US-based head of public safety, who had played a central role in building the company's business in providing drone technology to non-military US government departments and agencies, left his job.Durscher, a former NASA project manager and an influential figure in the drone industry, now works at Swiss company Auterion, a competitor to DJI.He said he left DJI because he was disheartened by the staff cuts and what he described as internal power struggles between the US team and its China headquarters. He added that the US reorganisation complicated the task in dealing with the fallout from US-China tensions and winning government business."It's not an easy decision to leave the market leader that's really far ahead of everyone else," said Durscher, who joined DJI in 2014. "But those internal battles were distracting from the real purpose and in 2020 it got worse ... we lost tremendous talent at DJI and that's very unfortunate."US SECURITY CONCERNSPrivately held DJI doesn't publish sales figures. The US Department of Defense estimated the American non-military market was worth $4.2 billion last year. Consultancy DroneAnalyst said DJI controlled almost 90% of the consumer market in North America and over 70% of the industrial market.The December listing by the Commerce Department, and the prohibition on buying US parts, may impact the firm's mobile apps, web servers and some battery and imaging products, said David Benowitz, head of research at DroneAnalyst and a senior figure with DJI's enterprise team, which works with industrial customers, in Shenzhen before he left last summer.DJI said in December that the ban would not affect U.S. customers' ability to buy and use its products.The listing followed other official blows. In October, the U.S. Department of the Interior said it would only buy drones from companies okayed by the Department of Defense, which last August published a list of five approved drone suppliers to the federal government - four American and one French.DJI said there was no "broad-based U.S. government ban on purchasing DJI drones"."Congress considered that approach last year and rejected it, because ... such a ban would be challenging for many companies and government bodies that rely on drones," it added.'WE'RE STILL PRIMITIVE'Benowitz said persisting US-China tensions and the push by Washington to support DJI's rivals could see the company's North American market share decline. He added that, while the federal government comprised a relatively small part of DJI's business, its restrictions could have a "chilling effect", with other buyers worried about tougher measures in the future."We're at a point where there are too many market opportunities for one player to dominate," he said.Yet he added alternatives to DJI were relative minnows, though both policy support and security concerns over Chinese drones had brought them growth in the last year. Competitors to DJI include France's Parrot and California-based Skydio.Chris Roberts, CEO of Parrot Inc, Americas, said 2020 had been a significant year for the company in the United States, having been named an approved supplier by the Defense Department and won business from emergency services and security agencies.Skydio announced $170 million in D-round funding last week and said it had a valuation of over $1 billion.    "DJI makes good hardware but we are still very early in the market, and very primitive compared to what ultimately should exist," Skydio CEO Adam Bry told Reuters.PHANTOM DRONE FLEETSWhen Durscher joined DJI back in 2014, the company's Phantom series was transforming drones from a niche hobby to a mainstream gadget. He said he was particularly drawn by the chance to bring drones into the kit of fire and rescue departments.He said the technological advances of smaller rivals in the last year were tempting for some public-safety agencies, who might say "let's go with this drone now so we don't have to deal with the data security".He added that change could come as government departments and companies looked to replace drone fleets that are nearing the end of their life cycles.A fleet is typically expected to last three to four years, according to Benowitz.Durscher and several other staff compared DJI's internal rivalry over projects to "Game of Thrones", the TV series where rival factions vie for power. He said this resulted in a rotating door of Shenzhen bosses, and that he reported to 12 different managers in his six years at the company.Durscher's departure from DJI followed those of other key executives in North America last year, including director of business development Cynthia Huang.Huang, who now works with Durscher at Auterion, said job cuts over the past year were the main reason she decided to leave. The losses in Palo Alto, Burbank and New York had followed cuts made to DJI's global sales and marketing teams, which Reuters reported in August."Some of the people that we lost in those layoffs, it didn't make sense," said Huang, who was hired in 2018 to take the lead in building DJI's enterprise business in North America. "The continued exodus of talent was discouraging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/game-of-drones-chinese-giant-dji-hit-by-us-tensions-staff-defections-101615164112053.html
08-03-2021||World||Covid-19's impact could mean millions more child marriages: Unicef||The outsized impact Covid-19 has had on women in some countries could result in an additional 10 million child marriages in this decade, according to a new analysis released Monday by Unicef."School closures, economic stress, service disruptions, pregnancy and parental deaths due to the pandemic are putting the most vulnerable girls at increased risk of child marriage," said a study titled "Covid-19: A threat to progress against child marriage."That trend, if confirmed, would represent a serious retreat from recent years of progress against child marriage.In the last 10 years, according to the study, the proportion of young women globally who were married as children had declined by 15 percent, from nearly one in four to one in five.That progress "is now under threat," said the study, released on International Women's Day."Covid-19 has made an already difficult situation for millions of girls even worse," said Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore."Shuttered schools, isolation from friends and support networks, and rising poverty have added fuel to a fire the world was already struggling to put out."Girls who marry in childhood, the study said, are more likely to experience domestic violence and less likely to remain in school. They face an increased risk of early and unplanned pregnancy, and maternal complications and mortality.Isolation from family and friends can take "a heavy toll on their mental health."Meantime, pandemic-related travel restrictions and physical distancing have made it harder for girls "to access the health care, social services and community support that protect them from child marriage, unwanted pregnancy and gender-based violence," while making it more likely that they drop out of school.In addition, families facing economic hardship may seek to marry off their daughters to ease financial burdens.The report estimates that 650 million girls and women alive today were married in childhood, about half of them in Bangladesh, Brazil, Ethiopia, India or Nigeria.Fore called for countries to reopen schools, implement legal reforms, ensure access to health and social services while providing measures to protect families.By doing so, she said, "we can significantly reduce a girl's risk of having her childhood stolen through child marriage."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19s-impact-could-mean-millions-more-child-marriages-unicef-101615163679328.html
08-03-2021||World||'Totally constitutional', says China on altering Hong Kong's electoral reforms amid criticism||Despite worldwide condemnation of China for altering Hong Kong's electoral reforms, Beijing has justified its moves as "totally constitutional, lawful and justified".Addressing a press conference on Sunday on the sidelines of the fourth session of the 13th National People's Congress in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said that the move to "improve" Hong Kong's electoral system and ensuring "patriots administering Hong Kong" is justified."The reform is needed to implement 'patriots governing Hong Kong', and for advancing 'one country, two systems'...it is entirely constitutional, lawful and justified for the National People's Congress (NPC) to improve Hong Kong's electoral system and ensure "patriots administering Hong Kong," he said.He further said, "If a person does not love the country, how can he or she love Hong Kong? Loving Hong Kong and loving the country are entirely consistent...Hong Kong's transformation from chaos to peace is in the interest of all sides, and will offer stronger safeguards to protect Hong Kong residents' various rights and foreign investor's legal interests."On March 4, the National People's Congress in China announced that it would deliberate on amending the electoral system of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, according to a statement from the bloc dated Friday. A decision can be expected by March 11.Less than a year after imposing the draconian National Security Law, China has launched a legislative process for drastic electoral system reform in Hong Kong, which could benefit the pro-establishment camp and further smother the political opposition in the city.China has planned a fundamental overhaul of the city's normally contentious politics, the New York Times reported.Zhang Yesui, a senior Communist Party official, announced on Thursday that China's national legislature planned to rewrite election rules in Hong Kong to ensure that the territory was run by patriots, which Beijing defines as people loyal to the national government and the Communist Party.Zhang did not release the details of the proposal. But Lau Siu-kai, a senior adviser to the Chinese leadership on Hong Kong policy, has said the new approach is likely to call for the creation of a government agency to vet every candidate running not only for chief executive but for the legislature and other levels of office, including neighbourhood representatives.NYT also reported that the strategy will further concentrate power in the hands of the Communist Party in Hong Kong and decimate the political hopes of the territory's already beleaguered opposition for years to come.The new reforms come months after China passed the national security law to quash the resistance to its rule in Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/totally-constitutional-says-china-on-altering-hong-kong-s-electoral-reforms-amid-criticism-101615162732700.html
08-03-2021||World||China’s bullet train could become strategic concern for New Delhi||Tibet’s first high-speed train service between provincial capital Lhasa and Nyingchi near the border with Arunachal Pradesh will be operational by the end of June, a top official from China railways said on Saturday.The construction of the 435km-long high-speed train corridor, also the first electrified railroad in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) linking the two cities, began in 2014, Lu Dongfu, chairperson of China State Railway Group Company and a deputy to the National People’s Congress (NPC), said on the sidelines of the ongoing annual session of China’s rubber-stamp parliament.The new high-speed rail connection is part of China’s ambitious plan of expanding connectivity across TAR, especially along border areas with India. Nyingchi is located less than 50km from the border with Arunachal Pradesh.China claims the entire Indian state as part of south Tibet and has been rapidly developing infrastructure in the remote area of Nyingchi, which, like the rest of TAR, is not accessible to foreign journalists and diplomats.For example, China is building the Sichuan-Tibet railway’s Ya’an-Nyingchi section, which will be 1,011km in length and include 26 stations when completed — this will take Chinese railways right up to the disputed boundary with India.Last November, Chinese President Xi Jinping identified the Ya’an-Nyingchi railway project as a major measure in facilitating the Communist Party of China’s general plan for governing Tibet in the new era, and stressed the project’s important role in safeguarding national unity, promoting ethnic solidarity and consolidating stability in border areas.“The project would significantly contribute to the economic and social development of the western region, especially in Sichuan province and TAR,” Xi said in November.The Sichuan-Tibet railway starts from Chengdu, capital of Sichuan province, travels through Ya’an and enters Tibet via Qamdo, shortening the journey from Chengdu to Lhasa from 48 hours to 13 hours.On Saturday, talking about the first high-speed network, Chinese railway official Lu Dongfu said the track-laying work was completed by the end of 2020.“The railway has a designed speed of 160km per hour, according to its constructor Tibet Railway Construction Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of China State Railway Group,” official news agency Xinhua said in a report.“China aims to extend the total length in operation (of high speed trains) to around 50,000km by 2025, up from 37,900km by the end of 2020,” Lu said.The high-speed railway network will cover 98% of cities with over 500,000 residents, he added.China’s self-developed Fuxing trains now operate at a speed range of 160kmph to 350kmph.By the end of last year, 1,036 Fuxing or “electrical multiple units” (EMU) had run a total of 836 million km and carried 827 million passengers since 2007, when the first bullet train became operational.Under a national blueprint, quoted by state media, China will extend the total length of its rail system to 200,000km and its high-speed rail system to 70,000km by 2035.China is also planning to build a “passageway” connecting Tibet to south Asia, according to the draft outline of the 14th Five-Year Plan (FYP) unveiled on Friday.A brief report published by the official news agency Xinhua said the central government will support TAR to build the passageway. The 14th FYP is part of China’s long-range objectives it envisages until 2035.China’s Tibet Autonomous Region will be supported to build an important passageway opening to South Asia, according to the draft outline of the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025) for national economic and social development and the long-range objectives through the year 2035, which was unveiled Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-bullet-train-could-become-strategic-concern-for-new-delhi-101615152702066.html
08-03-2021||World||Switzerland referendum: People vote to ban full face coverings in public places||Switzerland on Sunday (local time) narrowly voted in favour of banning full facial coverings including the niqab and burqa in almost all public places. As many as 51.21 per cent of voters voted in support of the controversial proposal in the referendum.According to CNN, the approval by voters means that facial covering will be banned in all publicly accessible places, including on the streets, in public offices, on public transport, in restaurants, shops and in the countryside.The places where the full facial coverings will be allowed include places of worship and other sacred sites. Besides, it will be allowed for health and safety reasons and also in situations where it is "local custom" such as carnivals.There will be no additional exceptions, for example for tourists, according to the proposal by the Swiss federal government.According to CNN, the proposal, put forward by several groups including the right-wing Swiss People's Party, does not mention Islam specifically but has been widely referred to as the "burqa ban" in Swiss media.The proposal has been widely criticised, especially by the Swiss religious organizations, human rights and civic groups and the federal government.According to the Swiss Council of Religions, which represents all major religious communities in Switzerland, has stated the human right to religious freedom also protects religious practices such as dress codes.The Swiss Federal Council, which serves as the country's federal government, and the Swiss Parliament also rejected the initiative as going too far and advised people to vote against it, CNN reported.France was the first country in Europe to ban burqas and niqabs in public places in 2011 and the European Court of Human Rights upheld the ban in 2014.In Switzerland, the referendum has come after years of debates. Twelve years ago another referendum had come that outlawed the construction of minarets in Switzerland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/swiss-agree-to-outlaw-facial-coverings-in-burqa-ban-vote-101615139201663.html
08-03-2021||India||After almost 25 years, women deployed aboard Indian warships||The Indian Navy has deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years, with the service focusing on steadily opening more roles to them, people familiar with the development said on Monday.India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and fleet tanker INS Shakti are the warships that have been assigned their first women crews since the late-1990s, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. In a short-lived experiment, women from the navy’s logistics and medical branches were deployed on fleet tanker INS Jyoti in 1997.“Two women officers each have been assigned duties aboard INS Vikramaditya and INS Shakti. The numbers will only increase in the coming years with future warships having separate berthing facilities for women,” said a second official.While the aircraft carrier now has a woman air traffic controller and a logistics officer, the tanker’s crew includes a woman doctor and a logistics officer, he said.While Lieutenant Commander Priyanka Chaudhary and Lieutenant Sivi Bhardwaj are carrying out duties aboard INS Vikramaditya, Lieutenant Commander Tanisha Chakraborty and Surgeon Lieutenant Hannah Jane Thavapandian are serving aboard INS Shakti.“More roles being opened to women in the military is a natural progression. We are inching towards having women serve in every branch of the armed forces,” said Wing Commander Anupama Joshi (retd), from the first batch of women officers commissioned into the IAF in the early 1990s.Excluding the medical wing in which women have served for decades, the navy accounts for 704 women officers who form 6.5% of the overall officer cadre. To mark Women’s Day, the navy on Monday released a video shot aboard INS Shakti with messages from the two women officers posted on the tanker.“They say women can’t have it all. But I would say dare to be different. The Indian Navy gave me the opportunity to be different and to dare,” said Lieutenant Commander Tanisha Chakraborty, a logistics officer aboard INS Shakti.The navy has progressively opened more roles to women over recent years.Last September, the navy announced that two women officers selected for the helicopter stream were set to become the first women in the navy’s history to operate from flight decks of warships and stay on board the vessels.The two lady officers - Sub-Lieutenants Kumudini Tyagi and Riti Singh - were among the 17 officers who were awarded wings on graduating as observers at a ceremony held in Kochi. As observers, the two women have been trained for a variety of roles including navigation, flying procedures, tactics employed in air warfare, anti-submarine warfare and airborne avionic systems. They are likely to be posted on warships by the year-end, said the second officials.They will serve on board maritime reconnaissance and anti-submarine warfare helicopters of the navy - currently Sea King choppers and later on MH-60R helicopters being bought from the United States.In 2019, Sub-Lieutenant Shivangi carved a place for herself in naval aviation history by becoming the first woman pilot in the navy.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace, latest government figures show.There are 9,118 women currently serving in the army, navy and air force, with the services giving them more opportunities to boost career progression, the government told Parliament last month.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when the IAF decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-almost-25-years-women-deployed-aboard-indian-warships-101615227027873.html
08-03-2021||India||Best role played by anyone during pandemic that of mothers: Education Minister||On the occasion of International Women's Day, Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Monday highlighted the importance of women leaders during the Covid-19 pandemic by saying that the best role played by anyone at such times is that of "mothers.""The best role played by anyone in a pandemic is that of mothers," the Union Minister said at a webinar on International Women's Day today.The Minister also said that women are performing exceedingly well in science, technology, research, literature and social services showcasing the highest quality of leadership potential.Hailing the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020, Pokhriyal said that it has the potential to enhance the dignity of women in our society and empower them and appreciated the fact that women enrolment has increased in IITs and NITs.While Sanjay Dhotre, Minister of State for Education stated that the celebration of the contributions made by women and girls should not be restricted to just one day."The role of women in maintaining health, immunity, hygiene, sanitation of their family members during the pandemic. The 'Gender-Inclusion Fund' in the NEP will be constituted to build the nation's capacity to provide equitable quality education for all girls," Dhotre said.Speaking on the occasion, DP Singh, Chairman of UGC observed that the theme of the webinar "Women Leadership- Achieving an equal future in a -19 world" has been announced by UNDP and is also aligned with the priority theme of the 65th Session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women.He highlighted the flagship Generation Equality campaign of the UN which calls for women's right to decision making in all areas of life, equal pay, equal sharing of unpaid care and domestic work, an end to all forms of violence against women and girls, and health care services that respond to their needs.Anita Karwal, Secretary, School Education mentioned the Gross Happiness Index of the World, 2018 in which freedom to make your own choices is one of the parameters for assessing Gross Happiness."If women play an important role in decision making, the Gross Happiness Index would go up. Unless there is access to resources and power to make choices women cannot progress," she said.Amit Khare, Secretary, Higher Education said that with the combined efforts of the Ministry of Education, Women and Child Environment, and the States the Gender Parity Index has increased during the last 4-5 years from 1% to 1.01% at present, which is a commendable achievement also appreciated by UNESCO.This implies that the percentage of girl students is more than boys in higher education.Women of four universities, Prof Najma Akhtar, Vice-Chancellors, Jamia Millia Islamia(JMI), Prof. Sushma Yadav, Vice-Chancellor, Bhagat Phul Singh (BPS) Women's University, Prof. Balwinder Shukla, Vice-Chancellor Amity University, Noida and Prof. Shalini Bharat, Director, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) also spoke at the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-role-played-by-anyone-during-pandemic-that-of-mothers-education-minister-101615223259319.html
08-03-2021||India||Centre will abide by Speakers’ decision: Union minister on curtailment of Parliament session||Union minister for parliamentary affairs Prahlad Joshi said on Monday the government is ready to abide by the decision of the Speakers regarding the issue of cutting short the ongoing session of Parliament over the upcoming assembly elections. “Over 100 MPs have requested and some have met the Speaker regarding the curtailment of the ongoing Parliament session ahead of the assembly polls. Whatever decision is taken by the Speaker and chairman, the government is ready for both,” news agency ANI quoted Joshi as saying.The minister made the comments amidst multiple parties demanding a curtailment of the Parliament session because of the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam. The second part of Parliament’s Budget Session began on Monday and is scheduled to complete by April 8. Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Sitaram Yechury said on March 4 that his party would seek for the rescheduling of Parliament’s session citing state assembly polls, news agency PTI reported.Also read | Parliament to return to regular morning schedule after nearly a yearTrinamool Congress leaders Derek O'Brien and Sudip Bandyopadhyay asked M Venkaiah Naidu, the chairman of the Upper House and vice president, to adjourn the ongoing Budget Session. However, three opposition parties - the Biju Janata Dal (BJD), the Shiv Sena and the Samajwadi Party - have denied supporting the TMC’s demand, according to reports by ANI.Both Houses of Parliament announced on Monday that the sessions will resume as per normal schedule, according to a news report from ANI. The Houses were functioning under curtailed hours because of the Covid-19 pandemic.“On the request from many members from various parties, the Chairman has decided that from Tuesday, the sitting of Rajya Sabha will commence from 11am till 6pm as usual timings of the House. Members will sit in the Rajya Sabha and gallery,” Vandana Chavan, who chaired the Rajya Sabha on Monday, was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-will-abide-by-speakers-decision-union-minister-on-curtailment-of-parliament-session-101615222218634.html
08-03-2021||India||Justice delivery system should not be to fulfill personal vendetta: SC||New Delhi, Mar 8 (PTI) Justice delivery system should not be used as a tool to “fulfil personal vendetta” and curtailing frivolous litigations is a crucial step towards a more effective justice system which is plagued with backlogs with 70 per cent pendency in subordinate courts being on criminal side, observed the Supreme Court on Monday.The apex court, which also observed that frivolous litigation should not become the order of the day in the country, said that a falsely accused person not only suffers monetary damages but is exposed to disrepute and stigma from society.It said trial courts have the duty to nip frivolous litigations in the bud even before they reach the stage of trial by discharging the accused in fit cases.”“A significant factor in this backlog is the vast mass of frivolous litigation instituted year after year by litigants with an intent to use the courts of justice for their own mischievous ends” a bench of Justices M M Shantanagoudar and R S Reddy said.“Curtailing such vexatious litigation is, thus, a crucial step towards a more effective justice system - a step that cannot be taken without the active involvement of the lower judiciary, especially in criminal proceedings,” it said while noting that justice dispensation machinery in India is plagued with backlogs, with 70 per cent of pendency before the subordinate courts being on the criminal side.The bench said this in its judgement while quashing the litigation between two parties initiated by them arising out of an incident in August 2012.The top court observed that the trial judge has a duty under the Constitution and the CrPC to identify and dispose of frivolous litigation at an early stage by exercising, substantially and to the fullest extent, the powers conferred on him.“Frivolous litigation should not become the order of the day in India. From misusing the public interest litigation jurisdiction of the Indian courts to abusing the criminal procedure for harassing their adversaries, the justice delivery system should not be used as a tool to fulfil personal vendetta. The Indian judiciary has taken cognizance of this issue,” the bench said.It referred to an 2014 order of the top court in which it had observed about the plight of a litigant caught in frivolous proceedings.“We note, with regret, that seven years hence, and there has still been no reduction in such plight,” it said, adding, “A falsely accused person not only suffers monetary damages but is exposed to disrepute and stigma from society. While running from pillar to post to find a lawyer to represent his case and arranging finances to defend himself before the court of law, he loses a part of himself.”It said that trial courts and magistrates have an important role in curbing this injustice and they are the first lines of defence for both the integrity of the criminal justice system and the harassed and distraught litigant.“We are of the considered opinion that the trial courts have the power to not merely decide on acquittal or conviction of the accused person after the trial, but also the duty to nip frivolous litigations in the bud even before they reach the stage of trial by discharging the accused in fit cases,” it said.“This would not only save judicial time that comes at the cost of public money, but would also protect the right to liberty that every person is entitled to under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the bench said.It further said, “Thus, it would be only proper for this court to deny any relief to a litigant who attempts to pollute the stream of justice by coming to it with his unclean hands. Similarly, a litigant pursuing frivolous and vexatious proceedings cant claim unlimited right upon court time and public money to achieve his ends.”The top court noted it is said that every trial is a voyage of discovery in which the truth is the quest.“In India, typically, the judge is not actively involved in ‘fact ­finding’ owing to the adversarial nature of our justice system,” it said.Referring to section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872, which deals with judge's power to put questions or order production, the bench said this wide-­ranging power further demonstrates the central role played by the magistrate in the quest for justice and truth in criminal proceedings and must be judiciously employed to stem the flow of frivolous litigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-delivery-system-should-not-be-to-fulfill-personal-vendetta-sc-101615220979759.html
08-03-2021||India||Six labourers killed as school boundary wall collapses in Bihar’s Khagaria||At least six people were killed and six others seriously injured on Monday when the boundary wall of a high school collapsed in Bihar's Khagaria district, police said.The incident took place at Chandi Tola area under the jurisdiction of Maheshkhunt police station. The tragedy reportedly took place when an excavator was digging a drain near the boundary wall of the school.An eyewitness said the six-foot deep drain was being constructed without any proper planning. He alleged that the wall of the school was damaged due to the excavation and it collapsed trapping labourers working at the site.Police said that the injured were rushed to a local hospital and their condition was said to be serious.Satrunjay Mishra , the district magistrate in-charge, said the incident showed the negligence of the construction company.“Around 4.30pm a wall of the school suddenly collapsed. There was a loud sound and about 12 labourers got trapped under the debris”, said Mishra, adding that during the rescue operation, the bodies of the six labourers were pulled out. Six other labourers who were injured, were rushed to a hospital.Following the incident, the state government announced a probe into the incident and possible action against those responsible for the wall collapse. The government sought detailed enquiry from the administration. The police is expected to book the contractor for causing death by negligence and causing hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others.Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident and ordered compensation of ₹4 lakh for the families of each of the deceased. Irate over the incident, locals blocked the road, shouted slogans against the administration and demanded government jobs for the next of kin of the deceased. They also blamed the contractor for the incident.The school wall was reportedly constructed by MLA Panna Lal Patel while the drain was being constructed under the panchayat samiti scheme.In another incident in Kishanganj, three sisters were killed when a motorcycle they were travelling on was hit by a dumper on Thakurganj-Kharudh Road on Monday morning, police said.The locals chased the vehicle driver and handed him over to police after mercilessly thrashing him. Four people who were on the motorcycle were taken to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared three of them dead on arrival, Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said. The bike rider is said to be critically injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-labourers-killed-as-school-boundary-wall-collapses-in-bihar-s-khagaria-101615221961805.html
08-03-2021||India||Iran rejects allegations linking it to blast outside Israeli embassy||Iran on Monday rejected what it said were allegations about the involvement of Iranian entities in the January 29 low-intensity blast outside the Israeli embassy in New Delhi and said it was ready to cooperate with Indian authorities in the investigation into the incident.A statement issued by the Iranian embassy said the “suspicious blast” in January had led to “an unfair onslaught and unsubstantiated defamatory accusations against Iran”. The statement also sought to link the incident to what were described as the “enemies of India-Iran relations”.The statement was issued after Hindustan Times reported on Monday that India’s central counter-terrorism agencies had drawn up a list of suspects connected to the blast using an improvised explosive device (IED), with investigations pointing to the Iranian Quds Force being behind the terror plot though the bomb was planted by an Indian Shia module.Quds Force is a key part of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Following the blast, Indian security agencies recovered a letter addressed to the Israeli ambassador that swore revenge for Quds Force creator Qassem Soleimani and Abu Mehdhi Al Muhandis, both killed in a US drone attack in Baghdad in January 2020, and Iranian nuclear physicist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who was targeted in a car bombing last November.The statement did not refer to the HT report but rejected any Iranian involvement in the blast. It said the Iranian embassy condemns any act which leads to intimidation and fear, disruption of order and security, and jeopardises the lives and property of innocent people.“While respecting the honourable government and authorities of India in their endeavour to thoroughly investigate and probe into the above-mentioned incident in order to identify the orchestrators of such actions and to bring them to justice, this embassy strongly repudiates any unsubstantiated allegations or irresponsible comments in this regard and considers them as steps towards realising the sinister intentions of the enemies of Iran-India relations,” the statement said.Iranian authorities have “always expressed their readiness to cooperate with the Indian friends in order to unravel the wicked intentions of the spoilers of bilateral relations”, it added.The statement further pointed to the boosting of “long-standing and cordial relations” between Iran and India in all domains, “including in the form of exchange of the two countries’ high ranking political, economic, security and defence delegations” and sought to question who would gain from the blast.“Is the presumption that this act must have been conducted by third parties who are angry and dissatisfied with the progress in the relations between the governments of Iran and India illogical?” the statement said.“We expect all the media and commentators not to fall into the traps and thereby unknowingly enforce the scenarios conspired by third parties whose intention and interest is nothing but to deteriorate the growing Iran-India relations,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iran-rejects-allegations-linking-it-to-blast-outside-israeli-embassy-101615220269862.html
08-03-2021||India||‘Behave humanely with Rohingyas’, Farooq Abdullah tells Centre||National Conference president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Dr Farooq Abdullah on Monday advised the Centre to behave humanely with Rohingya immigrants from Myanmar who are now under the government scanner.The Jammu and Kashmir administration during a verification drive on Saturday sent 169 illegal immigrant Rohingyas to a ‘holding centre’ after they were found without valid travel documents.The verification drive tapered off on Sunday and there was no activity on Monday although authorities refused to come on record on the reasons behind it.India has not ratified the 1951 UN Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol to that Convention. Consequently, it can pick and choose the types of refugees it will accept or rejectBuddhists from Tibet, fleeing China’s persecution, have been welcomed in India but Rohingyas fleeing from religious persecution in Myanmar are generally denied entry into India.Responding to media queries after addressing a party convention on the occasion of international women’s day, Dr Abdullah said, “We know about Burma and the situation there. We all know what their army is doing there. There is a UN refugee charter to which India is also a signatory. We should accept it and work on it and behave humanely on the issue”.On a one year extension to the delimitation commission for assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, he said, “Whether elections are held or not, we have prepared for them.”Asked whether he will campaign for the Congress in the upcoming elections in four states and a union territory, he said that he doesn’t have time for campaigning.On speculations over Ghulam Nabi Azad after retirement from the Rajya Sabha and G23 meeting in Jammu recently, he said, “Azad was, is and will remain a Congressman. The Prime Minister didn’t try to bring him in the BJP but praised him for his humanity exhibited during a terror attack on a bus of Amarnath pilgrims from Gujarat in 2007.”Earlier, during his address to the audience at party headquarters, the National Conference chief pointed out that terrorism hasn’t ended although the Centre had claimed that it would after the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A which granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir.“People are now losing their land due to the abrogation of Article 370. They said that terrorism will end. Has it ended? Even today after more than one and half years of abrogating Article 370 people are being killed .. two policemen were killed in Srinagar. They were Muslims but a terrorist has no religion.”The People's Democratic Party (PDP) has also asked the administration to treat the Rohingyas in the context of a humanitarian crisis."The index of the country on the humanitarian and social acceptance front has already suffered a setback at the international level. The issue of Rohingyas should be seen in the context of a humanitarian crisis rather than taking it as an issue of religious belief. The administration must act cautiously while keeping in mind the sufferings and trauma these refugees have faced back in their own country forcing them to flee for a safe refuge in India," said PDP spokesperson and former MLC Firdous Tak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behave-humanely-with-rohingyas-farooq-abdullah-tells-centre-101615217675761.html
08-03-2021||India||Inter-state boundary talks with Assam after election: Meghalaya CM Sangma||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Monday said there was no inter-state boundary talks with Assam due to Covid-19 pandemic but assured that his government will pursue the matter with the new government after the election in that state.Sangma, who was speaking in the House, informed that several development projects undertaken by both governments at the disputed areas have been stopped.He assured to look into the demand by Opposition members to stop the alleged illegal construction of a transit camp by the Assam government at Khanapara in the border district of Ri Bhoi in Meghalaya.Last year in January February we had communicated to the Assam government that we need to meet to discuss the border issue at the chief ministers level. The verbal communication with the chief minister of Assam during that time was that we should meet sometime during April last year," the chief minister told the Assembly during a short duration discussion initiated by Opposition MLA M Syiem.But beacuse of the pandemic the talks could not take place at those points of time, he said.Now Assam is facing election so only when the new government is installed we will pursue this matter to take the discussion forward to see how we can find an amicable solution to this problem, Sangma said.On the opposition's demand to stop the alleged illegal construction of a transit camp in Ri Bhoi district, he assured that necessary steps will be taken to discuss the issue with the Assam Government and to figure out how such incidents don't take place in future.The Ri Bhoi deputy commissioner had submitted a detailed report on this issue on February 25 and had written to her counterpart in Assam to intervene and stop the construction of the transit camp and that it be kept in abeyance.If it cannot be resolved at that level, it can scaled up to nodal officers and then to the chief secretary level. Therefore, there is a process that is followed, he said.On development schemes under the inter-state border development programme, Sangma said the programme has a very small budget of ₹3-4 crore for the entire state, which translates to ₹30 lakh to ₹40 lakh for the different constituencies along the border.All line departments like PHE, PWD, education and tourism departments implement the programmes for the development of the border districts, he said.Sangma also told the house that several development projects undertaken by both state governments at the disputed areas have been stopped. Meghalaya had stopped 16 developmental works undertaken by Assam, while four such works initiated by Meghalaya was stopped by Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interstate-boundary-talks-with-assam-after-election-meghalaya-cm-sangma-101615216863912.html
08-03-2021||India||Supreme Court stays demolition of Dargah Mubarak Khan Shaheed in Gorakhpur||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered a stay on any further demolition of the Dargah Mubarak Khan Shaheed in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur till the pending proceedings under the Uttar Pradesh Public Premises Act, 1972, have been disposed of. "In the meantime, further demolition is restrained till disposal of the proceedings pending under the Uttar Pradesh Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1972," the top court’s order read.The stay on the demolition comes as the court was orally informed by the petitioner—Dargah Mubarak Khan Shaheed—that it had received a letter dated March 8 from the secretary of the Gorakhpur Development Authority (GDA) requesting the city’s superintendent of police to deploy a force and begin the demolition work from Tuesday, reported LiveLaw.The division bench, comprising Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Krishna Murari, have also issued notice to the state in the issue. The special leave petition on the behalf of Dargah Mubarak Khan Shaheed has been filed against Allahabad High Court judgement of February 10, which dismissed the petitioner's request of declaring the demolition as void and prohibited authorities for further demolition, as reported by LiveLaw.The petitioner in the plea has said that the idgah has a tomb of Saint Mubarak Khan Shaheed and a mosque on the southern side of the tomb, which has been there for a long time and was used for prayers and festivities. According to the petitioner, the use of the properties was in 1959 disturbed by the principal of Government Normal School after which egress and ingress were stopped, leading to the filing of a suit before munsif's court. One of the relief sought that time against the defendants, including the Uttar Pradesh state and Gorakhpur collector, was to open the eastern gate of the Brijman compound for the egress and ingress. The suit went in the plaintiff's favour, LiveLaw cited the petitioner as saying.Also Read | No major report of discordant results reported by Covid-19 testing labs: GovtThe plea said that the trial court in its order has said that Muslims and the plaintiff have the right to use the land near the mosque and idgah for offering prayers sans any interference. However, a show-cause notice was later issued to the alleged unauthorised occupants, including the petitioner, to state why the eviction order cannot be passed, after the sub-divisional officer in an order in June 2019 proposed to initiate proceedings under section 4 of the UP Public Premises Act 1972 and asked the Subordinate Revenue Authorities to enquire and make a report on the matter.The plea also claimed that the Gorakhpur Development Authority without any notice to the petitioner began the demolition work and treated its possession as unauthorised. The authority after the demolition of a part of the property also asked the petitioner to produce another document to prove its right even after referring to the trial court order of 1963. The petitioner had then filed an application before the sub-divisional officer, LiveLaw cited the plea.The plea, as LiveLaw said, also had the mention of the appeal to Allahabad High Court for quashing the demolition. The high court had ordered the stay on demolition till next hearing, however, through its impugned order of February 10, had dismissed the case stating that in pith and substance the petitioner wants the execution of judgement and decree of the trial court order dated September 1963. The high court said the remedy for the petitioner is to file a civil suit for the grant of injunction or file for the execution of the decree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-demolition-of-dargah-mubarak-khan-shaheed-in-gorakhpur-101615212329783.html
08-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Dhinakaran's AMMK allots 3 seats to Owaisi's AIMIM in TN assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Dhinakaran’s AMMK allots 3 seats to Owaisi’s AIMIM for Tamil Nadu pollsAmma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran on Monday announced his party’s alliance with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and allotted three seats for the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Read more'India wins without him as well': Ganguly hails India's bench strength, lauds Rahul Dravid's role as NCA chiefFormer India captain Sourav Ganguly is impressed with India's bench strength, and for that, he has credited his former teammate Rahul Dravid for performing his role as National Cricket Academy chief with utmost dedication. Read moreVarun Dhawan shares unseen photo with wife Natasha Dalal on Women's Day: 'Bharatiya naari sab pe bhaari'Varun Dhawan is celebrating the women in his life on International Women’s Day. He shared adorable photos with wife Natasha Dalal, mother Laali Dhawan, sister-in-law Jaanvi Desai and niece Niyara on the occasion. Read more‘PM Modi will soon name country after himself’: Mamata Banerjee lashes outWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and accused him of lying to the people of the state. ‘BJP leaders come to Bengal only during elections and spread canards and lies. He is lecturing us on women’s safety. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-dhinakaran-s-ammk-allots-3-seats-to-owaisi-s-aimim-in-tn-assembly-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101615216054753.html
08-03-2021||India||Unicef report on child marriages has a stark warning for India, 4 more countries||Five countries, including India, accounted for about half of the world’s girls who were married before the age of 18, a report released by the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (Unicef) said on Monday. The report, ‘Covid-19: A threat to progress against child marriage’, released on International Women’s Day estimated that 650 million girls and women alive today got married in childhood and about half of them are in Bangladesh, Brazil, Ethiopia, India and Nigeria. “In the last ten years, the proportion of young women globally who were married as children had decreased by 15 per cent, from nearly 1 in 4 to 1 in 5, the equivalent of some 25 million marriages averted, a gain that is now under threat,” it also said.Read more: Closure of 1.5mn schools impacted 247mn children in India: Unicef studyThe United Nations agency said that the levels of child marriage were highest in sub-Saharan Africa, where 35 per cent of young women were married before the age of 18 which was followed by South Asia, where nearly 30 per cent of women were married before they turned 18. Latin America and the Caribbean had about 24 per cent of child marriages and the Middle East and North Africa had 17 per cent of child marriages. Eastern Europe and Central Asia had about 12 per cent of child marriages according to the report.Impact of Covid-19The report said that closing of schools, economic stress, parental deaths and pregnancies due to the coronavirus pandemic could increase the risk of child marriage.Read more: '375 mn Indian children may suffer due to Covid-19 pandemic': CSE report“Covid-19 has made an already difficult situation for millions of girls even worse. Shuttered schools, isolation from friends and support networks, and rising poverty have added fuel to a fire the world was already struggling to put out. But we can and we must extinguish child marriage,” Unicef’s executive director Henrietta Fore said.Situation before the pandemicAt least 100 million girls were at risk of child marriage in the next decade even before the pandemic. But, according to Unicef, the proportion of young women who were married as children had decreased by 15 per cent in the last 10 years globally and that the equivalent of around 25 million marriages had been averted in that period. “Through the Sustainable Development Goals, the world committed to ending child marriage by 2030. This obligation extends to the 10 million girls whose futures are now in jeopardy along with the 100 million girls at risk of becoming child brides before the pandemic began,” the report said.Read more: School shut, digital divide: How Covid upended educationSolutions to the problemFore advised countries to take action and implement effective laws and practices while ensuring access to health as well as social services. Fore also recommended reopening schools that were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic and also providing comprehensive social protection measures for families. By taking these steps, Fore added that “we can significantly reduce a girl’s risk of having her childhood stolen through child marriage”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unicef-report-on-child-marriages-has-a-stark-warning-for-india-4-more-countries-101615214746930.html
08-03-2021||India||International Women's Day: Thanks to liquor ban, women safe in Gujarat, says CM Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday said women were safe in the state because of total prohibition on liquor here.While addressing the Assembly on Monday, Rupani said any relaxation in these restrictions would jeopardize the security of women."Women's safety and security is the responsibility of the government. Since liquor is a social evil, we never gave any relaxation in the prohibition policy. The day we give relaxations, women will no longer be safe," Rupani told the House on the occasion of International Women's Day."Thanks to our liquor prohibition policy, women are able to travel alone at night without any fear," he added.Unlike other countries where Women's Day celebrations are a one-day affair, respecting women as the manifestation of strength is a part of Indian culture, he said.Though Gujarat has implemented 33 per cent reservation for women in police recruitment and 50 per cent reservation in local bodies like district panchayats and civic corporations, "it is desirable that more women are elected to the Assembly", the CM said.There are 13 women MLAs in the 182-member Assembly.Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel informed the House that these 13 women MLAs will get an additional grant of ₹1 crore for construction and repairing of roads in their constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-women-s-day-thanks-to-liquor-ban-women-safe-in-gujarat-says-cm-rupani-101615215627796.html
08-03-2021||India||Tripura royal scion’s party to go it alone in tribal council polls||Two weeks after forging alliance with ruling BJP's ally Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), Tripura royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma on Monday announced that his party, Tripura Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance (TIPRA), would go it alone in the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls.Hc"The IPFT didn't consult with TIPRA before fielding their candidates for the polls. We think that the alliance with them will not continue," Pradyot told the mediapersons today.No reaction from the IPFT has been made available.He added that another local indigenous political party Tripura People's Front (TPF) has merged with TIPRA. Earlier, two other indigenous political parties, Tipraland State Party ( TSP) and the Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) had merged with it.The IPFT along with the BJP formed government in 2018 for the first time after ousting more than two decades old Marxist government. Out of 44 seats, the IPFT won eight seats.The TTAADC polls would be conducted on April 4. It has 30 seats out of which 28 are elected while two are nominated.A total of 8,65,041 people including 4,36,548 males and 4,28,490 females would exercise their franchise.The candidates can file their nominations by March 12 while scrutiny of the nomination papers would be done on March 15.The final date for withdrawal of the nominations has been fixed on March 17. Results of the polls would be announced on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-royal-scion-s-party-to-go-it-alone-in-tribal-council-polls-101615216147212.html
08-03-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind presents Baton of Honor to Kiran Bedi||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday presented a baton of honour and a letter of appreciation to former Puducherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi at Rashtrapati Bhavan.Kiran Bedi received a Baton of Honor decorated with the emblem of the Indian Republic and a letter of appreciation from President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan.The former Puducherry lieutenant governor received a Baton of Honor decorated with the emblem of the Indian Republic and the appreciation letter recognizing her service in the Union Territory of Puducherry.Kiran Bedi was removed as the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry on February 16 by the President of India and Tamilisai Soundararajan took additional charge as the Lieutenant Governor on February 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-presents-baton-of-honor-to-kiran-bedi-101615214470277.html
08-03-2021||India||Government says no major report of discordant results reported by Covid-19 testing labs yet||Till now no "major report of discordant test results" has been reported by COVID-19 testing laboratories, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told Rajya Sabha on February 9.It was inadvertently reported as a reply given on March 8.He was responding to a question on whether capping the price of COVID-19 tests has forced several labs to use relatively inexpensive kits raising the risk of false negative and compromising data.Keeping in view fast tracking of approval of test kits, increasing indigenous manufacturing, inclusion of alternative platforms like CBNAAT and GeneXperts, improved market availability at competitive prices, the Union health ministry has advised state governments and union territory (UT) administrations to negotiate with private labs and fix mutually agreeable prices for COVID-19 testing, Choubey said.Fixing price of diagnostic products for COVID-19 is therefore being undertaken by states and UTs, he said in a written reply.To ensure the quality of test kits, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) undertakes validation of diagnostic kits and provides reports to kit manufacturers, which is used for marketing authorisation, the minister said.In addition, for RT-PCR testing, the ICMR under the "Inter Laboratory Quality Control for molecular based testing laboratories for COVID-19" has identified quality control (QC) laboratories in each state and UT and mapped private testing labs to different QC labs."All testing labs need to liaise with the recommended QC labs and will ensure regular participation in QC activiTill now no "major report of discordant test results" has been reported by Covid-19 testing laboratories, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told Rajya Sabha on February 9.It was inadvertently reported as a reply given on March 8.He was responding to a question on whether capping the price of Covid-19 tests has forced several labs to use relatively inexpensive kits raising the risk of false negative and compromising data.Keeping in view fast tracking of approval of test kits, increasing indigenous manufacturing, inclusion of alternative platforms like CBNAAT and GeneXperts, improved market availability at competitive prices, the Union health ministry has advised state governments and union territory (UT) administrations to negotiate with private labs and fix mutually agreeable prices for Covid-19 testing, Choubey said.Fixing price of diagnostic products for Covid-19 is therefore being undertaken by states and UTs, he said in a written reply.To ensure the quality of test kits, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) undertakes validation of diagnostic kits and provides reports to kit manufacturers, which is used for marketing authorisation, the minister said.In addition, for RT-PCR testing, the ICMR under the "Inter Laboratory Quality Control for molecular based testing laboratories for Covid-19" has identified quality control (QC) laboratories in each state and UT and mapped private testing labs to different QC labs."All testing labs need to liaise with the recommended QC labs and will ensure regular participation in QC activity. Till now no major report of discordant test results has been reported by the participating Covid-19 testing laboratories," Choubey said in his reply.In addition, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization grants "manufacturing/import licenses for diagnostic kits, under the provisions of Medical Device Rules, 2017, to ensure quality, safety and performance of the products", he said.ty. Till now no major report of discordant test results has been reported by the participating COVID-19 testing laboratories," Choubey said in his reply.In addition, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization grants "manufacturing/import licenses for diagnostic kits, under the provisions of Medical Device Rules, 2017, to ensure quality, safety and performance of the products", he said. PTI PLB ANB ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-no-major-report-of-discordant-results-reported-by-covid-19-testing-labs-yet-101615215682772.html
08-03-2021||India||Issues in Co-WIN, vaccine hesitancy caused low Covid-19 vaccination coverage initially, says Government||At the start of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, fewer beneficiaries than planned attended inoculation sessions due to transient technical issues in the Co-WIN portal, vaccine hesitancy etc, which have progressively been addressed, Rajya Sabha was informed in February.It was inadvertently reported as a reply given on March 8.The rate of vaccination coverage has subsequently increased, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply."More than 50 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated in 21 days in India, which is the fastest rate in the world," Choubey said.A total of 93.6 lakh healthcare workers and 77.9 lakh frontline workers have been registered as on January 31.A total of 37.58 lakh workers were vaccinated till January 31, he said."Initially the coverage was low. At the start of Covid-19 vaccination drive, fewer than planned beneficiaries attended vaccination sessions due to transient technical issues in Co-WIN portal, vaccine hesitancy etc., which have progressively been addressed," he said.A communication campaign was carried out to raise awareness about the Covid-19 vaccines and address misinformation.The communication strategy aims to disseminate factual information about the vaccine and the vaccination process. This is being done through multimedia platforms and the MoHFW website, Choubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issues-in-co-win-vaccine-hesitancy-caused-low-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-initially-says-government-101615214913251.html
08-03-2021||India||Odisha forms task force to control wildfires as more forests start burning||The Odisha government on Monday formed a task force on Forest Fire Management to fight raging bushfires in the Similipal biosphere reserve in Mayurbhanj district and three other wildlife habitats and warned of strict action against those setting fire to the forests.A notification of state forest department said a task force headed by former principal chief conservator of forests of Odisha, Dr. Sandeep Tripathy will review the current forest fires, causes and immediate containment. It will also suggest measures for augmentation of existing fire management protocols including Geomatics-based Fire Alert System. The other members of the team include current PCCF Jitendra Kumar, chief wildlife warden Shashi Paul, director general of Forest Survey of India Pankaj Agarwal as well as representative of director general ICFRE Dehradun, member of local NGO and a journalist from Mayurbhanj.The taskforce will recommend suggestions for improved community participation in fire management and prevention, conduct post assessment of forest fire-affected area, loss to wildlife, biodiversity and suggest appropriate measures for augmentation and give suggestions for improvement of SOP for fire prevention and management in the state to prevent such occurrences.The constitution of the task force came even as the state reported over 23,325 forest fires in the last 7 days, the highest in the country. On Monday, Odisha reported 668 large fires, which was more than 60 per cent of the total large fire incidents in the country. In Similipal tiger reserve, where fires are still being reported from many parts of the buffer zone, a local outfit ‘Bhanja Sena’ has called for a 12-hour bandh in Mayurbhanj district March 10 to protest the administration’s failure in controlling the fire.Environmental activist Biswajit Mohanty said the blame for failure in controlling the forest fires should be squarely put on the shoulders of PCCF. "A quick survey of Telkoi Range in Keonjhar district reveals they have just 27 squad members whereas requirement is at least 10 times. The department is badly understaffed. The fire squads are understaffed due to improper assessment by senior officers who approved plans. The department needs to spend ₹300 crores and ₹50 crores every year. At least Rs. 30,000 crores of timber is lost due to fire every year," alleged Mohanty.Fires have been reported from Kuldiha sanctuary in Balasore, Satkosia sanctuary in Anugul and Sunabeda sanctuary in Nuapara district. In Kuldiha sanctuary fire erupted from Nandia hills and spread to other parts of the jungle posing serious threat to the wildlife. "The situation is alarming like that of Similipal. The forest department must realise the importance of community participation and community ownership of forest, the key to forest protection," said senior Congress leader Sudarshan Das.Principal chief conservator of forests, Jitendra Kumar said wildfires in forest areas of the State are not new but a natural phenomenon. "Like every year, fires generally spread on bushes and shrubs but do not affect trees. We have had no case of crown fire this year,” he said. "The rise in forest fires over Odisha this year is due to rise in daytime temperatures and lack of winter rains."Congress chief whip Mohan Charan Majhi, however, said it has been an abject failure on the part of the government in controlling the fires and the task force would not serve any purpose.“As many 668 large forest fires have been reported in Odisha today. While the government is claiming that the fires have been doused, the actual scenario tells a different story. Despite availability of modern techniques to contain wildfire, the government has failed to do so,” he said.BJP MLA Subhash Panigrahi alleged that the government is intentionally setting the forests on fire to cover up the misuse in Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) fund.Meanwhile, in Baripada, Divisional Forest Officer Santosh Joshi has cancelled leaves of all forest staff under the division even as fresh reports of fire incidents have been reported from several points under Udala, Dujura, Bangiriposi, Rasgovindpur ranges close to Similipal biosphere reserve. A tribal man named Pradhan Hembram was on Monday arrested on charges of setting fire the Badampahar reserve forest under Dudhiani range.In Sambalpur division, DFO Sanjeet Kumar warned of stringent legal action against those found intentionally setting forest on fire. "People found setting fire to forest areas will be put behind bars without any delay," he said and announced a provision of cash award of ₹5000 for anyone who informs about people setting fire in forest areas.“Mass awareness is being created and we have appealed to the public to cooperate with the forest department. Setting forest on fire is a punishable offence under the Odisha Forest Act and one(s) found guilty of such crime may be punished with a jail term of 3 to 7 years,” said Sanjeet Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-forms-task-force-to-control-wildfires-as-more-forests-start-burning-101615214470540.html
08-03-2021||India||Fire at Eastern Railway office in Kolkata, 7 dead, 8 firemen fall ill during operation||Some offices of the Eastern Railway (ER) were damaged and at least one employee was hurt when the 13th floor of the organisation’s office at Kolkata's Strand Road in Kolkata caught fire on Monday evening, officials said.The 13th floor houses the accounts office, said ER employees who evacuated the building. The person who was hurt did not sustain any major injury, they said. 7 people have been reported dead so far. The fire was detected around 6.15 pm. The high rise called Koilaghata Building, is located beside the Hooghly river.The intensity of the fire reduced around 9.30 pm, fire brigade officials said.Because of the blaze, electricity connections to the building had to be snapped temporarily. This stopped online booking of tickets in all zones of the Eastern Railway, officials said.At least eight people including fire brigade personnel fell ill while dousing the flames inside the building because of the thick smoke. Ambulances were pressed into service to take them to hospital.Fire services minister Sujit Bose said, "At least three fire brigade personnel and two Kolkata Police personnel have fallen ill. The rescue teams are looking for people who need help. It is pitch dark inside the building."Urban development minister Firhad Hakim and Kolkata Police commissioner Soumen Mitra rushed to the spot."It is a big fire. Ten fire tenders have been pressed into service. A hydraulic ladder has also been rushed to the spot. I am on my way," Bose said earlier in the evening."It is difficult to say what caused the fire. More fire tenders and firefighters are being sent," Bose added.Fire brigade officials said at 7.30 pm that firefighters had managed to reach the 12th floor.Kolkata Police officials restricted traffic movement on Stand Road, which is mostly used by people heading for Howrah station and the river jetties from where ferry services are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-eastern-railway-office-in-kolkata-one-injured-101615213237012.html
08-03-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Leader of opposition says state government hiding several economic data in budget||The Himachal Pradesh government has hidden several economic data in the Budget 2021-22 tabled in the state Assembly on Saturday, the leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihtori said on Monday.Initiating discussion on the Budget, Agnihotri said the state government has not made any mention of the existing debt and the probable borrowings in 2021-22 by the state government.The leader of opposition said the debt burden on the state had risen to ₹61,000 crore and it is feared to reach at ₹85,000 crore in the next financial year.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur-led current BJP government will become the government that takes the highest loan of ₹45,000 crore in its tenure, he added.Agnihtori alleged that the state government is trying to divide the people on caste and gender lines, by ignoring males and the upper castes girls.The state government has announced a grant of ₹31,000 to the daughters of SC, ST and other backward classes from BPL families at the time of marriage under Shagun scheme. It has also announced a social security pension of ₹1,000 per month to elderly women in the age group of 65-69 years under the Swaran Jayanti Nari Sambal Yojana.The leader of opposition criticised the state government for not announcing any relief in the Budget for the 2.25-lakh government employees.Agnihotri said no permanent job would be provided by the state government in 2021-22. It has been stated in the Budget that the state government would provide 30,000 jobs but they are either on contractual basis on small salary or on outsource basis, he said. People say selection of 4,000 of them has already been finalised, Agnihotri added.The leader of opposition said, "Beware of God. Former Haryana CM is already in jail."Agnihotri said that the government also did not announce a reduction of VAT on petroleum products to provide relief to the people. Further, subsidy on various items has also been reduced from ₹1,200 crore to ₹1,000 crore, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-leader-of-opposition-says-state-government-hiding-several-economic-data-in-budget-101615212737546.html
08-03-2021||India||Apni Party chief Altaf Bukhari demands restoration of J-K’s statehood, elections||Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari on Monday demanded the immediate restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and holding assembly elections.The party, which was launched last year in March by former People’s Democratic Party leader Bukhari, observed its foundation day in Srinagar.“We have pledged to ourselves what we said on our day of launch that restoration of statehood is our priority and holding of assembly elections. We demand that the statehood should be restored immediately and elections held as soon as possible,” Bukhari told the media while being flanked by many senior leaders including Srinagar’s mayor Junaid Mattoo.Bukhari said that the people including the political parties should join to fight for the promises made by the Union home minister Amit Shah. “We will have to fight for our rights. People say that statehood has been promised, I tell those that many things were promised in 1947 also but did we get those,” he said.“We will have to fight for everything. If I had not gone (to Delhi to meet leadership), the jobs would not have been restored for us. Till the next government was formed thousands of people from outside would have gotten jobs here,” he said.Bukhari had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in March last year with a charter of demands including restoration of statehood, domicile rights for land and jobs, pursuing for an early hearing on Article 370 , return of people stuck due to Covid-19, release of political detainees and restoration of internet 4G services.He met the Prime Minister once more in January this year.Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 was revoked on August 5, 2019 by the Parliament and the state was split into two union territories – J&K with an assembly and Ladakh without one.The Apni Party chief said that political parties should not sit back and watch how the BJP’s plan unfolds. “Yes I agree BJP has a plan but does that mean we will sit back and watch. No, we will have to defend our ability. We won’t sit back. I request every political party that we will get nothing by sitting quietly. Ultimately we will get what is achievable and we should all join hands for that,” he said.Bukhari claimed that every resident of Jammu and Kashmir wants restoration of Article 370.“There is no one in Jammu and Kashmir who does not want its restoration but only the Parliament or the Supreme Court can make that happen,” he said.Recollecting revocation of Article 370 and 35-A, he said these were not numerical numbers. “These represented our emotions. It was as if our emotions were snatched away from us. Everybody was suffering, every section of society,” he said."August 5, 2019 was a black day. We can never forget what happened to us on that day. It was no less than the most heinous thing which could happen to people anywhere," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apni-party-chief-altaf-bukhari-demands-restoration-of-j-k-s-statehood-elections-101615211327455.html
08-03-2021||India||Waiting for govt to respond, says farmer hailed by PM Modi for patent win||Elated that his innovation caught the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hyderabad-based farmer Chintala Venkat Reddy has also expressed disappointment that there has been no response from any of the government bodies or the agriculture universities over his patented product.During his radio show Mann Ki Baat on February 28, PM Modi urged the students and youth to know more about Indian science by following the path shown by Reddy, an ‘innovative farmer,’ who had come up with varieties of wheat and rice that were naturally enriched with Vitamin D.“These appreciations and congratulatory messages are fine, but I expect that the government will come forward to take this innovation to the people. I am ready to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the government to take this technology into the fields all over the country, so that India can export paddy and wheat enriched with Vitamin D across the world,” Reddy said.On February 11, the 70-year-old farmer won a patent for his innovation from the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) for his new findings. “It is a matter of pride for the Government of India that Reddy was honoured with the Padma Shri award last year,” PM Modi said.According to the WIPO document, which was seen by HT, the invention by Reddy puts forth a new composition based on non-chemical, natural plant- based extracts to produce crop plants with high Vitamin D content, without genetic modification or application of chemicals.“During this coronavirus pandemic, every doctor has been talking about how Vitamin D deficiency will affect the immunity of the body. But I felt this natural way of enriching the food with Vitamin D will go a long way in improving the immunity levels of the human being,” he said.The cultivator said he would wait some more for the state and the central governments to respond. “Otherwise, I don’t mind tying up with multinational companies for the commercial exploitation of my patented product,” he said.Already, Reddy has been in talks with an MNC based out of Mumbai for signing an agreement for mass production of these new varieties of rice and wheat. He, however, refused to divulge further details about the MNC at this stage.Telangana agriculture commissioner and secretary B Janardhan Reddy, however, said the state government had all the appreciation for the innovation of Venkat Reddy and would definitely encourage his product.“However, there is a procedure in the government for mass production of the new varieties of rice or paddy. It has to be studied by the scientists at Prof Jayashankar Agricultural University and then given the approval by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research. We shall definitely hold discussions with Venkat Reddy on how to take it forward,” the commissioner said.According to Reddy, there is no Vitamin D in the normal varieties of rice or and wheat available in the market at present. “Through my experiments in my own fields in Alwal near Secunderabad, I succeeded in producing a rice variety containing Vitamin D to the extent of 102-141 international units (IU) per 100 grams and a wheat variety consisting of 1,606 IU in 100 grams,” he said.He first applied for a national patent at Indian Patent Office in Chennai on August 2, 2019 and a year later, he applied for an international patent on August 1, 2020. “After a lot of studies and enquiries, the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) published the study, granting patent to my products,” Reddy said.Reddy used various nutrient-enhancing compositions such as carrot extract, maize flour and sweet potato extract, which increase Vitamin D content in plants when applied during irrigation of crop plants. These extracts were prepared in various methods like cooking and blending and mixing them with water in certain concentrations and supplied to the fields through various methods of irrigation. In some methods, the seed of the paddy or wheat are soaked in these extracts before sowing.Queried how a school dropout could come up with such innovative experiments, he said: “Well, there is no need for any formal degree to experiment with agriculture. It comes naturally. As regards my research on Vitamin-D-rich crops, Sun god is my inspiration.”Reddy also did several other experiments with soil. Last year, he also invented a technique of mud spray on crops which would act as pest repellent. “This has helped me and my fellow farmers to prevent the locust attack on our fields,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waiting-for-govt-to-respond-says-farmer-hailed-by-pm-modi-for-patent-win-101615212117542.html
08-03-2021||India||LPG price double in 7 yrs; tax collection on petrol, diesel jumps 459%, says oil minister Pradhan||Price of domestic cooking gas, LPG has doubled to ₹819 per cylinder in the last seven years while the increase in taxes on petrol and diesel has swelled collections by over 459 per cent, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday.In written replies to a spate of questions on rising fuel prices in the Lok Sabha, Pradhan said the retail selling price of domestic gas was ₹410.5 per 14.2-kg cylinder on March 1, 2014. This month, the same cylinder costs ₹819.Small price hikes over the past couple of years have eliminated subsidy on cooking gas as well as PDS kerosene.Pradhan said the price of domestic subsidised LPG has been raised during the last few months. It cost ₹594 per cylinder in December 2020 and now is priced at ₹819.Similarly, kerosene sold to the poor through the public distribution system (PDS) has risen from ₹14.96 per litre in March 2014 to ₹35.35 this month, he said.Petrol and diesel prices too are at an all-time high across the country.The rates, which vary from state to state depending on local sales tax (VAT), are currently at ₹91.17 a litre for petrol and ₹81.47 for diesel in Delhi."Prices of petrol and diesel have been made market determined by the government with effect from June 26, 2010 and October 19, 2014 respectively," Pradhan said. "Since then, the public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) take appropriate decision on pricing of petrol and diesel in line with their international product prices, exchange rate, tax structure, inland freight and other cost elements."With taxes accounting for the bulk of the retail selling price of petrol and diesel, the minister said tax collected on the two fuels was ₹52,537 crore in 2013, which rose to ₹2.13 lakh crore in 2019-20 and swelled further to ₹2.94 lakh crore in the first 11 months of current fiscal year.The government currently levies ₹32.90 per litre excise duty on petrol and ₹31.80 a litre on diesel, he said adding that excise duty on petrol was ₹17.98 a litre in 2018 and ₹13.83 on diesel.Pradhan said the central government's total excise collection from petrol, diesel, ATF, natural gas and crude oil has increased from ₹2.37 lakh crore in 2016-17 to ₹3.01 lakh crore during April-January 2020-21.Between November 2014 and January 2016, the government had raised excise duty on petrol and diesel on nine occasions to take away gains arising from plummeting global oil prices.In all, the duty on petrol rate was hiked by ₹11.77 per litre and that on diesel by 13.47 a litre in those 15 months.The government had cut excise duty by ₹2 in October 2017, and by ₹1.50 a year later. But, it raised excise duty by ₹2 per litre in July 2019. It again raised excise duty in March 2020, by ₹3 per litre each. In May that year, the government hiked excise duty on petrol by ₹10 per litre and on diesel by ₹13 a litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-double-in-7-yrs-tax-collection-on-petrol-diesel-jumps-459-says-oil-minister-pradhan-101615210185541.html
08-03-2021||India||44 companies given FDI approvals for joint production of defence items with foreign companies: MoS defence Naik||A total of 44 Indian companies, including public sector units, have got approvals related to foreign direct investment (FDI) till now for joint production of defence items with foreign companies, said Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik on Monday."So far, FDI inflows of about ₹4191 crore have been reported by the companies operating in defence and aerospace sector in the country," Naik said in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha.As on date, FDI approvals have been given to 44 companies -- including DPSUs -- for joint ventures or co-production of various defence items, he stated.These items include fixed-wing aircrafts, aerospace and aero structures components, simulator, unmanned aerial systems, optical goods and optical instruments, radar systems, mortars and tactically protected vehicles, he added.On September 17 last year, the government had permitted FDI in defence production up to 74 per cent under automatic route.It had also permitted FDI in defence production above 74 per cent under automatic route if it is "likely to result in access to modern technology".Before September 17, 2020, FDI in defence production had been permitted up to 49 per cent under automatic route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/44-companies-given-fdi-approvals-for-joint-production-of-defence-items-with-foreign-companies-mos-defence-naik-101615205973689.html
08-03-2021||India||CM Sarbananda Sonowal says people of Assam eager to bring back BJP-led govt||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Tuesday claimed that the people of the state are "eagerly waiting" to bring back the BJP-led government to power with over 100 seats in the 126-member Assembly.He said party is heavily banking upon the developmental work done by the NDA government and sought another term to make Assam one of the best states in India."People of Assam have found a suitable performing government ... They are very happy with the developmental work of our government ... They are convinced that only BJP-led NDA government can provide security, peace and development."These commitments were fulfilled in the last five years of our regime. That is why people are eagerly waiting for the polling days to come," Sonowal told reporters here.BJP had promised an Assam free from corruption, pollution, terrorism and illegal foreigners along with ushering in development. The people have got the assurance of their fulfillment because of the "sincere efforts" by the BJP-led government in all these fronts, he added.Asked what will be his message to the people during the campaigning, Sonowal said "Only development. For making an 'atmanirbhar Bharat' (self reliant India), we have to make an 'atmanirbhar Assam' (self reliant Assam). That is why we are aiming to make Assam one of the best states in the country."He exuded confidence that the BJP-led three-party alliance will achieve its target of winning over 100 seats out of 126 during the forthcoming Assembly polls."The people are seeing the condition of the opposition parties. They don't have any noble aim but only want to create confusion. So, the party having no specific goal and no clear policy cannot give security, peace and development to public," Sonowal said.The BJP has clear policies on important aspects of life and the government has worked with that in the past, he added."Filing of nomination has begun. People are just waiting for the voting day to bring back the BJP-led alliance government," Sonowal said.Of the total 126 seats in Assam Assembly, election to 47 will be held on March 27, while 39 will go to polls on April 1 and voting in the remaining 40 seats will be held on April 6.The BJP has announced the first list of candidates for 70 seats, leaving 26 and eight constituencies for its allies AGP and UPPL respectively.The 2016 elections in Assam had given a fractured mandate and no party got an absolute majority.The BJP became the single largest party with 60 MLAs, while its allies Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland People's Front (BPF) had won 14 and 12 seats respectively. The ruling coalition also had the support of an Independent MLA.The Congress had won 26 seats, while the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) bagged 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-sarbananda-sonowal-says-people-of-assam-eager-to-bring-back-bjp-led-govt-101615206201197.html
08-03-2021||India||Covid vaccination makes Women’s Day special for Vrindavan’s widows||Women’s Day turned out to be special for the elderly widows of Vrindavan as they participated in the Covid-19 vaccination drive at a state-run public health facility in the temple town on Monday.“A large number of widows, mostly in their 80s and living in ashrams, took part in the vaccination drive, following all Covid protocols,” said Veenita Verma, vice president, Sulabh Hope Foundation.“We took the initiative with the help of the government hospital to make Women’s Day special for those living in Vrindavan’s Maa Sharda Ashram,” said Verma.One of the widows, Kamla Adhikari (86) said, “We have followed all restrictions and remained inside our ashram for the last one year and now we are feeling happy after taking the vaccine along with two dozen other sisters. It made the Women’s Day special for us.”"It was a memorable moment for us to see elderly mothers waiting for their turn to get the vaccines,” said Verma.The holy town of Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh is home to thousands of widows who have either been abandoned by their families or are just alone in the world.Sulabh NGO looks after these widows living in various ashrams.The organisation — led by social reformer and Sulabh movement founder Bindeshwar Pathak — has been playing a leading role in adding joy to the lives of widows by organising various functions for them from time to time, especially on festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-makes-women-s-day-special-for-vrindavan-s-widows-101615206809048.html
08-03-2021||India||No new taxes levied, Karnataka budget 'people-friendly': Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the budget tabled by him in the state assembly on Monday was balanced and people-friendly without hiking tax rates or levying new taxes despite the coronavirus pandemic and natural calamities. Economic activities in the state had come to a standstill and revenue collection was adversely hit due to natural calamities, floods and COVID-19 pandemic, he told reporters after presenting the state budget for the year 2021-22."This is a people-friendly budget without causing burden to people. There is neither an increase in tax rates nor any new tax proposals," Yediyurappa, who holds the finance portfolio, said.Against the budgeted estimates, the state expected to spend at least 94 per cent of the total expenditure, he said."This year is the result of strict fiscal discipline in the initial months of the financial year and recovery of the state economy in the last quarter," the Chief Minister explained.According to him, the fiscal deficit in 2021-22 will be ₹59,240 crore against the current fiscal's ₹46,072 crore. The revenue deficit will be ₹15,134 crore.The Chief Minister said he has made an honest effort to maintain a balance in the budget by giving importance to all classes, all sectors and all districts.To a question, Yediyurappa said he was confident about receiving the central grants mentioned in the budget.To a question on petrol and diesel prices, he said it was less in Karnataka than any other state, clarifying that there would be no reduction in taxes on fuel in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-taxes-levied-karnataka-budget-people-friendly-yediyurappa-101615205702967.html
08-03-2021||India||Two Chhattisgarh ministers test positive for Covid-19||Two ministers in Chhattisgarh took to Twitter on Monday to announce that they have tested positive for coronavirus.The two are health minister T S Singh Deo and revenue minister Jaisingh Agrawal. No minister in the Raman Singh government has been vaccinated yet against the virus.So far, four legislators have contracted Covid-19 during the ongoing budget session of the legislative assembly which began on February 22."No serious symptoms have surfaced yet but as a precautionary measure I am practising self-isolation for the next few days," Singh Deo stated in his tweet.The minister, who attended the assembly last week also appealed to all those who came in contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested if there are any symptoms.Revenue Minister Agrawal, who also attended the assembly last week, also tweeted about testing positive for coronavirus."I request all those who came in contact with me in the last 14 days to get themselves tested and stay in home isolation. I would also appeal to avoid going in crowded places, and to wear masks and keep washing hands," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-chhattisgarh-ministers-test-positive-for-covid19-101615204347871.html
08-03-2021||India||Proportion of men donating organs improved in past 2 decades in India: Data||Over the past two decades, the proportion of men donating organs has increased in India. While between 1998 to 2007, just 26% of the livers for children were donated by men, the percentage has risen to 46% between 2008 and 2021, according to the data provided by a large tertiary care hospital from Delhi. Women have predominantly been organ donors in the country. “When paediatric liver transplant started in India, people did not know much about the surgery. The parents did not know of anyone who had undergone a transplant or even heard of someone who had. They did not know whether it would succeed and how the life of the children would be after the transplant. Plus, it is also a major surgery for the donor. So, when it came to men in the family, they are more questioning about the procedure, whereas the mothers just donated their liver,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, paediatric gastroenterologist and hepatologist at Indraprastha Apollo hospital. When it came to recipients, the ratio is skewed in favour of the male child. Between 1998 and 2012, only 29% of the livers went to male children, data from Apollo hospital suggests. This ratio has improved to 40% between 2016 and 2021.Also Read | Organ Donation: Brain-dead Mohali man gives new lease of life to two“This is an encouraging trend to see that more and more girl children are undergoing transplant. Initially, parents were worried about whether the girls would undergo normal puberty, what about their wedding. These concerns are slowly easing up now that they have seen others, more people are willing to do it,” said Dr Sibal. Established success of liver transplants, increased access to it, and reduced costs at high flow centres have also helped in changing the trends. “The success rate of liver transplant at 8 years is around 90%, now people know about this. They have seen others receiving the treatment too. Then, there are high volume centres like ours where the costs have come down. It costs about Rs15 lakh for a transplant; it was much more when we had started,” he said.“And, when it comes to the cost, we receive donations from our previous patients, there are several funds like PM relief fund and CM relief fund that also provides for the surgeries,” said Dr Sibal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proportion-of-men-donating-organs-improved-in-past-2-decades-in-indiadata-101615203857431.html
08-03-2021||India||Kamal Haasan’s MNM alleges DMK has copied its poll promises||Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Monday accused the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) of copying many of its poll promises, including those about providing a monthly salary to home-makers and creation of jobs. The allegations came a day after DMK chief MK Stalin said that if voted to power in the 2021 assembly elections, his party would give ₹1000 per month to every housewife in the state. It was one of the seven key promises that he made while announcing his party’s vision ahead for the next 10 years.Also read | DMK finalises seat-sharing deal with seven allies in TN“I would be pleased if the DMK, which had copied all the highlights of our election manifesto, will also take up our honesty,” Haasan tweeted in Tamil.எங்கள் தேர்தல் அறிக்கையின் சிறப்பம்சங்கள் அனைத்தையும் பிரதியெடுத்துக் கொண்ட கழகம் எங்கள் நேர்மையையும், தூய்மையையும் கைக்கொண்டால் மகிழ்வேன்.The actor-turned-politician also centred his women’s day wishes around the topic. “Our party [MNM], which intends to give government salary to housewives, celebrates womanhood every day,” he said on Twitter.MNM’s vice president, R Mahendran, also alleged that the DMK had repeated the welfare measures announced earlier in their election manifesto in the poll-bound southern state. “In February 2020, we had presented 'Reimagining Tamil Nadu' with measures for women homemakers. If they (DMK) have proof that this vision was launched before, please educate us. No doubt that it came from us,” news agency ANI quoted Mahendran as saying.The MNM chief made these promises during his poll campaign in southern Tamil Nadu districts while interacting with the fishing communities in the coastal Thoothukudi district in December last year. He said to a cheering crowd that many people had mocked him for his announcement of salary to housewives but European nations are thinking about experimenting with such an idea.Assembly elections are scheduled in Tamil Nadu for April 6 and Haasan’s MNM had been projecting itself as an alternate to the two Dravidian majors DMK and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-s-mnm-alleges-dmk-has-copied-its-poll-promises-101615202894873.html
08-03-2021||India||Five pillars to mark India@75 celebration: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the celebrations of 75 years of India’s independence will mark the aspirations, feelings, thoughts, suggestions, and dreams of 1.3 billion Indians.Addressing the 259-member committee set up to oversee the celebrations of 75 years of independence next year, the PM said, “The celebrations can be divided in five sub-heads - Freedom struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75, and Resolve at 75.”“This festival of 75 years of Independence should reflect the spirit of freedom struggle...give a glimpse of the glory of Sanatan Bharat and also have the glow of modern India,” PM Modi said.“It is an opportunity to showcase to the world our achievements since 1947. We need to tell people about the sacrifices of the heroes of our freedom struggle,” he said after the virtual meeting.Also Read | PM Modi to travel to Bangladesh on March 26, his first visit abroad in 15 monthsThe committee includes former president Pratibha Patil, CJI Sharad Bobde, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and home minister Amit Shah. Other eminent personalities part of the committee are economist Amartya Sen, cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and Baba Ramdev.Congress president Sonia Gandhi, chief ministers of all states and other senior political leaders are also among the 259 members.“The committee will provide policy direction and guidelines for formulation of programs for the commemoration of 75th anniversary of Indian Independence, at the national and international levels,” the culture ministry had said in a statement.Prime Minister Modi will inaugurate the opening ceremony in Gujarat on March 12, 75 weeks prior to August 15,2022. March 12 also marks the day of the Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi as a part of India’s freedom movement. The PM will launch Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav and will also flag off a 21-day long Dandi March from Sabarmati Ashram, which was home to Mahatma Gandhi during India’s freedom struggle, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani told reporters on Sunday.The government will organise various exhibitions as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Subhas Chandra Bose. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-pillars-to-mark-india-75-celebration-pm-modi-101615203077364.html
08-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: International Men's Day should be celebrated, says BJP MP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.International Men's Day should be celebrated, says BJP MPAs several women members of Parliament spoke in Rajya Sabha on the occasion of International Women's Day on Monday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Sonal Mansingh called for a similar day to celebrate men. Read morePM Modi to travel to Bangladesh on March 26, his first visit abroad in 15 monthsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will make an overnight visit to Bangladesh on March 26 to join celebrations in the neighbouring country to mark the 50th anniversary of its freedom in 1971, people aware of the matter said. Read moreAction against Prayagraj hospital sought in alleged medical negligence caseSamajwadi Party (SP) leader Richa Singh on Monday said she wrote to the National Medical Commission (NMC) and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), along with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), demanding strict action against a private hospital for alleged medical negligence, leading to the death of a three-year old girl in Prayagraj. Read more'A week later without knowing some rule comes & we go from number 1 to 3': Shastri takes dig at ICC for WTC rule changeTeam India have been a top side throughout the World Test Championship qualifying period for the final. They were leading the points table before the Covid-19 pandemic with three series wins and one loss. Read moreTata Motors to hive off PV business into new entity after nod from shareholdersTata Motors on Monday said its shareholders have approved hiving off its passenger vehicles business into a separate entity. Read moreIshaan Khatter gives fitness twist to ‘let’s meet at the bar’ and we are in aweFrom nailing the trendy ‘gravity challenge’ with Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput to keeping fans hooked with his regular workout updates, Ishaan Khatter gave enough reasons to his 1.4 million followers to gush this Sunday, especially with his fitness twist to “let’s meet at the bar” that left us super charged up to hit the grind this Monday. Read moreHarry-Meghan interview: Simi Garewal doesn't 'believe a word' of what Duchess said, calls her 'evil' for playing victimVeteran actor and talk show host, Simi Garewal, tweeted on Monday that she does not believe what was said by Meghan Markle, in an interview with Oprah Winfrey. It was the first joint interview Meghan and her husband Prince Harry sat for since they announced they were taking a step back from their duties as members of the British royal family. Read moreWatch: ‘Offered 50 lakh to work for Mamata Banerjee’: Farooq Abdullah slams BJPNational Conference President Farooq Abdullah has claimed that someone pretending to be the Jharkhand Chief Minister called him and asked him to work for Mamata Banerjee. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-international-men-s-day-should-be-celebrated-says-bjp-mp-and-all-the-latest-news-101615200688352.html
08-03-2021||India||Mumbai cyber cops arrest man for morphing BJP leader's photo, sending lewd texts||A 26-year-old man has been arrested from Yavatmal for allegedly morphing photographs of a Maharashtra BJP leader and sending her lewd texts, the Mumbai cyber police said on Monday.The accused was identified as Rahul Tulsiram Ade, a resident of Ghatanji in Yavatmal district. Deputy commissioner of police (Cyber) Dr Rashmi Karandikar said that a police team nabbed him from Yavatmal on Sunday.On March 2, the BJP leader had complained that a person was sending her lewd messages after she took a firm stand on death by suicide of a young woman from Pune, blaming a Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) minister for her death.In her complaint, the BJP leader said that her morphed photographs were being circulated and she also received threats to kill her, vulgar messages and morphed pictures.Acting on her complaint, cyber police officials traced the IP address of the system used and mobile phone location of the accused and arrested him on Sunday.Police have booked the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act for stalking (section 354D), word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman (section 509) and criminal intimidation (section 506) and 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of information Technology Act.He has been remanded in police custody till March 13 by a local court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cyber-cops-arrest-man-for-morphing-bjp-leader-s-photo-sending-lewd-texts-101615201586459.html
08-03-2021||India||‘International Men’s Day should also be celebrated’: BJP’s Sonal Mansingh in Rajya Sabha||As several women members of Parliament spoke in Rajya Sabha on the occasion of International Women's Day on Monday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Sonal Mansingh called for a similar day to celebrate men. “I demand that International Men's Day should also be celebrated,” Mansingh, a noted classical dancer and a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha, said on the floor of the Upper House.As her demand evoked laughter among the members of the house, she said people anyway talk about equality. Notably, International Men’s Day is celebrated on November 19 around the world.Mansingh also used an anonymous quote in her speech as she began talking about International Women’s Day. “I want to read this quote that I read somewhere… It's hard to be a woman. You must think like a man, act like a lady, look like a young girl, and work like a horse,” she said.Read more: International Women's Day: Women MPs push for 33% reservation in ParliamentTalking more about the inequality that prevails in the society, Mansingh quoted from her own work ‘Stree’, saying, “Aage se adhikh hu par adhikar se vanchit hu (Women have more than before but still lack enough rights).”During the discussion, other women members of Parliament also highlighted the lack of women’s representation in government and pushed for the pending bill seeking 33% reservation for women. The women’s reservation bill was introduced in Parliament on September 12, 1996, by the United Front government of HD Dewe Gowda. The bill, whose aim is to increase participation of women in governance, was introduced in the Upper and Lower Houses and is still pending in Lok Sabha, despite its re-introduction.Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi, who spoke after Mansingh, said reservation for women in Parliament must be raised from 33 per cent to 50 per cent. “Twenty-four years ago, we proposed a 33% reservation for women in Parliament. Today, 24 years later, we should raise this to 50% reservation for women in Parliament and assembly," Chaturvedi said.Nationalist Congress Party’s Fouzia Khan said, “Many audits have shown that not more than 6% of women have got leadership roles. We must think about it. We can make a beginning by bringing the legislation on 33 per cent reservation of women in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-men-s-day-should-also-be-celebrated-bjp-s-sonal-mansingh-in-rajya-sabha-101615199911298.html
08-03-2021||India||PM Modi to travel to Bangladesh on March 26, his first visit abroad in 15 months||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make an overnight visit to Bangladesh on March 26 to join celebrations in the neighbouring country to mark the 50th anniversary of its freedom in 1971, people aware of the matter said.The two-day trip to Dhaka will be PM Modi’s first foreign visit in 15 months and is seen to reflect New Delhi’s emphasis on its ties with Bangladesh which PM Modi has described as “an important pillar” of India's neighbourhood first’ policy. He last travelled abroad In November 2019 and like everyone else, had to scrap his travel plans over the last year due to the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi will be the chief guest at the main event organised by the Sheikh Hasina government to commemorate Sheikh Mujibur Rahman declaring erstwhile East Pakistan as an independent country, Bangladesh, on March 26, 1971. India sided with Bangladesh and helped defeat Pakistani forces who eventually surrendered on December 16, 1971.External affairs minister S Jaishankar was in Dhaka last week to prepare for PM Modi visit called the deepening strategic ties between the two countries as a “360-degree partnership” and stressed that PM Modi’s visit will surely be a “very memorable” visit.The visit comes at a time, Indian officials said, when there was tremendous goodwill for the Indian government and its people in Bangladesh on account of New Delhi going the extra mile to make the coronavirus vaccine available to the neighbouring country.New Delhi has supplied 9 million doses of Covid vaccine to Dhaka including 2 million doses as a gift from the people of India. The remaining 7 million doses were sent on a commercial basis after Bangladesh decided to rely on the Indian vaccines rather than the vaccine pushed by Beijing.“India has kept the promise that it had made,” a senior government official said, a reference to PM Modi’s assurance to Sheikh Hasina during their virtual summit in December. PM Modi had assured her that the vaccines will be made available to Bangladesh as and when India produces them, and also offered a partnership in vaccine production.It was at this summit that Sheikh Hasina had declared that “India is our true friend”.Officials said it was on account of New Delhi delivering on its commitment that Jaishankar returned from Dhaka last week with the sense that Bangladesh’s opposition parties, which are often critical or suspicious of New Delhi, appreciated India’s move.There are not big-ticket agreements planned during PM Modi’s visit. The two countries had signed seven agreements in areas ranging from hydrocarbons to agriculture at the Modi-Hasina summit in December.Tomorrow, he will inaugurate via video conference, the 'Maitri Setu', a bridge built over the Feni river, between India and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-travel-to-bangladesh-on-march-26-his-first-visit-abroad-in-15-months-101615199944585.html
08-03-2021||India||PM Modi lists 5 pillars for celebrating India's 75 years of Independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday listed five pillars for marking the celebrations of India's 75 years of Independence and said it should be a festival to mark the spirit of the freedom struggle and talk about the sacrifices of those who made it possible. PM Modi made the comments during the meeting of the national committee to commemorate ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ - a central government programme to mark 75 years of India's Independence."When we talk about public participation for preparations, it engulfs the aspirations, feelings, thoughts, suggestions and dreams of 130 crore Indians. The celebrations can be divided in five sub-heads - Freedom struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75 and Resolve at 75," PM Modi said in his address. “We are fortunate that in time, the country has given us the responsibility to make this festival a reality,” he said."This festival of 75 years of Independence should be a festival in which the spirit of freedom struggle and its renunciation can be experienced, in which there is also a tribute to the martyrs of the country and the resolve to make India of their dreams, in which there is a glimpse of the glory of Sanatan Bharat, which also has the glow of modern India," PM Modi said.The celebrations, PM Modi said, should reflect India's freedom struggle and should pay a tribute to our freedom fighters. "It should also give a clear picture of how they wanted to build India. While keeping India's heritage intact, it should reflect modern India ideally," he said.He added that when India celebrates the 75th year of its Independence, it will take bold steps to achieve targets that seemed impossible at some point. "With your help and cooperation, these celebrations will be at par with India's idea and stature," the PM said.The Prime Minister will launch 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' on March 12, the day Mahatma Gandhi launched Dandi March from Gujarat's Sabarmati Ashram in 1930.The commemorations will include 75 events for 75 weeks with one prominent event every week. The programmes will be planned at 75 places or monuments of historical significance spread across states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lists-5-pillars-for-celebrating-india-s-75-years-of-independence-101615197790835.html
08-03-2021||India||Parliament to return to regular morning schedule after nearly a year||After nearly a year, both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will return to their usual schedule amid talks that the second half of Parliament’s Budget Session could be shortened by two weeks. During the pandemic, members of the two Houses started sitting in different shifts to ensure social distancing norms. On Monday, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu announced that the House will meet at 11am on Tuesday. A similar announcement is expected in Lok Sabha too. The original schedule from 11am to 6pm will give more time for the two Houses to clear business or discuss issues.A Rajya Sabha official said that both Houses could meet at 11am from the second week following the vaccination of eligible MPs. “Since many MPs would be busy campaigning, we are not expecting a full house this session,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Also Read | After being disrupted thrice over fuel price hike, Rajya Sabha adjournedAnother official said: “Therefore, the current system of allotment of seats covering both Houses will be scrapped and MPs of one House can be accommodated in their own House. This will allow simultaneous running of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.” Many Opposition MPs have requested Naidu and Speaker Om Birla to curtail the proceedings in view of the upcoming assembly elections, people aware of the matter said on Sunday, a day ahead of the resumption of the House. A Parliament official said that government managers as well as many Opposition leaders have requested the Rajya Sabha chairman and Lok Sabha Speaker to cut short the session as leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Left bloc, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and many regional outfits would be busy campaigning for the election. Another senior official said on condition of anonymity that the second half of the session, which starts on Monday, may run for just two weeks. “Elections are starting from March 27. Keeping political considerations in mind, it looks like the session is likely to run for two weeks only,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-to-return-to-regular-morning-schedule-after-nearly-a-year-101615199657129.html
08-03-2021||India||'Havan' of cow dung cake can keep house sanitised for 12 hours: MP minister||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur on Sunday stressed the need for adopting Vedic lifestyle for protection against coronavirus, and claimed that 'havan' (ritual burning) of a cow dung cake can keep a house sanitised for 12 hours.She was speaking during a function at the Indore Press Club."In order to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, Vedic lifestyle has its own role to play along with allopathy. The pandemic has sent out a message that we have to return to the Vedic lifestyle," Thakur said."Mix ghee (clarified butter) made out of cow milk with rice. If you add this mixture on a cow dung cake during havans at the time of sunrise and sunset, then your place would remain sanitised for 12 hours," she added.She said that her advice may appear strange to people, but this tip to keep houses sanitised was not imaginary."This is science...," she claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/havan-of-cow-dung-cake-can-keep-house-sanitised-for-12-hours-mp-minister-101615169888840.html
08-03-2021||India||On International Women’s day, Sitharaman highlights gender bias in languages||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday called out language-based inequalities against women in the Indian society, pointing out words and phrases which she said are patronising and did not ‘recognise implicit gender bias’. On International Women's Day, she said people, during formal and informal engagements, use language in humour and it reinforces the mentality.She gave the example of a very commonly-used Hindi idiom ‘choodiyan pehen ke baithna’, which means a person doesn’t have the courage to face or fight against any wrongdoing. Sitharaman said that such an expression has to be avoided."Language of communication has to be gender-sensitive. We stand up each time for use of the right language. We come across language both formal and informal that doesn't recognise an implicit gender bias. We need to say language needs to be gender-sensitive. We shouldn't encourage such language," Sitharaman said, while addressing a gathering of women members of Parliament and journalists, according to news agency ANI. “Each one of us has to say that we don't accept such language and expressions,” she added.Several politicians on Monday expressed their views in the Rajya Sabha on the lack of leadership roles for women in Parliament. Citing several audit reports in the Upper House, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member Dr Fauzia Khan said not more than 6 per cent of women had been allotted leadership roles and suggested that one could begin by bringing the legislation on 33 per cent of women in both the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha.Echoing her concern, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi raised a demand for 50 per cent women reservation in Parliament and assembly. “Twenty-four years ago, we proposed a 33 per cent reservation for women in Parliament. Today, 24 years later, we should raise this to 50 per cent reservation for women in Parliament and assembly,” she said.International Women’s day is observed every year on March 8. Started by the United Nations in the year 1977, the day champions the achievements of women in the fields of politics, economy, art and culture etc. Each year, a theme is designated for celebration. This time, the theme is ‘Choose to Challenge’- which aims towards educating people about the several challenges that women still continue to tackle and the ways to deal with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-international-women-s-day-sitharaman-highlights-gender-bias-in-languages-101615198288959.html
08-03-2021||India||These eight states/UTs are showing an upward trajectory in new Covid-19 cases||Eight states and Union Territories in India including Maharashtra and Delhi are displaying an upward trajectory in Covid-19 daily new cases, the Union Health Ministry informed on Monday.Among other states include Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Gujarat.Eight states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average (2.29 per cent) whereas Maharashtra has the highest weekly positivity rate with 11.13 per cent.According to the health ministry, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases and they account for 86.25 per cent of the cases reported in a span of 24 hours.As many as 18,599 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours out of which Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 11,141. It is followed by Kerala with 2,100 while Punjab reported 1,043 new cases.India's total active caseload has reached 1,88,747 today and the present active caseload now stands at 1.68 per cent of total positive cases.The cumulative tests conducted in the country have surpassed 22 crores (22,19,68,271) and the national cumulative positivity rate currently stands at 5.06 per cent.More than 2.09 crore (2,09,89,010) vaccine doses have been administered through 3,76,633 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today."These include 69,85,911HCWs (1st dose), 35,47,548 HCWs (2nd dose), 66,09,537 FLWs (1st dose) and 2,13,559 FLWs (2nd Dose), 4,80,661 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 31,51,794 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," the ministry said.97 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Seven States account for 87.63 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (38). Punjab follows with 17 daily deaths and Kerala reported13 deaths in the last 24 hours.Eighteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura.The Central Government has also deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in Covid-19 cases.These teams interact with the state and UT authorities and get a firsthand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks if any.Recently, the Centre rushed High-Level Public Health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in Covid-19 control and containment measures in view of the recent spike in cases in these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-eight-states-uts-are-showing-an-upward-trajectory-in-new-covid-19-cases-101615196748585.html
08-03-2021||India||Everyday 4 child victims of sexual abuse denied justice, study finds||Everyday four child victims of sexual offences are denied justice due to closure of their cases by police because of insufficient evidence, according to a new study.The 'Police case disposal pattern: An enquiry into the cases filed under POCSO Act, 2012' by Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation (KSCF), is an analysis of pattern of disposal of POCSO cases by police from 2017 to 2019 and is based on the data and information published by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The study has been released on the occasion of International Women's Day."It has been observed that between 2017 and 2019, there has been an increase in the number of cases that have been closed by the police after investigation without filing the chargesheet," the study pointed out.As the data shows, sexual crimes are increasing in the country over the years."While the government recognised the need for a special law and introduced a special legislation to deal with crimes against children viz., Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO), it is disappointing to see its poor implementation on the ground," the study noted.As many as 3,000 POCSO cases registered and investigated fail to reach court for a fair trial every year and four child victims of sexual abuse are denied justice every day due to the closure of their cases by police because of insufficient evidence or lack of a clue, the study said."It has further been revealed from the NCRB data that in a large number (two-fifths) of POCSO cases which were disposed- off/closed by the police without charge sheeting the reason cited was 'cases true but insufficient evidence, or untraced, or no clue'," it said.In 2019, 43 per cent of cases were closed by police on this ground as per the final reports filed in court, the study said."This is higher than 2017 and 2018. Amongst other reasons, false reporting was the second most prominent reason for closure of POCSO cases, however closure of cases on this ground has reduced over the years from 40 per cent in 2017 to 33 per cent in 2019," the study said.Also, another analysis of the POCSO cases for the same period ( 2017 to 2019) by KSCF reveals that there is an urgent need for courts to expedite the justice delivery mechanism as victims of as many as 89 per cent of the cases of child sexual abuse were awaiting justice at the end of 2019."The backlog of cases pending investigation is also increasing from year to year as the number of cases whose investigation is completed in a year is lesser than the number of cases in which chargesheets are filed. This gap demonstrates that police are not devoting adequate resources to deal with these grave crimes," it said.The study has revealed 51 per cent of cases under POCSO are being registered in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi."This brings out the need for social interventions in these states for better protection of children both within their homes and the society," it said.The conviction rate in POCSO cases in these states is between 30 per cent and 64 per cent, which needs improvement through better presentation of cases in courts as effective detection and conviction are the measures for prevention of a crime, it said.One of the important facts is that in cases where the victims belong to the poor and marginalised communities, their chances of turning hostile during the trial and resiling from the facts in the FIR are high as such victims are subject to both coercion and inducements, the study noted.This happens especially in the cases where the accused is either a family member or a rich and powerful person, it said.“To fill the gaps and address the challenges in implementation of POCSO Act effectively, it is recommended that all the cases registered under POCSO must be closely supervised by the Districts Superintendent of Police and/or Deputy Commissioner of Police,” it said.“At this point of time, there is also a need for a dedicated unit in each district/Police Commissioner for investigating cases relating to sexual offences committed against children," it added.The study recommended that police officers posted in this unit should be specially trained and sensitised and have the correct psychological bent of mind needed to deal with the trauma that women and child victims face."There is also a need for more Fast Track Special Courts (FTSCs) exclusively to try POCSO cases in view of the huge pendency of these cases in courts across the country," it said. PTI UZM RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyday-4-child-victims-of-sexual-abuse-denied-justice-study-finds-101615195888162.html
08-03-2021||India||PM Modi goes shopping online, tweets list. He wanted to send a message to women||Marking International Women's Day and women’s contribution to India's Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday went on a shopping spree and tweeted about his purchase of textiles and paintings from states like Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal."Women are playing a leading role in India’s quest to become Aatmanirbhar. On International Women’s Day, let us commit to encouraging entrepreneurship among women. Today, I bought a few products that celebrate women enterprise, creativity and India’s culture," PM Modi said.From Tamil Nadu, the Prime Minister purchased a hand-embroidered shawl by the Toda tribe of the state. "The exquisite hand-embroidered Shawl made by artisans of the Toda Tribe of Tamil Nadu looked wonderful. I purchased one such shawl. This product is marketed by Tribes India. #NariShakti," PM Modi said, sharing the online shop's website link.The exquisite hand embroidered Shawl made by artisans of the Toda Tribe of Tamil Nadu looked wonderful. I purchased one such shawl. This product is marketed by Tribes India. #NariShakti https://t.co/rG8c6yrv2CThe Prime Minister also purchased a handcrafted Gond paper painting from the same shop. From Nagaland, the Prime Minister bought a traditional shawl and said, "India is proud of the Naga Culture, synonymous with bravery, compassion and creativity. Purchased a traditional shawl from Nagaland. #NariShakti"India is proud of the Naga Culture, synonymous with bravery, compassion and creativity. Purchased a traditional shawl from Nagaland. #NariShakti https://t.co/MvmERRDTQ9 pic.twitter.com/2S7tIdDOymPM also said he bought a Khadi cotton stole carrying a Madhubani painting. "Khadi is closely associated with Mahatma Gandhi and India’s rich history. Bought a Khadi Cotton Madhubani Painted Stole. This is a top quality product and is closely associated with the creativity of our citizens. #NariShakti" the PM said in a tweet.PM Modi also shopped from another poll-bound state of West Bengal. “I am surely going to use this handmade Jute File Folder from West Bengal. Made by tribal communities of the state, you all must have a jute product from West Bengal in your homes!” he said.Talking about the Assamese gamusa he purchased, PM Modi said, "You have seen me wear the Gamusa very often. It is extremely comfortable. Today, I bought a Gamusa made by various self-help groups of Kakatipapung Development Block."You have seen me wear the Gamusa very often. It is extremely comfortable. Today, I bought a Gamusa made by various self-help groups of Kakatipapung Development Block. #NariShakti https://t.co/jvHk5YFJof pic.twitter.com/8exa9oli8ZFrom poll-bound Kerala, the Prime Minister purchased a palm craft Nilavilakku. I am eagerly awaiting to receive Classic Palm Craft Nilavilakku made by women based in Kerala. It is commendable how our #NariShakti has preserved and popularised local crafts and products. https://t.co/GgwSkkLCka pic.twitter.com/x9Xsxi3AEz"I am eagerly awaiting to receive Classic Palm Craft Nilavilakku made by women based in Kerala. It is commendable how our #NariShakti has preserved and popularised local crafts and products,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-goes-shopping-online-tweets-list-he-wanted-to-send-a-message-to-women-101615192072547.html
08-03-2021||India||Will continue protest demanding discussion on fuel price hike in Parliament, says Mallikarjun Kharge||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said the Congress will continue its protest demanding discussion on a hike in fuel prices in Parliament.His remarks came as Rajya Sabha witnessed repeated adjournments following repeated sloganeering by the Opposition MPs demanding on fuel price hike in Parliament. Later, the Upper House was adjourned till 11 am tomorrow."We will continue our agitation demanding a discussion on fuel price rise when Rajay Sabha reconvenes at 1 pm," Kharge told reporters here.The Congress MP said the government has collected ₹21 lakh crores by putting excise duty and cess on petroleum products in the last six years."None of the other larger nations has imposed cess and duty as much as the Indian government has imposed and even after all this, the government was not ready to talk about these issues," he said."Narendra Modi government has collected ₹21 lakh crore by putting excise duty and cess on petroleum products in the last six years. None of the larger power counties has imposed cess and duty as much as the Indian government has imposed and the government was not ready to talk about these issues," said Kharge."The UPA government there was only 10 ₹was excise duty and under the NDA government it is ₹33," he added.Congress MP Dipendra Hooda said, "The NDA government has only increased the rate of crops by 30 per cent and price of diesel by 89 per cent," said Hooda."From common man to farmers, everyone is suffering due to rising Inflation rate in the country," said.After slogans were raised in Rajya Sabha, Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu said: "I don't want to take any drastic action on the first day."The second part of the Budget session of Parliament commenced from today with all Covid-19 precautionary measures in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-protest-demanding-discussion-on-fuel-price-hike-in-parliament-says-mallikarjun-kharge-101615195730194.html
08-03-2021||India||All-women team takes charge of traffic control operations at Delhi's IGI airport||An all-women team took charge of air traffic control (ATC) operations at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport marking the International Women’s Day on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The Airports Authority of India chairperson Anuj Aggarwal extended his greetings to all the women in the aviation industry as he pointed to increased employment opportunities for them. “In the last four to years, we have increased women's representation by 25-30%,” Aggarwal told ANI and added that more than 20% of women are providing airport navigation service (ANS) at the Delhi airport. In a video tweeted by AAI, the chairman said, "We believe that #equalopportunity be given to all genders. We are working towards making #AAI an organization that counts women #NoLess and therefore entrust them with leadership positions. I convey my gratitude & best wishes to all colleagues on #WomensDay.”It tweeted another video. “AAI derives its strength from its women workforce. Maintaining individuality, these invincible women go beyond & above their call of duty to serve the nation. #AAI takes pride in their determination & wishes them a very #HappyInternationalWomensDay #IWD2021,” it said."We believe that #equalopportunity be given to all genders. We are working towards making #AAI an organization that counts women #NoLess and therefore entrust them with leadership positions. I convey my gratitude & best wishes to all colleagues on #WomensDay ," Chairman, #AAI. pic.twitter.com/VQObD3tq4IAAI derives its strength from its women workforce. Maintaining individuality, these invincible women go beyond & above their call of duty to serve the nation. #AAI takes pride in their determination & wishes them a very #HappyInternationalWomensDay #IWD2021 #SheBreaksBarriers pic.twitter.com/MOGKNHv1RWShilpam Ratan, ATC manager at Delhi airport, reflected on the complexities involved in the job and the hard work the female employees are putting in. “It's a great experience working with the women’s team at IGI Airport tower. It's a stressful job where you've to take many quick decisions. Many facilities provided to us keeping in mind that females are working equally hard as the men,” she told ANI. She added that air traffic was gradually increasing post the lockdown imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All the women are handling the traffic very well. This is a male-dominated job. However, I believe that women are equally capable of handling such stressful air traffic monitoring job," she said adding the job, which is very challenging, will soon become female-dominated. IN Murthy, member (ANS) at IGI airport also congratulated women officers and staff of AAI for their achievements and hailed their “immense contribution to the stupendous growth of our esteemed organisation.” “Today all women ATCOs are controlling the operations at the Control Tower of IGI Airport and some other airports. I have visited IGI Airport today to personally congratulate them on this occasion," he told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allwomen-team-takes-charge-of-traffic-control-operations-at-delhi-s-igi-airport-101615195761454.html
08-03-2021||India||After being disrupted thrice over fuel price hike, Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day||The proceedings of the Rajya Sabha or Upper House of parliament were adjourned for the day on Monday uproar from the opposition parties over fuel price hike. The house was earlier adjourned twice due to the issue.This happened on the first day of the second part of the budget session of Parliament which began on Monday with all the Covid-19 safety protocols in place.Click here for updates on Parliament proceedingsThe session began at 9 am with Rajya Sabha chairperson Venkiah Naidu welcoming all the Members of Parliament and the new Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge who replaces Ghulam Nabi Azad. The chairperson also greeted everyone on the occasion of International Women's Day.Rajya Sabha was first adjourned till 11 am after Congress MPs demanded a discussion on the soaring prices of fuel in the country saying petrol prices in some states has crossed ₹100 per litre mark."Petrol and diesel prices are nearly ₹100 per litre and ₹80 per litre respectively. Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) prices have also gone up. ₹21 lakh crores have been collected by putting excise duty/cess, because of this entire country including farmers are suffering," said Kharge.The sloganeering against the fuel price hike continued after the house reconvened, due to which it was again adjourned till 1 pm.Also Read | Low attendance in Demand for Grants meetings an area of concern: Naidu"We will continue our agitation (demanding a discussion on fuel price rise) when Rajya Sabha reconvenes at 1 pm," Kharge had said in Rajya Sabha.The house was adjourned again for 15 minutes after reconvening at 1pm.The proceeding ended with MP Vandana Chavan in the chair announcing that the chairman has decided to commence the sitting of the Upper House as per usual timings of 11am to 6pm from Tuesday, on the request of many MPs of various parties. Members will sit in Rajya Sabha and Gallery only, MP Vandana Chavan in the chair added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-being-disrupted-thrice-over-fuel-price-hike-rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-101615190562864.html
08-03-2021||India||'Need to destigmatize women's roles': Air India pilot Shivani Manhas on International Women's Day||Shivani Manhas, one of the four pilots who flew Air India's first flight over the North Pole in January, said on Monday people need to rethink and destigmatize the roles that women play. “Only when we liberate men of the stigma that they can't be caretakers, can women be liberated. As a society, we need to destigmatize women's roles,” Manhas said on International Women’s Day.Captain Manhas, a first officer of Air India, was part of the longest direct route flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru which flew over the North Pole with the all-women pilot team, covering a distance of about 16,000 kilometres. Besides Captain Manhas other pilots of the crew were Captain Zoya Aggarwal, Captain Papagari Thanmai and Captain Akansha Sonaware. The inaugural flight AI176 departed from San Francisco in the USA at 8.30pm on January 9 and landed at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru at 3.45am on January 11.The crew was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “What can be more exciting than that for a citizen. It was an exciting experience since it was never done before. It took almost 17 hours to reach here," Manhas added.When asked about whether she or any of her team members in the flight ever mulled over having at least one male member in the flight, Manhas said that such a thought never came in her or in her team members’ mind. “On Women’s Day, I used to be part of a women crew flight and I always enjoy these flights. I have no fear as my training from Air India and MP Flying School was very good,” she said.Manhas comes from the village of Akalpur on the outskirts of Jammu. She completed her Class 12 from Delhi Public School and then began her aviation training in Madhya Pradesh Flying Club of Indore. She started working with Air India in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-destigmatize-women-s-roles-air-india-pilot-shivani-manhas-on-international-women-s-day-101615195709019.html
08-03-2021||India||In BS Yediyurappa’s Karnataka budget, borrowings see sharp increase||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday presented a budget allotment of ₹24,6207 crore as against the state budget of ₹22,9925 crore, registering an increase of over 7%."The Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) has seen a downfall due to lockdown for controlling the Covid-19 pandemic during the year 2020-21. As per the initial estimations based on fixed prices, the GSDP has contracted by 2.6% in comparison with that of 2019-20," Yediyurappa said in his budget speech on Monday.He added that the state and central government's tax collections are less than budgetary estimates that have led to reduced share of taxes to states."Hence the share of the state in central taxes has come down to ₹20,053 crore in the revised estimates from the budgetary estimates of ₹28,591 crore in 2020-21," according to Yediyurappa's budget speech.He added that the rise in debts will also wipe out any hopes of achieving the 14% growth target projection made last year."The budget of the state was never made in such a difficult situation previously. In spite of this, I am presenting this budget with positive thoughts having the aim of achieving the developmental dreams," he added.Yediyurappa, however, did not levy any taxes on the common man."I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people," he said, referring to diesel and petrol.The government reduced stamp duty for first registration of apartments valued between ₹35-45 lakh from 5%to 3%.The agricultural sector has been allocated ₹31,028 crore. Yediyurappa has allocated ₹62,150 crore for welfare and inclusive growth sector, ₹29,688 crore for education, ₹27,386 crore for urban development, ₹21,181 crore for water resources, ₹16,516 crore for energy sector, ₹16,036 core for rural development and panchayati raj.Yediyurappa has provided ₹52,529 crore for providing stimulus to economic activities. Bengaluru has been allocated ₹7,795 crore.Frequent floods, droughts, unreliable rain and the Covid-19 pandemic had exacerbated Karnataka's severe fund crunch.The revenue deficit is estimated to be ₹15134 crore and fiscal deficit is expected to be ₹59240 crore, which is 3.48% of the GSDP."The total liabilities at the end of 2021-22 is estimated to be ₹4,57, 899 crore, which is 26.9% of the GSDP," according to the budget.The 2020-21 budget had stated that the government would borrow around ₹60,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bs-yediyurappa-s-karnataka-budget-borrowings-see-sharp-increase-101615192740047.html
08-03-2021||India||Karnataka government slashes stamp duty on low-cost apartments||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday proposed a 2% cut in stamp duty for apartments valued between ₹35-45 lakh in the state budget 2021-22."To promote affordable housing, the stamp duty for the first registration of apartments valued between ₹35 and ₹45 lakh is proposed to be reduced to 3% from 5%," he said on Monday.The cut comes at a time when real estate companies in Karnataka and especially in Bengaluru have requested for some relief to boost sales of unsold apartments in India's IT capital.The Covid-19 pandemic had exacerbated sluggish sales in the housing sector. The slowdown had led to poor sales and piling up inventory in the state capital. The target for stamps and registrations remains unchanged at ₹12, 655 crore, according to the budget document.Yediyurappa has also kept excise rates unchanged after increasing rates on liquor twice last year.The Yediyurappa government had also increased duty on liquor twice last year, registering a hike between 17-25%. Excise has been one of the biggest sources of revenue for Karnataka.The target for excise was increased to ₹24,580 crore from around ₹22,700 crore last year.The state has already collected ₹20,900 crore in excise revenue at the end of February.In last year's budget, Yediyurappa had also resorted to increasing the rate on petrol from 32% to 35% and on diesel from 21% to 24%."The year 2020-21, due to Covid-19 pandemic, has caused untold miseries to the general public. I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people," he said without raising state taxes on diesel and petrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-slashes-stamp-duty-on-low-cost-apartments-101615192044944.html
08-03-2021||India||Magnitude 3.6 earthquake hits Himachal Pradesh's Chamba||An earthquake of magnitude 3.6 on the Richter scale hit Chamba in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).The NCS, in a tweet, said that the earthquake occurred at 10:20 am."Earthquake of Magnitude:3.6, Occurred on 08-03-2021, 10:20:43 IST, Lat: 32.92 & Long: 75.88, Depth: 5 Km, Location: Chamba, Himachal Pradesh," NCS tweeted.Earthquake of Magnitude:3.6, Occurred on 08-03-2021, 10:20:43 IST, Lat: 32.92 & Long: 75.88, Depth: 5 Km ,Location: Chamba, Himachal Pradesh, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/3LAQUKEjkj @ndmaindia pic.twitter.com/v2sivyF2U9Notably, an earthquake measuring magnitude 2.4 on the Richter Scale had hit the same region last month, the NCS had informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-6-earthquake-hits-himachal-pradesh-s-chamba-101615189651606.html
08-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee to hold foot march in Kolkata on International Women's Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On International Women's Day, Mamata Banerjee to hold foot march in Kolkata. It's a retort to PM ModiWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a foot march (padayatra) in Kolkata on the occasion of International Women's Day. Read moreGold price recovers from 9-month low: Here's whyGold prices rose on Monday, recovering from a near nine-month low hit in the previous session, as a passage of the long awaited $1.9 trillion US coronavirus relief package boosted the metal's appeal. Read moreInternational Women's Day: Women MPs push for 33% reservation in ParliamentSeveral women members of Parliament on Monday spoke in Rajya Sabha on the occasion of International Women's Day. During the discussion, MPs highlighted the issue of lack of women representation in leadership roles as they pushed for 33% reservation for women in Parliament. Read moreEntry, exit at Delhi metro stations between Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on green line shutThe entry and exit at several Delhi metro stations, near the Tikri border where farmers have been protesting against farm laws, on the green line was closed on Monday. Read moreMeghan Markle-Prince Harry on Oprah: All the most explosive statements, biggest revelations made by coupleBritain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle spoke to Oprah Winfrey in an interview aired on U.S. broadcaster CBS. Following are key quotes. Read moreShraddha Kapoor's ethereal golden lehenga is made by masi Padmini KohlapureWhile attending her cousin Priyaank Sharma's wedding with Shaza Morani, Shraddha Kapoor made for the most gorgeous bridesmaid in all her outfits. Read more'It's like watching Sehwag bat left-handed': Inzamam Ul Haq says he hasn't come across a player like Rishabh PantRishabh Pant's whirlwind century against England on Day 2 of the fourth Test between India and England has left the cricketing world stunned, including Inzamam-Ul-Haq. Read moreOla teases first image of its upcoming electric scooterOla Electric's upcoming battery-powered scooter is inching closer towards the final development and now the company has released a teaser picture of the new scooter. Read moreInternational Women’s Day 2021: Smriti Irani thanks women with this special postTo celebrate this day and wish others, many also share special posts on different social media platforms. Union minister Smriti Irani is among them. She took to Instagram to share a video to thank “over 6 million Indian women who led the battle against the Covid 19 pandemic.” Read moreWatch: Ruckus in Rajya Sabha over fuel price hike; opposition raises slogans||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-banerjee-to-hold-foot-march-in-kolkata-on-international-women-s-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101615186291128.html
08-03-2021||India||86.25% new Covid cases in 6 states: Govt||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the six states that cumulatively account for 86.25 per cent of the new coronavirus cases reported in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Monday.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 11,141, followed by Kerala with 2,100 and Punjab with 1,043 new infections, the ministry said.The Centre is regularly holding high-level review meetings with the states and Union territories showing a surge in new daily cases and the health secretary is also holding weekly review meetings, it said."Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have been reporting a surge in the Covid daily new cases. They cumulatively account for 86.25 per cent of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours," the ministry said in a statement.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe Centre has recently rushed high-level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in Covid-19 control and containment measures in view of the recent spike in cases, it added.The central government said it had already deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in Covid-19 cases."These teams interact with the state/UT authorities and get a firsthand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any," the ministry said.It said eight states and Union territories -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana -- were displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.They have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 2.29 per cent. Maharashtra has the highest weekly positivity rate with 11.13 per cent, the government said.The number of active cases in the country reached 1,88,747 on Monday and it is 1.68 per cent of the total infections.Meanwhile, 18 states and Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.These are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Sikkim and Tripura.The ministry said that nearly 2.10 crore vaccine doses had been administered through 3,76,633 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Monday.These include 69,85,911 healthcare workers (first dose), 35,47,548 healthcare workers (second dose), 66,09,537 frontline workers (first dose) and 2,13,559 frontline workers (second dose), 4,80,661 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities (first dose) and 31,51,794 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8625-new-covid-cases-in-6-states-govt-101615188103879.html
08-03-2021||India||Maratha reservation: SC seeks states' response on allowing over 50% quota||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from all states on whether the 50% ceiling limit on reservation needs to be reconsidered.The ceiling was imposed by a nine-judge Constitution Bench in the Indira Sahwney case in 1992, wherein the court strictly held that reservation cannot exceed 50%. However, the bench did indicate that in exceptional circumstances, reservation could be extended.On Monday a five-judge bench, hearing a challenge to a law passed by Maharashtra in 2018 providing reservation to Marathas, said that it will examine whether the 50% rule laid by the 1992 decision needs to be reconsidered.The bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, LN Rao, SA Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat issued a notice to all states in this regard.Also Read | Is Haryana’s new reservation law constitutionally tenable?The bench also asked states to respond to a 2018 Constitution (102nd amendment) Act brought about by Parliament, which gave constitutional recognition to National Commission for Backward Classes. Article 342A was introduced via the amendment, by which the competence of states to make laws on reservation for Backward classes was taken away.The bench said, “in view of the question of seminal importance on Article 342A, states have to be given opportunity to make their submissions.” The states were asked to make brief notes of submissions on whether they considered Article 342A as against the federal structure of the Constitution. The states were also asked to reply on whether Article 342A abridged their rights to create reservations for backward classes under Articles 15 and 16 of Constitution.The request to seek a response from all states was raised by Maharashtra ,which has maintained that it is justified in exceeding the 50% ceiling in the state to benefit Marathas.The 2018 Maratha quota law originally provided 16% reservation to Marathas and came after years of protests by the community. In June 2019, the Bombay high court trimmed the quantum of the quota to 12% in education and 13% in jobs. In its order, the high court said the 50% cap could be breached in exceptional circumstancesRepresenting Maharashtra, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi submitted that before considering the law that involves the interpretation of Article 342A and the Indira Sahwney decision all states must be heard.Rohatgi said, “All states need to be heard as Article 342A takes away the legislative competence of states to make laws for backward classes under Articles 15 and 16 in education and employment.”Attorney General KK Venugopal agreed that states will have to be heard as the 102nd amendment deals with the state’s power to legislate on reservation for backward classes after the 102nd amendment introduced National Commission for Backward Classes.The court then agreed to have all states on board.The bench will now consider the law passed by Maharashtra in light of the larger questions of law on which all states will be heard.The next hearing in the case will be on March 15 and proceed on a day-to-day basis. The bench expects to wrap up the hearings by March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reservation-case-supreme-court-seeks-responses-from-all-states-101615188197233.html
08-03-2021||India||‘Didn’t ask accused to marry girl’: CJI Bobde on row over remarks in rape case||As an institution, the Supreme Court have always had the highest respect for the womanhood, said Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Monday, as he sought to dispel a controversy after bench led by him asked a rape accused last week whether he was ready to marry the complainant.“As an institution and as a bench in this court, we have always had the highest respect for the womanhood. This court has always given the largest respect to women. We never asked the accused to marry the girl. We asked him ‘Are you going to marry her’. There was complete misreporting of what we said,” observed the CJI, as he heard a petition by a 14-year-old rape survivor who has sought termination of her 26-week pregnancy.Reacting to the controversy that flared up after his comments attracted criticism from a section of lawyers as well as rights groups, justice Bobde pointed out that his questions to the lawyer for the accused were in the facts of that particular case but there was misreporting by the media.Also Read | SC to hear Kerala’s plea against leasing of Trivandrum airport to AdaniSolicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was present during the proceedings, supported the CJI, saying the court’s poser during the hearing on March 1 were completely in sync with Section 165 of the Evidence Act, which empowered judges to ask questions in order to discover or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts in a case.Mehta said that the court’s questions were justified in the facts of that case but the comments were widely reported out of the context. At this, the CJI said: “Our reputation is always at the hands of the Bar.”The plea by the minor, who underwent medical examination at a hospital in Haryana as regards to feasibility of the termination of her pregnancy, was adjourned to Friday on a request by her counsel VK Biju.After going through the medical report which was submitted confidentially, the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said that it would wish to speak to the minor’s parents.When advocate Biju said that the Supreme Court had been very generous to the girl, the CJI replied: “It is good to hear that. We have heard the exact opposite in the last two weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remarks-misreported-court-has-highest-regard-for-women-cji-bobde-101615187836601.html
08-03-2021||India||Snowfall and rains bring down Kashmir temperature||Upper reaches of Kashmir valley received yet another snowfall, while rains lashed across the division, bringing down the temperature in line with the prediction of the weather department for two spells of wet weather in Jammu and & Kashmir till next Saturday including fresh snowfall in the upper reaches.Since Monday morning, while the plains are witnessing rainfall, upper reaches of Kashmir, including the tourist resort of Gulmarg is observing fresh snowfall. The snow fall has been observed in Machil and Gurez Valleys also. "We are witnessing fresh snowfall from early morning. So far 5 to 6 inches of snow had got accumulated in Machil," said a senior government officer at Machil in Kupwara district.On Sunday mild rains had drenched various parts of the valley including Srinagar.Director, regional meteorological centre (MeT), Sonam Lotus said that intermittent light to moderate rain and snowfall on higher reaches was most likely to occur from Saturday night till March 8 at most places in the J&K.“Thereafter, another spell of scattered to widespread rain with thunderstorm and snowfall is most likely during March 11-13th with occasional breaks in-between,” he said.Also Read: BJP resolves to form next govt in J-K on its ownThe precipitation may disrupt Banihal-Ramban and Zojila highways due to landslides and snowfall.The maximum temperature in Srinagar on Sunday night was 4.8 degrees Celsius. In Pahalgam and Gulmarg, the mercury plunged to 1.1 degrees and minus 1.7 degrees Celsius respectively.In the union territory of Ladakh, minimum temperature in Leh during night was recorded as minus 5.6 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-and-rains-bring-down-kashmir-temperature-hindustan-times-srinagar-101615186816704.html
08-03-2021||India||Arthritis drug cuts death risk by half in severe Covid-19 patients: Study||The use of the immunosuppressive rheumatoid arthritis drug tocilizumab when given to only those with severe Covid-19 can halve the number of deaths, showed a subset analysis of the study that was published in Lancet Respiratory Medicine on Thursday. However, the drug did not result in any significant improvement in markers like the requirement for ventilation, organ failure, ICU stay, or deaths when data for all patients—moderate and severe—hospitalised was considered, found a randomised control trial held at 11 sites across India.“Millions were wasted on the indiscriminate use of the drug as it was not clear at what stage of the disease it had to be administered. Now, we know that it can help only those who have either come in with severe disease or progress on to severe disease—patients who are on supplemental oxygen, non-invasive ventilation, invasive ventilation, or in the ICU without ventilation,” said Dr Arvinder Soin, national lead investigator for the COVINTOC trial. Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally rises after 18,599 fresh cases recorded in last 24 hoursThe researchers have gone by the union health ministry’s definition of “severe disease”—a respiratory rate of more than 30 per minute (normal is 12 to 16 per minute), oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or acute respiratory distress syndrome or septic shock. The first eight to ten days of Covid-19 is the infectious phase when the replication of the virus leads to fever, pneumonia, breathing difficulty, and some gastric symptoms among others. After that, it is the immune response going in overdrive resulting in a cytokine storm—a condition where the body’s immune system attacks its organs and tissues—that leads to most Covid-19 deaths. The doctors had thought that an immunosuppressive drug such as tocilizumab could control this rogue immune response. The study also showed 12% of patients had disease progression at day 28 in the tocilizumab group as compared to 18% in the standard care group. The number of adverse events—which could range from a simple fever to acute respiratory distress syndrome and death—was higher in the tocilizumab group. “However, the difference was not statistically significant. The rate of severe adverse events such as respiratory distress, cardiac events, and infections were also almost similar across the groups assuring us of the safety of the drug,” said Dr Soin. Since the drug is immunosuppressive,doctors were concerned that it could lead to more secondary infections.“This is the first peer-reviewed published study that has plugged the knowledge gap on when the drug should be administered. Incidentally, two yet-to-be published major studies—RECOVERY trial from the UK and REMAP-CAP—have revealed similar findings. This has prompted the UK to include the drug in their standard of care; in India it has been in use as an experimental therapy,” said Dr Soin. The study was conducted between May and October 2020 with 180 trial participants randomly assigned to the groups given standard care along with tocilizumab. “We had to include drugs such as remdesivir and steroids in our standard care after the trial started as the government treatment protocol changed. However, the number of people who received such interventions is well matched across both the arms of our study and hence it is not a confounding factor,” he said. Administration of off-label drugs (using a medicine for a condition it is not specified for), rapidly evolving understanding of the disease and treatment, and multiple trials competing for recruitment of participants were some of the challenges that the team highlight in the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arthritis-drug-cuts-death-risk-by-half-in-severe-covid-19-patients-study-101615186516534.html
08-03-2021||India||International Women's Day: Women MPs push for 33% reservation in Parliament||Several women members of Parliament on Monday spoke in Rajya Sabha on the occasion of International Women's Day. During the discussion, MPs highlighted the issue of lack of women representation in leadership roles as they pushed for 33% reservation for women in Parliament. "Many audits have shown that not more than 6% of women have got leadership roles. We must think about it," said National Congress Party's Fauzia Khan. "We can make a beginning by bringing the legislation on 33 per cent reservation of women in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha," Khan added.She further said that deep-seated historic, cultural and socio-economic barriers prevent women from taking their seat at the decision-making table.Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi also spoke about the reservation legislation and suggested that the number should be raised to 50 per cent. "24 years ago, we proposed a 33% reservation for women in Parliament. Today, 24 years later, we should raise this to 50% reservation for women in Parliament and assembly," Chaturvedi said in the Parliament.Chhattisgarh's Chhaya Varma and MP from the Congress party underlined the issue of crime against women and said, while the government has pushed the slogan 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao', the high rate of crimes against women tells a very different story."Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party's Sonal Mansingh demanded the celebration of International Men's Day if we are celebrating women's day. "I demand that International Men's Day should also be celebrated," she said.The Women's Reservation Bill is the pending bill in the Parliament that seeks amendment in the Constitution of India to reserve one-third of all seats in the Lok Sabha and in all state legislatures for women. The bill was passed in Rajya sabha in 2010 and is pending in the lower house of Parliament.As per the proposed criteria, the Lok Sabha seats will be reserved on a rotational basis. One seat will be reserved once in every three general elections, the bill also mandates.International Women's Day is celebrated on March 8 of every year. It is a day to celebrate women's achievements in all areas like social, economic, cultural and political over the years. This year, the United Nations decided 'Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world' as the theme for celebrations. The theme was decided amid reports that Covid-19 pandemic has widened the gap between women and men. According to a report by the UN, women are nearly twice as likely than men to lose their jobs during the Covid-19 crisis.In 2020, the World Economic Forum listed India at 122 out of 153 countries when it comes to women's representation in parliament, in their Global Gender Gap Report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-women-s-day-women-mps-push-for-33-reservation-in-parliament-bill-101615185297685.html
08-03-2021||India||Low attendance in Demand for Grants meetings an area of concern: Naidu||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said low attendance of members of non-BJP and non-Congress parties in the meetings held for the scrutiny of Demands for Grants is an area of concern.Addressing members of the Upper House, which resumed its second session of the budget session, Naidu said the attendance of members of other parties and groups fell to 27.60% from 40% last year. “Consequently, the overall attendance this year in the 21 meetings has fallen to 42% from 48% last year,” he said.Naidu informed the House that eight committees of Rajya Sabha spent 12% more time this year examining the demand for grants for 18 ministries compared to previous years. He said the committees held 21 meetings for a duration of 70 hours and 27 minutes this year as against 20 meetings for a duration of 63 hours last year. The eight committees have a total of 242 members of Parliament (MPs), including 78 from the Rajya Sabha and 164 from the Lok Sabha.Also Read | Second part of Parliament’s Budget session begins todayReferring to the participation of members of Rajya Sabha in the Budget scrutiny by the committees this year, he said there was an increase in attendance to 58.24% from last year’s 52.57%. Also, 50% of the members attended all the committee meetings as against 36% last year.The Rajya Sabha chairperson said the overall attendance of the Lok Sabha members in these meetings has, however, declined to 31.86% from 46.37% last year and the number of members who attended all the meetings of the committees has fallen to 26.21% from 35% last year.The Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law & Justice has reported the highest attendance of 51.19% this year while the Committee on Commerce reported the highest improvement in attendance of 40% as against only 32% last year.Earlier, Naidu complimented Mallikarjun Kharge on becoming the new Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha.He said Kharge’s “vast and diverse experience” would benefit the House significantly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-attendance-in-demand-for-grants-meetings-an-area-of-concern-venkaiah-naidu-101615183036149.html
08-03-2021||India||Is Haryana’s new reservation law constitutionally tenable?||Haryana government’s new law to reserve 75% of private sector jobs in the state, till a certain salary slab, only for local candidates, has triggered a controversy. The decision fulfils a key election promise of the ruling coalition, with Haryana joining a growing group of states that reserve jobs for local candidates. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2021 provides for reservation for a “local candidate”, which has been defined under the law as someone “domiciled in State of Haryana”. Under the law, every employer is required to employ 75% “local candidates” for posts where the gross monthly salary is not more than ₹50,000. The law is set to confront serious legal challenges once its constitutionality is challenged before a constitutional court—the Supreme Court or the Punjab and Haryana high court. Here are some pertinent issues at the centre of the controversy around Haryana’s 2021 Act: What are the provisions in the Constitution that enable reservation/quota?Part III in the Indian Constitution earmarks fundamental rights for citizens and all other persons while defining the corresponding duty of the State. Article 14 guarantees equality before the law and equal protection of law to all persons. Similarly, Articles 15(1) and 15(2) also prohibit the state from discriminating against any citizen on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth. Also Read | Open to inputs from industry in framing rules on pvt sector job quota: DushyantBut clauses (3) to (5) of Article 15 empower the state to provide for positive discrimination in favour of the grossly underrepresented and neglected sections of the society in order to promote substantive equality. Article 15(3) empowers the state to make special provisions for women and children while Article 15(4) authorises the state to make special provisions for the advancement of socially and educationally backwards or SC/STs. Article 15(5) goes one step further and says the state can reserve admission into education institutions, including private schools or colleges, whether or not aided by the government. Similarly, Article 16(1) lays down that the state cannot discriminate against any citizen in the matters of employment. Likewise, Article 16(2) too makes it clear that “no citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect or, any employment or office under the State”. However, clause 3 of Article 16 allows Parliament to make any law with residence qualifications necessary for government jobs, thus introducing the domicile-based preferential treatment. Article 16(4) also allows the state to reserve employment for any backward class of citizens, which in the opinion of the state, is not adequately represented in services. This opens the door for the reservations of Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Article 16(4A) was incorporated, permitting reservation in promotions but restricting the same to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). After the Constitution (103rd Amendment) Act, 2019, clauses 6 and Articles 15 and 16 have been inserted to provide a further 10% reservation in jobs and educational institutions for economically backward sections in the general category. These are the relevant provisions in the Constitution that seek to balance the right to equality for all citizens with the right of the state to legislate for reservation in favour of backward classes. At the same time, the Supreme Court, in Triloki Nath Tiku & Anr Vs State of Jammu & Kashmir, 1966, made it clear that the issue of determination by the state as to whether a particular class of citizens is backward or not is a justiciable one. It said that the state is not the final word on identifying a backward class for providing reservation and that a court can overturn any such determination if it is based on irrelevant consideration or manifests an abuse of power. Can courts direct the state to provide reservation to SC/ST or backward classes? No. It has been held in a body of judgments of the Supreme Court that directions cannot be issued to the state to give reservation to any class of citizens. Starting 1963, several rulings have emphasised that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are enabling provisions and do not confer any right on SC/STs, OBCs or any other group of citizens to demand reservation as a matter of right, and thus, no such directive can be issued to the state. In MR Balaji Vs State of Mysore, 1963, a five-judge bench had underscored: “It is necessary to emphasise that Article 15(4) like Article 16(4) is an enabling provision, it does not impose an obligation, but merely leaves it to the discretion of the appropriate government to take suitable action, if necessary.” This judgment quashed the order of the state of Mysore, providing as much as 75% reservation in educational institutions to all communities except Brahmins. It also held that caste cannot be the sole and dominant test for determining social backwardness and the reservation made under Article 15(4) should be reasonable and less than 50%. Another Constitution Bench in CA Rajendran Vs Union of India, 1968, made it amply clear: “Our conclusion therefore is that Article 16(4) does not confer any right on the petitioner and there is no constitutional duty imposed on the government to make reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, either at the initial stage or at the stage of promotion. In other words, Article 16(4) is an enabling provision and confers discretionary power on the State to make a reservation of appointment in favour of backward class of citizens which, in its opinion, is not adequately represented in the services of the State.” A nine-judge bench in the Indra Sawhney case, 1992, ruled that the power conferred on the state to give reservation to backward classes is to be exercised only if “in the opinion of the State” that there is no adequate representation in the services under the state. This judgment, while dealing with the issues relating to reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) also put a cap of 50% on reservation—a rule that holds the field till now. Again, in M Nagaraj Vs Union of India, 2006, a five-judge bench ruled that the ceiling of 50%, the concept of creamy layer and the compelling reasons, namely, backwardness, inadequacy of representation and overall administrative efficiency are all constitutional requirements without which the structure of equality of opportunity in Article 16 would collapse. It upheld validity of Article 16(4A) but clarified in the same breath that the state is not bound to make reservation for SC/ST in matter of promotions. Both the judgments in Indra Sawhney and M Nagaraj have underscored that reservation cannot exceed beyond 50% unless there are “extraordinary reasons” to justify why this ceiling has to be breached. Sufficient reasons must provide the necessity to go beyond 50%, said the judgments, which have recently been applied by the Supreme Court to stay the implementation of the Maratha quota in Maharashtra since it took the total percentage of reservation in excess of 50%. The final decision is yet to come through. In Suresh Chand Gautam Vs State of UP, 2016, the Supreme Court held that no direction can be given by the court to the state government to collect quantifiable data on the basis of which a decision to provide reservation should be taken, let alone the order to make reservation. Most recently, in Mukesh Kumar & Anr Vs State of Uttarakhand, 2020, the apex court reiterated that the state cannot be directed to provide reservations for appointment in public posts nor are they bound to make reservation for SC/ST in matters of promotions. These judgments bring home the point that although the state has been given the authority to provide reservation, such decisions are amenable to judicial review and the Supreme Court, in appropriate cases, has gone ahead to even strike down some of these reservation policies. Can a law be framed for reservation on the basis of domicile? Yes, but only by the Parliament. Article 16(3) in the Constitution empowers Parliament to provide domicile-based reservation in public employment and jobs with local or any other authority under a state or a Union Territory. Exercising this power, in 1957, the Centre passed The Public Employment (Requirement as To Residence) Act to repeal all existing laws in a state or a Union Territory that prescribed requirements as to residence (domicile) for public employment. The Centre, however, reserved its right to lay down rules in respect of certain classes of public employment in certain areas of some states such as Manipur, Tripura, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. But this power with the Central government is also not unfettered, as was made clear by a judgment of the Supreme Court in 1969 when a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court in AVS Narasimha Rao Vs State of AP declared that the law enacted by Parliament under Article 16 (3), making a special provision for domicile within the Telangana region of the state of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of public employment, was ultra vires (without power under) the Constitution. It ruled that even Parliament cannot use the power under Article 16(3) to provide for domicile-based reservation in a particular part of the state and that the entire state must be the venue for residential qualification.Do state governments have any specific power to make laws/policies for domicile-based reservation?No. State governments have no such power to pass laws directly on domicile-based reservation. The Supreme Court has decried this practice in several judgments. When the reservations of certain percentage of seats in medical colleges in favour of candidates from rural areas was sought to be justified on economic considerations, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, in state of Uttar Pradesh Vs Pradip Tandon, emphatically rejected the plea. It held: “The reservation for rural areas cannot be sustained on the ground that the rural areas represent socially and educationally backward classes of citizens. This reservation appears to be made for majority population of the State. Eighty per cent of the population of the State cannot be a homogeneous class. Poverty in rural areas cannot be the basis of classification to support reservation for rural areas. The incident of birth in rural areas is made the basic qualification. No reservation can be made on the basis of place of birth as that would offend Art. 15”. In 1979, in Ramana Dayaram Shetty Vs International Airport Authority of India & Ors, the apex court stated that the power or discretion of the government in the matter of grant of largess including award of jobs, contracts, quotas, licences etc., must be confined and structured by rational, relevant and non-discriminatory standard or norm and if the government departs from standards or norms in any particular case or cases, the action of the government would be liable to be struck down. In Dr Pradeep Jain Vs Union of India, 1984, the top court dealt specifically with the issue of domicile-based reservation, noting that to regard an individual from one state as an outsider in another state “would be to deny him his constitutional rights and to derecognise the essential unity and integrity of the country by treating it as if it were a mere conglomeration of independent States.” “It would appear that residential requirement would be unconstitutional as a condition of eligibility for employment or appointment to an office under the State which also covers an office under any local or other authority within the State or any corporation, such as a public sector corporation, which is an instrumentality or agency of the State,” it further held. The court, in this judgment, also discussed the “sons of the soil” concept while regretting that the Supreme Court initially allowed “sons of the soil” demands to develop claiming special treatment on the basis of residence in the concerned State, because recognising and conceding such demands had a populist appeal. “The result is that ‘sons of the soil’ claims, though not altogether illegitimate if confined within reasonable bounds, are breaking asunder the unity and integrity of the nation by fostering and strengthening narrow parochial loyalties based on language and residence within a state.” In Nidamarti Maheshkumar Vs State of Maharashtra, 1986, when region-wise classification for admissions to medical colleges was sought to be defended on the ground that Vidharbha and Marathwada regions are backward as compared to Pune and Bombay regions, the apex court declined to accept such contention, saying it is not possible to categorise the regions within the jurisdiction of the various universities as backward or advanced as if they were exclusive categories. In Sunanda Reddy Vs State of Andhra Pradesh, 1995, the Supreme Court affirmed the observation in Pradeep Jain to strike down a state government policy that gave 5% extra weightage to candidates who had studied with Telugu as the medium of instruction. In Govind A Mane Vs State of Maharashtra, 2000, the top court quashed the state government’s decision to distribute seats district-wise for admission to B.Ed course, saying that such allocation based on residence would be violative of Article 14 (equality) of the Constitution when it fails to put forth any material to show the nexus between such distribution and the object sought to be achieved. Similarly, in Kailash Chand Sharma Vs State of Rajasthan, 2002, the court held that “measures taken by the State on considerations of localism are not sanctioned by the constitutional mandate of equality”. “Attempts to prefer candidates of a local area in the State were nipped in the bud by this Court since long past. We would like to reiterate that residence by itself be it be within a State, region, district or lesser area within a district cannot be a ground to accord preferential treatment or reservation, save as provided in Article 16(3),” highlighted this judgment. In reserving jobs for “local candidates,” the Haryana’s new law, on the face of it, falls foul of the principles evolved by the Supreme Court in catena of judgments that have developed over last 60-odd years. This will be the prime legal hurdle the state government shall face once the law is challenged in a constitutional court. How have some states reserved jobs, seats in state assemblies for the locals? Article 371 of the Constitution lays down “special provisions” for 11 states, including six states of the Northeast. In view of the special circumstances of individual states, Article 371 includes a wide range of specific safeguards that are deemed important for these states. Under Article 371D, Andhra Pradesh government can organise “any class or classes of posts in a civil service of, or any class or classes of civil posts under, the State into different local cadres for different parts of the State”. There are similar powers vis-à-vis admissions in educational institutions. Other clauses in Article 371 talk about reserving seats in the Hills area in the Manipur assembly and Sikkim assembly; protection of customs and practices of local inhabitants of Nagaland and Mizoram. Some states have circumvented the prohibition under Article 16(2) by providing for institutional reservations in technical and medical education wherein certain number of seats can be reserved for students passing the PUC or pre-medical examination of the same university or clearing the qualifying examination from the school system of the educational hinterland of the medical colleges in the state, as was ratified by the Supreme Court in Dr Pradeep Jain’s case. In addition to this, some states have bypassed requirements for Articles 16(2) and 14 by including local language as a chief criterion, given the fact that some states conduct official business in their regional languages. Prescription of local language indirectly ensures that local citizens are preferred for jobs. States such as Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu require a language test. As on date, several states have enacted laws to provide reservation for their local residents in the private sector. These states include Maharashtra (up to 80% quota), Karnataka (75%), Andhra Pradesh (75%) and Madhya Pradesh (70%). But validity of most of these laws are pending challenged before the Supreme Court and high courts and an authoritative ruling is awaited. Can a state make it legally contingent for a private sector firm to reserve jobs for local residents?The Act mandates all private establishments in Haryana to provide 75% of new jobs to local candidates. Under Article 19(1)(g), all citizens have a fundamental right to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business as a fundamental right. By mandating private institutions to employ a certain set of candidates, the Act constricts their right to carry on their occupation freely, which will be a major leg of challenge to the law. Following a series of judgments until 2005 when PA Inamdar case ruled that the state cannot insist on private educational institutions which do not receive aid from the state to implement reservation on any criterion except merit, the 93rd Constitutional Amendment Act was passed in 2005 to allow the state to make provisions for the advancement of socially and educationally backward class of citizens or SC/ST in matters relating to admission in private educational institutions. However, the amendment does not give power to the state to make such provisions for employment in private institutions and therefore, any law in this regard lacks a constitutional support. The private sector firms are going to cite the constraints arising out of this legal obligation to buttress that the law effectively interferes with their constitutional rights to carry on their trade freely, especially when they do not receive any sops from the government and the law also fails on constitutional touchstone. A state law that prima facie exercises a power exclusively within the domain of the Parliament under Article 16(3), breaches 50% ceiling on reservation, and also interferes with the constitutional right of citizens to conduct business or trade has be tested on the anvils on the constitutional and legal principles. The Supreme Court must pronounce a commanding judgment to settle the issue once and for all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-haryana-s-new-reservation-law-constitutionally-tenable-101615180936227.html
08-03-2021||India||Women protesters join ongoing stir demanding repeal of 'black laws'||Thousands of women farmers, students and activists are gathering at Tikri border near Delhi where a protest has been going on against the Centre's three farm laws. These women will take part in the protest on International Women's Day on Monday."We urge the central government to roll back the three black laws," said a woman protester who reached Tikri border on Monday morning. The women protesters will be present at other border points too - Ghazipur and Singhu.International Women's Day (IWD) celebrates the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. It also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity.“To celebrate Women's Day, the stage will be managed by women, and the speakers too will be women. And there will be a small march at Singhu border. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites,” farmer leader Kavita Kurugranthy, also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told news agency PTI on Sunday.The SKM said it expects 15,000 women protesters at Tikri and 4,000 at Singhu on Monday.The farmers have been protesting near Delhi demanding withdrawal of the laws passed in September. The agitation, launched on November 26 last year, has completed 100 days but the farmers have vowed to continue "as long as it takes" for the Centre to listen to their demands.The government has promised to put these laws on hold for 18 months, and have also held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers but no breakthrough has been achieved. The farmers have said they won't ened their protest until the laws are withdrawn.The government on its past has times and again said that these laws are histric and will benefit the small farmers. One of the key changes these laws offer is freedom to farmers to sell their produce other than notified marketplaxces (mandis). The protesters say this will end the minimum support price (MSP) system, thereby putting them at the mercy of big corporate houses.The Centre has assured that the MSP will continue, but the farmers want a legal guarantee on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-women-s-day-women-protesters-join-ongoing-stir-demanding-repeal-of-black-laws-101615179795592.html
08-03-2021||India||Magnitude 3.2 tremor felt in Gujarat's Kutch district, no casualties reported||A tremor of 3.2 magnitude was experienced in Gujarat's Kutch district on Monday morning, officials said.There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, district administration officials said.The tremor was recorded at 7.42 AM with its epicentre 13 km east-north-east of Dudhai in Kutch district, as per the website of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR).It was recorded at a depth of 18.6 km, the ISR said.Kutch is located in a very high-risk seismic zone, according to the state disaster management authorities.The district witnessed a devastating earthquake in January 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-2-tremor-felt-in-gujarat-s-kutch-district-no-casualties-reported-101615177981645.html
08-03-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 vaccine drive jumps four-fold as PM Modi is inoculated||Following a sluggish start, India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive -- one of the world’s biggest -- has jumped nearly four-fold after the country opened it up to more people and got a crucial public endorsement from the inoculation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Almost 21 million shots have been administered in India so far, up from 5.4 million a month ago, according to data compiled as of Sunday by Bloomberg and Johns Hopkins University. The number of doses per 100 people has also climbed to 1.56 from 0.41. A record 1.6 million Indians received a Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, data show.After an initially lukewarm response -- due in part to the controversial approval of a homegrown vaccine before it had completed clinical trials -- the vaccination drive gained some momentum after Modi took the injection on March 1 and urged others to follow suit. India also openedthe rollout to all citizens above 60 years of age and those 45 and older with co-morbidities, either for free from a state center or for a fee of as much as 250 rupees ($3.40) at private hospitals.Some of the biggest companies operating in the country have said they will cover the costs of vaccination for their employees and families, including Accenture Plc, Infosys Ltd. and Reliance Industries Ltd., owned by Asia’s richest man Mukesh Ambani. “With your support, we will soon be able to put this pandemic behind us,” Nita Ambani, a director at Reliance and wife of Mukesh, said in a letter to employees seen by Bloomberg.“A large number of people are coming,” Azad Moopen, the chairman of Dubai-based Aster DM Healthcare Ltd., which operates 13 private hospitals in India, said in an interview Friday. But there’s still a “huge gap” to be bridged for India to reach its vaccination targets.Confidence BoostAlong with AstraZeneca Plc’s shot, India has also authorized the use of Covaxin, a vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd., which initially caused hesitancy among medical and frontline workers. It was approved in early January before it had concluded final-stage human testing.Bharat Biotech announced earlier this month that Covaxin showed a strong efficacy of 81% in those without prior infection after a second dose. Modi was also injected with the indigenously developed Covaxin -- a move that may have helped shore up confidence.India will need all these tailwinds to meet its target of inoculating about a quarter of its population by August. Maintaining the momentum in vaccination is not always easy, as Hong Kong’s experience shows. Also as demand rises, supply shortages may arise in India unless bottlenecks are eased quickly.The head of the world’s biggest vaccine maker, Adar Poonawalla of the Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- which is producing hundreds of millions of AstraZeneca’s Covid vaccine in the country -- on Thursday warned of impending global shortages due to a U.S. law blocking the export of certain key items such as bags and filters.Open MoreHome to the world’s the second-worst Covid outbreak, India will also need to open its vaccination program more widely if it has to curb further waves. This may mean allowing younger Indians to be inoculated and giving hospitals permission to directly purchase vaccines from the manufacturers instead of queuing up for state-procured supplies.“The government should involve the private sector very actively,” said Moopen. “The manufacturers have huge stocks with them.”A wider vaccination program is also key to sustaining the nascent economic recovery and retail boom across India, as people flock to shops and restaurants.“Growth over the next few months could be driven by pent-up services demand, particularly with the vaccine rollout progressing,” HSBC Holdings Plc researchers, including Chief India Economist Pranjul Bhandari, wrote in a report on Friday. “Having said that, risks cannot be ignored,” including “the sudden surge in new pandemic cases in a few states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccine-drive-jumps-four-fold-as-pm-modi-is-inoculated-101615177569542.html
08-03-2021||India||Indian Navy Ships to visit Bangladesh on 50th anniversary of 1971 Liberation war||As part of the 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebration commemorating 50 years of the 1971 war triumph against Pakistan, Indian Naval Ships are scheduled to make the first-ever visit to the historic port town of Mongla in Bangladesh from March 8 to 10.According to an official release, Indian Naval Ships Sumedha, an indigenously build Offshore Patrol vessel and Kulish, an indigenously built guided missile corvette, are scheduled to make a port call at Mongla from March 8 to 10 to commemorate the ongoing Swarnim Vijay Varsh and reiterating the historic Indo-Bangladeshi friendship."This is the first time that any Indian Naval Ship is visiting the port of Mongla in Bangladesh and the visit is aimed at paying homage to the Bangladeshi and Indian combatants and citizens who laid down their lives during the Liberation War of 1971, and reiterate India's firm resolve and commitment to maintain peace, stability and good order in the region, in line with SAGAR - Security and Growth for all in the Region, as articulated by the Prime Minister of India," the statement read.On behalf of the Chief of Naval Staff, the Commanding Officers of the ships will call on the senior Bangladesh Navy hierarchy to reaffirm the Indian Navy's solidarity and partnership with Bangladesh.Following all Covid-19 protocols, the ships' crew will participate in professional and cultural exchanges as well as friendly sports fixtures with their counterparts in the Bangladesh Navy, further enhancing synergy between the two navies, the statement added.On Thursday, external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar embarked on his official visit to Dhaka to prepare the ground for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's upcoming visit to Bangladesh, wherein he held talks with his counterpart on the progress of bilateral ties. This will be PM Modi's first foreign trip in over a year mainly because of the Covid-19 pandemic.India and Bangladesh are celebrating 50 years of the liberation war in which the Pakistan Army was thrown out of Bangladesh and 90,000 of their troops were made to surrender.Meanwhile, a number of events are being organised by both countries to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the decisive war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-ships-to-visit-bangladesh-on-50th-anniversary-of-1971-liberation-war-101615176481286.html
08-03-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises after 18,599 fresh cases recorded in last 24 hours||On Mon, Mar 8, 2021 at 10:29 AM Arpan Rai <arpan.rai@htdigital.in> wrote:Updated:India on Monday recorded 18,599 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry update on Monday morning. With this, the country's overall tally reached 11,229,398.The cases in the country have been rising for the third day in a row, with the active cases witnessing a surge for the sixth consecutive day.India’s total active caseload stood at 1.88 lakh after six states across the country reported a surge in daily Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are among the active hotspots in the country, driving the daily surge in caseload.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,82,798 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.91%, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41%.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said that the country is in the end game of the disease outbreak in the country."To succeed at this stage, politics should be kept out of the Covid-19 vaccination drive," the health minister said. He said that people should trust the science behind vaccines and ensure that their near and dear ones get vaccinated on time.As of Sunday, Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 10,187. It is followed by Kerala with 2,791 and Punjab with 1,159 new cases. Prompted by the rise in cases, Maharashtra's Aurangabad on Sunday decided to impose a "partial lockdown" in the district between March 11 and April 4, as part of which markets, malls and cinema halls shall remain shut during the weekends, officials said. Colleges, schools and training institutes will remain shut.In a revised set of rules, the world-famous heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora, and other tourist spots in the district will also remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays, while marriages will not be allowed to be held in function halls during the lockdown period.On Monday, the Parliament began with its second round of Budget Session but in a curtailed manner. The Lok Sabha Secretariat has made arrangements for the vaccination of parliamentarians in the Parliament premises. The session will be held till April 8.After the vaccination drive, Parliament might also witness simultaneous sitting of both Houses from 11 am, they said.At present due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Parliament sits in two shifts - Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening.India's vaccination drive is being conducted in full swing as 2,09,89,010 people have been inoculated so far, health ministry data on Monday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-after-18-599-fresh-cases-recorded-in-last-24-hours-101615174597770.html
08-03-2021||India||On International Women’s Day, PM Modi salutes ‘indomitable Nari Shakti’||As the world marks International Women’s Day, President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended wishes to the women of the country, hailed their accomplishments and called to eliminate gender inequality.“Women in our country are setting new records and achievements in various fields. Let us collectively resolve to promote gender justice and eliminate inequality between women and men,” Kovind tweeted.Modi also greeted women on the microblogging site, saying, “Saluting our indomitable #NariShakti on International Women's Day! India takes pride in the many accomplishments of the women of our nation. It is our Government’s honour to be getting the opportunity to work towards furthering women empowerment across a wide range of sectors.”Saluting our indomitable #NariShakti on International Women's Day! India takes pride in the many accomplishments of the women of our nation. It is our Government’s honour to be getting the opportunity to work towards furthering women empowerment across a wide range of sectors.Union minister Smriti Irani also took to the microblogging site to wish women and pushed them to “be torchbearers of change.” “A desire to conquer new frontiers, a promise to continue to be torchbearers of change, development & equality. Wishing everyone - women & supporters of Women-led Development, a Happy International Day of Women!” she posted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also hailed the role of women in strengthening the foundations of the nation. He assured that the government, under the leadership of PM Modi, is deeply committed to women empowerment in all walks of life.Highlighting their role in the defence sector, Singh tweeted, “Today, women have become an integral part of India’s security and defence architecture. The targeted outcome of such an empowerment is to create an atmosphere where women feel free, safe and secure to pursue any vocation, profession or take a road less taken.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also posted a message for women in the country. “Women are capable of creating history and future with formidable grace. Don’t let anyone stop you. #InternationalWomensDay,” he wrote on the microblogging site.The grand-old party also tweeted greetings for women and wished for an era led by women.“We wish women across the world a very happy #InternationalWomensDay! May this era be lead by you, May this era be transformed by you, May this era usher in generation equality,” they tweeted. In another post alongside a video, they also called support for women and follow their lead. “Narishakti - women power - is the only way the true idea of India as envisioned by our ancestors will be accomplished. Let us stand by her, let us stand for her, let us follow her lead into a truly equal, free, safe & prosperous tomorrow,” they wrote.Narishakti - women power - is the only way the true idea of India as envisioned by our ancestors will be accomplished.Let us stand by her, let us stand for her, let us follow her lead into a truly equal, free, safe & prosperous tomorrow.#InternationalWomensDay pic.twitter.com/waneSHZ8sWDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also lauded women for their talents and contributions. “My heartfelt congratulations to the greatness, achievement and contribution of the women power who have won their talents in every sphere of the world and heartfelt greetings of International Women's Day,” he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-international-women-s-day-pm-modi-salutes-indomitable-nari-shakti-101615174899076.html
08-03-2021||India||Healthcare to generate jobs, govt to focus on skilling for employment abroad||The Union government is collaborating with a clutch of countries to draw up the parameters for imparting skill training in the heath sector that is expected to generate more jobs worldwide following the changes imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic, said a person aware of the details. The work of imparting skills is carried out by the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship (MSDE), which has identified 300,000 jobs in the health sector alone in countries such Australia, Germany, Canada, Japan, Sweden and Singapore. “Since the pandemic has increased the scope of opportunities in the health sector, the ministry is working with individual countries to work out equivalence of qualifications,” said the person cited above. Also Read | 6 states continue to record spike in Covid cases: Centre“There are parameters that need to be worked out for workers to be deemed eligible. For instance, the skills of an operation theatre technician may vary; what is suited for the US may not fit in with the requirements in Sweden. So, we have to draw up equivalence of skills,” the person said. Blue and grey collar jobs for skilled workers have also been identified in a dozen-odd countries, including the Gulf, United States, Singapore and Switzerland. Officials expect 2.63 million job opportunities in the Gulf counties in the next five years; 300,000 in UK and a million jobs in New Zealand, US and Japan. For future collaboration with countries in the health sector, Indian embassies have been asked to organise webinars of MSDE with major health sector employers in those countries; placement agencies have been asked to furnish details of country and sector-wise demand of health workers and virtual meetings will be organised between employers or employer association of the health sector and professionals. Since job requirements are not uniform, the ministry will bilaterally work out the details of skilling needs with the destination countries. For instance, there are opportunities in sectors such as construction and related activities in the Gulf countries while health care workers and workforce that can work in sectors such as retail and delivery are more in demand in the European countries; so, country-specific requirements will be addressed. For people with technical skills in sectors such as healthcare, management, financial services and technologies the key destinations are USA, Canada, UK, EU and Australia. For skilled and unskilled workers in key sectors such as construction, retail and drivers the key destinations are the Middle East and the Gulf countries. “If you look at the sector-wise trend of labour outflow, India’s migrant workforce accounts for 18% of the total manufacturing sector, 14% of the retail sector and 10% of the health and social sector in Europe. In the Middle East, the percentage of Indian workforce in the construction sector is 41% followed by 32% in the retail sector and 11 % and 9% respectively in the domestic work and manufacturing sectors,” said a second functionary. The other sectors that are expected to attract investment are mega retail estate projects, building infrastructure, financial services, social sector, tourism and hospitality and industrial investments. Prof Amitabh Kundu, Distinguished Fellow at Research and Information System for Developing Countries and Co-chairman of the Expert Committee for labour surveys, said a dramatic shift in sectoral priorities is not expected in the long run and there is no need to realign the skilling process to just one sector. “The greater focus on the heath sector may not last for long. After 6 to 8 months, the scenarios will revert to what it was pre-pandemic. There is a need to focus on the unorganised sector, that should get a fair deal,” he said. The National Skill Development Corporation that comes under the ministry has signed memorandum of understanding with eight countries, including Japan, UAE, Sweden, and Russia, for cooperation in the field of vocational education and training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/healthcare-to-generate-jobs-govt-to-focus-on-skilling-for-employment-abroad-101615174695872.html
08-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear Kerala's plea against Centre's move to lease Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear the Kerala government's appeal against the Airport Authority of India's (AAI) decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Limited. The case will be heard by a three-judge bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The Kerala government moved the top court last year challenging the AAI's decision. The state-run Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) participated in the bid held last year but Adani Enterprises quoted the highest and won the bid in February, 2019.The plea was filed in the Supreme Court after the Kerala high court dismissed the state government's plea over the issue last year. It said that this a dispute between Centre and state and can be decided only by the Supreme Court under Article 131 of the Constitution.The Pinarayi Vijayan government contended that the Centre was bound to consult the state government under a 2003 assurance before involving a private party to run the airport. It said that the AAI's decision wasn’t in public interest as the private party has no experience in managing airports.It was also argued that the move violates the proprietary rights of the state government since the land on which the Thiruvananthapuram Airport is situated, was given by the state government and the erstwhile Travancore state to AAI from time to time free of cost.The Centre, meawhile, countered Kerala's arguments saying that the tender procedure was carried out in a transparent manner and special advantage was given to KSIDC considering the Kerala government's request. It also said that the decision to go for the PPP mode of operation, management and development of airports was taken purely on public interest. It was also a policy decision of the Union government.According to the Centre, the award of the lease to the KSIDC by allowing it to match the bid amount of the highest bidder after the completion of bidding process would have amounted to a violation of the entire bidding process.The Centre said that it had approved the grant of lease/concession of the airport to the highest bidder for 50 years subject to the security clearance from the national security agency. In fact, the decision taken by the Centre was in the interest of the airport.Adani enterprises argued that the property acquired and transferred to AAI completely vests with the Authority and therefore neither the state government nor KSIDC has any locus standi to lay any claim on the basis of the transfer of such property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-kerala-s-plea-against-centre-s-move-to-lease-thiruvananthapuram-airport-to-adani-enterprises-101615174309487.html
08-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM-led panel, formed to commemorate 75 years of Independence, will hold first meet today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi-led panel to commemorate 75 years of India's Independence to hold first meeting todayA committee formed by the central government to commemorate the 75 years of India's independence will hold its first meeting on Monday. India's 75 years of Independence will be celebrated on August 15, 2022. Read moreHow govt plans to push health spending to target of GDP’s 2%India’s official policymakers have long recognised that spending on public health care ought to be at least 2% of gross domestic product (GDP), first proposed by the 11th five-year plan (2007-12), but the country has been struggling to spend even less than half of it. Read moreGold price recovers from 9-month low: Here's whyGold prices rose on Monday, recovering from a near nine-month low hit in the previous session, as a passage of the long awaited $1.9 trillion US coronavirus relief package boosted the metal's appeal. Read moreMeghan Markle says royal family was 'concerned how dark Archie would be', adds the Queen was 'always nice' to herMeghan Markle, in her highly anticipated, 'explosive' new interview with Oprah Winfrey, has talked about her equation with other members of the royal family. Read moreRishabh Pant forcing world to look at Test batting differentlyPreparing pitches that will turn early in a Test match is not a new thing, it’s been India’s winning formula at home for years now. Read moreInternational Women's Day: Google Doodle celebrates firsts in women’s historyGoogle is known to come up with some of the most hard-hitting doddles. The company makes the most adorable animations related to trending topics and celebrates the special days in world history with doodles. Read more‘To serve the nation’: IAF officers ask more women to join armed forcesIndian Air Force (IAF) officers asked more women to joined the armed forces. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-led-panel-formed-to-commemorate-75-years-of-independence-will-hold-first-meet-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101615171702724.html
08-03-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow 11 am||The second half of the Budget session of Parliament commenced on Monday and Rajya Sabha reconvened at 9am. The lower house, Lok Sabha started at 4pm. It got adjourned till 5pm after obituary references were given two sitting parliamentarians and seven other former members of the Lower House. However, the Lok Sabha got adjourned again till 7pm when when opposition parties hit out at the Centre over the rising fuel prices in the country. Th Lower House finally got adjourned till 11am tomorrow.The sessions are being held in shifts to maintain the social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic.As the session is being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, vaccination centres were established for the members of Parliament and their family. "Two vaccination centres have also been set up for the family members of MPs, one at CGHS Dispensary North Avenue and the other at CGHS Dispensary South Avenue. Members can undertake vaccination in their respective constituency also," read the statement.The session also comes while several states in the country are heading for Assembly elections. As per reports, due to the ensuing polls, the session may be cut short by two weeks.The Budget session had commenced on January 29. It concluded on February 29.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow 11 amThe Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 11 am tomorrow.Glad that Centre has taken good steps towards women empowerment: Naveent RanaLok Sabha MP Naveent Rana told Parliament on Monday that the Prime Minister-led Narendra Modi central government had taken good steps towards empowering women in the country.Lok Sabha resumes after being adjourned twiceThe session of the Lower House of Parliament started at 7pm after it had been adjourned twice earlier.Lok Sabha session witnesses uproar over fuel prices, House adjourned till 7pmIt had hardly been 15 mins since the Lok Sabha session started when opposition parties hit out at the Centre over the rising fuel prices in the country. The Lower House has been adjourned till 7pm.Lok Sabha session begins after being adjourned for 1 hourThe session of the Lower House in Parliament began at 5pm after it had been adjourned for one hour.Lok Sabha adjourned till 5 pmLok Sabha adjourned for an hour after obituary references to two sitting and seven former membersThe Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 5pm.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla condoles death of parliamentarians Mohan Delkar, Nand Kumar Chauhan and other membersLok Sabha speaker Om Birla began the session by condoling the deaths of two sittinparliamentarians Mohan Delkar, Nandkumar Singh Chauhan and seven other former members of the Lower House. Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Delkar had died by suicide on February 22 while Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nand Kumar Chauhan passed away due to complications from the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on March 2.Lok Sabha session reconvenesThe Lok Sabha session reconvened at 4pm and would go on till 10pm.Lok Sabha session to begin shortlyProceedings of the Lower House of Parliament would begin at 4pm and continue till 10pm.Budget session may end before first phase of assembly pollsThe budget session of Parliament might be cut short and conclude before the first phase of the assembly elections on March 27, sources told news agency PTI. This comes after several political parties had requested the session- which was supposed to be concluded on April 8- to cut down due to the elections in five states that are being held in eight phases till April 29.Lok Sabha to function as per normal timings from tomorrowThe Lower House of Parliament will function as per the normal timings (11 am onwards) from tomorrow that had existed before the pre-coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic. Read moreRajya Sabha adjourned for the dayOn the request from many members from various parties, the Chairman has decided that from Tuesday, the sitting of Rajya Sabha will commence from 11 am to 6 pm as usual timings of the House. Members will sit in Rajya Sabha and Gallery only, says MP Vandana Chavan in the Chair. Rajya Sabha has been adjourned for the day.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 1:30pmMinutes after reconvening the Rajya Sabha adjourned till 1:30pm.Rajya Sabha proceedings to resume shortlyRajya Sabha proceedings to resume shortly after third adjournment of the day.Rajya Sabha adjourns for another 15 minutesRajya Sabha reconvened and adjourned for another 15 minutes. This is the third adjournment of the day.Low attendance in Demand for Grants meetings an area of concern: Venkaiah NaiduRajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said low attendance of members of non-BJP and non-Congress parties in the meetings held for the scrutiny of Demands for Grants is an area of concern. Read moreRajya Sabha adjourns for the second timeRajya Sabha again adjourned after briefly convening as the sloganeering over fuel price continued. Now, the upper house of parliament will reconvene at 1pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 11amRajya Sabha adjourned for one hour as Congress MPs raise slogans demanding a discussion over rise in fuel prices. "I don't want to take any drastic action on the first day," said Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu as he adjourned the house till 11am.Uproar over fuel priceUproar in Parliament over fuel price after leader of opposiiton Mallikarjun Kharge raises the issue. "Petrol and diesel prices are nearly ₹100 per litre and ₹80 per litre respectively. LPG prices have also gone up. ₹21 lakh crores have been collected by putting excise duty/cess, because of this entire country including farmers are suffering," he said.Women MPs speak on Women's Day"24 years ago, we proposed a 33% reservation for women in Parliament. Today, 24 years later, we should raise this to 50% reservation for women in Parliament and assembly," said Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi. NCP's Fauzia Khan highlighted lack of women representation in leadership roles. "Many audits have shown that not more than 6% of women have got leadership roles. We must think about it. We can make a beginning by bringing the legislation on 33% reservation of women in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha."BJP MP urged Parliament to celebrate International Men's Day todayI demand that International Men's Day should also be celebrated today, says BJP MP Sonal Mansingh in Rajya Sabha.TMC leaders urges Parliament to adjourn sessionSudip Bandyopadhyay, floor leader of TMC Parliamentary Party in Lok Sabha and Derek O'Brien, leader of TMC Parliamentary Party in Rajya Sabha write to Lok Sabha Speaker and Rajya Sabha Chairman respectively for adjournment of Parliament session due to Assembly polls in 5 states.Rajya Sabha extends wishes on Women's Day"Women's Day is an occasion to renew the efforts made in the direction" of women's rights and empowerment," says Rajya Sabha chairman as he extends his wishes on Women's Day."Women's Day is a day to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political contributions & achievements of women across the globe and honour their indomitable spirit, resolute determination and efforts that underline their achievements," he also said.Rajya Sabha chairman welcomes Mallikarjun KhargeOn chair, Venakiah Naidu welcomes members of Parliament as the sessions begins. Naidu also welcomed Congress' Mallikarjun Kharge who is the new leader of opposition. "On behalf of entire House and on my own behalf, I compliment Mallikarjun Kharge Ji on assuming the office of the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha. He is one of the long-serving leaders of the country, with vast legislative and administrative experience," said Rajya sabha ChairmanRajya Sabha reconvenes The second phase of the Budget session of Parliament commences with reconvening of Rajya Sabha in the first half of the day. Parliament proceedings to commence soonRajya Sabha to begin Parliament session at 9am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-march-8-2021-101615171431483.html
08-03-2021||India||PM Modi-led panel to commemorate 75 years of India's Independence to hold first meeting today||A committee formed by the central government to commemorate the 75 years of India's independence will hold its first meeting on Monday. India's 75 years of Independence will be celebrated on August 15, 2022.The commitee, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will discuss modalities related to preparatory activities for the celebrations to mark the occasion.The panel has 259 members. These include former President Pratibha Patil, former prime ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Devegowda, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader LK Advani, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, several ministers, leaders, artists like Lata Mangeshkar, A R Rahman and sportspersons.Opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and former Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati are also part of the committee.Many spiritual leaders like Baba Ramdev, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Maulana Wahiduddin Khan others are also a part of it. Business leaders Ratan Tata, Azim Premji and Nandan Nilekani have found themselves on the list of members.A recent gazette notification by the government said that it has decided to celebrate 75 years of India's Independence in a "befitting manner at national and international levels".Earlier, a National Implementation Committee under the chairmanship of Union home minister Amit Shah was constituted to guide the ministries about the policies and programmes to be undertaken by then on the occasion. A committee of secretaries has also been set up for this purpose.The celebrations are proposed to be launched 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022, on March 12, 2021, which is the 91st anniversary of the historic Salt Satyagraha led by Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-commemorate-75-years-of-india-s-independence-to-hold-first-meeting-today-101615171855446.html
08-03-2021||India||Light rain, thunderstorms likely over parts of NW India till Tuesday||Several parts of northwest India, including Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Saharanpur, Roorkee, Nazibabad, Gangoh in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh recorded thunderstorm and light rain on Sunday night and early morning today. A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) and an induced cyclonic circulation lies over northwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under their influence, widespread rainfall/snowfall with isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Western Himalayan region during March 7, 8 and 9.Also Read | Study: Sharp rise in extreme weather events in last 50 yrsTrace or very light rain or drizzle is also likely over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during March 7 to 10. Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance which is likely to affect Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains of northwest India from the night of March 9, fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall with thunderstorm, lightning or hail is likely over Western Himalayan region during March 10 and 11 again.Due to the interaction between lower level easterlies and mid-level westerlies, widespread rainfall is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh during March 7 to 10. Scattered rainfall over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura is likely from March 7 to 10. Maximum temperatures are in the range of 35-39 degrees Celsius (°C) over most parts of the country except over Indo-Gangetic plains where temperatures are in the range of 30-32°C and over Northeast India where temperatures are in the range of 22-25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-parts-of-nw-india-till-tuesday-101615171937908.html
08-03-2021||India||Maharashtra’s Aurangabad in ‘partial lockdown’. Here’s a look at all curbs||The local administration on Sunday in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad imposed a ‘partial shutdown’ in the district amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). During the lockdown between March 11 and April 4, malls and cinema halls will remain closed during the weekends, according to officials. Till Friday night, there were 2,910 active Covid-19 cases in the district, officials said.The restrictions come at a time when the western state witnessed a single day jump of over 11,000 cases on Sunday, for the first time since October 16 last year.What else is shut?The heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora, and other tourist spots in the district will also remain shut on during the weekends. The district administration has also restricted people from holding wedding functions in function halls during the lockdown period, officials said. The facility of registered marriage, however, will remain open.Colleges, schools and training institutes in the district will also remain shut. Malls and cinema halls will be shut during the weekends while eateries and hotels have been allowed to operate at 50% of their seating capacity till 9 pm everyday and people can order food from them till 11 pm."Political, religious, social meetings, marches will be prohibited during this period. Swimming pools, sports competitions shall not be permitted," collector Chavan was quoted by news agency PTI. Industries can continue to function but the workforce will be instructed to undergo RT-PCR tests, he added.The collector asserted that activities will not be brought to a halt if partial lockdown works. “If cases continue to go up, the option of imposing a stricter lockdown is open," he said.Where else are restrictions in place?Meanwhile, schools and colleges in Pune, have been ordered to remain shut till March 14 while the night curfew in the city has also been extended. Essential services, however, are exempted from the curfew.A lockdown or night curfew was also in place in several other districts which ended Sunday. There is no word yet on extension of the curbs.The central government has also sent a high-level team to Maharashtra to review the surveillance, control and control measures in place in view of the rising cases. Also, another team of experts who was in the state earlier this week, cited overcrowding in public transport, laxity on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, local body polls, and the wedding season as possible reasons for the upsurge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-aurangabad-in-partial-lockdown-here-s-a-look-at-all-curbs-101615171221886.html
08-03-2021||NA||Covid-19 LIVE: India administers over 1.6 million vaccine doses in single day||The second part of the Budget session of Parliament is set to begin today but its duration is likely to be curtailed. The session will conclude on April 8.India’s total active caseload stood at 1.84 lakh after six states across the country reported a surge in daily Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu - the six states collectively account for 84.71% of the 18,711 new daily cases reported in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 10,187. It is followed by Kerala with 2,791 while Punjab reported 1,159 new cases.India's vaccination drive is being conducted in full swing as 2,09,22,344 people have been inoculated so far, health ministry data on Sunday showed.Tamil Nadu has made it mandatory for overseas and domestic passengers, except those from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and the neighbouring Puducherry union territory to have an e-pass to be allowed entry into the state. The move comes in the wake of a spurt in coronavirus cases in states like Maharashtra and Kerala, even as Tamil Nadu has been witnessing an increase in the number of new infections over the past few days.Follow all the updates here:India records highest single day vaccinations, over 1.6 million doses administered#LargestVaccineDriveNearly 17 lakh vaccine doses given till 9 pm today; Highest in a single day till now.More than 2.26 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.https://t.co/r0DeIRrF5j pic.twitter.com/28kgypXKJ4India records highest single day vaccination with over 1.6 million doses administered on Monday, the Union health ministry said. With this, cumulative vaccinations crossed 22 million.Punjab reports 1,239 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deathsPunjab reports 1,239 new #COVID19 cases, 692 recoveries and 14 deaths today.Total cases: 1,89,620Total recoveries: 1,75,659Death toll: 5,941Active cases: 8,020 pic.twitter.com/S4luv5LzGYWith 1,239 new Covid-19 cases and 14 related deaths, Punjab's tally reached 189,620 cases and 5,941 deaths, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 8,744 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai reports 1,014Maharashtra reported 8,744 new Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths on Monday, taking the state's tally to 2,228,471 cases and 52,500 deaths. Also, Mumbai reported 1,014 new cases and four deaths.TN reports 556 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deathsTamil Nadu reports 556 new #COVID19 cases, 532 recoveries and three deaths today.Total cases: 8,55,677Total recoveries: 8,39,138Death toll: 12,521Active cases: 4,018 pic.twitter.com/I29mC0QrL5Tamil Nadu reported 556 new Covid-19 cases and three related deaths, taking the state's tally to 855,677 cases and 12,521 deaths, reports ANI.Also, with 532 new recoveries, the death toll reached 12,521.Minister of State VK Singh receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccineGhaziabad: MoS (Road Transport & Highways) Gen (Retd) VK Singh took his first dose of #COVID19 vaccine at Yashoda Hospital today. pic.twitter.com/vZbBVA1gm4Minister of State for road transport and highways Gen (Retd) VK Singh received his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 74 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 74 new #COVID19 cases, 61 recoveries and 2 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 8,90,766Total recoveries 8,82,581Death toll 7176Active cases 1009 pic.twitter.com/1194kQMjGvAndhra Pradesh reported 74 new Covid-19 cases and two related deaths in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 890,766 cases and 7,176 deaths, reports ANI.Syrian President Bashar Assad, wife test positive for Covid-19Syrian President Bashar Assad and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 according to the president's office, reports the Associated Press.A statement from the office had said that the president and the first lady are exhibiting mild symptoms and are expected to return to work after two or three weeks of isolation.Delhi reports 239 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 239 new #COVID19 cases, 309 recoveries, and three deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,41,340Total recoveries: 6,28,686Death toll: 10,924Active cases: 1,730 pic.twitter.com/QpKgXc93vZWith 239 new Covid-19 cases and three related deaths, Delhi's Covid-19 tally reached 641,340 cases and 10,924 deaths, reports ANI.86.25% new Covid-19 cases in 6 states: GovtMaharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the six states that cumulatively account for 86.25 per cent of the new coronavirus cases reported in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Monday.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 11,141, followed by Kerala with 2,100 and Punjab with 1,043 new infections, the ministry said.Japan Covid-19 inoculations off to snail pace start due to vaccine, syringe shortagesJapan's Covid-19 inoculation campaign is moving at a glacial pace, hampered by a lack of supply and a shortage of specialty syringes that underscore the enormous challenge it faces in its aim to vaccinate every adult by the year's end.Since the campaign began three weeks ago, just under 46,500 doses had been administered to frontline medical workers as of Friday.India's sees 18,599 fresh Covid-19 cases, 97 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia on Monday recorded 18,599 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to an update released by the union health ministry. With this, the country's overall tally reached 11,229,398.2nd part of Parliament's Budget session from Monday; curtailment on cards due to Assembly pollsThe second part of the Budget session of Parliament is set to begin from Monday but its duration is likely to be curtailed as most top politicians would be busy campaigning for assembly polls taking place in March-April.As of now, the session will conclude on April 8.Sources said parties across the board support curtailing the session in view of polls in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. However, an official decision is yet to be taken.'Havan' of cow dung cake can keep house sanitised for 12 hours: MP ministerMadhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur on Sunday stressed the need for adopting Vedic lifestyle for protection against coronavirus, and claimed that 'havan' (ritual burning) of a cow dung cake can keep a house sanitised for 12 hours.She was speaking during a function at the Indore Press Club."In order to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, Vedic lifestyle has its own role to play along with allopathy. The pandemic has sent out a message that we have to return to the Vedic lifestyle," Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-march-8-101615168477500.html
08-03-2021||India||Iran guided Israeli embassy blast through local module, upsets India: Officials||More than a month after an improvised explosive device (IED) went off outside the Israel embassy in Delhi late January, India’s central counterterrorism agencies have drawn up a list of suspects, with their investigations concluding that the Iranian Quds force was behind the terror plot but that the bomb was planted by a local Indian Shia module, according to people aware of the developments.Deliberate false-flag cyber markers were left by the perpetrators, pointing to the role of the Islamic State, but the counterterror agencies are clear that the blast was part of the asymmetric warfare campaign being carried out by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps against Israel, they added. “That the bomb was not of high intensity, with no human targets in mind was perhaps because the Iranians did not want to run afoul of a friendly nation like India. But the message was clear and the threat is real,” said a counterterror expert who asked not to be identified and who is now keeping an eye on the Iranian connection and the people associated with it.A low-intensity device exploded outside the Israel embassy on January 29. Counterterrorism agencies found that the explosive device used was not crude as it appeared to be. Instead, it was a remote-controlled device triggered off by a bomber using line of sight. While the results of the nature of the explosive are still awaited from forensic labs, the agencies feel the device was either an ammonium nitrate-fuel oil explosive with an electric detonator or a more sophisticated PETN (pentaerythritol tetranitrate) device. What they could confirm was that the device contained ammonium powder and had ball bearings, which shattered the windows of three cars parked nearby.Indian agencies recovered from the spot a letter addressed to Israel’s ambassador to India Ron Malka, calling him a terrorist and devil from a terrorist nation. The case is now being investigated by Indian agencies, with the involvement of experts from Israeli spy agency Mossad.Investigations into the contents of letter — the style of writing and exact spellings of those named — reveal that the missive was written by an Iranian, and possibly handed over by an agent under diplomatic cover, the people quoted above said. The letter swore revenge for Quds Force creator Qassem Soleimani and Abu Mehdhi Al Muhandis, both killed in a US drone attack in January 2020 in Baghdad, and Iranian nuclear physicist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who was targeted in a car bomb attack in November 2020.Both before and in the aftermath of the attack outside the Israel embassy, there were false cyber markers left in Afghanistan so that the main culprits behind the plot could be firewalled, a person aware of the matter said. The agencies said this also shows that the planning was done in great detail with possible reconnaissance runs of the diplomatic target, the person added.The Israeli ambassador to India has the highest level of protection, with proximate parameter security provided by Mossad agents.While Indian agencies have taken the attack very seriously, New Delhi is affronted that the Capital is being used by a friendly country to wage a proxy battle and the Modi government will take up the issue with Iran once the local supporters of the Iranian regime are taken into custody.HT reached out to the Iranian embassy for a comment but there was no response.After three agents of the Iranian Quds force targeted the wife of the Israeli Defence Attache in India with a magnetic bomb on February 13, 2012 (in Delhi) through an Indian conduit, the Manmohan Singh government not only threatened to expel diplomats but also downgrade the diplomatic relationship with Iran. The Quds Force agents managed to escape out of India at that time.The ramifications of Iranian involvement in the attack on Israel embassy this time will be very serious as the Modi government has gone out of the way to maintain ties with Tehran despite global pressure. Indian agencies said there will definitely be some action this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iran-guided-israeli-embassy-blast-through-local-module-upsets-india-officials-101615166916562.html
08-03-2021||India||Truck collides autorickshaw in Maharashtra; 5 killed, eight injured||Five persons were killed and eight others were injured on Sunday night after a truck collided with an autorickshaw on Beed-Parli highway in Maharashtra and went on hit a two-wheeler and a four-wheeler before landing into a roadside pond, police said.All the deceased, including two children, were travelling in the autorickshaw to Beed from Wadvani tehsil when the truck rammed into it around 8 pm, a police official said.Five of the eight injured were from the autorickshaw while two others were travelling in the four-wheeler. Another person was riding the two-wheeler, the official said.Some of the injured persons were admitted in Beed civil hospital and remaining others were sent to Aurangabad, he said.The driver of the truck fled after the accident, the official said.The deceased are identified as Madina Pathan (30), Tabassum Pathan (40), Rehan Pathan (10), Tamanna Pathan (8) and Saro Sattar Pathan (40), all residents of Shahu Nagar in Beed city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-collides-autorickshaw-in-maharashtra-5-killed-eight-injured-101615165751176.html
08-03-2021||India||Ram Temple likely to be ready in 3 years, says Trust||The General-Secretary of Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai on Sunday said that the Ram Temple in Ayodhya is likely to be ready in three years time."The Ram Temple will be built in about two and a half acres and a wall will be built around it, which is called Parkota. Retaining walls will be built inside the ground to prevent the effects of floods. This work will be completed in three years and with this preparation we are doing all the work," Rai said.Earlier in the day while addressing a press conference, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) national vice-president Rai said that Rajasthan has participated the most in the Samarpan (donation) drive for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya."The collective contribution of Jodhpur, Jaipur, and Chittor for the construction of Ram Mandir is ₹500 crores, which in itself is quite a big deal," Rai said while addressing a press conference."We connected to 36,000 villages in Rajasthan where 9 lakh workers were contacted. 38,125 workers were given the responsibility to deposit the money in the bank. The campaign was monitored from 49 centres in India," he added.He went on to say that the figures for each state will be revealed soon. A lot of paperwork in connection with the construction of the temple in Ayodhya has been done.Earlier on Saturday, Rai, had said the door-to-door collection drive for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya has stopped, but devotees who missed the contribution drive can still make their contributions through the trust website.Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has been entrusted with the task of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-likely-to-be-ready-in-3-years-says-trust-101615164668148.html
08-03-2021||India||Amit Shah attacks CM over gold smuggling case||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday hit back at Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, saying he was making wild allegations in the gold smuggling case and that the state, once known for social revolution, was now “reduced to a land of corruption, political violence and bad governance”.Addressing the concluding session of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president K Surendran’s “Vijay Yatra” in the state capital, Shah posed five questions to the CM.He said that in light of recent developments, the CM had lost credibility and he is not fit to continue in power. The customs department filed an affidavit in the Kerala high court on Friday, citing the confessional statement of the main accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, that dollar was smuggled at the instance of the CM, three ministers and the speaker.“The CM recently said central agencies probing gold and dollar smuggling cases were targeting the state government. These are baseless charges. I just want to ask some questions — whether the main accused (Swapna Suresh) worked in a key position in the government or not; who appointed her in the post with hefty salary; whether she travelled with some leaders and officials abroad or not; whether she was a regular visitor to the CM’s office or not; and when gold was seized whether the CM office intervened or not,” Shah said.He said he had all details of both cases (gold and dollar smuggling) with him and asked the CM to answer his questions. He said if the CM was serious, he should cooperate with the ongoing investigation instead of making baseless charges. He also said the Centre viewed threats and attacks on officials of the agencies seriously.The gold smuggling case came to light last July after customs seized 30kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram camouflaged as diplomatic consignment. Later, the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and at least four other central agencies are part of the probe now.“Kerala was first to beat illiteracy and build tourism as an industry. But the alternate LDF and UDF governments have made it a land of corruption and violence. The UDF has solar scam and LDF gold smuggling scandal. They are competing how corrupt they can be,” Shah said.He also praised “Metro Man” E Sreedharan, who was present at the event. “A symbol of integrity and transparency, his entry will do good for the party and state. Even at this age, Metro Man is ready to serve the country. I salute him,” he said.Sreedharan said: “Often, many ask these days why I joined politics at this age. I told them that at this age too I have enough energy to work for Kerala and the country.”On Sunday, Shah also launched his party’s campaign for the April 6 Lok Sabha bypoll in Tamil Nadu and exuded confidence that the party would not only win there, but that the National Democratic Alliance in Tamil Nadu would emerge victorious in the assembly elections next month.“I am confident that a coalition government of AIADMK-BJP-PMK will be formed (after the assembly polls),” he said.The ruling AIADMK and the BJP in Tamil Nadu on Friday clinched a seat-sharing deal, with the former, the lead partner, allocating 20 Assembly seats for its saffron ally and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat. BJP has nominated Radhakrishnan from there.With PTI inputs from Kanyakumari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-attacks-cm-over-gold-smuggling-case-101615154917613.html
08-03-2021||India||DMK finalises seat-sharing deal with seven allies in TN||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin on Sunday finalised the contours of an alliance with seven partners, including the Congress, and announced sops for people in a 10-year vision plan if the coalition comes to power after the April 6 polls, saying the days of the ruling AIADMK were numbered.Addressing a state conference for its cadres on the outskirts of Trichy, Stalin said a DMK government will give ₹1,000 every month to housewives and create a million jobs every month.“We aim to lift 10 million people out of poverty,” Stalin said after announcing that the DMK will fight 170 of the 234 assembly seats with an aim to get a simple majority on its own. Stalin agreed to allot 25 assembly seats and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat to main ally Congress. The Kanyakumari seat fell vacant after the death of Congress MP H Vasanthakumar last year.Stalin said he aspired to bring Tamil Nadu among the top three agricultural states in terms of cash crops. He promised two million concrete houses, piped drinking water supply and broadband connectivity for all households in villages.Asked if his party was satisfied with the number of seats allotted by its ally, Congress in-charge for Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao said the only aim was to ensure the victory of the secular front led by the DMK. The Congress had initially asked for 40 seats and the number is one of the lowest the party is contesting in the southern state for nearly two decades.With this, the DMK has allotted 48 seats from its share to parties in the coalition (CPI, MDMK, VCK, IUML, MMK) with talks pending with the CPI(M) and a few smaller parties. Talks between the DMK and the Congress hit a roadblock as the national party wanted at least 30 seats, having initially sought 40, with the DMK unwilling to budge.“This election isn’t just for a change of government but for the DMK to remain in power continuously in Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said while revealing his vision which he said was prepared in consultation with economists, educationists and experts.The high-voltage conference mobilised more than a 100,000 cadres who gathered on the outskirts of Trichy near the Samayapuram toll gate at a 350-acre venue covered in red carpet. Stalin entered with fireworks as a team of DJs blared his campaign song as he went on a one-kilometre ramp walk waving to the crowd.Trichy being a stronghold of the DMK is represented by MLA and party principal secretary KN Nehru and has had several such conferences in the past. “But this is the biggest I’ve seen in my lifetime,” said veteran leader Durai Murugan.“It’s good that they’re focussing on issues like education, rural development, water supply. The highlight in his vision is the ₹1000 scheme for housewives. But we don’t know how feasible it is for around 2.8 crore ration cards in the state...,” said political commentator Sumanth Raman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-finalises-seat-sharing-deal-with-seven-allies-in-tn-101615154674685.html
08-03-2021||India||After Jammu G23 meet, Tewari hits campaign||Congress leader Manish Tewari addressed a public meeting in poll-bound Kerala’s Malappuram on Saturday.Tweeting about the meeting Sunday, he said, “Last night addressed a public meeting of @iumlofficial on conclusion of Sauhrtha Sandesh Yatra at Perinthalmanna at Malappuram District Kerala led by Sayyid Sadikali Shihab Thangal. Electrifying Energy among people.’’Tewari, one of the 23 leaders who wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking internal reform in the party, addressed the Kerala meeting at the invitation of the Congress’s ally, Indian Union Muslim League.In another tweet, Tewari said, “From Saffron ‘SAFA’ (TURBAN) of Dogra Rajputs of Jammu & Kashmir to the Green of the @iumlofficial deep in the Northern part of Kerala these are the vibrant colours that make up our National Flag. This is the diversity of our great land. The idea of India we fight for. Jai Hind.”The meeting came a week after Tewari and other letter writers, the group has been tagged the G23, addressed a meeting in Jammu in honour of retired MP Ghulam Nabi Azad.After the meeting, Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said that the leaders should shift focus to poll-bound states. “The best contribution to the Congress cause would be to get active in the various abhiyans which are going on in the various states that are going to elections. It is important to campaign in the five states and I would like to remind all of that.”Last August, the 23 leaders wrote a letter to Gandhi, calling for “full-time and effective leadership” and elections to the Congress Working Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-jammu-g23-meet-tewari-hits-campaign-101615153582495.html
08-03-2021||India||Over 300 people try to gauge mood for Cong in TN, Kerala||About 210 people in Kerala and 120 in Tamil Nadu – none of them Congress workers – are travelling around the two states, talking to people at roadside tea stalls, salons, places of worship and bus stands to assess the best picks for the Congress’s candidates for the upcoming assembly polls, according to people aware of the developments.In Tamil Nadu, the Congress is in alliance with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham (DMK). In Puducherry, where the party lost power weeks ago, 70 people have hit the ground with the same goal.The public survey is being conducted by independent “foot-soldiers” who are not party workers. They go door to door and meet people at various places; the internal opinion poll is logged through mobile phones. The Congress’s Shakti App has contact details of more than 5 million Congress workers in India. The party devised the digital supporter network ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“We are preparing two different types of ground report. The first one is done by consulting the party workers and the second one is feedback from common people. While the internal survey is done right from the bloc level, our interaction with the common people happens everywhere...,” said Praveen Chakravarti, chairman of the Congress’s data analytics department.This is the first time the Congress, with an ear to the ground, is asking the common people about their preferred Congress candidates for the polls, widening the scope of public consultation. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi earlier started in-house opinion polls or internal surveys to find out which candidate enjoys the support of grassroots-level workers.For a party that aimed to be a champion of the “aam aadmi” and which accused the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government of favouring a handful of industrialists, the wider engagement with common people also coincides with the internal challenges propelled by a section of the senior leaders questioning the organisation’s style of functioning.These surveys are being conducted by the party’s data analytics department in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry only — in other words, in those areas where the stakes are very high for the Congress. In poll-bound states of Assam and West Bengal, no such activities at the central level are being conducted, but party leaders said that the local leadership may be taking feedback in their own ways for candidates.Chakravati feels that these exercises also help the party to reach out to people. “On many occasions, party workers tell us that after spending so many years in the Congress, finally the party is asking our opinion as to who should be our candidate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-300-people-try-to-gauge-mood-for-cong-in-tn-kerala-101615153282899.html
08-03-2021||India||6 states continue to record spike in Covid cases: Centre||At least six states are seeing a strong resurgence of new infections of Covid-19 in recent weeks, the central government said on Sunday, as it deputed high-level teams comprising public health experts to two states of particular concern – Maharashtra and Punjab – to assist local governments in surveillance, control and containment measures.Government experts pointed out that a reduction in testing, with a “particularly low share of gold-standard RT-PCR tests”, inadequate contact-tracing of positive cases, and uncontrolled gatherings during the wedding season were some of the reasons behind the spike in cases.The observations from the Union health ministry come a day after the country reported the largest single-day increase in new Covid-19 infections in two months. This abrupt resurgence in cases has brought forth fears of the start of a nationwide second wave of Covid-19 at a time when a new phase of vaccination, which covers the most vulnerable sections of the general public, started a week ago and is only beginning to pick up pace.Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu were identified by the Centre as the six regions that have seen a rise in new cases in the recent weeks. These six collectively accounted for 84.7% of the 18,711 new daily cases reported on Saturday — the highest single-day increase in cases since January 6.India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, with 2.2 million infections and more than 52,000 deaths, is again reporting the most new infections in the country — the state reported 11,141 new cases on Sunday. It is followed by Kerala, the second worst-hit region with 1.07 million cases, which reported 2,100 new infections and Punjab, which reported 1,051 new cases on Sunday.A total of 18,643 cases were reported across the country on Sunday, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. The seven-day average of new cases (also known as the Covid curve) currently is at 16,744, the highest in nearly two months, a statistic that has alarmed experts.The Centre, meanwhile, deputed high-level teams comprising at least three public health experts to two states – Maharashtra and Punjab – in order to assist local governments in surveillance, control and containment measures.“The idea behind sending expert teams is to get to the root of why the cases have suddenly seen a surge, and accordingly suggest appropriate measures to control it. So far, it looks like the increase in cases could be due to large gatherings where Covid-19-appropriate behaviour is not observed, especially with the wedding season and a fall in Covid-19 testing,” said a senior government official familiar with the developments, asking not to be named.Two other regions that are showing an upward trend of new infections, according to the Centre, are Delhi and Haryana. At a high-level meeting held with representatives of eight states and Union Territories on Saturday, the Centre expressed concern regarding nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa, and one in Chandigarh.Government experts had observed that increase in weekly positivity in these districts appeared largely due to reduced overall testing, with a “particularly low share of real-time reverse polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test”, and inadequate contact tracing of positive cases. They have been directed to increase the share of RT-PCR testing, demarcate containment areas, carry out close contact-tracing of minimum of 20 people per positive case, appropriate clinical management of patients, and be particularly vigilant about any superspreader events.Experts say increasing Covid-19 vaccination in these high load areas holds the key in breaking the chain of transmission. “This will prevent any sort of second wave. Also, covering the entire vulnerable population fast will take us ahead of the virus,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, professor and head, life-course epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-states-continue-to-record-spike-in-covid-cases-centre-101615146557704.html
08-03-2021||India||‘Women are not pleading, they are leading’: Smriti Irani||On the eve of the International Women’s Day, union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani spoke to Vinod Sharma on the challenges and opportunities the women have in the country, her role as a minister and the BJP’s battle axe against the Congress. Edited excerpts:We’re talking on the eve of the International Women’s Day. What’s your objective take on the status of women in our society?We’re at a point in our history where we’ve recognised that women not only have to be empowered but they, as citizens, must lead the change. For too long the empowerment narrative gave the impression that we were the weaker lot who needed additional support. More and more women now know that all they required was equal opportunity to compete, equal access to resources and an acknowledgement of their achievement. When the Prime Minister speaks of women-led development, it’s a tectonic shift in narrative terms. Women are not pleading, they’re leading.Public outreach has to be there to sensitise the other gender. We’ve seen many incidents (of violence against women).We’ve had an equal number of men who stood up for (gender) equality, who recognised the need to correct past wrongs. To paint all Indian men with one brush will be a disservice not only to the male gender but also to the female. Yes, there have been men who objectified women, who dissuaded them from reaching their full potential, who consistently broke the law, who ensured that women were kept away from resources and denied credit and respect. That said, there also have been men who stood shoulder to shoulder with their daughters, their wives.Why haven’t the stringent penal provisions against rape and other forms of violence been a good enough deterrent?Deterrence comes from firm application of the law; by ensuring that investigation is prompt. It comes with access to evidence-based justice, not justice which dis-balances (sic) the scale just because a decision has to be given in favour of a woman. Under the Nirbhaya fund, we’ve pronounced establishment of over 1,000 fast-track courts... For the first time, we took steps to ensure an anti-human trafficking unit in each district. The PM was insistent on having a one-stop crisis centre in every district. West Bengal made the exception of not coming on board. But we have 700 functional one-stop crisis centres that provide under one roof medico-legal and police help to women victims.Laws come into play after the incidents. Isn’t prevention the key?The national education policy which came to fruition after three decades has for the first time, a gender-inclusion fund. It fiscally empowers the states by ensuring that there’s money behind including gender not only up to grade VIII of education but also in enhancing the gender component in higher education. When we speak of societal change, we have to focus on empowerment through STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). When I began the conversation six years ago, about women in science, particularly STEM, the first steps I took (as education minister), with the PM’s blessings, was to get a woman to lead the IIT council.That underscores the need for the promised (33%) quota for women in Parliament and state assemblies. Your party has now the legislative strength to make it happen.I was in the Rajya Sabha when it passed the women’s reservation bill (in 2008). The UPA (then in power) was in disarray. There was absolutely no support the Congress party had on it. Our leadership said they’d support the bill’s passage – and we did. Apart from the fact that the BJP is steadfast in its commitment for passing the bill, what fascinates me – when I speak of pedigreed women – that there’s that nuance and bias even in politics. We have 1.3 million women in our panchayats. It seems we never consider them politically potent enough to be mentioned.You didn’t comment on the likelihood of women’s reservation bill being passed.Has the BJP under the leadership of Narendra Modi ever shied away from its pronouncements in the manifesto? Aren’t Article 370 and Ram Janmabhoomi evidence enough? My party is resolute in its support of the bill.Yours has been a long journey to politics from issue-based television and the entertainment industry. Has that helped?I’m the only female politician who’s also recognised by her former vocation. I recognise the bias in that. When you say, oh, she used to be an actor you indicate that she possibly isn’t very serious on issues of policy and administration.It becomes that inflection point that helps to dismiss her capacities, her potential... It becomes interesting when you look at the fact that as education minister, I made the first ever national ranking framework. Is there any recognition accorded to me for it? I conducted the largest-ever consultation on education policy in our democracy. Would I get any kind of acceptance for that? On the PM’s direction, I created a network that had some of the best academicians from the world over, coming to India and teaching in government institutions. Under the PM’s leadership, we started a project called Imprint that brought together all research bodies...There’s a story recounted in a book on the Amethi election you won. It says you turned away a local politician who used low-brow language for Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at a meeting with you. When does the woman in you take over from the politician?The presumption is wrong if you think they’re in any way separate. I’ve never been afforded the same courtesy, be it Ms Vadra or her immediate friends circle or Mr (Rahul) Gandhi (and) his political positioning and support to men who sexually objectified me, mocked me or made explicit comments about me. I’ve not been afforded that compliment, that particular respect by the (Gandhi) siblings. That’s what makes me different from them.So, the incident happened…I will not comment because I’ve not read the book… I don’t understand why my politics has to be tugged to a star that’s drowning. My politics is much beyond the rambling siblings. I’ve spent a few years as an Opposition member as well. On the Pocso legislation, I spoke on behalf of the entire Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. In 2013, I was a prominent speaker on the sexual harassment at workplace bill… When Meira Kumar was Speaker, I represented the Asia-Pacific region on the Syrian crisis in the International Parliamentary Union.I’m saying this today because if a woman does not come from a pedigreed position, she’d be denied recognition. There wasn’t a murmur when the world economic forum announced me as a young global leader in 2015. If some twiddling siblings were recognised with even a normal domestic award, there would’ve been much hoopla about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-are-not-pleading-they-are-leading-smriti-irani-101615144328862.html
08-03-2021||India||2nd half of Budget session may be cut short due to state polls||The month-long second half of Parliament’s Budget Session is likely to be shortened by two weeks, with government managers and some Opposition leaders requesting Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to curtail the proceedings in view of upcoming assembly elections, people aware of the matter said on Sunday, a day ahead of the resumption of the House.While the first part of the Budget Session began on January 29 and concluded two days before schedule on February 13, the second leg is officially set to end on April 8. The session is set to coincide with the March-April elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry.A Parliament official said that government managers as well as many opposition leaders have requested the Rajya Sabha chairman and Lok Sabha Speaker to cut short the session as leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Left bloc, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and many regional outfits would be busy in election campaigning.Another senior official said on condition of anonymity that the second half of the session, which starts on Monday, may run for just two weeks. “The elections are starting from March 27. Keeping the political considerations in mind, it looks like the session is likely to run for two weeks only,” the official added.The remaining part of the Budget Session may also see the resumption of normal parliamentary schedule of simultaneous proceedings for both Houses from 11am, the official added. Currently, the two Houses sit in different shifts to ensure social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic.An official said that both Houses could meet at 11 am from the second week following the vaccination of eligible MPs. “Since many MPs would be busy in campaign, we are not expecting a full house in this session,” the Rajya Sabha official said, asking not to be named.A third official said: “Therefore, the current system of allotment of seats covering both Houses will be scrapped and MPs of one House can be accommodated in their own House. This will allow simultaneous running of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.”The government’s top priority would be to get various demands for grants for the year 2021-22 passed along with the Finance Bill. It also has about 25 bills shortlisted for passage but those could be taken up later, too. Some of the bills listed by the government include the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill, Electricity (Amendment) Bill, Crypto currency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill.While some Opposition leaders have supported the idea of curtailing the Budget Session, the it has divided those within the Congress party. At Sunday’s meeting of the party’s strategy group, which is headed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury supported the idea, saying that only Punjab MPs will be present for most of the session. He said he would be busy with the West Bengal elections, deputy leader Gaurav Gogoi will be in Assam for campaigning and groups of MPs from Kerala and Tamil Nadu will be in their respective regions, according to a person aware of the developments. He also pointed out that opposition parties such as the Trinamool Congress and DMK are also likely to be absent from Parliament, the person added.However, the Congress’s Rajya Sabha leaders Jairam Ramesh and Anand Sharma said that the move to curtail the session would set a dangerous precedent. According to two leaders who attended the meeting but didn’t want to be named, the Rajya Sabha leaders felt that it undermined the Congress party’s position of asking for Parliament to run. When former Prime Minister and RS member Manmohan Singh agreed with them, Sonia Gandhi said that the Congress party will not ask for the session to be cut short, the leaders said.“We will ask the government to make their position clear on the session and if other parties also agree, then we will accept,” said one of the leaders quoted above. “The Congress party will not ask for the session to be cut short.” The final word on the issue will become clear at the business advisory committee meeting. While Ramesh refused to comment, Chowdhury and Sharma did not respond.The Congress has also decided to aggressively raise the issue of fuel price hikes in Parliament.“I am bringing an adjournment motion on the issue,” said Kerala MP K Suresh.“In the coming days, the party will speak up for the problems that this issue is creating for the common man,” he added. Suresh said that the other issues that are going to be raised by the Congress include the now 100-day-long agitation by farmers against three agri laws and a demand for better law-and-order for women and children. The House proceedings were washed out for four consecutive days in the first half of the session over the Opposition’s demand for a separate discussion on farm issues. To make up for the lost time, the House sat till midnight on several days.“There is no reason why the parliamentary calendar should be impacted by state elections...A truncated session will either result in less time for debate on national and legislative issues, or such debates being pushed to the monsoon session...” Chakshu Roy, Head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-half-of-budget-session-may-be-cut-short-due-to-state-polls-101615143953565.html
08-03-2021||India||Five of family found dead in Chhattisgarh||In a case of suspected murder-suicide, five members of a family were found dead in a village in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, around 40 kilometres from the state capital, on Saturday, a police official said.A suicide note found at the spot said they took the decision because of acute financial distress, an official said.Police said they found bodies of a 55-year-old man, his 45-year-old wife and their son (24), and daughters who were 28 and 21 years old in Chhattisgarh’s Bathena village.Bodies of the man and his son were found in the house while the bodies of the three woman were found near the house, the official added.A note recovered from the spot stated that the family decided to commit suicide due to financial distress.“Prima facie, it seems the father-son duo killed the three women, placed the bodies in paddy husk and set it afire before hanging themselves,” an official said.The incident has created panic in the area.Dog squad and forensic team have been sent to the spot and more details would be available after the post mortem, the official said. The police are investigating the case from all possible angles, the official added.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-of-family-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-101615143254378.html
08-03-2021||India||Govt plan to take over mine auctions faces opposition from a few states||The Union mines ministry has proposed amendments to the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, allowing captive mine owners to sell up to 50% of the approved capacity in the open market and giving itself the power to auction mines that the states have failed to auction.The changes have been opposed by some states who see it as another attempt by the Centre to take over mining auctions and impose central rules on a state domain. Except coal, states are allowed to auction other mines in consultation with the central ministry. Parliament in September 2020 approved an Ordinance promulgated in June to improve revenue from the mining sector and the Centre now wants states to carry out these changes too.In a note to amend the law, circulated to all states, the mines ministry said the amendments have been proposed after consultation with Union ministries and states to improve revenue from the mining sector and to reduce dependence on imports.The ministry has proposed to allow sale of 50% of minerals from captive mines in open market after meeting the need of plants they are attached to.Under the captive mines scheme, the mineral can be mined only for the plant to which it is attached and no royalty is charged for the same.With the change in law, the government aims at increasing production, especially from the captive coal mines. There are 194 captive coal blocks in India that were auctioned between 1993 and 2011, and which have coal reserves of 44 billion tonnes.“This (market sale) will help to increase coal production from captive mines, coal availability in the market leading to reduction in import. This will also ensure additional revenue to the states and lead to Atmanirbhar Bharat,” the proposal said.To improve revenue, the ministry has fixed up to 2.5 times of the existing royalty for allowing commercial sales from the captive mines. A decision on how much mineral from each captive mine can be sold will be taken by the mines and coal ministries, the note says.Licence holders currently pay a royalty of ₹50 to ₹250 for a tonne of coal depending on its quality and ₹800 per tonne of asbestos. For several other minerals, the royalty is charged on ad valorem (percentage of the sale price) basis as per the rates published by Indian Bureau of Mines. The ad valorem royalty ranges from 0.4% per tonne for bauxite to 12% for copper. A mines ministry official said that streamlining of the auctions would help in better utilisation of mines and ensuring flow of minerals for industries. “There are many indirect benefits as it improves tax collections for the Centre and states and also create additional job avenues,” he said.The ministry justified changes in the auction rules saying it would “ensure continuous supply of minerals in the country.” Any delay in auction will have substantial impact on the availability as well as prices of minerals, the note said.Another amendment proposed is to empower the Centre to auction mines that states have failed to auction. Of the 143 such mines listed for auctioning, states have auctioned only 7 since 2015, the proposal said. According to ministry officials, states were getting about ₹10,000 crore as revenue from these mines. “Further, mining lease in relation to 334 blocks expired on 31 March 2020, out of which 46 are working mines. Ministry of Mines is pursuing with the state governments since early 2019 for early auction of these blocks ensuring continuity in production of minerals. Only 28 blocks have been auctioned till date,” added the ministry.However, some states have opposed the proposal.Chhattisgarh mines secretary, P Anbalgan, said there are various reasons including the feasibility of a mine and the net mineable reserves as against the estimated resources in a mine and market conditions apart from the time needed for technical preparations for delay in mine auctions. “Like Centre, every state is interested in auction of mines but limitations are there for both... In cooperative federalism, states should be allowed to exercise their right to bring their mines to auction after considering all parameters,” he said.Shankar Sinha, Jharkhand’s Director, Mines, said, “The state government was finalising its own policy on the issues listed in the mines ministry proposal. Once done, we would send our suggestions to the Centre....”Odisha mines minister Prafulla Mallik said they have reservation on certain provisions of the proposed changes. “We have questions regarding why the Centre wants to take over auctions and have sought clarifications,” he said, while supporting the proposal to hike rates for sale of minerals from captive mines.The Goa Mining People’s Front, a collective of mine worker unions in the state, has also opposed the proposal.(With inputs from Vishal Kant in Raipur, Debabrata Mohanty in Bhubaneswar & Ritesh Mishra in Raipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plan-to-take-over-mine-auctions-faces-opposition-from-a-few-states-101615142917023.html
08-03-2021||India||India must strive to catch the ecological bus||India has been ablaze with devastating forest fires in Uttarakhand and in Orissa’s Similipal. Why aren’t these being discussed with the same intensity as the Tapovan catastrophe in February? Several scientists have been reported saying that the dramatic fall in rainfall this season has a directly co-relation with these fires in Uttarakhand. This may be a fact, but the absence of rainfall is caused by climate crisis. India has to gear up to protect its spectacular biodiversity from the many cataclysmic events that are bound to attack our country as climate change intensifies.A re-invigorated biodiversity management policy is India’s survival strategy. At this point in our development trajectory, we don’t pay any heed to either biodiversity or landscape conservation. We can only grow if we avert an ecological and environmental collapse. We cannot afford expenditure on disaster relief and rehabilitation, instead of innovation, education and health. Let’s go back to the drawing board for every single project, with new focus on biodiversity. India must rapidly build and nurture grassroots-based habitat monitoring and governance. Incentives can make or break this. Well known conservationist, Bishwajit Mohanty from Orissa, points out in Down to Earth magazine, how local women can be involved in sweeping forest floors in specific seasons to prevent fires and Van Panchayats can be incentivised to catch poachers. Locals, not politicians, must co-own the forest more than they do, along with the forest department. The bus for a stable, sustainable future is moving on. Let’s race and catch it.The writer is the founder and director of Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-strive-to-catch-the-ecological-bus-101615142599020.html
08-03-2021||India||Early summer, lack of rain spark fires||Forest fires are raging in many parts of the country as the mercury spikes and there is a large rain deficiency except in parts of peninsular India, leading to an earlier than usual onset of the fire season, senior officials of the Forest Survey of India said on Saturday.According to Forest Survey of India’s forest fire alert system, there were 2,317 fire points last year between February 26 and March 7, but the figure rose to 53,211 this time after data from the Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (SNPP) was taken into account.When data from the MODIS satellite is considered, there were 627 fire points last year during the same period while there are 6295 fire points this year. In the past seven days, Odisha alone recorded nearly 18,000 fire points as per SNPP followed by around 5000 fires in Telangana; around 4,500 fires in Jharkhand and 4300 in Madhya Pradesh.“We depend on two satellites for fire data. SNPP collects forest fires at 375 metres resolution so even small fires are picked up. There could be many factors contributing to increased forest fires — one of them is fuel load. Whether forests have been cleared of dry twigs, branches, etc will have to be seen. Other important factors are soil moisture and heat, which help fires ignite quickly. In 2013, we did an assessment of the worst fire periods. It’s normally May which is also the hottest month in many states. But this year we may see a spike in April, also depending on temperatures,” said Sunil Chandra, deputy director, forest geoinformatics division.“The reasons for forest fires can be different in different states. Local factors are also important. This year and last year there has been a very high number of forest fires in Uttarakhand, also starting in October and November and resuming again from February. Not only fuel load, the topography in Uttarakhand also makes it prone to spread of fires,” added Chandra. The FSI’s data shows forest fires started spiking from January this year peaking dramatically in March.According to a statement by India Meteorological Department on Friday, maximum temperatures are between 37 to 39 degree C over most places in West, Central, East and Southern Peninsula. The highest maximum temperature of 40.4 degree C was recorded at Bhubaneshwar in Odisha on Saturday. On Friday the highest maximum temperature was recorded at Bhuj-Rudramata (Saurashtra & Kutch) at 40 degrees C. The highest maximum temperatures were recorded at Brahmapuri (Vidarbha) at 39.8 degrees C, followed by Kothagudem (Telangana) at 39.5 degrees C and Chandrapur (Vidarbha) at 39.2 degrees C on Thursday.The IMD’s climate summary for February showed rainfall over the country as a whole for the month was 7.6mm, 68% less than its Long Period Average (LPA) of 23.5mm making it the sixth lowest since 1901. In February, Odisha recorded 83% rain deficiency, Uttarakhand 71%, West Madhya Pradesh 68%, and Telangana 74%, among others. There was 72% rain deficiency in the country between March 1 and 6.“Generally, when there is a dry period for a long time and temperatures are high, forest fires increase. They can, however, be triggered by human activity also. We are expecting some rain in the extreme northern parts of the country in the next few days and in some parts down south due to easterly activity. There is also a possibility of rain in the north-eastern states as we enter the pre-monsoon season. But I don’t see a possibility of rain in Odisha or other central parts unless a low-pressure area or other weather systems develop,” said DS Pai, climate scientist at IMD Pune.Indian summer or what the India Meteorological Department calls “pre-monsoon season” in March-April-May has seen a very clear shift in its intensity since 1998. Long-term data from 1971 onwards suggests a shift to considerably warmer than normal summers since 1998 and more than doubling of deadly heatwave events as per the IMD’s assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-summer-lack-of-rain-spark-fires-101615142233553.html
08-03-2021||India||24-yr-old man gets death for rape, murder of 5-yr-old boy||A 24-year-old man has been awarded death penalty for sodomising and murdering a 5-year-old boy in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district in 2019.Special Pocso judge Vijay Laxmi Vihan also awarded four years of imprisonment to the father of the accused and three years to his mother for concealing the crime, Vikas Gupta, special assistant district government counsel, said.“Pocso court awarded a man a death sentence on Saturday for sodomising and later murdering a minor in Rudrapur in February 2019,” Gupta said.The incident took place in Transit Camp Colony of Rudrapur on February 19, 2019, when the boy went missing, Gupta said. On February 21, his parents filed a missing complaint with the Transit camp police.In his complaint, Gupta said, the relative alleged that a neighbor was spotted on the roof of the house on the night the child went missing. The relative said that he saw the neighbor trying to open the lid of the water tank but fled on being spotted, Gupta said.The neighbour was taken into custody and during interrogation he confessed to the crime, Gupta said. A post-mortem report revealed that the child was sodomised and strangled to death, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24yrold-man-gets-death-for-rape-murder-of-5-yr-old-boy-101615138813618.html
08-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Rajasthan 176 fresh Covid-19 case, no related deaths||The global coronavirus (Covid-19) caseload increased to more than 116.3 million cases as the virus continues to infect across the countries. While the death toll was above 2.5 million, news agency Bloomberg reported. More than 299 million shots were given worldwide as the countries are rushing to immunise their citizens against the viral coronavirus.Fresh infections in the United States began to decline as many states press for reopening. The daily infections have fallen by 12% as the US reported about 65,000 fresh cases in a single day.The Senate approved $1.9 trillion stimulus bill to support the economy reeling under the devastating effect of the pandemic.Meanwhile, in Brazil, the second worst-hit country, cases and deaths surged to record numbers.In India, the cases reached 11.21 million and the death toll stands at 157,656. The country has inoculated more than 20 million in the ongoing vaccination drive.Follow all the updates here:Rajasthan 176 fresh Covid-19 case, no related deathsRajasthan on Saturday recorded 176 fresh Covid disease cases and zero deaths which took the caseload to 321,532, according to the state health department's bulletin. No fresh deaths were seen during this period.80 fresh cases push Chandigarh's Covid tally to 22,318Chandigarh on Sunday added 80 fresh coronavirus disease cases which pushed the caseload 22,318, according to a medical bulletin. No death was reported during this period and the toll currently stands at 355.Night curfew, weekend lockdowns to be imposed in Aurangabad in the wake of rising Covid-19 casesA night curfew from 9pm to 6am will be imposed in Aurangabad, Maharashtra, from March 11 to April 4. Weekend lockdowns will also be imposed in an effort to combat the rising number of cases in the state, Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde told news agency ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 567 new cases of Covid-19, 1 deathTamil Nadu on Sunday reported 567 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total tally to to 8,55,121. 1 fatality was also recorded, the death toll in the state currently stands at 12,518.Maharashtra records 11,141 new cases of Covid-19, 38 deathsMaharashtra on Sunday recorded 11,141 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 22,19,727. 38 fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 52,478.K'taka govt makes RT-PCR tests mandatory for drivers of commercial vehiclesKarnataka government declared on Sunday that drivers and conductors of commercial and goods vehicles coming from Maharashtra and Kerala will need to produce negative RT-PCR Covid certificates to be allowed in the state, reported news agency ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 136 new cases, one deathAndhra Pradesh reported 136 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,90,692. The death toll after one new fatality stands at 7,174.Japan records 1,065 new Covid-19 cases, 25 new fatalitiesJapan on Sunday recorded 1,065 new cases of Covid-19, taking the country-wide tally to 439,981. 25 new fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.Austria suspends deployment of a batch AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine after deathAfter the death of a 49-year old woman due to severe coagulation disorder Austria has suspended inoculation with a batch of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, reported Reuters.Delhi records 286 new cases of Covid-19, 2 fatalities in the last 24 hours🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 7th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/qgznbBAajxPhilippines records 3,276 new cases, 51 deathsThe Philippines reported 3,276 new coronavirus infections, taking the country's tally to 5,94,412. The death toll after 51 fresh fatalities stands at 12,516.Assam reports seven new coronavirus infections, one deathAssam reported seven new coronavirus infections, taking the state's overall tally to 2,17,649. The death toll after one fresh fatality stands at 1,094.19 states and UTs have reported zero Covid-19 deaths in past 24 hours: GovtRajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, D&D & D&N, Tripura, Mizoram, A&N Islands and Arunachal Pradesh have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours: Government of India.Five states account for over 84% of daily cases: GovtMaharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have been reporting high numbers of daily Covid-19 cases. They collectively accounted for 84.71% of the 18,711 new daily cases reported in the last 24 hours, as per the government of India.Statwise Covid-19 tallyIndia adds 18,711 fresh casesIndia's Covid-19 reached 11,210,799 on Sunday after it added 18,711 fresh cases. The death toll increased to 157,756 after 100 new fatalities.Lockdown ends in AucklandNew Zealand's biggest city Auckland reopens after a weeklong of strict lockdown. It was imposed after a community cluster of the more contagious British coronavirus variant emerged in the city.Hundreds of people protest against face mask rules in US stateA couple hundred people, including lieutenant gov and at least three lawmakers at today’s mask burning protest in Boise. pic.twitter.com/gt0i0PIYZNHundreds of people gathered outside the Idaho state Capitol building in Boise on Saturday to burn masks as a mark of protest against the Covid-19 safety guidelines issued by the local authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-march-7-2021-101615079272580.html
08-03-2021||Today's||New Delhi’s new regional calculus||Last month, New Delhi’s regional policy took another interesting turn with the beginning of disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the announcement of ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC). After nine rounds of high-level military talks, a disengagement process in the Pangong Tso region has witnessed the return of Chinese and Indian troops and armour to their permanent bases. While Indian troops still continue to lock horns with the Chinese at multiple sites along LAC, this move is being widely viewed as the beginning of a long drawn out de-escalation process between the two Asian giants.On LoC , the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMO) of the two nations engaged telephonically and decided to adhere to all agreements on ceasefire along LoC and the sectors of the International Border “in the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders”. Though an agreement was also reached in 2018 to abide by the 2003 ceasefire agreement, there has been an increasing number of ceasefire violations in recent years with volatility rising across the frontier. More than 5,000 ceasefire violations were reported in 2020 and this year has seen Pakistan violating the ceasefire more than 600 times. Given the state of India-Pakistan relations, the announcement of a ceasefire took everyone by surprise.What has been striking in the analyses of these developments in India is a strange sense of defeatism. Some have criticised these moves as being timid while others have argued that these moves have been pursued under external pressure. One can be critical of the policy moves only after assessing the fundamental shifts in India’s regional environment and New Delhi’s foreign policy and security posture. And that assessment seems to be missing.All policy frameworks evolve in a wider domestic, regional and global context. No nation, even the mightiest one, exists in a state of splendid isolation where external factors do not impinge on policymaking. Smart policy is about recognising those constraints and using them to your advantage at the right time.The single-most important geopolitical development of the last few months has been India standing up to China after the Galwan Valley incident in June 2020 and making it clear to Beijing and to the world that it is possible to resist Chinese aggression successfully. Even as Indian forces challenged their considerably more resource-rich Chinese counterparts along LAC, Indian diplomacy ensured that New Delhi retained a central role in the global health crisis, emerging as net provider of security in the realm of public health. While, for most countries, taking China on in a challenging domestic and global environment would have been impossible, New Delhi stood up. India’s message to the world was — if this is the new normal, then we are prepared.And not only did the world notice, Beijing did as well. If the Chinese Communist Party is talking today about “the need to create enabling conditions to settle the border dispute”, it is, in no small measure, due to a consistent message from India that the Sino-Indian relationship cannot be divorced from the border challenge. The larger strategic fabric of bilateral ties between India and China remains as fragile as ever and China is not going to mend its ways just because it has moved back from a part of LAC. But it can no longer be ignored that the ability of India to shape the terms of its engagement with China is growing.This confidence is reflected in the way New Delhi has moved with Pakistan on LoC with the new ceasefire agreement. After decades, Indian policy vis-à-vis Pakistan has been able to put the latter under pressure from multiple points. Economically, the global isolation of Pakistan is biting and the scrutiny as part of the Financial Action Task Force has been more effective than initially thought. Diplomatically, India’s campaign against Pakistan has put the spotlight squarely on the latter’s use of terrorism as an instrument of State policy. Militarily, India has demonstrated that not only does it have the means to call Pakistan’s nuclear bluff but it can also respond adequately on the conventional front and can impose costs on Pakistan for its reckless behaviour. And strategically, by standing up to China, it has made it clear to Rawalpindi that a Sino-Pak axis is no guarantee for the success of a two-front challenge.As a consequence, for New Delhi today, making a play for diplomatic overtures vis-à-vis China and Pakistan is not as costly as it once would have been. And that’s the real change in the regional matrix and India’s security calculus. India is not giving peace a chance because of some woolly-headed notion of regional rapprochement or because of pressure from external stakeholders such as Washington. New Delhi had never closed its doors to diplomacy in the first place. India’s neighbours decided not to go down that route. If India is now once again willing to give diplomacy a chance, it is only after effectively demonstrating that if challenged, it is more than adequately prepared to preserve its interests. And this message is being heard by India’s regional challengers, notwithstanding domestic contestation.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/new-delhi-s-new-regional-calculus-101615214599472.html
08-03-2021||Today's||The changing nature of urban homes and women’s lives||In the backdrop of International Women’s Day, amid the continuing global pandemic, India needs a discussion on reimagining the idea of home. The notions of stay-at-home and work-from-home dominated the narrative with the pandemic, and with it began the discussion on the increase in violence within the home.It was interesting to see that the Supreme Court recently proposed fixing a notional income for a homemaker, indicating that the law and courts value the labour, services and sacrifices of women. Domestic spaces have been transformed in multiple ways in the last few decades in Indian cities. One could go back to the sociological studies of the 1970s to 1990s on urbanisation, migration and nuclearisation of families to understand changes in the domestic space, from stay-at-home women performing all the household work to women shouldering the double burden of paid employment and housework. Over time, with grandparents or other relatives leaving the shared domestic space, middle and upper middle class urban home started hiring part-time domestic help.Education remained the one tool for social mobility, but women were still expected to use fairness creams to be marriageable. While many of these changes were sociologically explained as arising from emancipation, neither the Towards Equality Report of 1974 nor the Shram Shakti report of 1989 reinforced the transformation. In fact, gendered hierarchies and the sexual division of labour in Indian families became important areas of anthropological exploration. In the past 20 years, the number of women opting for higher education has increased to 48.6%, according to the All India Survey on Higher Education (2018-19); the average age of marriage for women is 22.1 years as per a 2019 report of ministry of statistics and implementation. As per Census 2011, only 5% of Indian marriages are inter-caste, while 93% respondents of a Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy-administered study of 2018 said they had arranged marriages. Finally, as per a 2016 BBC report, the divorce rate in India is less than 1%. These figures have to be read simultaneously with the 2019 National Statistical office survey that states 92% women in India take part in unpaid domestic work in homes in comparison to 27% of men.At least three sociological analyses can be made from these numbers. First, marriage and domestic arrangements still remain deeply caste endogamy-based or arranged despite processes of urbanisation or more mobility for work purposes. Second, low divorce rates do not necessarily indicate happy marriages, but rather the deep economic and social pressures which create the inability to leave a marriage. For women, it is connected as much with stigma as with economic insecurity and the absence of housing if parents are unwelcoming. Third, equal sharing of domestic responsibilities remains a far cry in most households and women still continue to bear the burden of child and elder care, caring for the sick and the disabled, besides cooking, cleaning or gathering. When we look at all this along with the data that only 22% of women participate in any form of employment activity, we understand how serious the situation is. While the government initiated the Smart City Mission in 2015 to promote inclusive cities, urban planning in terms of safe and accessible transport and affordable and liveable housing remains unfavourable for women and trans persons. Since getting into the formal workforce is a distant dream for most women, the pressures of marriage-based security are real. Heterosexual marriage still remains the main source of legal entitlement for women and any other form of domestic intimacy does not find much space in official policies.This pandemic highlighted the gendered implications of work-from-home and stay-at-home — in terms of increased labour and violence. The home remains a nuclear, heterosexual, marriage-reproduction-based space. A renewed political discussion around housework is needed as much as a re-articulation of what relationalities constitute this home.Rukmini Sen is professor of sociology, School of Liberal Studies, Dr B R Ambedkar UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-changing-nature-of-urban-homes-and-women-s-lives-101615211718857.html
08-03-2021||Today's||In Bengal, the BJP’s now-or-never moment||As Narendra Modi addressed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata on Sunday afternoon, a Bengali TV channel was showing, on a split screen, chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee’s meeting in Siliguri. When Modi raised the pitch on allegations of “cut money and syndicates” under the Trinamool Congress (TMC) rule, the channel switched its audio to Banerjee. At that moment, she was coming down heavily on the Modi government for its proposals of privatisation and corruption in central schemes.Exactly a week ago, there was another large rally at the same Brigade Maidan. It was the coming together of three strange political bedfellows — the Left Front, Congress and the newly-formed Indian Secular Front (ISF) helmed by a Muslim cleric, Abbas Siddiqui. Their message was similar. Leaders of the new alliance spoke out against the misrule of TMC in the state and the anti-people policies of the BJP at the Centre, adding, for good measure, the BJP’s deficit on secular credentials.Thus, at the level of rhetoric, West Bengal seems poised for a triangular contest. But, the actual state of play at the ground level is not so evenly balanced. That apart, Bengal has not seen such a high-stakes election in recent memory. In 2014, the Modi tsunami that swept the country spared Bengal. Though the BJP won only two out of 42 seats, there was a surge in its vote share to over 16% in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections (from a paltry 4.1% in the 2011 assembly elections). But, along the way, it lost steam and its vote share slipped to 10.1% in the 2016 assembly polls.Banerjee continued on her warpath. At some point during Modi’s first term, she appears to have begun nurturing national ambitions, envisaging the possibility of a third front wresting power from the BJP. While the 2019 results flummoxed pollsters and politicians, the results of Bengal were more astounding. The BJP’s vote share went up to 41%, and it won 18 seats, close to half the parliamentary strength of the state. The TMC drew solace from the fact that its own vote share also improved by three-odd per cent (from 40% to 43%). It rationalised that the gains of the BJP came from the decimation of the Left and the Congress.It was true the bulk of the anti-TMC votes that earlier went to the Left and the Congress shifted en masse to BJP. But, less apparent was the shift of the non-Muslim subaltern classes, Scheduled Castes and Tribes, especially from south-west Bengal, towards the BJP. Two factors contributed to this change. The first was the incredible amount of groundwork done by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The second was the obvious disenchantment with the TMC in those belts. This was partly a fall-out of the TMC’s excessive focus on the border districts of South Bengal, which have a large minority population. In a flash, “Unish (2019)-e-half; Ekushe (2021)-e-Saaf” — half in 2019, wiped out in 2021 — sounded like a real possibility. The TMC went on the defensive. Under Banerjee, the party operated as a federation of regional satraps. But, over time, new power centres developed. Following the setback of 2019, the younger cohort gained importance and the former stars were marginalised. This suited Amit Shah’s policy of “what you don’t have, you acquire”. The party general secretary in charge of Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya, went on an acquisition spree. The prize jewel came in the form of Suvendu Adhikari. Other leaders such as Rajib Banerjee were force multipliers. Their entry has strengthened the BJP’s presence in East Midnapore and Howrah. But interior South Bengal still remains a challenge for BJP due to its demographic composition. The districts of 24 Parganas (north and south), and the areas adjoining Bangladesh going all the way to Malda and South Dinajpur, remain under the TMC’s grip. These are also geographies where the new secular front (of Left-Congress-ISF) is hoping to score at the cost of Trinamool. But mired in internal contradictions, it is unlikely to make any significant dent. The TMC’s physical hold in these parts is strong, given its solid base among the dominant community. Phased elections may ensure a more disciplined ballot. But whether it can tilt the scales in favour of the BJP is not certain. In Bengal, Banerjee is a phenomenon. She dons a teflon coating that might be even a shade stronger than what Modi enjoys in other parts of India. So, she needs neither the epithet of “Banglar Meye” nor the prop of “Bohiragoto” (outsiders). But faced with desertions, she has been forced to field many outsiders, a decision that may come back to bite her compounded by a weakened cadre base depleted by defections. With successive state governments at perpetual loggerheads with Delhi for over 50 years, there is a widespread feeling that Bengal has missed the development train. Therefore, Bengal’s voters may like to give the BJP’s promise of a “Double Engine Ka Sarkar” a chance, turning this into a wave election. Like Banerjee’s call of “Ebar or Never” in the 2000s, the BJP is fighting this election based on a now-or-never spirit. For the Left and Congress, however, the writing on the wall appears to be never-ever.Sandip Ghose is a political observer and commentator on current affairs.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-bengal-the-bjp-s-now-or-never-moment-101615211717655.html
08-03-2021||Today's||The battle for a UT and BJP’s South ambitions||Of all the state polls for which results would be known on May 2, the least amount of national attention is on the union territory (UT) of Puducherry. Understandable as it is a relatively small assembly of not more than 33 members and sends just one MP to the Lok Sabha.For most non-residents, mention of Puducherry conjures up images of a laid-back holiday destination or of the unique architecture of the French quarter – a legacy of its colonial past – or of the eponymously named Aurobindo ashram.The physically disjointed UT located on the South East coast of India is unique in several ways. Of its four districts, Yanam abuts Andhra Pradesh, Karaikal to Tamil Nadu and Mahe is on the opposite Western coast adjacent to Kerala.While it is Tamil Nadu politics that casts the most influence in the UT, Yanam typically elects a Telugu speaking representative and Mahe sends a Malayalam speaker. Puducherry is thus a smorgasbord of several South Indian cultures. Power in Puducherry has alternated between Congress and the two main Dravidian parties – DMK and AIADMK. Sometimes Congress and a Dravidian party have ruled jointly in an alliance depending on the political dynamics in neighbouring Tamil Nadu.The run-up to the assembly polls has seen a lot of political drama in the UT. The Congress government led by party veteran V Narayanasamy fell just as it was about to complete its full-term.Next, the Centre removed Kiran Bedi, the pugnacious and controversial lieutenant governor who had a running feud with the state government during her tenure.Being a UT, the L-G and by proxy the Centre, has a significant say in the day-to-day affairs and politics of the place.The additional charge of the UT now vests with Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, a former TN BJP state unit chief before assuming her current constitutional position.The fall of the Narayanasamy government in Puducherry ensured that for the first time ever, Congress was not in power in any part of South India, either on its own or in an alliance.This is a significant blow, as historically South India has been the springboard for Congress’s national revival whenever the party has faced tough times in other parts of the country.BJP which has been a non-player in the UT till recently is sniffing an opportunity. With its local partners All India NR Congress (AINRC) and AIADMK, it hopes to come to power for the first time in Puducherry as a key ‘player’ and not a mere ‘adjunct’ to an ally.Inspite of the ‘All India’ in the NR Congress name, it is a faction led by N Rangaswamy a former Congress CM who rebelled and broke away from India’s Grand Old Party to form his own, when he was removed as the CM. AINRC though says the NR in its name stands for ‘Namthu Rajiyam’ (our kingdom).BJP is hoping that its NDA alliance of AINRC, AIADMK and itself along with the three nominated members will be able to come to power against the Congress – DMK combine.Inspite or probably because of being labelled in the past as a ‘cow-belt’ party with its influence mainly in North and Western India, the BJP has been on a mission to expand its footprint in South India. Party supporters often point out that of the 130 Lok Sabha seats in South India, BJP today has 29 MP’s against the 26 of Congress.However, 25 of the BJP’s 29 southern MP’s come from Karnataka, its beachhead in the South, and the party is assiduously working to expand its area of influence. Both in Kerala and TN – the two other states in South which go to polls – BJP’s attempt to emerge as a significant player is yet to yield results.In Puducherry, though, it sees a major opportunity having attracted a number of defectors from Congress and DMK including some legislators in the outgoing assembly. The BJP in the Modi-Shah-Nadda era does not believe in taking any election lightly, even if it is for a UT and is going all-out to win the polls.While the final contours of alliances and who gets how many seats are still being worked out in both camps, BJP might want to keep a wary eye on its partner AINRC.Unlike some of its allies, AINRC is not ideologically committed to the NDA though it has been a part of it since 2014.The DMK, in spite of its existing alliance with Congress in both TN and Puducherry, is wooing AINRC. The AINRC, on its part, is unhappy that NDA has not unequivocally declared that Rangaswamy would be the CM if the alliance comes to power. It may be thus open to other alternatives.This inter-play of power dynamics make the outcome of the polls in the UT interesting, even as BJP seeks to paint Puducherry saffron for the first time.(Venkatesha Babu is a senior journalist and analyst with a keen interest in politics, economy and culture of Southern India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-battle-for-a-ut-and-bjp-s-south-ambitions-101615174021962.html
08-03-2021||Today's||India’s women and the workforce||Why is women’s employment declining in India? The thrust of the predominant explanations is that women are dropping out of paid work or the labour force either because of fear of sexual violence outside the home; or fear of being stigmatised by the community that might see their work as a marker of low status, i.e. the inability of the husband, the main breadwinner, to provide for the family; or a rise in conservative attitudes that believe a woman’s place is inside the home and kitchen, and that if the woman steps outside the socially approved threshold, it would invite a backlash.All these explanations prima facie sound persuasive and plausible. But consider this. Recorded labour force participation rate (LFPR) of Indian women, never very high, logged a dramatic decline between 2004-05 and 2011-12. It has continued to decline thereafter, albeit at a lower rate. The bulk of the decline has been in the LFPR of rural women, with the sharpest decline seen in the case of Scheduled Tribe or Adivasi women.How do the mainstream explanations fit in with this basic fact?Research on the impact of sexual violence on female LFPRs focuses on urban areas; but urban female LFPRs, always lower than rural, have not registered a decline. My ongoing work with my PhD student Jitendra Singh shows virtually no correlation between crime statistics and female LFPRs, not for India, not internationally. Female employment outside the home in rural areas was flat between 2004 and 2017 (the period when the total rural female LFPR registered a decline), and in urban areas, there was a slight upward trend. This picture does not lend credence to the rising stigma story. National Crime Records Bureau data show a rise in assault cases (between 2011 and 2013) and rise in cruelty cases between 2004 and 2013. Rape cases increased from 2011 onwards, with slight fluctuations.Thus, national data for India does not support the presumed correlation between crimes against women and their (in)ability to work outside the home. Macro-statistics suggest very little connection between the two, if any.This should not be read to mean that violence against women is not a serious problem, or that it does not adversely affect their work. While there is no evidence that fear of violence keeps women from seeking jobs, for women who have jobs, sexual harassment at the workplace is very real, with devastating consequences for their work and well-being. This is a good place to note that the public focus on external violence is not only misplaced in the context of women’s employment, but the consequent push to keep women indoors completely masks the fact that the bulk of violence against women is perpetrated by those known to them — husband, partner, family, friends. Keeping women locked indoors is absolutely the wrong policy for multiple reasons; most of all it fails in its stated objective, i.e. to protect them from violence.Data indicate that the decline in LFPRs is driven by women moving from paid to unpaid work and hence not getting counted as “workers”, even though they might continue to be involved in unpaid economic work in family enterprises (farming, livestock, kirana shops, handmade products for sale and so on). These are economic activities, and men involved in them get counted as workers, but not women. This reflects the low value placed on women’s contribution to these activities without which these would not survive. The real issue is the lack of demand for labour in occupations and activities in which women are concentrated. There is important research that shows that what we note as a decline (which is equated with the withdrawal of women from the labour force in the mainstream view) is a manifestation of the changing nature of work availability, especially for rural and less educated women. This body of research raises a question mark on the “dropping out” narrative.Thus, the proportion of economically active women has not declined, but the number of days they work has, which shows up as a decline in LFPRs. Over the last three decades, there has been a massive decline in agricultural jobs, which has not necessarily been accompanied by an increase in rural non-farm employment or livelihood opportunities. Research shows that mechanisation has led to significantly greater decline in women’s than men’s labour in Indian farms.There has been movement out of agriculture into informal and casual jobs, where the work is sporadic, and often less than 30 days at a stretch. The new modern-sector opportunities, especially in high value-added service sectors, mostly accrue to men. Despite all this, women who find jobs commensurate with their education levels have to battle hurdles such as lack of transportation and childcare, which could be so severe that they are unable to join that work.Women’s education has increased significantly over the last two decades, and fertility rates have fallen — both conditions that have historically and elsewhere in the world, contributed to increasing participation of women in paid labour force. But not so in India. The Covid-19 induced economic slowdown has exacerbated the gender gap in paid work, while it has intensified the already high burden of domestic labour on women.All surveys report a huge unmet demand for work by women. Indian women are not dropping out: They are being pushed out by the lack of demand for their labour.Ashwini Deshpande is professor of economics and the founder director of Centre for Economic Data and Analysis, Ashoka UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-women-and-the-workforce-101615128493639.html
08-03-2021||Today's||The high-stakes battle in West Bengal 2021||West Bengal seems to be garnering disproportionate attention in the upcoming assembly elections, though there are three other states (Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam) and a Union Territory (Puducherry), which are also poll-bound. What explains the focus on only Bengal?To answer this, we have to take a closer look at the battle for Bengal. Recently, news channels played a clip of an elderly woman from North 24 Parganas on a loop. Showing her injured face, she says in the clip, “I was beaten by those people. I kept denying it, but they kept on beating me. I am unable to breathe now. My whole body is in great pain.” The old lady’s trauma was palpable. Who had done this?To answer this, her son Gopal Majumdar is seen in the next shot, himself injured. He says, “They were 10–12 people. They started beating me as soon as they arrived. When my mother came out of the house on the hearing commotion, they also started beating her. Other people in the house were also beaten. The reason? I am a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker. Those who came to beat us were Trinamool Congress (TMC) people.” The reporter asks, “Did you recognise someone?” Gopal answers that it was too dark for him to see anyone. But his answer was enough for tensions to erupt.The BJP put up posters of the elderly lady’s injured face all over the state with the caption — “Isn’t she the daughter of Bengal?” Mamata Banerjee, who describes herself as the daughter of Bengal, had said a few days ago that only Bengalis would rule Bengal, not outsiders. The poster was a rebuttal to this.News channels were delighted. This footage had high traction and enough to sustain several high-decibel debates among party spokesmen. Then came the TMC with a claim that the woman sustained her injuries due to domestic violence and had nothing to do with politics. The police were also in agreement. Family members were all over the media giving out sound bytes. Two people claiming to be her grandson and daughter-in-law asserted that this was a case of domestic violence. The BJP was trying to project itself as gender-sensitive while the TMC sought to establish that the elderly lady and her son were egged on by the saffron party to make the allegations.As for the local police force, the BJP has already claimed that it is acting as an agent of the state government. The TMC counters the charge by suggesting that the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate and the Income Tax department are all caged parrots of the Centre.Let us recall the case of the Kolkata police commissioner, Rajiv Kumar. Following an attack on the convoy and vehicle of BJP’s national president JP Nadda, the Union home ministry had recalled three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from the Bengal cadre. This was a controversial decision, but the fight did not end here. Recently, ED issued a summons to the sister-in-law and wife of chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, a Member of Parliament from Diamond Harbour. The TMC sees this as vendetta politics.New controversies spring up every day in Bangabhumi, all of which provide much grist to the political mill. This will continue for the next few weeks. The BJP is going all out to win this election and the CM is fighting tooth and nail to ensure that she does not concede an inch. Both sides seem evenly matched. No one seems above fabricating news. In all the bitterness and competition, facts have fallen by the wayside.Indians love theatrics. But the political drama playing out in Bengal has crossed even our somewhat elastic limits. This is why Bengal is the cynosure of all eyes. The other states are no less important but the battles in these states are much less dramatic. However, even in the other three states, substantive issues are not being discussed. Rather, it is the usual mudslinging. Photos of top BJP leaders dining with farmers or Dalits have made headlines. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has been pictured doing push-ups in Tamil Nadu. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been photographed in close conversation with women tea workers in Assam. Will any of this bring about an improvement in the condition of farmers? Will Dalits become part of the mainstream? Will Assamese women in the tea gardens get better working conditions? Will push-ups better the plight of the malnourished and dispossessed?In West Bengal, one TMC slogan is “Khela Hobe” (game on). The BJP picked it up and ran with it. Now the Congress and Left activists are repeating this. The game is truly on. But it will be just a game if it is stripped of all morality. It becomes a mockery of the people’s aspirations. But that is the way things are going at the moment.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-high-stakes-battle-in-west-bengal-2021-101615128438731.html
08-03-2021||Today's||A misplaced idea of honour enables violence against women||Multiple efforts at preventing, eliminating and redressing violence against women (VAW) have had limited success. Securing violence-free homes, workplaces and other public spaces for women has been an onerous task, among other reasons, on account of it meandering through the realm of what people see as honour. We all have been witness to frenzied groups perpetrating VAW with the specific objective of dishonouring a particular community in ethnic or communal strife. Saving or restoring “family honour” tends to promote tolerance, acceptance, even justification for honour killings. Honour metamorphoses into a barrier to the elimination of VAW if it constitutes the foundational premise of such law. Even if it does not constitute the foundational premise, operationalisation of the law within such a culture of honour contradicts the purpose of law.Internationally accepted understanding of VAW falls into a quagmire when juxtaposed with the socially and culturally determined notions of honour. Violence against women or gender-based violence is defined by the Committee on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women as “violence that is directed against a woman because she is a woman or that affects women disproportionately”. Gender-based violence violates women’s human rights and the infringement of human rights constitutes an affront to humanity. The inviolability of humanity stands eroded when expected to be judged through the prism of honour. First, the notion of honour is socially and culturally determined and is thus ever shifting. It is incapable of offering an unconditional basis for any conception of justice or righteousness.Second, on account of being constructed within and through the existing social structure, the notions of honour or dishonour embody and reflect social hierarchy and prejudices. The notion of honour thus has a tendency to perpetuate hierarchy rather than usher in a transformation or deliver social justice. Finally, the ideology of gender attributes respect/honour to women not on the basis that they are human beings and thus worthy of respect, but on whether and to what extent their actions are in accordance with what is socially allowed for them, what is socially expected of them, and what is socially valued in them.The prevailing gendered notions of honour remain at variance with the gender-just society that the Constitution seeks to establish. The constitutional principles of non-discrimination and equality are in tune with India’s international obligations as a party to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women. Despite this, it’s appalling to find legal norms pertaining to VAW or their operationalisation meandering the realm of honour, in complete contravention of international standards.Many instances of the meandering of legal norms through the realm of honour relate to sexual offences. For instance, the exclusion of marital rape from the category of sexual offences raises the question of whether rape is an offence against the bodily integrity of a female or an affront to her honour. One of the presumptions on which one may exclude marital rape from the category of sexual offences is that the socially determined honour of the female remains unblemished. What adds to the malaise is the judicial meandering into the realm of honour. The recent remarks by a Supreme Court (SC) bench holding out the promise of “help” to a person accused of rape if he wanted to marry the girl, in this context, are worrying. Can the violation of bodily integrity be lawfully redressed through the social arrangement of marriage? Even where in its substance or its assumptions, the law seeks to usher in gender justice, as in rape by an unknown person, its interpretation and operationalisation in the gendered culture of honour makes it frail.Everyone is constitutionally entitled to legal redress for violations of their rights and for that the SC still remains the last hope for the marginalised. And it must rely on law, not a misplaced sense of what constitutes honour, in providing justice.Amita Punj is associate professor, National Law University, DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-misplaced-idea-of-honour-enables-violence-against-women-101615128193230.html
08-03-2021||Editorials||Review the architecture of reservations||On Monday, during a hearing on the constitutional validity of the extension of reservations to the Marathas in Maharashtra, the Supreme Court sought a response from states about whether the 50% ceiling on reservations needs a relook. The bar was imposed in 1992, but in recent years, there has been an increasing breach of the ceiling. Be it due to the extension of reservations to economically weaker segments among general categories, or extension of reservations in specific states to dominant communities such as the Marathas, or the extension of reservations to the private sector for locals, the architecture of affirmative action is broken — in terms of both its philosophical underpinning and practical manifestation. This newspaper believes in the constitutional design of affirmative action for marginalised communities, particularly Dalits and tribals. The principles of equality and justice demand that enabling provisions are made for citizens, especially those who have suffered discrimination and continue to face systemic barriers in education and employment, to create a level-playing field. India’s experiment with reservations shows how this has been a tool of upward mobility; expanded education; generated jobs in communities, which had little exposure to the modern organised economy; created a middle-class among these communities; and offered a life of dignity. This is not to the detriment of merit, as some critics argue, for merit itself is, more often than not, a product of privilege, and a more diverse and inclusive society will be a more meritorious society.But from being a tool of empowerment, reservations came to be seen as a tool of employment generation and then political power-sharing. This is untenable. The system of quotas must be proportional; it must be based on actual quantifiable data of socio-economic backwardness rather than the political strength of the community demanding it; and it must be time-bound, though India’s record shows that once introduced, reservations are politically impossible to do away with. If 60 or 70 or 80 out of 100 seats in any educational institution or government department are reserved indefinitely, the very legitimacy of the system will crumble and buy-in of other social groups will fade. Ideally, the legislature and executive should not have gone down that path; but it is now for the judiciary to impose correctives and restore the true spirit of India’s affirmative action design.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/review-the-architecture-of-reservations-101615211657824.html
08-03-2021||Editorials||In Bengal, the battle of political narratives||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi formally kicked off the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s campaign in West Bengal on Sunday. The key thrust of his speech in Kolkata was a critique of governance under the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and a roadmap of how the BJP, if elected, would shape Bengal’s future over the next 25 years. The PM’s speech had five elements. One, to take on the “outsider” tag, the PM traced the BJP’s roots back to SP Mukherjee, rejected what he attempted to portray as the TMC’s political parochialism, lauded Bengal’s cultural distinctiveness and committed to a BJP government in Bengal treating the state’s inter-ests as supreme. Two, to take on the charge of crony capitalism or serving the interests of his “friends”, the PM, like he had done with the chowkidar slogan during the 2019 polls, owned the term and expanded it to claim that his friends were the poorest citizens. Three, tapping into the religious divide, the PM rejected the politics of “appeasement” — a code word for the TMC’s alleged pro-Muslim tilt. Four, by promising investment, industrialisation, and infrastructure, the PM stuck to his narrative on development. And five, by promising the extension of central schemes, he was conveying the benefit of having the same party in power in both the state and at the Centre. The PM thus attempted to portray the BJP as a party of modernity, welfare, and justice, sensitive to Bengal’s aspirations. This was meant to counter the TMC’s self-projection as a party of the soil rooted in Bengal’s ethos, committed to progress, harmony and welfare of all, led by a woman chief minister, fighting an oppressive Centre. Which narrative convinces voters will be known on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-bengal-the-battle-of-political-narratives-101615211600877.html
08-03-2021||Editorials||Why individual freedom matters||There are grave injustices that women continue to face in 21st century’s version of a patriarchal society — gender-based violence (on the internet too); lack of effective representation in political parties and in legislative bodies (despite a push for 33% reservation); falling labour force participation (though a majority work in informal sectors); and State and socio-religious control over choice of partner. Yet, the only real way to address these problems is to not see them as women’s issues alone. Women’s rights are human rights; to ask for the former is to ask for the latter. This means categories of the vulnerable and the marginalised need to be reformulated.In a society divided by caste and religion — with divisions stoked further by political parties — a woman’s cause is inextricably linked to how Dalit men and women experience systemic caste-based discrimination from upper caste men and women, alike; or, to the State’s insistence that a family unit cannot comprise same-sex couples; or, to the suspicion that consensual adult inter-religious partnerships now attract. These issues are interlinked at a very basic level. The Indian Constitution guarantees every individual the right to life, liberty, equality and dignity. Yet, socially, the fundamental unit is not an individual, but either an undivided family, or heterosexual coupledom, or a religious community, or a caste grouping. This is the fundamental contradiction at the heart of any struggle for human rights — fighting for an individual’s rights must necessarily take into account their various social affiliations. Thus, it is not enough to think of women’s issues as only issues that affect women. Nor can one draw a line in the sand to demarcate where women’s issues end, and the issues of others begin.The only way forward is to strengthen the rights of the individual, based on what the Constitution imagines. Injustices will continue, but empowering an individual, irrespective of their gender, sexual identity, caste or religion, to seek and achieve a full life of dignity, is the utopia that feminists have globally striven for. International Women’s Day is as good a time as any to remember a central feminist tenet — the personal is the political. Perhaps, it’s time to expand this to the personal is the political for everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-individual-freedom-matters-101615127653174.html
08-03-2021||Editorials||Imran Khan survives, but with a taint||Pakistan’s Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has secured his position for the foreseeable future by securing a vote of confidence in Parliament after the shock defeat of his finance minister in recent elections to the Senate. Mr Khan bagged 178 votes, just six more than the majority, signalling the success of his efforts to keep his flock together. This was crucial since a dozen lawmakers had broken ranks during the Senate elections. But the victory was marred by the shenanigans of the supporters of Mr Khan’s Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaf party outside Parliament, as they assaulted and roughed up opposition lawmakers. This, more than anything else, reflected the deep divisions in Pakistan’s political arena, a phenomenon that some attribute to the heated rhetoric by Mr Khan and his aides. Even in his victory, Mr Khan was anything but gracious, railing against the opposition and the Election Commission about corruption and imagined electoral malpractices.If anything, Mr Khan needs greater political stability, which would include the support of a resurgent opposition, to focus on the massive problems currently confronting Pakistan. These challenges include the devastating social and economic impact of Covid-19, a tanking economy and rising inflation, national security issues and continued pressure from the international community to crack down on terror groups based on Pakistani soil. The voting in the Senate elections also indicated everything wasn’t well within Mr Khan’s house — there are whispers in Islamabad about disaffection among his party’s MPs on issues such as governance and the outsized influence of a small coterie around the PM. Only a more balanced approach will help Mr Khan stay afloat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/imran-khan-survives-but-with-a-taint-101615127596213.html
