12-03-2021||News||Quad owes its revival to President Xi’s 'fortress China' doctrine||As leaders of the four-nation Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, hold their crucial meeting on Friday, the credit for creating the circumstances that led to the resurrection of the informal security dialogue in 2017 goes to China’s Xi Jinping. It was President Xi who turned Deng Xiaoping’s advice to “keep a low profile” on its head and ended up creating friction with the world in the name of ‘fortress China’.While the signals on the Quad virtual summit today are positive from Washington, one needs to understand why and how the informal grouping was resuscitated nearly a decade after it landed up in the intensive care unit, in a coma. The trigger was the 2007 Bay of Bengal Malabar naval exercises, which included participation from India, the US, Japan, Australia and Singapore.Contrary to suggestions by some western commentators, the Quad was revived after both the US and Australia realised that China was not only rising power but also becoming a competitor, five decades after US President Richard Nixon opened the door for Beijing.The rise of expansionist China coincided with the ascendance of paramount leader Xi Jinping in 2007. He got down to work soon after, shredding the advice - “observe calmly, secure our position, cope with affairs calmly, hide our capacities and bide our time, be good at maintaining a low profile, and never claim leadership” - articulated by Deng back in the 1980s.But neither the US nor the Australians gave up hopes of co-opting China .Instead, when China served a demarche to all the participating navies under the Malabar banner to desist from its strategy to contain China, the then US under-secretary for political affairs Nicholas Burns wrote a letter to the then Indian foreign secretary that held one message: China should not be provoked. The Australians, under a self-avowed Sinophile, Kevin Rudd withdrew from Quad soon after. The Left-supported UPA I regime was shaken from within but put on a brave face. Only Japan and the city-state of Singapore, which had also participated in the Malabar exercises, were left standing. But this was not the end.Just as Xi became the first secretary of the Chinese communist party and Vice President under the then communist party general secretary Hu Jintao, the crackdown in Lhasa was followed by a declaration of the nine-dash line in the South China Sea and renewed claims on the Senkaku Islands.Under the Barack Obama administration, the Japanese were told to back down from a confrontation with the Chinese over Senkaku Islands in 2012, lest it harmed the reelection prospects of the Democrat government in power. When then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh went to Tokyo in 2013 after the Depsang incursions by the People’s Liberation Army, one of Japan’s senior-most ministers (still serving) told him in broken English that China has been “naughty” for the past 1,500 years and only close neighbours can understand each other’s concerns.While there have been suggestions that India is the weakest link in the Quad chain due to its so-called non-alignment policy, it was the US that was dithering over China as it believed that Beijing could be co-opted within the western world through the World Trade Organisation.In the meantime, with Xi becoming the paramount leader, the PLA virtually went on a rampage with transgressions on the Line of Actual Control in 2013, 2014, 2017 and 2020. Hong Kong was gobbled up and China next set its eyes on Taiwan, Senkaku Islands and the Sunni Uighur community in Xinjiang and Buddhists in Tibet who got the taste of the fire dragon. The US felt the pressure when the PLA Navy was on verge of breaching the first island chain with nuclear ballistic missile submarines and took on the military might of Washington by showcasing Ship killer and Guam killer missiles. And later, the right to navigation was threatened by Beijing in the South China Sea.Today when the QUAD leaders meet virtually, they know the power of rising Communist China under President Xi. India, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is clear that Beijing’s reminders to Delhi about the non-alignment policy are an effort to ideologically cage India while it goes ahead to forge military alliances in South Asia specifically aimed at India. Australia, under Prime Minister Scott Morrison, has braved the wrath of China which has imposed restrictions on imports in some sectors. Eternal rival Japan under Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga is standing firm knowing that Beijing can exact military revenge based on past medieval Daimyo history. Now that President Joe Biden has also no illusions on China, the Quad meeting this evening will go beyond mere symbolism and take firm steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/quad-owes-its-revival-to-president-xi-s-fortress-china-doctrine-101615526824661.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Dwarka property dealer shot dead for trying to stop extortion of shopkeepers, say police; one shooter arrested||A 45-year-old property dealer who was shot dead in his Toyota Fortuner car outside Najafgarh police station on Sunday was allegedly killed for trying to stop the extortion of shopkeepers at the Dwarka weekly market by a few gangsters, the Delhi Police said on Friday after arresting one of the two suspects involved in the fatal shooting. RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said the two killers were operating on the orders of two (alleged) gangsters, Amit Gulia and Ankush alias Bhalu, who are currently in jail. Both work for (alleged) gangster, Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu, who is currently on the run. “During the murder, one of the two killers was on a video call with Ankush, who is lodged in Tihar Jail,” said Meena. Ankush allegedly made the WhatsApp call to Rana to gave him the go-ahead for the murder. “Ankush also used WhatsApp to send photos and vehicle details of the victim,” an officer associated with the investigation said, on condition of anonymity.The Dwarka-based property dealer, Sushil Singh, was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne men outside the Najafgarh police station on Sunday. Police had initially struggled to make headway in the case as the registration number plate of the motorcycle the assailants used had been removed. But as the police probed deeper, what emerged was the story of an extortion racket run by notorious gangsters in the western periphery of the city. On Thursday, a tip-off led to the arrest of one of the two suspected killers, 28-year-olf Manoj Rathi. The DCP said Rathi was caught with a pistol and three bullets. Rathi’s accomplice, Dharmender Rana, remains on the run, the police said. “Rathi, a resident of Bahadurgarh, revealed that he is friends with Sangwan, Gulia and Ankush, three (alleged) gangsters involved in a host of crimes ranging from extortion to murder,” said the DCP. About two months ago, Gulia and Ankush allegedly asked Rathi to extort money from shopkeepers at the weekly market (Shani Bazar) in Dwarka, the DCP said. “But Sushil Singh opposed that and the jailed gangsters decided to eliminate him,” said the DCP, adding that there would be more clarity on the circumstances of the murder once the police probe further and arrest the other suspect. The investigators have also learnt that Singh was killed for informing the police about the extortion racket, but the police are yet to confirm that independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dwarka-property-dealer-shot-dead-for-trying-to-stop-extortion-of-shopkeepers-say-police-one-shooter-arrested-101615573720405.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Conclude investigations in Pansare, Dabholkar murders: Bombay HC asks CBI, cops||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday rapped the state government and the investigation agencies Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and crime investigation department (CID) for dragging their feet in the investigation of the murder of activists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare in 2013 and 2015 respectively. In light of the fact that the investigators in Karnataka had managed to complete the investigations in the murder of rationalist MM Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh and trial had even started in one of them, the court sought to know how much time the agencies needed to conclude investigations. The court has asked the agencies to file an investigation progress report in two weeks and posted the hearing on March 30. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petitions filed by Smita Pansare and Mukta Dabholkar, the kin of the slain activists on Friday was informed by advocate Abhay Nevagi that it had been eight and five years since the two activists had been murdered but the investigating agencies had not been able to catch the culprits nor conclude investigations. The two women had sought a court-monitored probe after the investigation agencies had been unsuccessful in nabbing the assailants. The bench was further informed that the investigators in Karnataka had not only managed to nab the culprits in the assassination of rationalist M M Kalburgi and journalist and activist Gauri Lankesh who were killed in 2015 and 2017 respectively but had also been able to file charge sheets and commence trial in the Kalburgi case, however, the investigations in Pansare and Dabholkar murders remained pending. The court was informed that while CBI had filed three charge sheets in the Dabholkar case the CID had made no progress in the Pansare case. On its part, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the CBI submitted that the agency had done everything possible but was unable to retrieve the weapon used in the Dabholkar case which the accused allegedly had dumped in the Thane creek after committing the murder. He further submitted that of the five arrested accused in the Dabholkar case, one was out on bail and others including the two alleged shooters were in custody. Singh assured the court that the agency would file a fresh investigation progress report before the next hearing. Advocate Mankunwar Deshmukh also said that a progress report would be filed. After hearing the submissions, the bench said that it did not doubt the intentions of the investigating agencies, but the cases had to be taken to their logical conclusion. “The incidents happened in 2013 and 2015. We are now in 2021. How long will it go on like this? You take clear, concrete instructions and make a positive statement on the next date on how much time you will take,” observed the bench while adjourning the hearing to March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/conclude-investigations-in-pansare-dabholkar-murders-bombay-hc-asks-cbi-cops-101615573719999.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Medical admissions: Bombay HC upholds requirement of domicile||Bombay high court (HC) has upheld requirements for Maharashtra domicile and passing of Class 10 and Class 12 examinations from the state for admission to medical and dental courses from 85℅ state quota seats in private unaided medical and dental colleges.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni on March 9 dismissed a bunch of petitions, including one filed by the Association of Managements of Unaided Private Medical and Dental Colleges.The petitioners had challenged the validity of two clauses of the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (regulation of admissions to the full-time professional undergraduate medical and dental courses) Rules, 2016, one of which mandated requirement of Maharashtra domicile and the other passing of Class 10 and Class 12 examinations from an institute in the state.The petitioners mainly contended that the two rules violated fundamental rights guaranteed to the private unaided institutes under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. Their counsel, advocate VM Thorat had submitted that the object of the state to provide appropriate and necessary medical and healthcare facilities should not be confined to narrow considerations of giving eminence to domicile.Private medical colleges which run without receiving a single penny from the State should not be made to suffer the rigours of State control. Requiring private medical colleges to adhere to domicile was per se bad in law.The state control should be limited to maintain educational standards by introducing qualification for teachers, curriculum and syllabi for the courses, etc. and to hold common entrance test for ensuring merit-based selection followed by a centralised admission process.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had responded to the petitions, on behalf of the state, that the statutory rules under challenge were neither manifestly arbitrary nor did they offend the parent law. He pointed out that the law on the topic was very well-settled that the reasonableness of a restriction on a fundamental right must be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of the interests of the general public and not from the point of view of the persons upon whom the restrictions are imposed. Therefore, the private interests of the medical colleges have to yield to the larger public interest, which is the soul of Article 19(6).HC accepted Kumbhakoni’s submissions. The bench noted that Article 19(6) authorises restriction to be imposed on the right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g), inter alia, in the interests of the general public. The bench said the restriction - eligibility requirements for 85℅ state quota seats - imposed on such a right was in the interest of the general public and in tune with clause (6) of Article 19.“Such restriction was imposed keeping in mind the local and regional needs,” said the bench, adding that several states like Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have reserved 85% seats for being filled up by students having state domicile or permanent residence in the respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/medical-admissions-bombay-hc-upholds-requirement-of-domicile-101615573660058.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: Indrani’s mobile, other articles still not produced before court||The trial in the Sheena Bora murder case was adjourned after it became clear that some important articles including the mobile phone of the accused Indrani Mukerjea, recovered during the investigation, have not yet been brought to the court. The prosecution was scheduled to examine a punch witness, a witness to the seizure of Mukerjea’s mobile phone and other articles at the time of her arrest in August 2015.The defence lawyer for Mukerjea, Gunjan Mangla submitted before the court that it’s been years since the investigation is over and the trial has begun. The prosecution ought to have assured that evidence is brought before the court much before they were scheduled to examine the witness.The prosecution has assured the court that they would check as to where the articles were and produce the same, before the next date.Besides, Mangla also insisted the prosecution should examine a star witness of the case by the next hearing. “The prosecution had assured that they would soon examine the star witness because of which the bail plea of Mukerjea was rejected. However, it’s been nearly two months since the witness has expressed his inability to travel. In absence of this, the defence agreed for other witnesses only to make sure that the trial is not affected. However, the prosecution must now make efforts to examine the star witness next,” Mangla told the court.The court has asked the prosecution to the state before the court about when can they examine the star witness next in line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-indrani-s-mobile-other-articles-still-not-produced-before-court-101615573540989.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Chhatar Manzil gondola may be 200 years old: BSIP carbon dating test||: The mysterious gondola that was found buried on the premises of nawabi-era Chhatar Manzil here is approximately 200 years old. The fact came to light in a radiocarbon dating test that was carried out by Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP) of Lucknow to assess the age of the 42 feet-long and 11 feet-wide gondola, which some historians say could also be a ‘royal gondola’. Dr Rajesh Agnihotri, senior scientists and in-charge of radiocarbon dating and isotope characterisation laboratory, BSIP who spearheaded the Carbon Dating or C-14 test said, “We tested two samples—both were of the wood from the boat. As per the findings, one sample was found to be 200-year-old whereas the date of another sample was not found desirable.” BSIP scientists, however, have also expressed their willingness to collect a few more samples from the site in order to make an accurate assessment. “Of the two samples which we initially collected, one failed to fetch desirable result. Hence, we want to collect more samples in order to make 100 percent accurate assessment,” Dr Agnihotri added. Besides, the institute had also approached Uttar Pradesh State Archaeological Department (UPSAD), the custodian of Chhatar Manzil, seeking permission to carry out sampling for the second time. The sampling was initially done in July 2019 after UPSAD had approached BSIP for the sampling of the gondola, which is also being said to be a ‘royal gondola’. AK Singh, director of state museum who has additional charge of director UPSAD, said as of now the project work was stalled for want of funds and the site was lying covered. “The fund is expected to be released this month. Once the project work resumes, we may further grant permission for the sampling as the findings would throw light on many hidden facts and mysteries. Besides, it will further throw light on the lavish lifestyle of the nawabs and also on the water transport system that was said to be a common feature during the era,” said Singh. The discovery of the gondola was made on May 8 when excavators and experts stumbled upon a wooden structure that was partially visible. It was later confirmed that the wooden structure was nothing but a huge gondola. In the ongoing Chhatar Manzil restoration and conservation project, Faculty of Architecture, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), is the consultancy. HISTORIAN’S TAKE: PC Sarkar, a historian, said the present finding indicated that the excavated gondola could be from the early 1800s, roughly corresponding to the rule of Sa’adat Ali Khan (1798-1814). Generally speaking, carbon dating a 200-year-old sample of wood can have an error of around 3 to 10 years. So it could be from the reign of Ghazi-ud-Din Haider also (1814 - 1827), who is credited for building Bada Chattar Manzil. However, travelling by gondolas was not confined to the nawabi rulers of Lucknow. There are several paintings which show gondolas with decorative mast heads of horses, peacocks etc. even in the times of Shuja-ud-Daula at Faizabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chhatar-manzil-gondola-may-be-200-years-old-bsip-carbon-dating-test-101615573539379.html
12-03-2021||City||Odisha man arrested nearly 4 decades after fleeing police||An Odisha man who was accused in a dacoity case when he was 18-year-old finally landed in the police's net 37 years after fleeing from the law.Police said Akshay Jena of Palasudha village in Kendrapara district allegedly committed dacoity along with other accused in a house at Jajpur Road in 1984. He was declared an absconder by the court. However, acting on a tip-off, the police arrested 55-year-old Jena from his house at Palasudha, said Sujit Pradhan, inspector of Patkura police station.Last month, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissionerate police had arrested a 50-year-old man, 22 years after he fled the police net after being involved in a gangrape case. Bibekananda Biswal alias Biban was arrested from the Amby Valley area of Pune last month by a team of police from Odisha after being on the run for 22 years. Biswal was working as a plumber and went by the name Jalandhar Swain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-man-arrested-nearly-4-decades-after-fleeing-police-101615573350946.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Activist moves HC supporting Mumbai Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg||Activist Zoru Bathena has filed an intervention application in the cases being heard by the Bombay high court (HC) in the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed matter.The activist, through title documents of the land at Kanjurmarg has claimed, that the plot of land earmarked for the depot, which both the Union of India through the salt commissioner and an independent person claim to have ownership, is not valid. The application states that the said land is apart from the land the title of which is with the Union of India and the individual, hence the state has a right to develop the said land as a depot. In light of these submissions, the activist who has been advocating the construction of the depot at the spot since the first proposal was mooted for Aarey, has prayed that the stay by the HC in December 2020 on the Metro car shed construction activity be vacated so that Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) may go ahead with the construction activity. According to the application, the information is based on a study of land records from 1906 onwards when the Union of India acquired over 1,400 acres of land for salt pan activity. In 1922, four plots had been made out of the said land out of which three plots were surveyed and numbered while the fourth plot remained unsurveyed. This unsurveyed plot later came in the possession of Arthur Salt Works and thereafter Garodia possessed it. The application states that the depot is proposed to come up on the three numbered plots and hence Garodia’s claim is unsubstantiated. The application further states that even though the UoI had acquired the land in 1906 the plot where the depot is proposed was never utilised for salt pan activity as it was away from the creek, hence the UoI could not claim it to be part of the land under the Salt Commissioner. The application also states that the proposed plot for the depot is not within CRZ limits. In light of these submissions, the application states that even if the claims of both the UoI and Garodia was assumed to be correct they would be compensated for parting with the land in the interest of Mumbai’s public transport system and Mumbai’s fragile ecology. The application thus seeks a vacation of the December 16, 2020 stay on construction activity at Kanjur. The court while stating that it would not be hearing any applications individually, said it would take up the application during the final hearing to be held on March 19. While speaking to HT, Bathena said that the plot in question where the government proposes to build the integrated Metro car shed was already earmarked for the Metro-6 line depot in 2016 and the UoI had agreed to transfer the land to MMRDA hence its objection to transferring the land now that the Aarey car shed is also going to be shifted to Kanjurmarg is surprising. Meanwhile, public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved in the HC seeking continuation of the previously planned car shed at Aarey. The PIL filed by three city residents has pointed to the fact that the decision to construct the Metro car shed was taken after due deliberations by all authorities and only after it was concluded that the Aarey Milk colony land was the most suitable for the depot had work commenced on it. The PIL states that the decision of the current government to shift the same to Kanjurmarg by modifying the reservation of the land from public purposes to car metro depot is illegal and undoubtedly a ploy to subserve the political ego, hence the decision should be set aside and the car shed be ordered to be constructed at Aarey itself. The court said it would hear the PIL after the issues arising out of the other petitions were resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/activist-moves-hc-supporting-mumbai-metro-car-shed-at-kanjurmarg-101615573420671.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Follow strategy for India to be superpower by 2047: CM Yogi||: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said there was a need to follow a strategy for India to establish itself as a superpower by the time the country celebrates 100 years of independence in 2047.“2022 will be the year of Amrit Mahotsav (75 years) of India’s independence. We will have to move ahead with a work plan for the next 25 years when India completes 100 years of its independence in 2047,” he said. The chief minister was speaking at the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme organised at Kakori Shaheed Smarak in Kakori, about 26 kilometres north-west of here. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programmes in Gujarat on Friday, chief minister, along with some of his cabinet colleagues and others, watched the event live at the Kakori Shaheed Smarak here to mark the beginning of the celebrations. He said the state government had organised Amrit Mahotsav programmes at four places in different parts of the state on the occasion.“We have organised programmes at four places. I have got the opportunity to be present at this programme in Kakori where the Kakori incident took place in 1925,” he said.Programmes were also organised at the martyrs’ memorial and freedom struggle museum in Meerut, martyrs’ memorial in Ballia, the Jhansi fort and the Pt Deen Dayal auditorium in Jhansi.“When India celebrates 100 years of its independence, we will have to evaluate what we have found and what we lost in 100 years. We will have to remember this, cherish our freedom and realise the dream of Ek Bharat, Sheshtha Bharat and make the world realise about India becoming a superpower in accordance with the wishes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/follow-strategy-for-india-to-be-superpower-by-2047-cm-yogi-101615573419421.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No ST candidate hired as asst professor since 2009 at IIT-B, states RTI||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has not recruited a single associate professor from the scheduled tribe (ST) and other backward castes (OBC) categories since 2006, according to responses received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Several RTI applications were filed by Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle (APPSC), an informal student organisation at IIT-B, about the institute’s recruitment process. The responses included counts of recruited candidates for each category, but did not reveal the number of shortlisted candidates. The data supplied is in line with figures shared by minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal in Lok Sabha in July 2019, when he said of the 6,043 faculty in 23 IITs, 2.5% were from scheduled castes (SC) and 0.34% were ST. In the last 14 years, IIT-B has hired only one SC candidate as associate professor. Between 2009 and 2020, no ST candidate was hired as assistant professor, which is the entry-level position for faculty. Three SC and six OBC candidates were hired as assistant professors in this period. Data for recruitment of assistant professor positions between 2006 and 2008 was unavailable. Of 317 candidates hired as assistant professors at IIT-B in the 12 years, 97% were from the general category; 1.9% were OBC; 0.9% were SC and 0% were ST. Between 2006 and 2020, 42 general category candidates were hired as associate professors and 97.7% of all associate professors were from the general category, while 2% were SC, ST and OBC were 0%. According to government of India (GoI) norms, 10% of all faculty positions in IITs are reserved for candidates belonging to economically weaker sections; 27% for the OBC category; 15% for SC; 7.5% for ST; and 5% for candidates with physical disabilities. Until 2019, these reservations were applicable only for the recruitment of assistant professors. The meagre representation of reserved category faculty members in IIT-B bears significance since last July, an expert committee submitted a proposal to the ministry of education, recommending IITs be included among Institutes of Excellence. Institutes of Excellence are exempted from caste-based reservations according to the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act of 2019. IITB has maintained that it follows the reservations policy in letter and spirit. “Earlier, prior to the reservations, departments had the liberty to forward shortlisted candidates to the selection committee. However, a few years ago, after the reservation policy came in, the policy was changed. Now, departments have to forward all applications from SC and ST categories to the selection committee as long as they meet the basic eligibility criteria,” said S Sudarshan, deputy director, academic and infrastructure affairs. Data shows that in 2020, 26 SC candidates two ST candidates and 20 OBC candidates applied for assistant professorships. Only one SC candidate was hired. All ST and OBC candidates were rejected. Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies at Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Social Sciences, who has served on various selection committees at universities across the country, said the discrimination was systemic. “If a reserved category candidate has applied, the law mandates that the selection committee should have a member from the category. Most times, it is this member that bats on behalf of the reserved category candidate alone. There is resistance from all quarters because the department members have a set idea of who they want,” said Ramaiah. However, Sudarshan said, “Candidates who have achieved professional success despite socio-economic and gender barriers deserve a preference. They are also likely to continue to do better. While we don’t want to compromise on the quality of research, we also believe that there are brilliant people in every category.” Faculty recruitment process IIT-B posts a rolling advertisement on its website and accepts applications from interested candidates throughout the year. Each department forms a Faculty Search Committee with one faculty member as the convenor. The committee processes the applications received, and also scouts out for potential faculty from other universities and through the alumni network. Candidates are shortlisted based on their contributions to research, teaching and professional services. Shortlisted candidates have to deliver a seminar and interact with other faculty members in addition to providing references. Based on the candidates’ performance in the seminar, interactions and references, the department submits its recommendation to the dean of faculty affairs. The dean of faculty affairs facilitates the formation of a selection committee, which interview the candidates and evaluates their performances. The selection committee’s recommendations are placed before the chairperson and board of governors, who take the final decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-no-st-candidate-hired-as-asst-professor-since-2009-at-iit-b-states-rti-101615573300158.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh kicks of 2022 election campaign with cycle rally from Azam’s bastion||: Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav kicked off his party’s campaign for 2022 assembly elections with a cycle rally from Rampur on Friday.Rampur was chosen to show party’s solidarity with local MP Azam Khan, who is currently in jail in different cases.“The days of our struggle are over and from today onwards only good things will happen as we work towards winning the election in the state,” Akhilesh said addressing his supporters at the inaugural event of the cycle rally in Rampur.The event was attended by senior party leaders, including Naresh Uttam, Ram Govind Chaudhary, Tazeen Fatima and close to 5,000 supporters from Rampur and nearby districts.“Today is a very historic day. I am saying this because people know that whenever cycle has moved, it has brought change in the state. I remember in 2012 when we rode the cycle it led to the defeat of then government. I am confident that the cycle will bring about a change,” he said. Akhilesh took out several cycle rallies in the run up to elections in 2012 in which his party emerged with single largest majority and won 224 seats defeating Bahujan Samaj Party(BSP).The tables turned in 2017 when SP was defeated by the BJP which won 312 seats. The change in government brought troubles for Azam who was slapped with over 70 cases raging from extortion, encroachment to theft and was sent to jail along with his wife Tazeen Fatima and son Abdullah Azam. While Fatima was released on bail a few months back, Azam and his son continue to remain in Sitapur jail.Akhilesh lashed out on the state government for cases against Azam in his address. “I would not have talked about the cases against Azam had they been a few. Never in the history of this country, a leader like Azam, has been named by the administration in so many cases. Azam had to suffer all this because he wanted to change the future of the coming generations. He opened a state-of-the-art university for youngsters so that they get a better education and make a future for themselves. But people who only know the language of ‘Thok do’ and ‘Patak ke marenge’ will never understand this,” Akhilesh said.The inaugural event was held at a short distance from Mohammed Ali Jauhar University, a brainchild of Azam which has become a hotspot of controversies. The local administration has accused the trust that runs the university and in which Azam is a member, of encroaching over the land of people and government for the construction of the university. The district administration has also made proposal to take the university under the control of the state government.Akhilesh, in his seven-minute-long address, express confidence in the judiciary and said, “We have full faith in the judiciary. I am confident that judiciary will do justice to the people of Rampur who have been wrongly accused in so many false cases.”He went on to caution that the BJP will target other leaders for its political gains. “Please remember that no one will be spared. Bharatiya Janata Party will attack everyone,” he said. Without taking name of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who injured her left leg in an alleged attack, Akhilesh said, “Everyone knows that if a person injures his legs that person will not be able to campaign in the election. We have also suffered all this, but it is time we begin preparations for upcoming election.”Akhilesh also took a jibe on the government for hike in prices of petrol and diesel. “Even the government wants people to use cycle that is why they have hiked the prices of petrol and diesel,” he said.Before attending the rally, Akhilesh met the family members of Azam and assured them of the party’s support.The event concluded with a cycle rally from the spot to Ambedkar sthal, some 10 kilometres away. According to Samajawadi Party officials, the cycle rally will continue from the same spot on Saturday and reach Lucknow via Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur, Sitapur and Hardoi. Over 2,000 workers are expected to join the rally according to party officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-kicks-of-2022-election-campaign-with-cycle-rally-from-azam-s-bastion-101615573239404.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||PANCHAYAT POLLS HC stays release of final list of reserved seats till March 15||: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the publication of the final list of seats reserved for the panchayat polls till March 15. The stay comes even as the district magistrates were scheduled to release the final list of reserved seats in their respective districts on Saturday and Sunday. A division bench of Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Manish Mathur passed the order on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Ajay Kumar, challenging the state government’s decision to take 1995 as the base year, instead of 2015, for reserving the seats. “Considering the aforesaid submission, it is provided that till the next date of listing, the opposite parties (state government) shall not finalise the reservations to be provided in terms on Rule 4 of Rules of 1994 (for panchayat polls),” the court said. The petitioner pointed out that ignoring the government order (GO) dated September 16, 2015, the opposite parties (state government through additional chief secretary panchayat raj) were proceeding to reserve the seats in terms of Rule 4 of the Rules of 1994 by taking 1995 as the base year, instead of 2015. It was further submitted that GO dated September 16, 2015 is still in existence and the previous elections held in the year 2015 were also in accordance with the aforesaid government order, the petitioner’s counsel said. They further stated that even otherwise, in view of the changed demographic situation as noticed by the state government itself in the GO issued on September 16, 2015, it did not stand to reason that the base year for the purposes of reserving seats in terms of Rule 4 of Rules of 1994 should be taken as 1995. The court listed the case for the next hearing on March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/panchayat-polls-hc-stays-release-of-final-list-of-reserved-seats-till-march-15-101615573119381.html
12-03-2021||Noida||Respite from heat as light rains bring mercury down||Noida: Noida and its nearby areas experienced a brief respite from heat on Friday as the maximum temperature fell by four degrees Celsius over the past 24-hours due to very-light rains, with weather analysts expecting temperatures to rise gradually over the next few days.According to the India Meteorological department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperature for Noida on Friday was recorded at 30.2 degrees Celsius and 18.9 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 34.3 degree Celsius and 18.4 degrees Celsius, respectively, the previous day. The city also saw an average rainfall of 0.5mm during the morning hours while the sky remained clouded.At Safdarjung observatory, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperature was recorded at 30.7 degrees Celsius (a degree Celsius above the season’s average) and 17.9 degrees Celsius (three degrees Celsius above the season’s average), respectively.“Against expectation, the region only saw light rainfall, while hail did not occur because the convective clouds or vertically developed clouds were not very strong. The mercury will rise in the region but there will not be any sharp rise in temperatures,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida improved from ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Friday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 199 against 260 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 240 against 307 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 263 against 287 on Thursday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve but will soon deteriorate. “Surface winds are high and easterly. Thunderstorms with gusty winds and local dust lifting are likely at isolated places. Expected rainfall is likely to contribute to AQI positively through wet deposition. AQI is likely to improve to the ‘moderate’ category for Saturday. ‘Moderate’ to ‘poor’ AQI is forecasted for March 14 and 15,” said a SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/respite-from-heat-as-light-rains-bring-mercury-down-101615573059391.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Streamline online working system, members tell Mumbai university on Day 1 of senate||The annual senate meet of the University of Mumbai was conducted online on Friday and most members had grievances to share as well as demanded answers for all the irregularities that had taken place in the last year. For starters, most members demanded that the university streamline the online system, especially since the last one year all major activities have been conducted virtually.“Something as simple as the pre-admissions registration process was stuck because the university website was facing technical glitches. For a year when colleges and universities around the world are making students’ lives easier, MU students are struggling,” said a senate member. The members have also sought a separate question hour with the varsity officials on Saturday to discuss Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL).Last year, days after the Reserve Bank of India kept YES Bank under a moratorium, it was revealed that the University of Mumbai had fixed deposits (FDs) worth ₹142 crore stuck in the same bank. While the amount has now been recovered by the varsity, members questioned why the officials have not yet revealed the official report by the MU set up an inquiry committee.“We are not even aware of the members part of the inquiry committee, neither has the final report been shared,” said a senate member. The University pro-vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni and board of examination director Vinod Patil assured members that the final report will be shared soon.Once again, questions were also raised on the status of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grade that the university is yet to get. “It is unfathomable that in the last four years, one of the oldest universities in the state has not managed to secure NAAC grading. Several students have faced trouble due to lack of funds or affiliation concern in the last four years and to date, we run the University with a NAAC grade,” said another senate member.The annual budget of the university will now be tabled on Saturday, said MU officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/streamline-online-working-system-members-tell-mumbai-university-on-day-1-of-senate-101615572942361.html
12-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad factory fire: Deceased owner booked, unit had no fire NOC||Ghaziabad: The 40-year-old owner of the factory, gutted in Ghaziabad’s Sahibabad area late Thursday, succumbed to his injuries at a hospital in Delhi on Friday. The Ghaziabad police, meanwhile, said they have booked the owner based on a complaint by the family members of two of the 14 injured in the fire. The 14 injured persons, which included a 16-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy, had sustained severe burn injuries and were rushed to private hospitals in Ghaziabad, from where they were referred to hospitals in Delhi, the police said.“The owner was identified as Kunal Behl, a resident of Indirapuram. He had sustained severe burn injuries. He succumbed at a hospital in Delhi Friday morning. Family members of two injured persons have submitted a police complaint, on the basis of which we registered an FIR naming Behl. It is alleged that Behl deliberately added extra chemicals in the machine which led to an explosion and caused a blaze,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), Ghaziabad.The incident took place in the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area. “Of the remaining 13, 11 are under observation and the condition of four of them is critical. We will investigate the reasons behind the incident and statements of workers will be recorded. The two minors probably came along with their parents to the factory. We will also inquire if they too were engaged in any labour process or not,” the SP added. The factory allegedly did not have any no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department, fire officials said Friday. “No fire NOC had been taken for the factory and only primary fire-fighting equipment, such as fire extinguishers, were available at the site. The cause of the fire was some explosion in the chemical storage at the ground floor,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.The FIR, filed at Link Road police station, was lodged under IPC section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide). A copy of the FIR was made available to the media by the Ghaziabad police. The complainant in the case is Rohit Kumar, 20, who is from Sitapur and works at another factory in the industrial area. As per the copy of the FIR, the complaint was drafted by one Mohammad Saleem.When contacted, Rohit said that two of his brothers, Mohit Kumar, 18, and Vishwa Nath, 22, suffered severe burn injuries during the incident.“They both worked at the factory. I had come to my rented accommodation at Maharajpur when I got a call on my mobile. My brother Mohit was on the phone and he asked me to come fast for help and also told me about the fire. I rushed to the spot with two of my neighbours. There, without waiting for ambulances, I sat both of my brothers in the police van and rushed them to hospital,” Rohit said. He added that his brothers had been working with the factory for the past two-three years and received a monthly salary of about ₹10,000 each. “Since I was not at the factory, I cannot say what actually caused the fire. It is likely that it resulted due to some chemical used in the factory. I am yet to get a copy of the FIR,” he said Friday evening, when asked about the allegations levelled in the FIR.When asked about the allegations in the FIR, the SP said: “All allegations levelled in the FIR will be inquired during the course of investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-factory-fire-deceased-owner-booked-unit-had-no-fire-noc-101615572939342.html
12-03-2021||Other||Kanpur gang rape: Police orders probe into allegation against its officials||: The police on Friday ordered an inquiry into allegations that the father of a 13-year-old gang-rape victim committed suicide after he felt humiliated by the policemen associated with investigation and other police processes.The 40-year-old man was knocked down by a truck outside the community health centre (CHC), Ghatampur in Kanpur rural, where his daughter was admitted for medical examination, hours after he lodged the case of gang-rape.The family members leveled serious allegations against the police officers, including the circle officer Girish Chandra.His family further alleged the humiliation handed out to him in those 19 hours drove him to commit suicide.DIG/SSP Kanpur Dr Preetinder Singh said the SP Kanpur Rural Brijesh Srivastava had been asked to thoroughly probe the charges of humiliation.The SP had also been instructed to probe the allegations that the girl was repeatedly asked objectionable questions at the health centre where she was taken for medical examination and that questions were raised about her character, the officer said.The SP had been asked to probe all charges and submit the fact-finding report within the stipulated time, he added.SP Kanpur rural Brijesh Srivastava said he would submit his report in one week.Singh, however, also stood in defence of his men and said women police personnel spoke to the girl. He said every victim has to be asked certain questions to know what exactly happened with them and ascertain charges against the accused.“No evidence has so far been found which indicates that the rape survivor’s father was so frustrated with the police that he might have committed suicide,” he said. He added that any police personnel found guilty of insensitivity or negligence during the probe would not be spared.According to the police, the 13-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by three men, identified as Deepak Yadav, Saurabh Yadav and Golu Yadav late Monday evening in a village of Sajeti police area.All the three accused have been arrested.In addition, two sub inspectors and constables were also suspended on the charges of negligence.But the action is under question as the three were not involved with the investigation or the processes of the case.Devendra Yadav, father of accused Deepak and Saurabh, and a sub inspector with UP police was not arrested yet. Yadav is accused of orchestrating the death of girl’s father according to an FIR lodged by his brother.SP Kannauj Prashant Varma on Thursday had suspended Yadav after he did not report back on duty. Yadav was sent to Jalaun on VIP duty as chief minister Yogi Adityanath was scheduled to visit the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-gang-rape-police-orders-probe-into-allegation-against-its-officials-101615572879352.html
12-03-2021||Noida||Saplings planted during green drive dry up due to negligence: Residents||Noida: The residents of Noida have claimed that hundreds of trees planted in the city in February have already started to dry up.Residents claim that freshly planted patches were neglected and not adequately watered even as the temperature was higher during the days this month.The roadside plantation drive of around 500 saplings of amaltash and neem was held by the Noida authority in sector 77, while the authority planted about 100 plants in November 2020 with the collaboration of the residents.“The contractor often waters the central patch of the road, but not the fresh saplings. We had asked the contractor to water the fresh saplings as a lot of them started to dry up due to negligence. Some have dried completely,” said city-based social activist and resident of sector 77, Amit Gupta.“We held the plantation drive last year on the road adjacent to Prateek Wisteria and a few other high-rises, which are being taken care of. But the maximum saplings planted recently on the main road are in bad shape,” said Deepak Mittal, a resident sector 77.According to the officials, however, the saplings are shedding leaves and dried up due to the warm weather.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has recorded the maximum temperature ranging between 28.8 degree Celsius and 34.2 degree Celsius at Safdarjung observatory — which is considered an average for the region — for March 2021 so far. Only two days witnessed a maximum temperature below 30 degree Celsius. Meanwhile, the average maximum temperature for March 2020 (first two weeks) ranged between 21.3 degree Celsius and 29 degree Celsius. Officials of the Noida authority’s horticulture department said the private contractor, responsible for the plantation and its maintenance, will ensure that the saplings are taken care of for two years. “The plantation will be maintained and even if any dries the contractors will ensure that they are replaced for the next two years. Apart from that, most of the saplings are fine, and it’s just the weather due to which they are shedding. We will ensure that the saplings survive,” said Anand Mohan, deputy director (Horticulture).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/saplings-planted-during-green-drive-dry-up-due-to-negligenceresidents-101615572820356.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cuffe Parade fishermen protest over 300-acre reclamation park||Revisiting their four-year-old tussle with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the fishermen of Cuffe Parade in south Mumbai staged a protest at the fishermen colony over the construction of the 300-acre Backbay Reclamation park, planned by the civic body, off the coast in the Arabian Sea.Revisiting the project, that has been stalled for the past two years after the fisherman did not allow the civic body-appointed third-party consultants to conduct surveys for feasibility report and oceanographic survey, to understand the impact of the park on marine life, BMC will present the development plan of the 300-acre ‘Green Park’ as it is being termed by BMC, on Saturday morning at Radio Club in Mumbai. BMC on March 8 sent a letter to the Machhimar Sarvoday Sahkari Samiti inviting them to the presentation.Local leaders, member of Parliament Arvind Sawant, Mumbai Congress president Ashok Jagtap, member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Rahul Narwekar and local corporator Harshita Narwekar, leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in BMC Rakhi Jadhav have been invited for the presentation.Following this, fishermen from the area on Thursday evening staged a protest. Bhuvaneshwar Dhanu, member of Macchimar Sarvoday Co-operative Society, Cuffe Parade, said, “We had earlier decided to boycott the presentation. But now we have decided to attend it, and then express our opposition to the project at the meeting.”In 2018, BMC had appointed Tata Consulting Engineers as a consultant to prepare a feasibility report of the project, and the Goa-based National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) to conduct an oceanographic survey to understand the impact of the park on the marine ecosystem, and climate along city’s coastline. After a few sessions, the fishermen did not allow the consultants to collect samples for the survey.According to Dhanu, presently BMC has accommodated parking of 200 boats for fishermen in the harbour. He said, “We saw the plans, and realised there is inadequate parking space. We should be allowed to park 350 boats. There is also construction planned in the pathway we use to access the sea during low tide. This will make it impossible for us to access the sea unless there is high tide.” The community also wants to be declared as project affected persons.They believe the project will affect their livelihood and kill the catch. Parshuram Meher, Mumbai president of the Maharashtra Machhimar Kruti Samiti said, “In 2017 we learned of the project and have opposed it since the beginning. This will destroy our business. Apart from this park, the Shiv Smarak is also being constructed on this site in the sea. The fishermen of Cuffe Parade will have no income left.”Two years ago, the community submitted 16-point demands to then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis of which eight were accepted by the government at the time. They included more space to park boats, jobs for the local fishermen of Cuff Parade in any leisure and entertainment developments that would be operated at the park, among others.A senior civic official said, “BMC is reopening dialogue with the community, and addressing their concerns. We had appointed consultants to study how their livelihood will be affected. The fishermen community did not allow that studies to happen. Then in 2020 coronavirus lockdown happened. On Saturday, we are only making a presentation. Dialogue with the fishermen will continue, so we can find a middle ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaicuffe-parade-fishermen-protest-over-300-acre-reclamation-park-101615572819969.html
12-03-2021||Noida||60-year-old riding pillion killed as truck overturns on Noida Expressway||Noida: A 60-year-old woman riding pillion on a motorcycle died after a truck overturned and she came under it, on the Noida Expressway on Friday. The woman was identified as Sukhviri. Her husband Dharmpal, 62, was riding the motorcycle. The accident took place on the Greater Noida to Noida side of the expressway, near the Jhatta Underpass.The complainant, Dharmpal, said: “My wife fell on the road and the truck overturned on her. She was critically injured. I informed the police and she was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” he alleged. The truck driver managed to escape after the incident, he alleged.The Knowledge Park police said that the couple was coming from Bulandshahr to their home in Patparganj, Delhi. Police said that as per primary investigation, the truck, loaded with sand, was moving in the same direction. “The truck’s front tyre got burst and there was a bang. The couple was riding a motorcycle just next to the truck. It appears the woman jumped off the motorcycle due to the loud noise, while her husband steered the motorcycle away a few metres. At the same time the truck overturned, killing the woman,” said a police official investigating the matter, asking not to be identified.Dharmpal did not receive any injuries and the motorcycle also did not suffer damages. Varun Pawar, SHO, Knowledge Park police station, said a case has been registered against the unknown truck driver under Section 304-A (death due to negligence) of the IPC. “We have seized the truck and launched a search for his arrest,” he said.The police later used a crane to remove the damaged truck and clear the expressway for traffic movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/60yearold-riding-pillion-killed-as-truck-overturns-on-noida-expressway-101615572760004.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Ayush Kishore case: HC stays arrest of BJP MP’s son||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has provided relief to Ayush Kishore, son of BJP MP from Mohanlalganj, from instant arrest in a case related with alleged scripted attack on him.A division bench of Justice AR Masoodi and Justice Alok Mathur passed the order on March 9 on a petition filed by Ayush.The court uploaded the order on its website on Friday. However, the court directed the petitioner to appear before the investigating officer whenever summoned. On March 2 last, Ayush shared a video on social media in which he accused a woman, who claims to be his wife, of honey-trapping him and then forcing him to go against his family and provide money to her.Ayush also accused the woman and her brother Adarsh of opening fire on him with intention to kill when he refused to heed to her demands.On March 2, Ayush was injured after allegedly being shot at his house near Chatta Mill in Lucknow’s Madiaon area and the woman’s brother Adarsh was arrested by police. The police had registered an FIR against Ayush and Adarsh under IPC sections 420 (fraud), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 505 (1)(b) (misleading police through fake information).Ayush has been missing since then after being treated at trauma centre of King George Medical University here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayush-kishore-case-hc-stays-arrest-of-bjp-mp-s-son-101615572640026.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||LU alumna wins Sahitya Akademi Award||Noted poet, social worker and novelist Anamilka (she goes by one name) on Friday won the Sahitya Akademi Award 2020 for her collection of poems ‘Tokri Mein Digant--Theri Gatha: 2014’.It was just a coincidence that she visited University of Lucknow (LU), her alma mater, on Friday and the award was announced within a few hours. An autonomous body under the union ministry of culture announced the Sahitya Akademi Award 2020 in New Delhi. After attending an event at LU, the poet was having lunch somewhere when she got a call from an unknown number. “It was from an unknown number so I did not feel like taking the call. I was in right kind of company at that time. Then I picked up the phone and the caller from other side broke the news that my name had figured in the Sahitya Akademi Award 2020 list,” said Anamika who did her PG in English Literature from LU in 1985.“I couldn’t believe it. Then I wondered for which book this award was being given as I had never applied for the award. It did not take much time to figure it out that the award was for my book ‘Tokri Meim Digant--Theri Gatha: 2014’. It was a pleasant surprise that I was on a visit to my alma mater and the award came my way the same day,” she added.Talking about the award-winning book, Anamika said, “I wrote the book good five years ago. The book is an imaginary conversion between Gautam Buddha with women on streets. It is like a time travel. As I had never applied for the Sahitya Akademi Award, I was not expecting anything like this to come my way.”“I was later told by a few people that the jury got feedback from university professors and experts. Self-recommendation doesn’t carry much weight,” she said.Her father’s Shyam Nandan Kishore, a prominent Hindi poet, was her first teacher. Talking about Lucknow, she said the state capital had people of all cultures and its inclusiveness made the city more liveable place.Her husband Dr Bindu Amitabh is a nephrologist. She has two sons Utkarsh and Unnayan. Ranu Uniyal, professor and head of department of English and Modern European Languages at LU, said it was a proud moment for the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-alumna-wins-sahitya-akademi-award-101615572399354.html
12-03-2021||City||Stalin’s son makes electoral debut, DMK to face AIADMK in 122 seats||DMK president MK Stalin will seek a third term from his Kolathur constituency for the April 6 Assembly elections while son Udhayanidhi will make his electoral debut from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni. The opposition party is pitted in a direct fight with its arch-rival and ruling AIADMK in 122 seats.On Friday, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) announced candidates for 173 seats, three days after the party in power for a decade, the AIADMK, announced a list of 177 candidates. Both major Dravidian parties have avoided any surprises in their candidate lists and have opted for tested and senior party leaders.Since many of the parties, including Vaiko-led MDMK, will be contesting on DMK's 'Rising Sun' symbol, the lead partner will be in the fray in 187 seats, Stalin said while releasing the candidate list. DMK has allotted 61 seats to its allies, with the Congress taking the lion's share of 25.Nearly half of the 173 nominees were sitting MLAs including seniors Durai Murugan, KN Nehru, K Ponmudi, MRK Panneerselvam, P Geetha Jeevan and Poongothai Aladi Aruna - all former ministers, besides legislators such as TRB Raja, Anitha Radhakrishnan, SR Raja, M Subramanian and R Sakkarapani.Also read: Tamil Nadu assembly elections - AMMK releases third list of candidates for pollsUdhayanidhi will fight from the Chepauk-Triplicane constituency, represented by the late J Anbazhagan who succumbed to Covid-19 last year. Udhayanidhi, an actor-producer, is a third-generation politician from the DMK's first family, following in the footsteps of his late grandfather and former DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi and father Stalin.The big fights will be between DMK’s Senthil Balaji and transport minister MR Vijayabaskar in Karur. Former AIADMK strongman, Thanga Tamilselvan, who quit and joined TTV Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and later the DMK, has been given the ticket from Bodinayakanur to face-off with deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.Paneerselveam, who has won this seat from 2011, filed his nominations which opened for Tamil Nadu on Friday and will go on till March 19. Relatively lesser known T Sampathkumar will take on chief minister Edapaddi K Palanaswami on his home turf, Edappadi. “He may be an ordinary man but he has the potential to win,” Stalin said.Former mayors of Chennai, AIADMK’s Saidai Duraisamy and DMK’s Ma Subramanian will clash in Saidapet - the latter is the incumbent. Environment activist and pro-Jallikattu crusader Karthikeya Senapathy, who joined the DMK in 2020, will go head-on with AIADMK heavyweight and minister for municipal administration SP Velumani in his stronghold of Thondamuthur constituency in Coimbatore.The DMK has retained its party veterans, sitting MLAs and prominent faces across the assembly seats such as party general secretary S Durai Murugan, Thangam Thennarsu, Palanivel Thiagaran, PK Sekhar Babu, former state IT minister Poongothai Aladi Aruna.In Trichy, from where Stalin launched his ten-year vision for Tamil Nadu last week, party principal secretary and Trichy West MLA KN Nehru is fielded from the same seat while another third-generation party leader and Udhaynidhi’s close aide Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi will seek re-election from Thiruverumbur constituency.The party has fielded only 13 women. Stalin will file his nomination on March 15 and continue his campaign, he said.The DMK-led coalition will seek to oust the BJP-AIADMK alliance and return to power after a gap of a decade. BJP state vice-president and former minister in the AIADMK government Nainar Nagendran filed his nomination in the Tirunelveli assembly segment even before the BJP announced its candidates. Nagendran told reporters that he did so because it was an auspicious day. The BJP has so far identified only 20 assembly constituencies and is likely to announce candidates on Saturday.This is the first assembly election after the demise of towering leaders J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalins-son-makes-electoral-debut-dmk-to-face-aiadmk-in-122-seats-101615570201517.html
12-03-2021||Pune||Milind Ekbote granted bail||A city court on Friday granted interim anticipatory bail to president of the Samsta Hindu Aghadi, Milind Ekbote, who was booked by the Kondhwa Police for his alleged objectionable comments, while opposing the construction of “Haj House” in Kondhwa, by the Pune Municipal Corporation. Ekbote, who is accused in a case registered by Pune rural police during the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2018, also claimed in the video that Kondhwa area is home to “sleeper cells” and is a “mini Pakistan”.’ “The high court has said that no religious place can be built without prior permission from the government, but the PMC has found a way out of this by terming the “Haj House” as a cultural centre. The Samsta Hindu Aghadi will not let it happen,” Ekbote said in a video shot in front of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A complaint in the matter was lodged by Satish Bhaskar Kale (47), a resident of the NIBM road, who is a member of the Sambhaji Brigade and part of the Maratha Seva Sangh. “The aim of that video was to destroy peace in the Kondhwa area and cause communal violence; if anything of that sort happens, Milind Ekbote will be solely responsible for it,” read a part of the complaint lodged by Kale. A case under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot); 153(a) (hurting religious sentiments); 153(b), 295(a), 298 (uttering words etc., with the deliberate intention of wounding the religious feelings of any person); 500 (defamation); 501, 502, 505(1)(c), 505(2), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy); and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(a) and 66(b) of Information Technology Act was registered at Kondhwa police station against Ekbote Additional sessions judge GP Agarwal granted bail on a personal bond of ₹15,000 and surety of like amount on the condition that Ekbote will not tamper with evidence and cooperate with the investigating agency as and when required. Ekbote had filed the anticipatory bail application through advocate SK Jain and Amol Dange.While granting the bail, the judge stated, “Upon perusal of the FIR, it transpires that, there is delay in lodging the FIR. The applicant has only brought to the notice of the fact about the construction of Haj House under the name of Civil and Cultural Centre upon the land which is in the possession of Pune Municipal Corporation and which cannot be carried out as per the verdict of Hon’ble High Court, Bombay and the Hon’ble Apex Court as per GR dated 5th November, 2016. All the alleged offences are triable by court of magistrate. The applicant is ready to co-operate the investigation machinery. In the alleged set of facts narrated in the complaint, the custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary at this stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/milind-ekbote-granted-bail-101615569459278.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports over 1,400 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload jumps by over 350 cases||Punjab witnessed a fresh spike in its daily new Covid-19 cases on Friday as the state reported 1,408 fresh cases and 34 deaths taking the tally to 194,753 cases, according to a bulletin from the state government. The state had reported 1,309 cases and 18 deaths on Thursday. The active caseload in Punjab too witnessed a spike from the 10,069 cases reported on Thursday and currently stands at 10,452. In the last 24 hours, 991 new recoveries were reported taking the number of total recoveries to 178,271.The state government conducted 36,412 Covid-19 tests and collected 19,644 samples on Friday. With this, 5,313,932 samples have been collected in Punjab so far, according to the latest data.Also read | Kerala reports less than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases after 3 days, active cases continue to declineThe Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday said that Punjab along with Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu accounted for nearly 86 per cent of the daily new cases reported in the country. The ministry also noted that Punjab is one among six states which accounted for nearly 86 per cent of the new deaths. Earlier on Thursday, the ministry had said that active caseload spiked by over 7,000 cases in Punjab — the second-highest increase after Maharashtra, — between February 11 (2,112 cases) and March 11 (9,402 cases).Among the districts, SAS Nagar reported the highest number of new cases on Friday with 194 cases, followed by Hoshiarpur with 188 cases and Patiala with 152 cases, data showed. Ludhiana remained the worst-affected district with 28,456 cumulative cases while Jalandhar has the highest active cases amongst districts (1,356 cases). Punjab currently has one containment zone and 54 micro-containment zones, as per the latest update.Also read | Maharashtra sees back-to-back cluster outbreaks of Covid casesMeanwhile, about 202,126 first doses and 63,575 second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to healthcare workers and front line workers. Also, 82,221 first doses of the vaccine have been administered to the general population including people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities.Schools have been ordered to close and a night curfew has been imposed in eight districts namely, Ludhiana, Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Patiala, to contain the spread of the disease, according to a report by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-over-1-400-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-jumps-by-over-350-cases-101615567279656.html
12-03-2021||City||After 25 years, Muslim League fields woman candidate in Kerala||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), an ally of the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala, has fielded a woman candidate after 25 years. The party on Friday named Noorbina Rasheed, a lawyer, from Kozhikode South constituency.The last time the party fielded a woman candidate was in 1996. Kamarunias Anwar lost to the CPIM’s Elamaram Kareem. Though the IUML is a 72-year-old party with a strong presence in north Kerala’s Malabar and other areas, women always took a backseat in the party.There were some shrill voices against the woman candidate this time also but the party ignored the elements. At least three women leaders have approached the party for tickets but luck fell on Rasheed who is also the national general secretary of the Women League. The party is contesting 27 seats this time, a hike of three seats from the last elections.Also read: Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas joins BJPThough all parties talk big about women and youth representation, when candidates list finally surface they are overlooked citing “winnability criteria”. Women leaders, however, swear that they are better placed in poll battles than their male counterparts.In a state where woman outnumber men (1,091 female for 1,000 men), electoral history shows women representation never crossed 10 per cent in the House. In the 14th assembly (2016-2021), there were nine female legislators in the 140-member House. This time, of the 85 seats the CPI(M) is contesting, 12 are women while junior partner CPI has four women among 25 of its candidates. The lists of Congress and BJP are yet to be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-25-years-muslim-league-fields-woman-candidate-in-kerala-101615565987866.html
12-03-2021||Pune||Fastag effectiveness in question as long delays reported at toll plaza||On March 15, 2021, it will be one month since the Fastag electronic payment system was made mandatory at toll plazas across the country. Since it was a long weekend, the Khed Shivapur toll plaza saw a heavy rush on Thursday as it was a holiday due to Mahashivratri. Most of the people have made a four-day holiday plan and even on Friday, there were long queues of vehicles seen at the toll plaza. Unfortunately, the public had to suffer frustration on Thursday morning, as only half of the counters were open at the Toll Naka as there were no operators at half of the counters. Vivek Velankar, president of Sajag Nagarik Manch said, “As there was a heavy rush of vehicles to go towards Satara from Pune, there should have been better management at the toll plaza. However, the opposite was seen, and complete mismanagement of the toll booth administration. There were operators at only half of the counters and the remaining counter lanes were closed on Thursday morning, due to which long queues of vehicles were there. The Central government has made the Fastag system for speedy movement at toll nakas but due to this mismanagement public had to suffer,” On Friday, there were operators at all counters, but compared to Thursday there was a lesser rush. However, the rush and long queues return on weekends. Commuters have demanded better efficiency in service. Tushar Jawalkar a traveller said, “I have Fastag installed in my vehicle but if the toll booth management is not proper and we have to wait for 10 to 15 minutes in the queue then it needs to be changed. Today it took us 10 minutes to pass through the toll naka.” Suhas Chitnis, Pune project director of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said, “We have received the complaint of having fewer operators on Thursday morning. Accordingly, a notice has been given to the toll administration and a clarification has been sought.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fastag-effectiveness-in-question-as-long-delays-reported-at-toll-plaza-101615566459088.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for making another person take exam on his behalf||A 35-year-old man who obtained his MBBS degree from Tajikistan was arrested here for allegedly making another person sit for an examination that would have made him eligible to practise in India, police said on Monday.The accused has been identified as Manohar Singh, a resident of Rajasthan's Pali district, they said.Singh had registered himself for a Foreign Medical Graduates Examination (FMGE) conducted by the National Board of Examinations (NBE), an autonomous body under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the police said.This is a licentiate examination for Indians or overseas citizens of India who have completed primary medical qualification from other countries, they said.The last FMGE screening test was conducted on December 4, 2020 and Singh was allotted a test centre at Mathura Road, the police said.The result of the accused was frozen due to a mismatch between the photo on the application form and the one taken on the exam day. He was called for the verification of the face ID on February 3 but he did not turn up, they said."On Wednesday, Singh visited the NBE for the face ID verification. When the team verified the face ID with the photo taken on the exam day, it did not match," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said.Later, he answered a question incorrectly, which aroused suspicion and he was taken to the police station, the officer said.Singh was arrested and his admit card, MBBS degree and application form were seized, Meena said.During interrogation, the accused told the police that he obtained his MBBS degree from Tajikistan and was trying to clear the FMGE for the last six years, the police said.He met a doctor who offered to take the exam in his place for ₹4 lakh and assured him that he would clear it. The doctor appeared for the exam in Singh's place on December 4, 2020, they said.Efforts are being made to trace the co-accused, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-held-for-making-another-person-take-exam-on-his-behalf-101615561292180.html
12-03-2021||Pune||AICTE’s PCM optional for tech education gets mixed reactions||In an important development made in the admission process of undergraduate engineering courses, the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the technical education regulator has made physics, chemistry, and mathematics, optional for Class 12 students to be eligible for the programme. Kuldeep Ambekar, president of Students Helping Hand organisation said, “The decision taken by AICTE seems right initially, but in order to move forward in the career, these subjects are very important for engineering students to sustain in the open race. Also, the new education policy talks about various new initiatives and comparisons with world-class education. Students need to get such education which can boost their future growth and job opportunities. From the last few years, engineering admissions and seat vacancy has been high, some of the colleges have even shut down. So, this decision might be taken due to it, but most students will now get a chance to go for engineering courses.” This new update was announced in the AICTE handbook 2021-22 released yesterday whereas now students willing to take admission for Bachelor of Engineering (B.E) or Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech) courses need to pass 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship. In the handbook released by the AICTE, it is stated that, “The universities will offer suitable bridge courses such as mathematics, physics, engineering drawing for students coming from diverse backgrounds to achieve learning outcomes of the programme.” Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman of AICTE said, “We have expanded the number of subjects and given choice to students who are willing to take admission for engineering courses. So, from the next academic year, students can choose three subjects from different disciplines. Though we have made changes in the criteria, an aspirant student of engineering will require maths and physics knowledge while pursuing the course.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aictes-pcm-optional-for-tech-education-gets-mixed-reactions-101615565739039.html
12-03-2021||Pune||26 illegal mobile network boosters seized||The Faraskhana police seized a total of 26 mobile network boosters and deactivated 27 by cutting feeder joints during a raid. A total of nine notices were served in the Faraskhana police jurisdiction recently. The action was taken following complaints by Wireless Monitoring Organization (WMO), Department of Telecom (DoT) along with a joint team from the local administration and mobile operators, which raided the peth areas of the city where the raiding team took down illegal mobile signal repeaters installed in homes, shops, and other commercial establishments. The Wireless Monitoring Organization (WMO), Department of Telecom (DoT) along with a joint team from the district administration and mobile operators raided the peth areas of Pune under the direction of IES (Indian Engineering Service) officer Amit Gautam, of DoT along with Gajendra Mewara, Rishabh Acharya, and RN Lahadke attached to WMO, DoT. According to the police, action was also taken against individuals who installed them. Amit Gautam, said, “We have maintained a sustained drive against illegal boosters and in 2020 removed approximately 500 of them. We have also conducted awareness campaigns against illegal boosters which lead to call drops and lowering of mobile network connectivity. We started 2021 on a strong note and have already acted against 580 such devices in the first quarter of the current year. We advise people not to use any illegal repeaters as they are not only legally correct, but morally I believe the prolonged influence of such radiation beyond permissible level might cause health issues, research is still going on regarding the effect of radiation on health and installing a mobile signal booster is like installing a mobile tower on the head that radiates multiple times higher than what BTS tower radiates. Further, these devices are disrupting mobile networks to a greater extent.” Illegal mobile signal repeaters have become a major nuisance and are one of the biggest reasons for customers facing network issues like call drops and low data speeds. These illegal repeaters are installed by individuals, establishments at homes, offices, PG guest houses to boost mobile signals. This illegal equipment interferes with all mobile networks, impact signal quality and degrades network experience in the entire area. Mobile operators invest heavily in the acquisition of spectrum and network rollout to enhance the customer experience; however, illegal boosters cause interference with the mobile network. Authorities were called to crack down on these installations and take strict action. Box According to the Wireless Monitoring Organisation (WMO) of DoT, installation, possession, or selling of illegal repeater is a punishable offence as per the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 and Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. Heavy fines may be imposed on owners of several premises who have installed these illegal repeaters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/26-illegal-mobile-network-boosters-seized-101615565619057.html
12-03-2021||Pune||Cheating case registered against city jewellers||The Kothrud police have lodged a cheating case against Pune’s prominent Marathe jewellers for allegedly cheating a customer to the tune of ₹1.05 crores. Shubhangi Kute (59), a resident of Kothrud in her complaint with the police stated that the shop management in 2017 urged her to invest with them and promised that her investments would be protected. Accordingly, she invested ₹37.80 lakh but did not receive any returns as promised and was cheated by the jewellers. Her relative from Solapur invested ₹25 lakh with the accused and they too were cheated. The total amount of cheating has been estimated to be worth ₹1.05 crore, the FIR stated. Milind Marathe shot himself in the head in December 2020. He passed away on December 27 in hospital. His son Pranav in a statement to the police stated that his father took the extreme step as he was deep in financial trouble. The police have invoked IPC 420 (cheating), IPC 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant, or agent), IPC 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 34 (Common intention) against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cheating-case-registered-against-city-jewellers-101615565439065.html
12-03-2021||Pune||BJP MLC, 25 others booked for blocking LBS road||The Vishrambaug police have arrested BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar and 25 others in connection with blocking Lalbahadur Shastri road for eight hours during the students’ protest after the state government postponed the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams in the wake of rising Covid-19 infections in the state. The incident sparked off protests across major cities in the state of Maharashtra. Vishrambaug police station in-charge Vijay Tikole said that Padalkar and others were booked, arrested, and later released on bail in connection with the protests. The police initially tried to convince the protestors to leave the site but later resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protesting crowds. The accused have been booked for Covid-19 violations, unlawful assembly, and blocking public roads, police said. Following massive protests from students and criticism from opposition parties led by the BJP over canceling the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exam, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday announced that the new date for the exam will be announced on Friday and it will be held within eight days of March 14th. Accordingly, the state government announced March 21st as the fresh date for the MPSC exams. The MPSC state service exam will be held for selection to government posts like assistant state tax commissioner, deputy chief executive officer, assistant commissioner, project officer, deputy education officer in the Maharashtra education department, deputy superintendent inland record, deputy superintendent in state excise, naib tahsildar and other posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-mlc-25-others-booked-for-blocking-lbs-road-101615565319051.html
12-03-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru's civic body mulls Covid-19 testing in malls, marriage halls||Senior officials of Bengaluru's civic body, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), on Friday suggested that the agency should take up Covid-19 testing in crowded places like markets, malls, schools, colleges and marriage halls among other areas to check the rise of cases in the country's IT hub.“Testing should be organised at crowded and marketplaces,” said a statement by the civic body, detailing the discussions taken up in a meeting held by the BBMP commissioner and other senior officials over the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city.“Dr Giridhar Babu (co-chairman of BBMP’s Covid-19 task force) said it would be helpful if the BBMP issues orders regarding testing at malls, RWA’s, schools/colleges, marriage halls etc,” the statement read.The officials deliberated that businesses in the city were functioning in full capacity and that it was a time when there were a higher number of marriages and other religious events which makes it more important to take effective measures to contain the spread of the virus.Also read: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa gets Covid-19 vaccinationThe BBMP also acknowledged some of the lapses in contact-tracing and data collection among other areas which it said it needed to fix to check the rise of Covid-19 cases.Bengaluru has seen a sharp spike in virus cases and has accounted for over 500 of the total 833 positives confirmed cases on Thursday. Five more people succumbed to Covid- 19, taking the death toll to 12,386 across Karnataka, the daily bulletin of the state health department stated.The state government has banned late-night parties and other events that attract large crowds in what appears to be a relapse of lockdown-like restrictions in Bengaluru.“Special commissioner (health, BBMP) mentioned that over the past 10 days our contact tracing has dropped and has directed all teams to increase the numbers to at least 15 contacts per positive case,” the BBMP said in a statement.“It is noted that incomplete details are collected by testing teams, even though address, pin code and mobile number are mandatory, it is not followed diligently,” it added.The lapses and renewed measures to contain the growing number of cases come at a time when Bengaluru has seen a rise in new Covid-19 vases as people continue to move about freely, attending events with large crowds without any safety precautions like wearing masks or maintaining physical distancing.Bengaluru is now among the top 10 most impacted districts in the country with 6,008 active cases of Covid-19 out of the total 8,114 across the state, sparking fears of a possible second wave of infection.The BBMP on Friday identified another Covid-19 cluster in the city at the Government Medical and Engineering College where seven persons have tested positive out of the 158 who have been screened for the virus.“All seven positive cases are traced, counselled and shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, Jayanagar,” the BBMP said. The civic body added that the index patient had been moved to Victoria Hospital on March 8. The BBMP has instructed others in the hostel to follow safety protocols and alert authorities if they develop any symptoms and also that there would be a mandatory repeat testing in seven days.Karnataka is aiming to increase its daily vaccination count to contain the surge.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday was vaccinated along with state health minister K Sudhakar.A total of 1270,782 people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 across Karnataka, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengalurus-civic-body-mulls-covid-19-testing-in-malls-marriage-halls-101615564229867.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, night curfew imposed in Punjab’s Mohali||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Friday imposed night curfew in Mohali district, which will come into force at midnight and remain effective from 11pm to 5am till further orders.The development came on the day the district recorded a steep spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths, with 194 people testing positive and four succumbing to the virus. In view of the surge in infection across Punjab, night curfew has already been imposed in Doaba belt, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur, besides Patiala and Ludhiana districts. It was also imposed in the neighbouring Fatehgarh Sahib district on Friday.“From March 12 night, movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited. However, essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and planes will be permitted,” stated the order, adding that industrial establishments, construction activities and municipal services are also exempted during the night curfew. No separate permission will be required by the industries and other establishments for their operations. All employees will be allowed without any requirement of a pass during the night shifts. 492 cases, 7 deaths in 3 daysThe district has seen a steep surge in infections this month, with 492 cases and seven deaths in the past three days. While there were 840 cases in February, the number has reached 1,216 just 12 days into March, already a spike of 45%. In January, 1,291 cases had surfaced. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 803 (66%) reported this month so far. Also, 13 fatalities have been reported this month, as compared to 20 in February and 25 in January. The death toll stands at 398.Meanwhile, the number of active cases has shot up from 636 on March 1 to 1,179 on March 12 and recovery rate has dropped from 95% to 92.7% in the same period.The total number of cases has climbed up to 21,531, of which 19,954 have been cured, including 165 discharged on Friday.Strict implementationThe deputy commissioner has also directed all officials concerned to ensure strict implementation of the restrictions on social gatherings. While a maximum of 100 people are allowed at indoor venues, up to 200 can attend outdoor events. All officials were told to ensure that citizens comply with various directives of the central and state government on Covid appropriate behaviour, such as social distancing and wearing of face masks, regulate crowds at markets and public transport, and impose penalties on violators.“We have increased sampling in the district, which will help in early detection and prevention of the spread,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, on action being taken to curb the surge. She also urged people to take all precautions and shun complacency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-night-curfew-imposed-in-punjab-s-mohali-101615562319424.html
12-03-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee’s iconic blue-white Hawaiian slippers need some rest too||The blue and white Hawaiian slippers, a common man’s footwear, that Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee virtually turned into a political symbol during her long political journey, may leave her company for a few days in poll-bound Bengal.As preparations were made for Banerjee’s release from Kolkata’s SSKM hospital, doctors advised her to wear orthopaedic slippers for a few days till her left ankle, which suffered an injury in Nandigram, the chief minister’s electoral battleground in East Midnapore district, gets healed.A senior TMC leader, who talked to the doctors on Friday, told HT that since Banerjee’s left foot has to be kept protected by ankle-supporting braces she will not be able to wear the Hawaiian slippers or ‘chappals’ in which she has covered thousands of kilometres. In Bengali, slippers are called ‘choti.’“Although an ardent walker, Banerjee never wore any other footwear, even during her trips abroad. I wonder how long she will listen to the advice of the doctors. The blue and white rubber chappals are part of her identity,” the TMC leader said on condition of anonymity.Also read: BJP leaders meet EC, demand probe over 'attack on Mamata BanerjeePolitical songs and slogans have been written on her chappals. The most interesting line in these slogans and songs was “Delhi jabe Hawaii choti,” (the Hawaiian chappals will go to Delhi). It became extremely popular on the eve of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the Trinamool Congress (TMC) was hoping to emerge on the top of all national parties.TMC leaders used to say that Banerjee might become the prime minister. The polls results however upset their plans. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ended second in the race, winning 18 of the state 42 seats. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 to 22.Walking became Banerjee’s passion ever since her blood sugar level shot up a few years ago. She not only uses a treadmill at home every day but walks briskly during her visits to the districts. Since blue and white are her favourite colours, the chief minister does not wear slippers of any other shade. All government buildings in Bengal are painted blue and white. Common people are also offered a rebate on the tax on their properties if these are painted in these two shades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-s-iconic-blue-white-hawaiian-slippers-need-some-rest-too-101615561452957.html
12-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cabinet expansion seeks regional balance between Kumaon and Garhwal||The cabinet expansion by the newly-appointed Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat is seen as an act of balancing the regional equation in state politics by inducting two legislators each from Garhwal and Kumaon regions and increasing the representations of the districts from five to eight.The new cabinet inductees include Swami Yateeswaranand from Haridwar and Ganesh Joshi from Mussoorie in Dehradun in Garhwal region.From Kumaon region, the new cabinet inductees include Vishan Singh Chuphal from Didihat in Pithoragarh and Bansidhar Bhagat from Kaladungi in Nainital.In the earlier eight-member cabinet, five MLAs were from Garhwal, while three hailed from Kumaon.There were eight ministers in the previous cabinet, of which one, Madan Kaushik, was appointed state BJP president on Friday. The other seven ministers of the previous government, who have been retained, include three from Pauri Garhwal, and two from US Nagar districts.Also read: Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat gets new cabinet with 4 new facesIn the new eleven-member cabinet, there is a difference of just one minister between Kumaon and Garhwal, while in the previous council there was a difference of two ministers between the two regions.In the previous cabinet, five ministers were from Garhwal and three from Kumaon. This time, six ministers are from Garhwal and five from Kumaon. When it comes to hilly and plain areas, six are from hill districts and five from plain districts.There were also expectations that the cabinet would have one more woman minister besides Rekha Arya. Sources said Ritu Khanduri from Yamkeshwar in Pauri Garhwal, whose name was making rounds for inclusion in the cabinet, could not find a place for herself as there were already three ministers from Pauri Garhwal and her inclusion would have offset the regional dynamics.The cabinet expansion has given more representation to districts this time. Trivendra Singh Rawat's government had only five districts that were represented in the cabinet including three from Pauri district. This time around, eight of the thirteen districts have found representation in the cabinet.Anoop Nautiyal, who analysed the two cabinets, said that he was hoping that women representation in the cabinet would increase to at least two. “But that has not happened. But I am happy that representations of the districts have increased from five to eight in the new cabinet,” he said.Historian and political analyst Shekhar Pathak said Uttarakhand politics is dominated by regional dynamics and whichever party comes to power, they have to strike a balance between the two regions. “As the state has thirteen districts, the balance can never be 100 per cent. But despite all challenges, whether it is rebellion or under-representation of one or more districts, at the regional level it is their political compulsion to strike a balance. Otherwise, it can have repercussions in the election results,” he said.The ministers who hail from Kumaon in the new cabinet include Bansidhar Bhagat from Kaladhungi in Nanital, Vishan Singh Chuphal from Didihat in Pithoragarh district,Rekha Arya from Someshwar in Almora, Yashpal Arya from Bajpur in US Nagar and Arvind Pandey from Gadarpur in US Nagar.Ministers who hail from Garhwal in the new cabinet include Satpal Maharaj from Chaubattakhal in Pauri Garhwal, Subodh Uniyal from Narendranagar in Tehri Garhwal district, Dhan Singh Rawat from Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal, Harak Singh Rawat from Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal and Satpal Maharaj from Chaubattakhal in Pauri Garhwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cabinet-expansion-seeks-regional-balance-between-kumaon-and-garhwal-101615559130297.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's positivity rate far lower than in Maharashtra, Kerala: Satyendar Jain||Amid a sudden spike in daily Covid-19 cases in the city, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday the positivity rate in Delhi is still less than one per cent, "much lower" compared to the figures in Maharashtra and Kerala, and asserted that the city government was on a "full vigil" to combat the pandemic.Delhi on Friday recorded 431 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in nearly two months, while the positivity rate increased to 0.60 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.The city recorded over 400 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday. The count on Thursday was 409.Interacting with reporters outside the House of the Delhi Assembly, Jain said the figures of over 400 per day suddenly were "not alarming"."The positivity rate in Delhi in November was about 15 per cent. It came down to less than five per cent first and then to less that one per cent, and for the last two months, it is still below 1 per cent, which is much lower than what is being recorded in cities in Maharashtra and Kerala," he said.He said there is a "stark difference" in the number of cases reported in Delhi and states like Maharashtra and Kerala, adding that the positivity rate recorded in Maharashtra is "about 10 per cent", while in the national capital it is hovering around 0.5 per cent.Maharashtra has been recording a substantial rise in coronavirus cases of late, with authorities attributing it to crowding witnessed during the gram panchayat elections held in mid-January this year and a widespread disregard for the norms by common people as well as politicians.The state on Thursday recorded 14,317 fresh Covid-19 cases, which is not only the highest so far in 2021, but also since October 7 last year. The overall case count till Thursday night was 22,66,374.Jain said, "We are fully prepared and on full vigil", adding that over 70,000-80,000 tests are being conducted a day.With 431 new coronavirus cases, the infection tally in Delhi has risen to 6,42,870, according to the latest health bulletin.The number of active cases of the disease in Delhi increased to 2,093 on Friday from 2,020 on Thursday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.60 from 0.59 per cent the previous day.Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now".The total number of tests conducted on Thursday stood at 72,031, including 46,135 RT-PCR tests and 25,896 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said."We are quite alert, tests are being being conducted on a large scale. We are well within the cut-off mark, and are on the safer side, concerning the positivity rate. Delhi alone is conducting Covid tests, five times that of what is being conducted in all of India," Jain was quoted as saying in a statement issued later by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-positivity-rate-far-lower-than-in-maharashtra-kerala-satyendar-jain-101615559108193.html
12-03-2021||Pune||Pune police book eight under MCOCA||Pune: As part of the crackdown on organised crime syndicates, the Samartha police have booked gangsters Suraj Thombare, Somnath Gaikwad and six of their associates under the stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act,1999 (MCOCA). The duo was members of the Andekar gang led by jailed gangster Suryakant alias Bandu Andekar. A day before, the city police arrested Andekar along with eleven others under the MCOCA Act. The city police claimed that the action took place following instructions from Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. According to the Samartha police, Thombare and Gaikwad, members of rival gangs, were carrying out armed attacks against each other to establish their supremacy in Nana peth locality. Thombare’s henchmen attacked a youth with chopper accusing him for providing information to Andekar gang in Nana peth on January 23. The youth survived the attack and lodged a complaint against Thombare and his gang. According to the complaint, before leaving the spot, the gang members shouted that Thombare would be the new boss of the area soon. The accused booked have been identified as Kanifnath Vinod Mahapure (23), Rajesh Mangesh Kalbhor (22), Akash Mangesh Saswade, Suraj Thombare (gang leader), Omkar Gajanan Kudale (21), Shubham Deepak Pawale, Narsingh Bhima Mane and Somnath Sayaji Gaikwad. Pawale and Gaikwad carry police record, police officials said. A proposal on booking criminals under MCOCA was moved by Samarth police station incharge Vishnu Tamhane and sent to DCP (Zone I ) Priyanka Narnavare. The proposal was later forwarded to additional commissioner (West) Sanjay Shinde who passed the order to the effect. ACP (Faraskhana) Satish Govekar has been appointed as the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-book-eight-under-mcoca-101615558659363.html
12-03-2021||Pune||Pawar: MPSC handled exam issue poorly, regret inconvenience to students||After the fiasco of the postponement of the state civil service prelim exam and the outrage of the aspirants, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar admitted that the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) handled the situation poorly and expressed regret for the inconvenience caused to the candidates. He also said that there should be no more politics on this issue and students should focus on the study as the new exam date has been declared. “In my opinion, the MPSC handled this issue poorly. The commission should have handled this situation more appropriately, however, the CM has clarified, and a new date of the prelim exam has been declared. Whatever happened was unfortunate, students should not have felt a need to come out on the roads. Yesterday’s decision caused students to suffer. As the deputy chief minister of the state, I regret the inconvenience caused to the students,” Ajit Pawar said while talking to the reporters at Council hall in Pune. Pawar also insisted on not fuelling this issue anymore as appropriate clarification has been given by the chief minister. “The chief minister took cognisance of this matter immediately and reassured the aspirants. This issue should not be politicised further,” Pawar said. The state civil service preliminary exam was scheduled for March 14th but on Thursday, the MPSC announced the postponement of the examination due to the spread of Covid infection throughout the state. This was the fifth time the examination was postponed. The announcement caused widespread outrage among state civil service aspirants throughout the state, and they staged protests in major cities such as Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati. Following this backlash, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the state late on Thursday, and a revised examination date was declared on Friday. The state civil service preliminary examination now will be conducted on March 21st, later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pawar-mpsc-handled-exam-issue-poorly-regret-inconvenience-to-students-101615557699292.html
12-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat gets new cabinet with 4 new faces||The suspense on the new cabinet of chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat ended on Friday after eleven of his party MLAs took oath as ministers in his government at Governor House on Friday evening.Among the ministers, four are new faces including Vishen Singh Chuphal, Bansidhar Bhagat, Ganesh Joshi and Swami Yatishwaranand. The remaining are from the previous cabinet including Subodh Uniyal, Satpal Maharaj, Arvind Pandey, Dhan Singh Rawat, Rekha Arya, Harak Singh Rawat and Yashpal Arya. Only Madan Kaushik has not been repeated as he was appointed the new state president on Friday.Among the new faces, Bansidhar Bhagat, who is party MLA from Kaladhungi, had served as BJP state president before Kaushik. He is likely to be the deputy chief minister, a position that has been created for the first time in the history of Uttarakhand.Also read: Uttarakhand Congress - BJP changed CM’s face, no change in graft, unemploymentAccording to party insiders, he had been given a prominent position in the government as a "compensation for the state president post."Among other prominent new faces in the cabinet, Chuphal's inclusion had been an attempt by the party to pacify him as he had expressed his resentment against the working of previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat before the Central leadership. An MLA from Didihat constituency, Chuphal had also reportedly written a letter to the party Central leadership during the recently concluded budget session in the state assembly in Gairsain along with thirteen other party MLAs. He, along with other ministers, had threatened to tender their resignation if Trivendra Singh Rawat is not replaced. It was this incident that reportedly triggered the politician crisis in the BJP.Another new face, MLA from Haridwar rural, Yatishwaranand, is believed to have been rewarded for his feat of defeating former CM Harish Rawat of Congress in the 2017 assembly elections. His inclusion is also important as the party had to have a representation from Haridwar after Kaushik, who also hails from the region, was appointed the new party chief in the state.The fourth MLA in the cabinet is three-time BJP MLA from Mussoorie, Ganesh Joshi. Considered a "public leader" in his area, Joshi is believed to have been rewarded for his loyalty to the party.Political experts, however, have described the new cabinet as an act of balance by the newly-appointed CM on caste and region equations along with pacifying the "rebel MLAs."Political expert, MM Semwal, said, "the new cabinet has six ministers from the Garhwal region while five are from Kumaon. Those from Garhwal include MLAs like Satpal Maharaj, Subodh Uniyal, Harak Singh Rawat, Dhan Singh Rawat, Ganesh Joshi and Swami Yatishwaranand while Yashpal Arya, Rekha Arya, Arvind Pandey, Vishan Singh Chuphal and Bansidhar Bhagat come from Kumaon."Semwal added, "by including Chuphal, the party leadership seems to have finally doused the fire of rebellion."Meanwhile, the Congress has termed the new cabinet a mere "eyewash" to cover up the government's "failures."Party state president Pritam Singh said, "The new cabinet will make no difference for the BJP with a year left for the next state assembly elections in 2022.""If they are thinking that changing the CM and having a new cabinet will help them in the elections then they are wrong because the public has already made up their mind to show them the door in 2022," said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-gets-new-cabinet-with-4-new-faces-101615556123875.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out at garment factory in Delhi's Okhla||A fire broke out at a garment factory in southeast Delhi's Okhla Phase 1 on Friday evening, a Delhi Fire Service official said.No injuries have been reported in the incident so far, he said.The Fire Department said it received a call about the blaze at 4.20 pm, following which 15 fire tenders were pressed into service.Fire-fighting operations are underway, the official said, adding that the cause of blaze is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-garment-factory-in-delhi-s-okhla-101615554992346.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Slight dip in Himachal’s night temperatures after snow, rain||There was a slight dip in night temperature in the lower hills of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday after snowfall in higher reaches of the state and rainfall in the plains. “There was no appreciable change in the minimum and maximum temperature in the state. The night temperatures were 2-3°C above normal,” said Shimla meteorological department (MeT) director Manmohan Singh. The night temperature increased in the higher reaches while there was slight dip in lower hills. The higher reaches, including Pangi and Rohtang, experienced snowfall on Thursday night while the middle hills experience rainfall. “The Met department has forecast inclement weather till March 14. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains in north-western parts of India from Saturday,” said Singh. “A yellow weather warning has been issued for thunderstorm, lightening and hailstorm in seven districts of the state including Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra, Hamirpur, Kullu, Mandi and Shimla,” said the MeT department director, adding that the weather will clear on March 15. Keylong coldest Keylong, the administrative headquarters of the tribal district of Lahul-Spiti, was the coldest place in the state with night temperatures dipping 2.9°C below freezing point. Kalpa recorded a night temperature of 1.4°C. The state Capital recorded a low of 8.6°C — a slight dip of 1°C on Thursday. Manali recorded a temperature of 5.4°C, Dharamshala 9°C, Palampur 9.7°C, Dalhousie 6.1°C and Kufri 5.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slight-dip-in-himachal-s-night-temperatures-after-snow-rain-101615554519331.html
12-03-2021||Other||Suvidha Centre staffer hangs himself at Ludhiana’s mini-secretariat||A 35-year-old assistant engineer ended his life by hanging himself at the Suvidha Centre on the mini-secretariat premises on Thursday night.According to police, the deceased, who hailed from Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, had returned from a wedding at Nurmahal in Jalandhar district minutes before he took the extreme step.Before hanging himself from the ceiling fan in the centre’s store room, he called up his colleague, who lived with him on the centre’s premises. However, he had already hanged himself by the time the colleague rushed to rescue him. He was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him dead.On being informed, the Division Number 5 police sent the body to the civil hospital for autopsy and informed the deceased’s family members.No suicide note was found near the body or in his room. Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 5 police station, said the deceased was working as an assistant engineer with a private company hired on contract at the Suvidha Centre. He lived with his two colleagues in a room inside the centre.“He told his colleagues that he was upset for several days, however they do not know the reason. Moreover, no suicide note has been recovered. His family members are on their way to Ludhiana. Police will take appropriate action after recording their statements,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suvidha-centre-staffer-hangs-himself-at-ludhiana-s-minisecretariat-101615554399329.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||'We dream of hosting 2048 Olympics': Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said it is his government's dream to host the 2048 Olympics, adding that he would approach the Central government and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for it."It is our dream to host the 2048 Olympics. We will go to all sports bodies, the Indian Olympic Association and the Centre for it. The Delhi government will take initiative but all have to come together for it. I am sure our dream will come true," Kejriwal said in the Delhi assembly.Earlier this week, Kejriwal said that the national capital will bid to be the host of the Olympics in 2048, adding that a vision has been provided for the same in the Delhi budget."A vision has been provided in the Budget that 2048 Olympic games should be held in Delhi. Delhi will bid for the 2048 Olympics. We will take up whatever infrastructure and other necessities that are needed to be created for it," he said.On Tuesday, Sisodia had said that with the aim of 2048 Olympics, the Delhi government will build adequate infrastructure and create an atmosphere where sports flourishes. While presenting the 2021-22 budget for the state, Sisodia said, “There is another big dream related to sports which I am placing before this house… It is a dream to organise the Olympic Games in Delhi.”Sisodia said that the Olympic torch has never come to Delhi since the Games began in Athens, Greece, in 1896. “The 32nd Olympic Games are to be held in Tokyo. The next three host cities have also been decided. Our government aims to bring the sports facilities and the atmosphere towards sports competitions to such a level through the new Sports University that we can apply to host the 39th Olympic sports competitions for 2048,” he added.“This may seem far away, but we have to bid for it 10 years before 2048. And before that, it will take 15 years to build adequate infrastructure, create an atmosphere where sports flourishes and bring our players to a level where they bring medals in sports competitions leading to Olympics 2048,” Sisodia said.Sisodia further said that the sports university will also initiate its activities this year. Delhi hosted the first Asian Games in 1951, and later the 1982 edition. In 2010, the national capital had hosted the Commonwealth Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/we-dream-of-hosting-2048-olympics-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101615552859439.html
12-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa gets Covid-19 vaccination||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday was administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital.The 78-year-old chief minister was inoculated as part of the drive in the state that has so far vaccinated over 11.84 lakh people including over 2.55 lakh above the age of 45 with comorbidities and those above 60 years of age.Yediyurappa, like many other senior political leaders in the state and country, had tested positive for the virus in August and spent around eight days in a private hospital in Bengaluru.Several of his family members and official staff who were in contact with him had also tested positive.Also read: ‘Warning signs for another spike’ - Caution, vaccines key, say expertsWith hesitancy still a factor, Karnataka's vaccination drive has not been able to achieve the desired target. The vaccine coverage in Bengaluru is one of the lowest in the state. The state government has also sought permissions from the Centre to inoculate eminent personalities, including film stars, sportsmen, politicians, jurists and even journalists, to help remove any concerns of safety over the vaccine.The state government has targeted to increase the vaccination numbers after a surge in new virus cases was reported in the state. Bengaluru, Karnataka's growth engine, is among the top 10 most impacted Covid-19 districts in the country with 5,825 active cases of Covid-19 at present.Bengaluru accounts for the biggest chunk of Karnataka's 7,831 active cases. It also accounts for 4,514 deaths so far out of the total 12,381 Covid-19 fatalities across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-gets-covid-19-vaccination-101615552462693.html
12-03-2021||Other||Applications invited for Punjab Skills Competition||The state government has invited applications for the “Punjab Skills Competition 2021” to be held in Ludhiana from April 5 to 7.Winners at the district and zone level will represent the state at the “National Skills Competition 2021”, which will open gates to the “46th WorldSkills Competition 2022” to be held at Shanghai, China in October 2022. In Ludhiana, the competition will be held at five locations – Chamber of Industrial And Commercial Undertaking (CICU), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), NIIFT and Central Took Room at Focal Point. Besides, a training partner – Bal Tarang – will also share space for the competition.Additional deputy commissioner (Development) Sandeep Kumar said youths interested in the competition can register themselves on the website of Punjab Skill Development Mission at psdm.gov.in/worldskills.php.He said candidates can participate in 44 trades such as bricklaying, cabinet making, carpentry, landscape gardening, painting and decorating, plumbing and heating, refrigeration and air conditioning, CNC milling and turning, car painting, electronics, print media technology, jewellery, bakery, cooking, beauty therapy, health and social care, wall and floor tiling, graphic design technology and web design, among others. Complete list of the trades is available on the Punjab Skill Development Mission’s web portal.Anyone born on or after January 1, 1999, can participate in any of the skills mentioned, with the exception to aircraft maintenance, manufacturing team challenge and mechatronics, cloud computing, cyber security and water technology and IT network cabling, where the candidate should have been born on or after January 1, 1996. Mobile robotics, cyber security, landscape gardening, concrete construction work and mechatronics are team skill competitions, where a team of two individuals is required for the competition.Kumar exhorted youths to take part in the competition and showcase their skills and talent to the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/applications-invited-for-punjab-skills-competition-101615551759068.html
12-03-2021||City||Kamal Haasan to go head on with BJP, Congress in Coimbatore South||Actor-turned politician and chief ministerial candidate for Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), Kamal Haasan will contest from Coimbatore South constituency in Tamil Nadu. He will face lock horns with the BJP and Congress as the Dravidian majors AIADMK and DMK have allotted the Coimbatore South constituency to their respective allies but their candidates are yet to be released.“Coimbatore is a place close to my heart,” Haasan said at a press conference Friday in the city while releasing the party’s second list of candidates. Coimbatore, which falls in the western region of Tamil Nadu popularly known as the ‘Kongu belt’, is an AIADMK’s citadel. The BJP also enjoys considerable support from the business communities in this region. Quoting a proverb in Tamil that if Kongu region flourishes, everything else would flourish, Haasan said that “It is sad that it has become a corrupt place now. I plan on changing that.”The MNM was floated in 2018 as an alternative to the Dravidian majors of DMK and AIADMK and built its party with former bureaucrats and activists on an anti-corruption poll plank. The party debuted in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but didn’t win any seat and managed to register a 3.7 per cent vote share. The MNM received much of their support from the urban pockets of Chennai and Coimbatore. R Mahendran contested the Coimbatore Lok Sabha seat in 2019 and came in third after the winning CPI (M) candidate and runner-up BJP in the constituency. He will contest from Singanallur constituency in Coimbatore district this time. In the 2016 assembly elections Coimbatore South was won by AIADMK’s Amman K Arjunan, Congress’ Mayura Jayakumar was the runner-up and BJP’s national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan came in third. Arjunan's supporters protested against the AIADMK handing over the seat to the BJP.Also read: I have worked, says deputy CM Panneerselvan as he files nominationFormer IAS officer Santhosh Babu, who had earlier been named as the Vilivakkam candidate, has now been fielded from Velachery. Actor Sripriya will be fielded from Mylapore where she will face former DGP and sitting AIADMK MLA R Nataraj. Former MLA Pazha Karuppaiah, who was previously with the DMK and AIADMK, will be contesting as an MNM candidate from T Nagar. The mentioned constituencies are all in urban Chennai.In Haasan’s first list of 71 candidates released on Wednesday, some of the key names included late former President Abdul Kalam’s scientific advisor V Ponraj who will be fielded from Anna Nagar, and environment activist Padmapriya from Maduravoyal. Social worker Sneha Mohandoss from Saidapet will have to take on veteran former mayors AIADMK’s Saidai Duraisamy and DMK’s M Subramanian.The MNM will contest 154 seats, the party announced late Monday night and allotted 40 seats each to its alliance partners, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK), led by actor R Sarathkumar, and Indhiya Jananayaga (IJK). The two parties recently walked out of the AIADMK and DMK alliance respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kamal-haasan-to-contest-from-coimbatore-south-against-bjp-congress-101615550542216.html
12-03-2021||Patna||Patna firm offering fake data operator’s job for ₹60,000 in cash, busted||Bihar police busted a Patna-based fake jobs racket, which cheated hundreds of unemployed youths in the name of providing them a job with Bihar police, said police officials.Director and coordinator of one Nisam Services Private Limited, Patna, was arrested and electronic gadgets, documents, along with ₹40,000 in cash, seized during a raid on the firm’s western Boring Canal Road office, Kaimur superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar, said on Friday.The company issued online advertisements seeking applications for contractual posts of Data Entry Operator in police stations of the state.At least 400 youth from all over the state applied in response. They were made to give a typing test and go through an interview at the Patna office of the company on March 5.All the aspirants were declared passed and given appointment letters with the condition that they will have to pay ₹60,000 in cash before joining.The director of the firm assured the aspirants that the firm had been franchised by Bihar State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (BELTRON) for the recruitment exercise. All the aspirants, including 25 from Kaimur district, were given fake appointment letters and called repeatedly to deposit the money failing which, their purported appointments were to stand cancelled.One of the aspirants, Ranjan Kumar Pathak of Tetiha village under Belaon police station of Kaimur district, informed the SP on March 9, sensing something amiss.Kaimur SP formed a joint team of IT experts and police officers under additional SP Anant Kumar Ray, who examined the facts, found the allegations to be prima facie true and started investigation.Also Read: Bihar granting taxation powers to gram panchayats from next fiscalThe police team from Kaimur, on Thursday raided the Patna office of the company and arrested the director and coordinator. The so-called director was identified as Sikandar Kumar Singh of Kalyanpur village under Sonepur police station limits of Saran district and the coordinator was identified as one Rajesh Kumar of Lariya village under Mohania police station of Kaimur district.A laptop, printer, desktop, Wi-Fi connections, ATM cards, ₹40,000 in cash (taken from aspirants), fake official seal and stamps, pads, fake appointment letters, and other related documents, were recovered from the office, SP Kumar said.A case has been filed against the director, coordinator and their unknown associates with Bhabua police station for forgery, cheating and online crime under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and concerned sections of the Information Technology Act.Police team was interrogating the arrested accused for information about their associates, victims and the money earned illegally. Police were also trying to locate the victims, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-firm-offering-fake-data-operator-s-job-for-rs-60-000-in-cash-busted-101615551086119.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP govt neglecting Dharamshala: Cong secy||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former minister Sudhir Sharma on Friday slammed the state government for neglecting Dharamshala and said the ‘BJP would pay a price for it in the municipal corporation elections’.“The chief minister had dedicated and laid foundation stones of projects worth crores but why was this done so close to the municipal polls and not earlier?” Sharma asked. Sharma, who represented Dharamshala assembly constituency in the previous government, asked why had the wheel of development started moving reverse in Dharamshala after 2017. “There was a minister from Dharamshala but why was the constituency deprived of its due then? The BJP in Dharamshala is like an empty vessel that makes much noise.” “Whatever development has taken place or is ongoing in the Dharamshala assembly segment or municipal corporation is due to the efforts of the previous Congress government,” he said, alleging that the BJP had been indifferent towards the Dharamshala legislative assembly from the beginning.He demanded that the BJP-led government tell the public about the status of the IT Park, Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) campus, state football academy, and Dharamshala bus terminal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-govt-neglecting-dharamshala-cong-secy-101615550919093.html
12-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress: BJP changed CM’s face, no change in graft, unemployment||The Uttarakhand Congress president Pritam Singh accused the BJP led state government of doing “nothing” on issues like corruption and unemployment and just changing the chief minister's face at party’s state headquarters in Dehradun on Friday.The Congress attack comes two days after Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the new CM of the state replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat and on the day when the new cabinet was formed."When the BJP came to power in 2017, it had made many tall claims including zero tolerance to corruption, job creation, curbing price rise and others. But in four years of its rule so far, it did nothing," Singh alleged."Instead, the corruption is rampant to such an extent that the high court had to order an FIR and CBI probe against previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Also, the unemployment rate in the state has touched all time high with skyrocketing fuel prices making the life of common man extremely difficult," said Singh.The Congress state president also alleged that the BJP government did nothing for the welfare of farmers in the state."The government had promised loan waiver for all farmers of the state before coming to power in 2017, but till date, not a single farm loan has been waived off. Instead, it has pushed the farmers to protest on roads against the three black farm laws introduced by the Centre. But Congress will always stand behind the farmers," said Singh.Singh also took a jibe at the BJP for changing the CM with one year left for assembly elections, saying, "The BJP was habitual of taking down elected governments of other parties in states. In Uttarakhand, it was their own government, but despite that they took it down to maintain their habit of taking down elected governments"He also claimed that the new CM’s appointment will, however, have “no effect” on the 2022 election results, which he said will be the end of BJP’s “misrule".Also Read: Akhilesh Yadav predicts a repeat of Uttarakhand in Uttar Pradesh ahead of pollsThe BJP shot back saying the Congress was frustrated because it had long been rejected by the public."The CM has been changed because the previous CM, Trivendra Singh Rawat, would be given a more important role in the organisation. As far as development works are concerned, our government has been doing it in all sectors, which Congress failed to do during its rule," said BJP state media in-charge, Manveer Singh Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-congress-bjp-changed-cm-s-face-no-change-in-graft-unemployment-101615549117157.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai couple in 80s gets 10 yrs in prison for sexually abusing 4-yr-old||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court in Mumbai on Thursday sentenced a couple in their 80s to 10-year rigorous imprisonment for sexually abusing a four-year-old girl in 2013. It also asked the couple to pay ₹50,000 compensation to the girl.Special judge Rekha N Pandhare said the couple of the child’s grandparents’ age, who lived in the same building, was supposed to take care of her but instead abused her. In her police statement in 2013, the girl said the couple, now aged 87, and 81, whom she addressed as dada and dadi, stopped her while she was returning home and made her sit on a swing. She said the dada slapped her while the dadi held her tight. She said the dada then disrobed her and inserted his fingers into her private parts. The girl said when she tried to run away, the dada spat on her and left her before letting her go home.Seven witnesses were examined during the trial that began in 2017 when the accused were out on bail. The court relied on the girl’s testimony recorded almost after four years after the complaint was filed.Also Read | Try 16+ as adults in POCSO cases: PanelDinesh Tiwari, the couple’s lawyer, said they have moved the Bombay high court against the conviction, saying personal enmity prompted the girl’s family to file the case against them. He added the prosecution failed to examine crucial independent witnesses.Vidya Kasle, a former public prosecutor, said in general criminal law, it is the prosecution that has to prove a case and put-up evidence against the accused in the court. “...under [the] POCSO [Act], the burden of proof is on the accused [and] has to prove innocence before the court.”Prakash Salsingekar, a lawyer, said under the POCSO Act, the presumption is the accused has committed the act unless they prove their innocence. “The testimony of the victim is given a prime importance unless its credibility is questioned and proved otherwise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-couple-in-80s-gets-10-yrs-in-prison-for-sexually-abusing-4yrold-101615549419017.html
12-03-2021||City||Goa opposition rejoices as govt asked to redo municipal reservations||Opposition parties in Goa have welcomed the Supreme Court verdict which dismissed the Goa government's appeal on the municipal poll process, claiming a moral victory against the ruling BJP government ahead of the municipal polls.The apex court, in a judgement delivered on Friday, dismissed the Goa government’s petitions challenging the orders of the Bombay High Court at Goa which had quashed and set aside the reservations for municipal polls as notified by the state government.The top court also ordered the Goa State Election Commissioner to step down from his post ruling that the posts of the State Election Commissioner should be ‘independent’. In Goa’s case, law secretary Choka Ram Garg was given an additional charge as the State Election Commissioner.The opposition has claimed a moral victory calling the Supreme Court judgement “a complete slap and indictment of the government led by Pramod Sawant in Goa.”Also read: Goa beach’s Blue Flag certification in limbo as court stays Central notificationSpeaking to media persons, Advocate Carlos Alvares Ferreira, who represents some of the original petitioners before the High Court, said, “the SC has straightforwardly dismissed the appeals filed by the state government. The SC has found that there was clear machination done by the SC in trying to manipulate the entire constitutional machinery and override constitutional provisions,” Ferreira, who is also a Congress leader, said.The case originated when the Director of Municipal Administration (DMA), who is in charge of notifying which seats in Municipal Councils are to be reserved for candidates from vulnerable categories like women, STs, SCs and OBCs, issued a notification.In the notification, the DMA ‘rounded off' the number of seats to be reserved for women to the lower integer that emerged when the total number of seats was sought to be divided into three. For example, in the Mapusa Municipal Council, of the 20 seats only six were reserved for women (30 per cent) when the constitution mandated that “no less than” 33 per cent be reserved for women which meant that at least seven seats should have been reserved. A similar case was witnessed in several other of the 11 municipal councils going to the polls.The matter was promptly challenged before the Bombay High Court at Goa and even while the hearings were underway, the State Election Commission notified the poll process and proceeded to take a stance before the High Court that now that the poll process was underway, the Courts should follow precedent laid down and not interfere in the ongoing process since legal remedies can always be sought after the polls were concluded.The unimpressed High Court, however, quashed the notification concerning five municipal councils and asked the Goa government to issue fresh notifications this time ensuring that the seats were adequately reserved for various categories asking that the poll process be pushed forward by ten days.The Goa government promptly approached the Supreme Court appealing against the HC orders and secured an interim stay, which prompted the Goa CM to prematurely declare victory claiming ‘democracy has been restored.’“Hon. Supreme Court has stayed the High Court’s order cancelling elections to five municipalities and consequent order of the State Election Commission keeping the election process in abeyance. Matter to come up for final hearing on Tuesday. Now, the democratic process has been restored!” Sawant had tweeted.With the Supreme Court now dismissing the government’s petitions, it’s not the opposition turn to rejoice.“The Highest Court of the land has crushed @DrPramodPSawant’s blatant attempt to violate our constitution and derail democracy; He’s brought disgrace not only to Goa but also to his own leader @narendramodi who had bowed before the Constitution before taking office in 2019,” leader of Goa Forward Party, Vijai Sardesai, said in a tweet.“The pat on the back @DrPramodPSawant expected has come as a slap on the face. @goacm is now a certified cheat. He defied [the] Indian Constitution and strangled democracy; and got caught. It’s no more about resigning as @goacm, he has no moral right to remain in public life,” Sardesai said in another tweet.“The CM is illegal, he is not worthy of the chair. Uttarakhand has changed a CM, maybe they will change him too. After the SC order, the CM should not be sitting in the chair for a single minute. Strictures have been passed against the Goa government. The minister (for urban development) should also be sacked. The officer who supported this harakiri should be acted against,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.The judgement leaves the State Election Commission to now re-do the election process, barring those who were elected ‘unopposed’ in several wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-opposition-rejoices-as-govt-asked-to-redo-municipal-reservations-101615548789860.html
12-03-2021||Bangalore||Arjuna awardee Aditi Ashok: Growing up in Bengaluru, you can play golf all year!||Think of golf and one is usually reminded of ace players such as Jeev Milkha Singh and Jyoti Randhawa. But when it comes to the young guns taking up this game of patience, there’s one name that has been shining bright in the last few years, and that is Bengaluru-based 22-year-old Aditi Ashok! Carrying the baton of women golfers in the country, Ashok started learning golf when she was five, and is today the only Indian golfer to have played in the Asian Youth Games, Youth Olympic Games and Asian Games. Presently in the USA, competing at the coveted LPGA tournament, after the pandemic hit last year, she says, “The pandemic was hard for me because golf is an outdoor sport and there is only so much you can do indoors. It took some time to get back into the groove but I’m happy with where my game is trending right now.” Ask her how it feels to get back on the turf amid safety concerns and the golfer replies, “I’m excited to get back into the competition! I guess this is the new normal so we have to get used to all the restrictions and protocols but I’m glad that we have tournaments to play.” The year 2020 was a tough one for most sportspersons, and sporting events including the Olympics got pushed to 2021. But, what made things brighter for Ashok was being conferred with the Arjuna Award. “It was a great honour and achievement for me. The recognition for golf and women’s golf in particular was also great to see,” she says, opining how her achievement at the national level will inspire more women to take up the sport: “I think it can definitely help young girls in India believe that they can also make it (golf) a career and compete on the world stage.” Ashok, who has been in the spotlight since she won a professional event as a 13-year-old amateur, credits her parents for letting her foray into golf and develop interest in the sport. “My parents and I started learning golf at the same time, when I was five and a half years old. It was just a weekend activity that we could do as a family, but I really liked it and wanted to learn and play more,” she recalls, adding, “While growing up, I was definitely one of the handful of girls playing in most tournaments, but never thought of it as a sport for men. I enjoyed it so much that it never bothered me most of the time,” she says. Though she doesn’t get to be in her hometown most of the year, due to tournaments across the globe, yet Ashok thanks Bengaluru for contributing to her successful career in the sport. “Growing up in Bengaluru was great for me because here you can play golf all round the year, and the weather is perfect,” she exclaims. Ask if she could choose to spend time at a particular place in the city, and Ashok says her choice is predictable but honest: “It would definitely be the Bangalore Golf Club because I’ve grown up practising and playing there, and it’s the oldest golf course outside the British Isles so it’s got some history too!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/arjuna-awardee-aditi-ashok-growing-up-in-bengaluru-you-can-play-golf-all-year-101615548399626.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Year after escape, Amritsar jailbreak main accused is back behind bars||More than a year after he escaped from the Amritsar Central Prison, police have arrested Vishal Kumar, the main accused. Vishal had escaped from the high-security jail along with two undertrials on February 1 last year. While two escapees, Jarnail Singh of Hansanwala village in Tarn Taran and his brother Gurpreet Singh, were arrested a week after the jailbreak, Vishal, who belongs to Majitha road in Amritsar, had been absconding. He is accused of raping a minor. Addressing a press conference on Friday, deputy commissioner of police (DCP-detective) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, who supervised the operation of arresting the accused, said, “A team of inspector Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge excise staff, acted on a tip-off about the presence of Vishal at new grain market in Ambala city. Without delay, the team reached there and arrested him on Thursday.” “Vishal is being questioned in detail. We want to know who helped him escape, who funded him and gave him shelter,” he said. Vishal was an undertrial in the case registered at Chheharta police station in 2019. The other two escapees are notorious criminals who are booked in five cases each of robbery and snatching. Those who sheltered them were also arrested. The three had escaped by removing bricks of their barrack and then scaling the inner and outer walls of the jail. Both the brothers had planned to escape earlier too and made four other inmates part of the plan. However, they did not implement it as one of the inmates was shifted to Faridkot jail. The new plan was made in September 2019, in which Vishal was also involved. On February 3, the police arrested two wardens and a home guard jawan deployed at the prison in connection with the February 1 jailbreak. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had ordered a magisterial inquiry into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-after-escape-amritsar-jailbreak-main-accused-is-back-behind-bars-101615548038937.html
12-03-2021||Pune||BJP bats for SIT or CBI probe in Pune woman's death||Maharashtra BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh on Friday demanded that the probe in the Puja Chavan death case be handed over to an SIT or the CBI.Puja Chavan (23), a resident of Beed district, was found dead in Pune on February 8, allegedly after falling off the building in which she lived in Hadapsar. The BJP had earlier alleged former minister Sanjay Rathod's role in the death, following which he resigned.Speaking to reporters here, the BJP leader said Rathod's resignation was never the target."We have filed a PIL in the Bombay High Court in the case. We have demanded that an offence be registered and a special investigation team (SIT) be formed or the probe be handed over to the CBI," Wagh said.When asked about the police summoning a local BJP corporator in connection with the case, the party leader said, "The party does not have anything to do with the incident. Corporator Dhanraj Ghogare helped the woman. If the government is investigating him, should we stop helping people?"Wagh further spoke about an incident in Latur, where a woman, who was seeking her deceased father's government job on compassionate grounds, was harassed by an official from the social welfare department.The official had allegedly demanded sexual favours in exchange, the BJP leader said, adding that the government should take action against such officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-bats-for-sit-or-cbi-probe-in-pune-woman-s-death-101615543631860.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM presents ₹1.55 lakh crore budget with focus on health, agriculture||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday presented a ₹1.55-lakh crore budget for the 2021-22 fiscal, with health, agriculture and infrastructure identified as priority areas. Presenting the budget estimates, which have no fresh tax proposals, Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, proposed a budget of ₹1,55,645 crore for FY 2021-22, an increase of 13% over FY 2020-21 of ₹1,37,738 crore. The budget outlay comprises 25% as capital expenditure of ₹38,718 crore and 75% as revenue expenditure of ₹1,16,927 crore. As compared to the revised estimates of 2020-21, the budget estimates for 2021-22 indicates an increase of ₹10,084 crore in revenue expenditure. As per 2021-22 budget estimates, the revenue deficit is estimated to be at ₹29,193 crore (3.29% of the GSDP) as compared to ₹20,856 crore revenue deficit in the current fiscal. The debt liability is likely to go up to ₹2,29,976 crore as on March 2022 from ₹1,99,823 crore as on March 2021, constituting 25.92% of the GSDP. Khattar said that the Covid-19 pandemic posed unprecedented challenges and “taught us several lessons”. “It is important for the budget to prioritise specific sectors that are key to leverage a rebound in the economy, particularly in times of crisis. We have identified health, agriculture and infrastructure as key priority areas that we need to focus recovery and resurgence,” he said. Announces Antyodaya scheme for state Khattar said the Parivar Pehchan Patra initiative will go a long way in improving the ease of living of citizens by targeting paperless, faceless service delivery to citizens. It will help in achieving citizen convenience and good governance. “Our strategy for the implementation is guided by principles of Antyodaya – of serving and uplifting the last person first,” he told the House and announced the launch of a new scheme – the Mukhyamantri Antyodya Parivar Utthan Abhiyan. The scheme will draw verified data from the Parivar Pehchan Patra and identify the poorest 1 lakh families in Haryana. The package of measures from education, skill development, wage employment, self-employmentand job creation will be adopted and tailored to each family to ensure their economic uplift so as to reach a minimum economic threshold of ₹1.8 lakh per annum. Once the one lakh families are successfully uplifted, the government will identify the next lot of poorest 1 lakh families and work for their economic uplift, he said. The drive will be an umbrella mission encompassing all government schemes to identify the scheme or set of schemes to supplement the uplift of each identified family. Each department will prioritise schemes implemented by them for the uplift of the identified poorest families. “By 2025 if we are together in implementing the Abhiyan, I hope to see no family in the state living below the poverty,” he said. Reiterates commitment to doubling farmers’ income Khattar said that his government needs to continue assistance to farmers for paving the way for Haryana’s economic growth. An outlay of ₹6,110 crore has been proposed for 2021-22, of which ₹2,998 crore is earmarked for agriculture and farmers’ welfare, ₹489 crore for horticulture, ₹1,225 crore for animal husbandry & dairying, ₹125 crore for fisheries and ₹1,274 crore for cooperation. The outlay of ₹6,110 crore for 2021-22 indicates an increase of 20.9 per cent against the 2020-21 fiscal’s ₹5,052 crore. He said the government is committed to doubling farmers’ income. “We are indebted to our farmers, whose toil and hard work has made Haryana the food bowl of the country. Agriculture is the mainstay of our economy. We are committed to doubling farmer’s income and ensuring his/her wellbeing,” he said.  ₹700 crore for tech-based learning Khattar allocated ₹700 crore for promoting technology-based learning in all government schools, including provision of digital tablets and digital classrooms. The chief minister said the government is considering bringing a policy for performance-indexing of the municipal bodies to create a positive atmosphere of healthy competition among these bodies. The state government will award the incentive to such municipalities that achieve the performance level fixed in the Municipal Performance Index. Panchkula, Hisar to be smart, inclusive cities Khattar said the government is developing a global city near Manesar that will be the central business district of the National Capital Region. “Panchkula and Hisar will be developed as smart and inclusive cities,” said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cm-presents-rs-1-55-lakh-crore-budget-with-focus-on-health-agriculture-101615541138712.html
12-03-2021||Bangalore||Zomato to pay medical bills of woman who accused delivery executive of assault||Zomato co-founder Deepinder Goyal on Friday said the company will pay the medical bills of Hitesha Chandranee, who has accused a delivery executive of the food delivery firm of attacking her. He added the company is also taking care of the legal cost of Kamaraj, the executive, who has denied the charges and accused Chandranee of assaulting him.“Right from the get-go, our topmost priority has been to get to the truth. Towards that, we are helping both Hitesha and Kamaraj... with all the support they need while the investigation is pending. We are also assisting the police in whichever way asked. We are in constant touch with Hitesha, covering her medical expenses, and helping her with the proceedings,” Goyal said in a statement posted on Twitter.“We are also in constant touch with Kamaraj, extending all possible support to make sure both sides of the story come to light and that due process is followed in the spirit of fairness.”Goyal cited their protocol and added Zomato temporarily suspended Kamaraj from active deliveries but is covering his earnings in the interim as police investigate the case.“Also, for the record...Kamaraj has made 5,000 deliveries for us so far and has a 4.75/5-star rating on our platform (which is one of the highest) and has been working with us for 26 months now (these are facts, not opinions, or inferences),” said the statement.Also Read | Woman shares video about altercation with delivery man, Zomato repliesChandranee posted a video on social media on Wednesday alleging Kamaraj assaulted her following an argument over a delay in delivery. She accused Kamaraj of barging into her house, verbal abuse, and punching her.“He started screaming at me, saying ‘Am I a slave or what? You are asking me to wait here.’ It was really threatening for me. I tried to shut my door, but he pushed the door, took my order from the table by entering my home, punched me in my face, and ran away,” she said.Kamaraj told HT on Thursday that Chandranee attacked him first. He said when he went to deliver the food, she on a call with Zomato customer care, and cancelled the order. “Since the order was cancelled, I was asked to pick up the food to return. When I was asked for the parcel back, she refused. As I insisted and took the food back, she began cursing in foul language and threw her sandals at me.” He said she then physically assaulted him. “As she was hitting me, I tried to block [her] using my hands. When she tried to push my hand away, a ring on her finger hit her nose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/zomato-to-pay-medical-bills-of-woman-who-accused-delivery-executive-of-assault-101615537718859.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Mobile, suspected to be used for threat calls, seized from Tihar||A phone suspected to have been used for operating Telegram Channels to claim responsibility for terror acts and issue threats has been recovered from the Tihar prison, where some terror convicts are lodged, the Delhi police said on Friday. The seizure was made on the information from the Delhi police’s Special Cell and Anti-terror Squad.“It is suspected that this phone has been used for operating Telegram Channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts /threats. Further investigation and forensic analysis will be done after the mobile handset and details of the seizure are received from Tihar Jail authorities,” deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said in a statement.The police did not specify the threats or the acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mobile-suspected-to-be-used-for-threat-calls-seized-from-tihar-101615537298522.html
12-03-2021||Other||#slamdunk Can pressure-cooker environment contribute positively to basketball development? – Part 1||The competitive world of professional sports requires all players to possess cut-throat instincts, elite mental focus and the ability to make decisions in split seconds with vast amounts of information. In the NBA, players who carry franchises, such as LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Giannis Antetokounmpo possess a huge degree of responsibility, both on and off the basketball court, as ambassadors of their franchises and the entire league. The history of players in the NBA is littered with prodigious talents like Kobe Bryant playing basketball since the age of three, or challenging grown men playing professionally at age 10. On the other hand, it is well chronicled that Basketball Hall of Famers like Hakeem Olajuwon did not start playing the sport until well into their teenage years, at age 15 or 16. This begs the question: how and why does elite talent develop in different environments? What are the key ingredients necessary for success at the highest competitive levels of the sport?In our societies, with increased notoriety, resources and financial gain available in a sport like basketball, it leads to a greater level of competitive basketball at earlier ages. It is not uncommon in a highly competitive environment to therefore, take a short-term approach to talent development for immediate success. At younger levels of basketball in America, coaches design and implement game strategies to control games in the interest of winning at all costs; rather than the focus being on an individual player’s long-term development, they focus is on winning the game by any means necessary. Psychologically, this could benefit a young player’s mental focus, competitive desire and tenacity with which they approach every game. The other side of this approach is that the creativity and development opportunities for all the players who aren’t as talented or physically gifted at a young age is curbed and drastically limited. For example, if the goal of a team is to have the best team of 11-year-old youth basketball players, the players who are more physically developed and have hit an early growth spurt will likely get the most playing time and developmental opportunities. Other players might get minimal time, or get told to focus on simply one task in a game, such as rebounding, which limits their ability to develop skills like shooting. While there are benefits to the “survival of the fittest” approach of developing talent, it always begs the question, are younger athletes mentally developed enough to handle the rigors of such a competitive cauldron at early ages? Or will it result in mental burnout and unrealised potential? We can find examples throughout basketball history of highly touted young prospects such as Lenny Cooke. Cooke touched extreme heights as teenage high school basketball player, once being rated a better basketball prospect than LeBron James. However, these early successes were a mirage as he was unable to sustain his success, with external pressures and factors preventing him from ever being drafted in the NBA. More recently, NBA players such as LaMelo Ball are proving that prodigious talent does have a chance to succeed under this microscope, particularly when creativity is not stifled and is allowed to express itself. It is obvious that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to talent development.In the second part of this series we will focus on how the long-term approach to youth talent development has manifested itself in producing great NBA basketball players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slamdunk-can-pressure-cooker-environment-contribute-positively-to-basketball-development-part-1-101615535197919.html
12-03-2021||Patna||Atulya Ganga team reaches Bihar for river cleanliness||The Mundama Ganga Parikrama (MGP), an initiative by ex-servicemen for river cleanliness and plantation drive under phase II of Atulya Ganga clean mission, reached Patna on Thursday .With an integrated mission and slogan of ‘Sabka Saath Ho, Ganga Saaf Ho’, the MGP team kicked off an arduous 6,000km walkathon on December 16 to spread awareness about clean rivers and the need to let them flow naturally. The team aims to complete its journey in three phases in eight months.During the phase II of the walkathon, the MGP team carried out cleanliness and plantation drive at NIT ghat in the capital city with the help of national cadet corps (NCC) and local volunteers.The team also met the environment minister along with other ministers and pollution experts for discussing cleanliness initiatives. Bihar environment minister Niraj Singh spoke about the 4-crore sapling plantation carried out under Jal-Jeevan-Haryali initiative last year.“Breaking our own record, we aim to plant more than 5 crore plants this year”, he said, promising that the department will plant 30 plants each month to extend its support to the cause.MGP’s member, retired colonel Mike said that their team will head towards Bhojpur- Buxar on Friday to reach Gomukh by May 21, which is their final destination for the second phase of the cleanliness drive.Also Read: Bihar granting taxation powers to gram panchayats from next fiscalHe said that the team is working towards synergising all efforts including those by the government, non-government organisations, corporates, volunteers and common public for rejuvenating Ganga.Major General M Indrabalan, ADG of NCC Bihar & Jharkhand, is spearheading the youth participation in the programme and its support in Bihar.MGP team will walk on foot clockwise, circumnavigating the length of Ganga, covering both its banks. Besides walking and creating awareness among the masses along the way, the MGP team members are also mapping the pollution levels in Ganga every 5-10 kms and geo-tagging every source of pollution, flowing into Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/atulya-ganga-team-reaches-bihar-for-river-cleanliness-101615531514601.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze transferred out of Crime Branch to Mumbai Police CFC||Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze has been transferred from crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch to Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of Mumbai police.Vaze is facing allegations in connection with the suspicious death of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran after a Mahindra Scorpio in Hiran’s possession was found parked near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening letter.A senior IPS officer confirmed the development and said, “The CFC is located within the Mumbai Police headquarters, on the ground floor of the new building, and the unit handles grievances of citizens and various licenses issued by Mumbai Police and other public-related services.”Also Read | Vaze row: Shiv Sena slams Opposition ruckus in legislatureThe process of the transfer started after leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised the issue of Hiran’s suspicious death in the state assembly. He alleged that Vaze had used the same Scorpio found near Ambani’s house months before the incident, and sought Vaze’s arrest. Home minister Anil Deshmukh then announced the officer’s transfer in the legislative council on Wednesday. A day after the Scorpio was found parked on Carmichael Road, Deshmukh released a video statement stating that the Mumbai crime branch would investigate the case. Vaze, who was heading the crime intelligence unit, took the lead in the investigation. The Scorpio was traced to 48-year-old Hiran, a Thane resident, who had reported the car stolen on February 18. Hiran was called in for questioning by several agencies and he said that he had registered a complaint that the SUV was stolen under the jurisdiction of Vikhroli police station between the night of February 17 and February 18. On March 4, Hiran died in mysterious circumstances: his body washed up on a creek in Thane district, his mouth stuffed with handkerchiefs and covered with a scarf, and all his personal belongings, including his ring, chain and wrist watch, missing from the body. Three days later, Hiran’s wife, Vimla (43), gave a statement to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad investigating team that she was certain Hiran had been murdered, and she suspected Vaze had a hand in it. Her statement revealed that Hiran knew Vaze well, and that he had lent him the Scorpio in question in November. Vaze returned the car on February 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-transferred-out-of-crime-branch-to-mumbai-police-cfc-101615530158483.html
12-03-2021||Bangalore||City matters: Need significant change in way we plan Bengaluru||Recently, Bengaluru jumped over fifty places to be ranked the best Indian city on the Ease of Living index in its population category. This ranking by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs was accompanied by its sibling, the Municipal Performance (MP) Index in which the city did not make it to any of the top spots. While the latter was both understandable and explainable, the most liveable city tag, while a welcome surprise, was a tad difficult to reason away akin to the umpire’s call. Bengalureans were understandably skeptical and the chief minister (B S Yediyurappa) chose to skip its mention while presenting the budget. Self-proclaimed urban experts like this writer were scrambling around to make sense of the ranking.While there are many parameters underlying the index, the primary reasons for the high ranking possibly stems from the Citizen Perception Survey (30%) and Economic Ability (15%). While the latter has always been a city’s strength, it is clear that the one silver lining from the pandemic year was citizens feeling better about a city that they experienced less! Given the technological nature of the city’s workforce, it was a natural fit for the shift to the Work from Home (WFH) paradigm. Many companies had progressive schemes to facilitate WFH – employees had laptops sent to their homes and broadband connection enabled. This coupled with less need for travel saw reduced traffic, Bengaluru’s notorious bugbear, and less visible garbage too, another regular dampener. The multiple excavation sites too were mainly out of sight. All in all, less distress led to relative happiness. Bengaluru saw a steady middle order performance in the other two parameters of Quality of Life (35%) and Sustainability (20%).Also Read | HT Editorial: Shaping India’s urban futureThe problem with being ranked the best is that the only way is down since there are no underlying structural measures that can ensure repeat winning performances. The Municipal Performance index says it all. Bengaluru has chosen to disregard the multiple committee (disclosure – this writer was a member of one of them) recommendations to reform its city governance and administration. There is a need to do a mix of deep decentralization at the ward level and centralization to coordinate across multiple agencies at the city level. It has not happened and neither does there seem to be political will nor administrative appetite to do what is required.More important than the structural reforms, we need a transformative vision for the city. If there is one takeaway from the 2020 pandemic, it is the idea of a ‘bubble’ and the need for compact cities. We need to think in terms of a 5 km city radius where the bulk of ‘live and work’ happens for most Bengalureans. We had the code, but we chose to junk it. The public sector townships like ITI, BEL, HAL, HMT were planned in this manner where the workplace, educational, social infrastructure were all provided for in the neighbourhood. Somewhere in the growth process, we chose to crisscross the city and lost the plot. It is possible to reimagine the city drawing from this relatively ‘ancient’ way of life!Also Read | ‘Choice between smart city and decay’: Minister on Ease of Living Index reportBengaluru no longer has one city centre. Just going overground on the Metro on MG Road sort of killed it. There are multiple city centres around Whitefield, Jayanagar, Malleswaram, etc. The 5 km city has to work for strata of citizens. Our house helps, business workers, street side vendors need to be able to live with dignity within these ‘enclaves’. For that to happen, it is imperative we think in terms of social rental housing, a much-neglected area. We need plan permission policies that enable rental housing for the underprivileged on scale – instruments like Transit Oriented Development, Transferable Development Rights and local retrofit initiatives need to be reoriented to address this need.We need a significant change in the way we plan our city if we need it to be a truly liveable one for decades to come. The current Comprehensive Master Plan route has failed us comprehensively. We ought not to be in denial and be ready to embark on new imaginations of what is desirable and possible. This will require enlightened political leadership and Bengaluru has the civil society eco-system that is happy to partner. Together we can make the change happen.(V. Ravichandar, Civic evangelist, chooses to defer celebrating the most liveable city award.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/city-matters-need-significant-change-in-way-we-plan-bengaluru-101615529198292.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||UP cop humiliated rape survivor’s father before a truck hit, killed him: Family||A police circle officer allegedly humiliated the father of a 13-year-old gang-rape survivor before he died in Kanpur on Wednesday when a truck hit him outside a health centre as his daughter was undergoing a medical examination, their family has said. They have also accused Girish Chandra, the officer, of allegedly harassing and humiliating the girl and getting her locked up in a maternity room of the centre. The son of another police officer and his friends are accused of raping her.The family on Wednesday blamed the accused for the accident and said the police were initially reluctant to file a gang-rape complaint and that they made the survivor undergo medical examination five times.Also Read | Mumbai: Boxing coach arrested for rape of minor studentChandra did not respond to calls and messages for comments.A family member said the man responsible for the father’s death was asked to probe when he needed to be punished. “An uncle of the girl said the circle officer behaved as if he was above the law,” he said. “He abused my brother and niece several times in presence of others,” he said. The family member added Chandra kept sending the girl from one hospital to another for medical examination.“How many times a victim is examined medically? He abused them several times, even at the hospital. He brazenly questioned her character in presence of other policemen who laughed. I was there.”The family member said Chandra took her to a second medical centre and did not allegedly allow the girl and her parents to leave for their village. “He spoke to the medical superintendent and asked for a ward. He was told there is none except for a maternity ward. The mother and the victim were sent inside, and he got the door locked from outside.”He added the father was allegedly taken to a police station. “I do not know what he went through there,” he said.Deputy inspector general Preetinder Singh was unavailable for comments.Police superintendent (Kanpur rural) Brijesh Srivastava did not call back after promising to do so when asked about the allegations against Chandra.Singh earlier suspended three policemen on Thursday citing “gross negligence” in the case after Chandra indicted them even as their role is believed to have been limited to sending the father to hospital after the truck hit him, said people aware of the matter.Dhanesh Prasad, the local station house officer, said: “Why do not you ask the CO [circle officer Chandra]...he was involved in the case at every step. I cannot comment more than this.”The family said after the gang-rape complaint was filed on Tuesday, the accused assaulted the father and were pressuring him to withdraw the case filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. One of the accused also threatened the minor with dire consequences if she reported the sexual assault.“When my brother was coming to the police station, the accused Deepak Yadav and others accosted and assaulted him,” the girl’s uncle said on Wednesday. “They threatened him with dire consequences for pursuing the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cop-humiliated-rape-survivor-s-father-before-a-truck-hit-killed-him-family-101615529018187.html
12-03-2021||Patna||Bihar granting taxation powers to gram panchayats from next fiscal||The gram panchayats in the three-tier rural local bodies system will soon have the power to impose tax for collection of own revenue in Bihar, a move aimed to achieve financial independence for local self government institutions. The state government is giving the final shape to rules for taxation powers to panchayats under the Bihar Panchayati Raj Act, 2006.The gram panchayat, which forms the bottom level of the three-tier rural local bodies, will have the powers to collect taxes from markets, haats (small temporary markets at the village level), commercial use of vehicles in respective gram panchayats such as tractors and trucks and also commercial use of water for any purpose. Besides, tax could be collected by the gram panchayats from transmission towers set up by private and public sector operators, officials said on condition of anonymity.In Bihar, there are a total of 8,386 gram panchayats, which are headed by Mukhiyas. “We are going to give the powers of imposing tax to all gram panchayats for generating their own resources. The rules are being framed and sent to the cabinet for approval. The panchayats would implement the new tax rules from next year after the constitution of new panchayat bodies following elections to the local rural bodies,” said additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department Amrit Lal Meena.The panchayati raj department minister Samrat Choudhary too, informed the state assembly on Wednesday that the rules for giving taxation powers to gram panchayats were under process and will be implemented from the next fiscal year. The government may take a call on giving taxation powers to panchayats samitis and district boards later on, officials said.The issue of taxation powers to the gram panchayats and other rural local bodies has long been pending with successive state finance commissions recommending the same to reduce the rural local bodies’ dependency on grants from the state and Central governments.The fifth state finance commission, for the period 2015-20, in its report, had recommended that state government should put in place rules and procedure in place for collection of property tax by the gram panchayats and also encourage panchayats to develop infrastructure like bus stands, community centres and markets to increase their own revenue. The 14th finance commission also recommended taxation powers to panchayats.Under the Bihar panchayati raj law, gram panchayats have the powers to realize tax and non-tax revenue from holdings, trade, professions, employment as well registration of vehicles not registered under any other law, sanitary arrangements at haats, pilgrimage spots, fairs and public use, water rate, lighting fee etc.Officials said the tax rate for each category, where panchayats can collect tax was being finalised. “The tax rate for different categories would be in various slabs and there would be an upper limit fixed for each slab. The rates are being finalised,” said Meena.Also Read: 960 cartons of liquor seized in UP's Ballia ahead of panchayat pollsRight now, the gram panchayats are dependent on grants and devolutions from the central and state government. Each gram panchayat gets around ₹2 crore as grant and other allocations for implementation of various development works and schemes from the Centre and the state government.Meanwhile, officials said the state government’s implementation of the public financial management system (PFMS) has fixed more accountability on the PRIs-related financial accounting and expenditure as all tied and untied funds allocated to the panchayats have to reflect in the software. Some panchayat representatives have recently expressed annoyance over procedural delay in using development funds. “The use of PFMS has brought in more financial accountability and transparency. There were some delays but efforts are being made to smoothen the processes,” said additional chief secretary, Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-granting-taxation-powers-to-gram-panchayats-from-next-fiscal-101615528267566.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt orders removal of religious construction on roads||The state government has ordered that no religious construction be allowed on roads, lanes, footpaths or along national and state highways. In a communiqué to all divisional commissioners, district magistrates, all police officers, the government has ordered that all such religious constructions made on public property after January 1, 2011 be identified and removed. The communication from the state’s home department also makes it clear for constructions made before January 1, 2011, to be shifted within 6 months in a phased manner to some private property owned by person(s) of that religion. Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav predicts a repeat of Uttarakhand in Uttar Pradesh ahead of pollsThe home department communication to administrative and police officials also made it clear that encroaching public land through such constructions won’t be allowed. Officials tasked with maintenance of roads and national highways have been asked to check such religious constructions on roads and highways. The home department communiqué also made clear that any violation of the order would be taken as contempt of the court and treated accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-orders-removal-of-religious-construction-on-roads-101615528418257.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Mehmood Pracha’s plea on search at his premises: Delhi court order today||A Delhi court on Friday will pronounce its decision on a plea by advocate Mehmood Pracha seeking changes in an earlier order of March 2 permitting the police to search his Nizamuddin east premises in an alleged case of tutoring a witness of the north-east Delhi riots.On Wednesday, chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma had stayed the order till the pendency of Pracha’s plea which had also sought a direction to the police to retrieve only the relevant information from his hard disk in the presence of a magistrate.Pracha, who is representing several accused and victims in the north-east Delhi riots cases, said his office was raided by the city police on Tuesday in connection with an FIR alleging that he tutored a witness to initiate a false riots case.In his application, he said the demand of the investigating agency for the hard disk of his computer was illegal as all the documents were already in the police’s possession from the earlier raid conducted on December 25, 2020.“They want to threaten my clients. That’s their purpose. In the main Delhi riots cases, they say soft copy is equal to hard copy and we would not give hard copy of charge sheet. Here they don’t want a soft copy,” Pracha said.Opposing his plea, the city police said that seizing the original hard disk was essential as it ought to be sent to a forensic science laboratory for examination and that a mirror hard disk can be put into Pracha’s computer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mehmood-pracha-s-plea-on-search-at-his-premises-delhi-court-order-today-101615526078448.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Covid vaccination in full swing, crosses 22-lakh mark||Over 22 lakh doses of Covid 19 vaccines have been given in Uttar Pradesh till now, at an average of 41,665 vaccines administered per day since the inoculation exercise started on January 16, according to the state health department data.While 1,711,376 beneficiaries have received their first dose, 538,549 got their second and final dose too. Among the second dose recipients are 512,107 health workers, who account for 68.1% of the 745,218 health workers who got the first shot. Initially, Uttar Pradesh was vaccinating beneficiaries two days a week, but since the last week, vaccination is being done six-days a week.Total beneficiaries so far include health workers, frontline workers, people above 60 years of age and those with co-morbidity between 45 and 60 years of age. About 9.5 lakh health workers were listed for vaccination and officials said the target was almost achieved. In some cases, certain health workers did not fall in the category of those to be vaccinated due to health conditions.“In certain health conditions, vaccination is not recommended. But not many health workers will be left out from vaccination in the state. We have almost achieved our target,” said a senior health official.Efforts are also going on to increase the vaccination percentage among the elderly. In a recent order, the National Health mission has asked all the chief medical officers in the state to engage accredited social health activists (ASHAs) in the districts to motivate the elderly and those between 45 and 60 years of age with co-morbidity to get vaccinated.Experts said the elderly were showing enthusiasm in getting the vaccine jab and they just needed a smooth process and easy access.Also Read: BJP launches rural-connect drive ahead of UP panchayat polls“The elderly started making queries via phone call even before the vaccination for their category began. They are turning up in good numbers every day. Despite a holiday, 140 of them got the vaccine jab today (at one centre),” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, head of the Aastha Geriatric Centre, one of the private health centres providing vaccination in Lucknow.Over 1,000 elderly took the anti-Covid shot on Thursday against a total count of 1,378 beneficiaries, who reported to the vaccination centres in Lucknow on the day.“The way the elderly are responding to vaccination, we hope to complete our target for March without delay,” said Dr MK Singh, the officer incharge of vaccination in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-covid-vaccination-in-full-swing-crosses-22-lakh-mark-101615525512952.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi traffic affected as curbs continue||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed fully or partially for traffic movement on Friday as farmers continue their protest against the three farm laws.For motorists coming to Delhi from UP, the Ghazipur border remains closed. The Delhi Traffic Police in their advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi -Noida Chilla border is also open for commute on both carriageway.The entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana -- passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh -- continued to remain closed.Also Read | Farmer leader will visit Kolkata, dissuade people from voting for BJPThe traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.The police have also diverted traffic from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws since November 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-affected-as-curbs-continue-101615525298118.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav predicts a repeat of Uttarakhand in Uttar Pradesh ahead of polls||The Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav claimed on Thursday that Uttar Pradesh may see a repeat of the recent developments in Uttarakhand, where the Bharatiya Janata Party replaced its chief minister a year before assembly elections following dissent against his leadership. He also accused UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath of claiming credit for the work done by the SP government in the past."The image of the chief minister taking a selfie on Wednesday has been splashed in newspapers and social media. The project seen in the background is the SP government's project," claimed Akhilesh. Yogi Adityanath took a selfie at a dam project that he inaugurated in Chitrakoot on Wednesday.Akhilesh Yadav’s pot shots at CM Yogi Adityanath came during a press conference in Moradabad, ahead of the bicycle rally he is scheduled to flag off on Friday in the neighbouring Rampur. The SP is taking out the bicycle rally from Rampur to Lucknow in support of party's Rampur MP, Azam Khan, who is currently in jail in connection with the cases filed against him over alleged anomalies in institution and operation of Maulana Jauhar University, Rampur."Even the jobs that the BJP government claimed to have provided were the ones created in the previous government's tenure," Akhilesh said while building on this theme.Taking about the three new Central farm laws, Akhilesh said, “The laws will ruin small, medium farmers and agricultural labourers."Yadav indicated that his party would not ally with his uncle Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) for UP Assembly polls 2022.Also Read: BJP launches rural-connect drive ahead of UP panchayat polls"Samajwadi Party's experience with big political parties has not been good. We will not ally with any big political parties. We will take smaller parties on board," he said, but when asked about Shivpal Yadav and his PSP-L, he quipped, "Yes, indeed his party is small. Samajwadi Party will ally with small parties but not with those that have any BJP link."There was a scuffle involving security staff of Akhilesh Yadav and some local journalists after SP president's press conference (PC) in Moradabad. At least two journalists were reported to have suffered minor injuries in the incident."The incident occurred when some people obstructed the exit after the press conference. The matter was resolved shortly," said superintendent of police (city), Moradabad, Amit Kumar Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-predicts-a-repeat-of-uttarakhand-in-uttar-pradesh-ahead-of-polls-101615524387422.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases since Jan: Key points||Delhi on Thursday reported the highest single-day increase (409) in Covid-19 cases since January 9 and prompted experts to warn of another possible wave of the viral disease. Here is all you need to know about the spike and what it means:• Health experts expressed alarm over the resurgence of infections when most curbs on social movement in the city have been lifted, and people have let their guards down and stopped adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.• A vast majority remains vulnerable to the disease. • Experts also warned about the drop in the testing rate and said the current situation in the Capital appeared akin to what happened in Mumbai and Maharashtra.• Maharashtra saw a rise in cases about two weeks ago and is now in the midst of a full-blown Covid-19 wave.• The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, in the Capital touched 322 on Thursday.• It had dropped to 125 for the week ending February 12, which was the lowest in eight months. Also Read | India’s records 23,285 new Covid-19 infections, active cases up by 8,011• This number has now been rising for 17 days in a row, something that last happened in mid-November last year, before the city brought its third wave of infections under control.• With Thursday’s addition, the total number infections in Delhi stands at 642,439, while three new deaths pushed the death toll to 10,934.• At the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 briefing on Thursday, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul singled out Delhi-National Capital Region and cautioned authorities about letting down their guard. • He said that Delhi, along with Gurugram, Faridabad and to an extent Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad, is seeing a rise in positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-highest-single-day-rise-in-covid-19-cases-since-jan-key-points-101615522777977.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||BJP launches rural-connect drive ahead of UP panchayat polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched the 'gram chaupal' or rural meet programme in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, ahead of the panchayat polls with the focus on listing government’s work including the ongoing crackdown against mafias as proof of the party’s commitment to ensuring rule of law in the state.The week-long initiative will see Central and UP ministers along with party functionaries visit villages to market the ‘achievements’ of the BJP government in the last four years of its rule. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev flagged the issue of action against mafias by the Yogi government prominently during the launch of the programme.“Now bulldozers are demolishing ill-gotten property of mafia elements. The criminals are running scared or are behind bars,” he said, during the launch of the ‘gram chaupal’ campaign at Salempur, Gangaganj.Swatantra Dev, who will be in a village in Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday, also mentioned the ongoing construction work for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, which he said, only became possible due to PM Modi’s stewardship. He also mentioned abrogation of Article 370 among the key achievements of the Centre.Also Read: In run-up to UP polls, several leaders switch loyalties to Samajwadi PartyThe idea for ‘gram chaupal’ was mooted by national BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, during his recent visit to Lucknow. Subsequently, the idea was firmed up during the national BJP chief JP Nadda’s visit to Varanasi. During his visit, Nadda had tasked cadres with popularising the achievements of the Central and the Yogi government in UP.A major focus of the rural-connect exercise will be at countering the opposition against the three contentious farm laws introduced by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-launches-rural-connect-drive-ahead-of-up-panchayat-polls-101615520443860.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||In run-up to UP polls, several leaders switch loyalties to Samajwadi Party||The Samajwadi Party (SP) claims it has the momentum ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as leaders from all other parties are making a beeline to join it. It cites new-inductees from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Trinamool Congress, to buttress it's claim.SP organised March’s first induction ceremony welcoming leaders from other parties at the SP headquarters in Lucknow. Before that, the previous month saw six such occasions, three of them on successive days — February 19, 20, and 21.It started with some BSP veterans joining SP in August 2019, a few months after the collapse of the SP-BSP alliance, following the Lok Sabha poll debacle for the two partners. Former BSP minister Ghura Ram, who had been with the party since its inception in 1984, was the first major leader to switch loyalties to the SP in August 2019. Within a fortnight, 17 BSP leaders from Pratapgarh joined the Akhilesh Yadav-led party. Then, former BSP state president Dayaram Pal and ex-Ballia district chief Mithailal Bharati followed suit. In October 2019, former Mau BSP district president Ashok Gautam crossed over to the SP. Former minister Kamlakant Gautam, who quit the BSP after its poor show in the 2017 assembly polls, merged his Rashtriya Bahujan Utthan Party with the SP this month. Ghura Ram died of Covid-19 in July 2020, but the trend continues.The day after Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati’s 65th birthday, BSP's Meerut mayor Sunita Verma, her husband Yogesh Verma (former BSP MLA from Hastinapur and ex-minister) joined the SP on January 16, along with former BSP MLA from Bareilly Vijay Pal Singh. The other entrants included former BSP MLA from Thakurdwara (Moradabad) Vijay Yadav, former UP minister Awadhesh Verma and former BSP MP from Lakhimpur Dawood Ahmed.Before the Covid induced lockdown, it was only BSP veterans who were joining SP. Post lockdown, other party leaders have also moved to the party."It's quite understandable why the trend emerged and became so prominent. The state is getting into the poll mode. Such times are the best for party-hoppers to switch loyalties, find suitable placements. The trend is in favour of the Samajwadi Party because it is the only party that is looking like a challenger to the ruling BJP. The Congress is not visible beyond one or two of their Delhi leaders. The BSP has been in a steady decline and smaller parties are looking for an ally in the SP," said Professor SK Dwivedi, an expert on political affairs.In October, five-time MP and former Union minister Saleem Sherwani switched over to the SP from the Congress. This happened soon after former Congress MP Anu Tandon and former MP RK Chaudhary joined the SP. Chaudhary, a BSP founder member, had earlier changed sides to the Congress ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.The BJP camp, too, is not untouched by the trend. In January, former BJP MLA from Mirzapur, Ram Bharti and Gorakhpur's RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) pracharak Vineet Shukla, joined the SP. At their induction ceremony, Akhilesh Yadav said: "The trend shows who is going to form the government in 2022. We will continue to embrace people from other parties without discrimination. They are coming to strengthen the party and make SP win the polls."Also Read: UP cop shunted for trampling on rosary, hitting woman vendor’s hand with bootIn the last 12 months, SP has held over two dozen joining ceremonies. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav anchors all such events that are held with much fanfare, accompanied by bands playing outside the Lucknow party headquarters gate.The entire Vikramaditya Marg, where the party office is located, is replete with hoardings of the new entrants. They give mementos such as crowns, photo frames, idols and replicas of the SP symbol bicycle to Yadav who, in turn, hands the SP's red caps to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-run-up-to-up-polls-several-leaders-switch-loyalties-to-samajwadi-party-101615519197576.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Toolkit case: Activist Kar Chaudhari’s pre-arrest bail plea hearing today||A Delhi court will on Friday hear the anticipatory bail plea of climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari in connection with his alleged role in the toolkit case related to the farmers’ protest. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana is likely to hear the plea. Earlier, the Goa bench of Bombay high court had granted him protection from arrest until March 12 so that he can approach the court in Delhi, where an FIR had been registered under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).The same court has already extended interim protection from arrest to Shantanu Muluk and Nikita Jacob till March 15 in the same FIR.Also Read | Nikita, Shantanu, get protection from arrest till March 15Additional session judge Rana had earlier granted regular bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with the formulation and dissemination of the toolkit document in support of the ongoing farmers’ protest. The police registered the case on February 4 for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support to the farmers’ protest in India. They have alleged that the toolkit was created not just by activists but in collaboration with pro-Khalistani organisations.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toolkit-case-activist-kar-chaudhari-s-pre-arrest-bail-plea-hearing-today-101615518517755.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||At 35.2°C, Delhi sees warmest day of the season||The maximum temperature in Delhi touched 35.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, highest for the season so far, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “This rise in temperature was a result of an active western disturbance that was passing over northwest India. Usually, during a WD, the temperature tends to rise.”On Thursday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 35.2 degrees Celsius. This was six degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 17.3 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for the season. Also Read | Delhi receives rain, thundershowers; cools downIMD forecast said that on Saturday and Sunday, the maximum temperature will see a slight decline. However, it will start rising again from Monday. The mercury is expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius for the next three to four days, it said.The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the “poor” category on Thursday. The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 242, according to realtime data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered “poor”, 301-400 “very poor” and 401-500 “severe”, while an AQI above 500 falls in the “severe plus” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-35-2-c-delhi-sees-warmest-day-of-the-season-101615517918018.html
12-03-2021||Lucknow||UP cop shunted for trampling on rosary, hitting woman vendor’s hand with boot||A Uttar Pradesh police head constable was shifted to the reserve police lines after he allegedly trampled the rosary beads sold by a woman vendor and his boot hit her hand in Varanasi, an official said on Thursday.The incident took place along a road in the Dashashwamedh Ghat area of Varanasi, said senior superintendent of police (Varanasi) Amit Pathak on Thursday. The action was taken after a picture of head constable Sudhir Kumar’s alleged act went viral on the social media.Kumar was deployed as the gunner of the station house officer (Dashashwamedh police station) before he was shunted.The SSP said that as soon as the matter came to his knowledge, action was taken against the gunner and he was shifted to the reserve police lines.“Such a fault cannot be tolerated. The cop has been shifted to the reserve police lines,” said the SSP.Also Read: No riots in three years changed UP’s image globally: UP GovtHe added that police personnel had been instructed to behave well with the public. Despite that some police personnel make a mistake, he said.An officer said a probe was being carried out against the gunner and he may have to face suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cop-shunted-for-trampling-on-rosary-hitting-woman-vendor-s-hand-with-boot-101615517436221.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives rain, thundershowers; temperature drops||Parts of Delhi received light rain, thunderstorm and gusty winds on Friday morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that this was forecasted, and was a result of an active western disturbance passing over northwest India.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said starting early Friday, parts of Delhi and NCR will receive rain and thunderstorm along with strong winds.“The forecast was that Delhi was to get light rain, starting Thursday evening, but the possibility now seems that we receive rain from Friday morning. The temperature will also fall by at least three-four degrees Celsius,” Srivastava said.Also Read | Met office predicts erratic weather in Jammu and Kashmir for next weekParts of the national capital had on Wednesday evening received light showers, accompanied by thunderstorm in certain areas. The last time a western disturbance impacted the city in this manner was on February 5 and Met officials said such a prolonged period without a western disturbance was one of the reasons for the higher than normal temperatures in the months of February and March.On Friday, the hourly average air quality index at 7am was 233, in the “poor” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-rain-thundershowers-cools-down-101615517257702.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Days after presenting budget, Punjab FM Manpreet Badal tests positive for Covid-19||Barely four days after presenting the state budget in the Punjab assembly, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, 58, announced that he has tested positive for Covid-19. In a Facebook post shared early on Friday, he said, “I have tested positive for Covid and I will be in quarantine for the coming days.” Also read: 4 charts that show India’s second wave has startedBadal, who had presented the budget on March 8, confirmed that he had got tested before the assembly session and then again immediately after it. “Before the session, I tested negative. After the session, I have tested positive,” he said. The budget session of the Punjab assembly began on March 1 and concluded on March 10. Urging all those who had come in contact with him recently to undergo the coronavirus test, the Bathinda legislator said, “Anyone who has been in contact with me, please for your and your family’s safety, get tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/days-after-presenting-budget-punjab-fm-manpreet-badal-tests-positive-for-covid19-101615517139161.html
12-03-2021||Bhopal||Maharashtra devotees defy ban, walk through forests to reach Shiva temples in MP||A large number of devotees from Maharashtra travelled on foot through forest routes to reach ancient Shiva temples in Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district to worship on the occasion of Maha Shivratri, defying restrictions put in place by the MP government in the light of rising number of Covid cases, said police.The MP state government cancelled all fairs that are organised on the occasion of Maha Shivratri in Pachmarhi due to a spurt in the number of Covid 19 cases. The administration put up barricades and cordoned off the area to stop devotees from Maharashtra, who throng the famous Shiva temples in Hoshangabad district every year on Maha Shivratri. More than 500 additional police personnel were deployed for checking at the border. However, more than 1000 devotees from Maharashtra reached the famous ancient temples of Tilak Mahadev in Itarsi, Bade Mahadev and Jata Shankar in Pachmarhi through Satpura forest via Chhindwara, said Santosh Singh Gour, superintendent of police, Hoshangabad.The SP said most of the devotees, who approached by road in vehicles, were sent back, but devotees, in small groups reached the temples on foot from Nagpur.District administration made the arrangements for their thermal screening and RT PCR tests.Also Read: Gandhi statue damaged by monkeys in MP's Mandsaur, say PoliceHoshangabad sub-divisional magistrate Nitin Tale said, “We apprehended the devotees and asked them to return. However, most of them said someone in their family was ill and they were under oath to worship at the temple for their recovery, failing which, they may suffer. Since, it was a matter of emotions and devotion, a team of police and district administration accompanied such devotees to the temple and later sent them back to Maharashtra in vehicles.”Police and district administration also put barricades in the forest to stop further movement of people on Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/maharashtra-devotees-defy-ban-walk-through-forests-to-reach-shiva-temples-in-mp-101615516369888.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to Punjab, Haryana in case of Hoshiarpur man’s death in police firing||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the governments of Punjab and Haryana as well as the Punjab Police in the case of death of a 40-year-old Hoshiarpur man in police firing in Amritsar district on December 8 last year. The sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) probing the case was also served the notice and the next date of hearing has been fixed on July 12. Inderjit Singh, who was accused of snatching an SUV from a man in Haryana’s Ambala district, was killed in firing by a team of the crime investigation agency (CIA) unit of the Amritsar commissionerate police. The cops had claimed that they opened firing at the tyres of the vehicle after the accused tried to run over them. The victim’s family has filed a petition in the high court seeking a CBI probe into the case, expressing their dissatisfaction over the ongoing inquiry by SDM (Amritsar 1) Vikas Hira, saying it was deliberately being delayed under pressure of senior police officials. The commissionerate team allegedly started the operation without taking the district rural police into the loop as the area falls in the latter’s jurisdiction. “The police team smashed the windshield on the driver’s side and opened direct fire at my brother. They also deleted the CCTV footage of the Manawala toll plaza. Some farmers’ mobile phones wherein they shot videos of the incident were also confiscated by the police,” said victim’s brother Maninder Pal in the petition.  ₹15 lakh cash was given to the wife and two children of his brother as “compensation” by the accused policemen, he claimed. “During the magisterial inquiry, no concrete steps were taken to collect necessary material, information or evidence,” the petition reads. Advocate Sarabjit Singh Verka said, “ ₹15 lakh cash was deposited in the bank accounts of the victim’s family. This is bribe in clear violation of the rules. It’s a very serious issue and should be probed thoroughly.” Also, the SDM enquiring into the death has missed the three-month deadline for probe completion. SDM Vikas Hira had started the probe two days after the death. “The probe could not be completed as we are waiting for some scientific reports related to the case. Also, I got no information from the family about the transaction of ₹15 lakh by the accused,” Hira said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-issues-notice-to-punjab-haryana-in-case-of-hoshiarpur-man-s-death-in-police-firing-101615493855474.html
12-03-2021||Noida||21 test Covid positive in CPWD’s national academy in Ghaziabad||Twenty-one trainees at the central public works department’s (CPWD’s) national academy at Kamala Nehru Nagar in Ghaziabad tested positive for Covid-19 over the past three days, officials of the district’s health department said on Thursday.“Most of them were symptomatic with fever and respiratory infection, among others. One was shifted to our Covid hospital for better observation and one, who is a resident in the campus’ residential block, was allowed home isolation . The rest have been quarantined in the hostel block,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Ghaziabad has only one Covid-19 hospital -- Santosh Medical College in Sector 12.There are 44 others in the batch who tested negative, but were put in quarantine in the hostel block. Gupta said they will be tested again next week.The infected people are all assistant executive engineers (AEE) with the CPWD. They had arrived in November for a year-long training course.“The academy is now a containment zone for 14 days. The patients told us that they frequented three locations outside the academy, two departmental stores in Shastri Nagar and a fruit vendor outside the academy, and we suspect that they may have contracted the infection from there,” said Dr Gupta. He said they had traced the contacts of the patients and they had tested negative.“We are getting people at all three locations tested and all the relevant Covid protocols have been put in place ever since the cases have emerged. There is no need to panic,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.The testing was ordered following reports of fever among the trainees.Confirming the infection, an official CPWD spokesperson from New Delhi said: “The hostel area is sealed, and entry to the campus is restricted. The residential quarters, about 25, are located at some distance from the hostel. Testing of all occupants is being done.”The officials of the academy said that they are in touch with the health department and all required Covid protocols were put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/21-test-covid-positive-in-cpwd-s-national-academy-in-ghaziabad-101615489335489.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||KMSC lifts rail blockade on Amritsar-Delhi route after 169 days||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Thursday lifted the rail blockade on the Amritsar-Delhi route against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws after 169 days. It, however, clarified that the blockade could be resumed, if need arises.The committee had shifted the protest from Devidasspura village to the Jandiala Guru railway station in the district. It started the sit-in on September 24 last year. It had given relaxation to the goods train in November but continued the blockade for passenger trains unlike the other farm organisations which had announced to lift the blockade completely. Committee leader Sawinder Singh Chutala said, “We think the protest at the Delhi borders is gaining momentum by the day. We want to strengthen it. Secondly, the government is not running goods trains on the direct route citing our blockade. This is causing losses to the local traders. Also, the season of wheat harvesting is nearing and the crop needs to be transported.” Despite relaxation for goods trains, the railways did not resume operations of any of the trains through this station and was diverting the route from Beas and the trains reach Amritsar city via Tarn Taran.The sit-in was shifted from the platform to a nearby open ground in November after the agitators allowed the goods train to pass through the track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kmsc-lifts-rail-blockade-on-amritsar-delhi-route-after-169-days-101615493315863.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sizzles at 33.3°C; rain, gusty winds likely on Friday||After record-breaking heat in February, mercury continues to soar in the city, settling at 33.3°C on Thursday, which was six degrees above normal.However, relief is likely on Friday when light to moderate rain is expected.“A western disturbance is active in the region and may bring along rain up to 30mm, along with gusty winds and thunder. The rain will stop on Saturday, but may resume on Sunday due to the same system of western disturbances. Thereafter, maximum temperature may drop below 30°C,” said an official at the India Meteorological Department.Meanwhile, while the day temperature rose from 32.1°C on Wednesday to 33.3°C on Thursday, the night temperature decreased from 19.2°C to 15.2°C. In the next three, the maximum temperature will remain around 29°C, while the minimum temperature will hover around 16°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sizzles-at-33-3-c-rain-gusty-winds-likely-on-friday-101615493135603.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bumps up daily vaccination capacity to 5,000||Ramping up the city’s vaccination campaign, the UT administration has raised the daily inoculation capacity for senior citizens and the comorbid group to 5,000, against 3,200 since March 1.For this, the health department has started vaccination centres at dispensaries in peripheral areas of the city. With this, as many as 19 government centres, with a minimum capacity of 200 each, and 14 private facilities, having a capacity of 1,400 people, will now offer vaccination services.“We are trying to decentralise the system, which is concentrated at main hospitals of the city. We have made arrangements in several dispensaries, which cater to specific areas, so that people don’t have to visit hospitals,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health, Chandigarh.However, utilising the whole capacity remains a challenge for the authorities.“When the daily dose capacity was around 3,000, only half of it was utilised in the first week of the drive. Even now after glitches have been taken care of and process is moving faster, not many people are coming forward,” a senior official of the health department said.Health officials said the response was largely lower from the low-income neighbourhoods of the city and there was a need to spread awareness to encourage residents to get the vaccine.“We have made announcements in areas like Bapu Dham Colony and are pushing for more educational activities in similar areas. We plan to set up more centres near such areas to encourage more people to get the jab. The expansion in network is being done to inoculate as many people as possible,” said Dr Kang said.Chandigarh has inoculated as many as 45,495 people since January 16 when the vaccination drive first started. These include senior citizens, people aged between 45 and 59 and having comorbidities, healthcare workers and frontline workers.In Panchkula, 24,579 people from these target groups have received the vaccine, while the number is 24,568 in Mohali.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur appealed to the senior citizens in the district to come forward for vaccination without any fear. “On-the-spot registration facility is available at seven government health institutes and 27 private centres in the district. Those intending to get the vaccine just need to carry their Aadhaar card,” she said.(With inputs from Mohali and Panchkula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bumps-up-daily-vaccination-capacity-to-5000-101615492959029.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala, Ludhiana put under night curfew as cases surge||Taking into view the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, night curfew has been clamped in Patiala and Ludhiana districts. The curfew will be effective from the night of March 12 from 11 pm to 5 am, read the orders issued by the district magistrates. However, the police and army personnel on duty, government officials/employees, essential services/medical emergency workers, and any other emergency related to the safety of the public/property, would be exempted from the purview of these orders. With 1,309 fresh coronavirus cases, the infection tally rose to 1,93,345 in Punjab on Thursday, while 18 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,996. The entire Doaba belt, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur districts, is already under night curfew. Patiala has witnessed 5% increase in the Covid cases this month. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said there are 791 active cases in the district. This figure is four times higher than the last month, he added. On Thursday, the district recorded 110 positive cases. In Ludhiana, the single-day Covid count crossed the 150-mark after five months on Wednesday. It is for the sixth time in the last 11 days that the city has witnessed over 100 cases in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-ludhiana-put-under-night-curfew-as-cases-surge-101615492957838.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s positivity rate rises to 8%, highest this year||The city’s daily positivity rate jumped to 8% on Thursday with 108 cases surfacing against 1,341 tests.This is the highest the positivity rate has gone so far this year, as even though more cases were recorded on March 6 and March 9, at 122 and 105, respectively, the samples tested were over 1,950.A positivity rate of 5.8% was recorded on March 6, while the figure was slightly lower at 5.6% on March 9.With this, UT’s weekly positivity rate also rose to 5.2%, making it the second-highest in the country after Maharashtra.However, on the bright side, no death was reported on Thursday, keeping the fatalities at 357.City’s case tally stands at 22,697, of which 859 patients are still infected, while 21,481 people have recovered so far.The majority of cases (95) on Thursday were reported from sectors, while 11 were confirmed in Manimajra, Dhanas, Kaimbala and Raipur Khurd. Besides, two cases were from the PGIMER campus.In view of the surge in cases, UT on Wednesday had imposed fresh restrictions to stop the infection spread.For indoor gatherings, only 100 people or 50% of the capacity of the venue, whichever is lower, are allowed. For outdoor gatherings, the cap has been kept at 200 people, which is the same as that imposed by the Punjab government. Besides, primary schools will remain closed for now.149 cases in Mohali for second consecutive day, two deadMohali reported 149 Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count in the past three months, for the second day in a row.Two people also lost the battle to the virus, taking the death toll to 394.The district’s case tally stands at 21,337, of which 1,154 cases are still active and 19,789 patients have recovered. Out of the 149 cases on Thursday, 93 were from Mohali urban, 20 from Dera Bassi, 10 from Kharar, nine from Lalru, seven from Dhakoli, five from Kurali, three from Gharuan and two from Banur.39 test positive in PanchkulaIn Panchkula, 39 people were found positive, which pushed the district’s total cases to 11,194. There are 331 active cases, 10,714 patients have been cured and also 149 have succumbed to the virus till date.Meanwhile, amid the rising cases, a Covid care centre has been made functional at BRS Medical College. “It is an isolation centre, where asymptomatic patients will be admitted in case all hospital beds are occupied,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Dr Kaur said a meeting was held with the deputy commissioner, who issued instructions to the police to increase challaning of people roaming without masks.Also a committee visited four Covid centres at Civil Hospital, Sector 6; Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital and Ojas Hospital to check their preparedness.The health department has also identified some hotspots, where sampling will begin on daily basis, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-positivity-rate-rises-to-8-highest-this-year-101615492655408.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze row, Delkar case, Speaker polls: Congress unhappy with Shiv Sena, NCP||Feeling left out of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, the Congress is now unhappy with its two alliance partners – Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – over the delay in holding election for new Speaker of the Assembly and the way the Vaze episode was handled by the state government. The Congress was insisting on holding the election for the Assembly speaker’s post (the seat is with the Congress) in the budget session, but two other partners did not want it, as some of the MVA legislators were absent. The party is also irked over the handling of the case of an abandoned SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence and the alleged controversy surrounding cop Sachin Vaze over the death of the car owner. After Nana Patole resigned as speaker of the Assembly, as he was appointed state Congress chief, the Congress insisted on the election for the new speaker in the budget session. The party leaders held meetings and pushed for it during the session, but NCP and Shiv Sena did not respond to the demand, stating several MVA legislators were absent due to Covid-19 infection and as such the parties did not want to take the risk of an election on the floor of the assembly. “Of the 25 legislators and ministers who were Covid-positive during the session, 15 were from the ruling parties. It could have reduced the number of votes during the election, but it can’t be the reason for not holding the election. Even Opposition votes were reduced. There was no question of embarrassment for the government, as the reason was genuine. In fact, the NCP wants the house to be run by deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal, who is from their party,” said a Congress leader requesting anonymity. The leader said Congress leaders did not attend the press conference after state budget and conclusion of the budget session to express their displeasure. The leader said the party had also demanded a waiver in electricity bills for smaller consumers who use upto 100 units a month and incentive of ₹50,000 to farmers who have been repaying their loans regularly. “We expected the decision to be taken in the budget, but they were not included in the state budget. As the electricity waiver was announced by our minister Nitin Raut, we are firm on the demand and will keep pushing for it,” the leader said. The Congress leadership is not happy over the handling of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar’s death by suicide case too. “The special investigation team announced to probe Delkar’s death and the case against Dadra and Nagar Haveli’s administrator Praful Patel should have been done well in time. Also, had assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze been transferred immediately after the issue was raised in the Assembly on Tuesday, it could not have flared up for two days. This has damaged the image of the government,” he said. The minister added that it has been clearly conveyed to the leaders from other two parties. When asked about it, energy minister and senior Congress leader Nitin Raut said, “I would not be able to comment on this. Our state unit chief Patole or our legislative party leader Balasaheb Thorat will speak on it. ” Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the lack of coordination between three ruling parties has come to the fore time and again. “Be it floor management on contentious issues that were raised in the house or the MPSC exam goof-up, the dismay and absence of teamwork was visible. Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat openly said the decision related to MPSC exams has damaged the image of the MVA. The Congress did not even whole heartedly come forward to defend the government when opposition corned the ruling parties over the Sachin Vaze episode.” Shiv Sena chief whip in Assembly Sunil Prabhu said, “We have perfect coordination between three parties and all decisions have been taken collectively. The Congress leaders did not attend the press conference as many of the ministers and leaders had to rush back to their constituencies. There is nothing to be read into it.” When asked during the press conference about the conspicuous absence of Congress leaders, deputy cheif minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar on Wednesday avoided speaking about it. “The decision about the election of the speaker will be taken by three parties together,” he said. NIA team quizzes Hiran’s kinA team of five officials from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) questioned the family of Mansukh Hiran, the owner of the car containing explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia, who was found dead in Thane creek on March 4, in their Thane home for two-and-a-half hours.The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Wednesday grilled the family for more than five hours. NIA officials did not divulge the details. They later headed to the creek where the body was found. “The team reached Hiran’s house around 2.30pm and was there till 5pm,” said an officer from the local police station. A relative said, “We are awaiting the forensic analysis report to get some insight on what happened.” Meanwhile, the Sena asked if the Opposition was targeting Sachin Vaze, police officer linked to Hiran’s death, because he reopened the file against Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case and fake TRP scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-row-delkar-case-speaker-polls-congress-unhappy-with-shiv-sena-ncp-101615492175816.html
12-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana teen indulging in underage driving runs over boy; parents to face action too||A day after a 17-year-old boy was arrested for reckless driving that led to the death of a 10-year-old in Rishi Nagar, police have initiated action against his parents too. As per the police, they are in the process of adding more sections to the FIR. Joint commissioner of police (city and traffic) Deepak Pareek said police could take action against the parents of the teenager under Sections 180 (allowing unauthorised persons to drive vehicles), 181 (driving vehicles in contravention of section 3 or section 4) and Section 4 (age limit in connection with driving of motor vehicles) of the Motor Vehicle Act.He added that the traffic police had recently initiated a drive against underage driving and issued 150 challans and impounded more than 100 vehicles, including two-wheelers and cars. Police will take action against the parents of repeat offenders, the joint commissioner of police added.The teen accused in Wednesday’s incident is a resident of Geetanjali Apartments, Rishi Nagar, and his father is a trader. Police have come to know that the teen used to frequently take his parents’ car for a spin and record videos to flaunt to his friends. He was trying to record a video while driving on Wednesday evening when the mishap took place. The teen had allegedly tried to flee after the incident but was nabbed by onlookers and handed over to the police. He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the parents of the 10-year-old victim, Tanish alias Tarun, carried out his last rites on Thursday. Another mishap had taken place on stretch hours before The road stretch near the income tax office is notorious for attracting youths trying to pull off stunts with their vehicles, say locals. As the stretch witnesses comparatively lower traffic in the evening hours, youths and teenagers can often be seen racing and recording videos here, they said. Just hours before the mishap that killed the 10-year-old, a youth on a bike had reportedly hit a scooterist, leaving him injured. The scooterist had to be hospitalised, shopkeepers in the area said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-teen-indulging-in-underage-driving-runs-over-boy-parents-to-face-action-too-101615491995659.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze row: Shiv Sena slams opposition ruckus in legislature||The Shiv Sena on Thursday slammed the Opposition over the ruckus created in the state legislature over the death of Mansukh Hiran and Mumbai police inspector Sachin Vaze’s alleged involvement in the case. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana questioned if the Opposition is targeting Vaze because he reopened the suppressed file against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case and the fake TRP scam. “There are several issues related to people that are currently at hand. It would have been good had the Opposition taken up such issues in the Assembly to corner the government,” the editorial said.“Instead, they created a ruckus over a suspicious death without allowing proper investigation to be carried out. This is a perverse version of democracy,” the editorial said. “Goswami duped everybody in the TRP scam, which was being investigated by Vaze. Did the Opposition create a hue and cry because Goswami will have to answer questions related to the suicide and TRP scam,” it asked. It further said the government has transferred Vaze, but the decision should not be viewed as the victory of the Opposition party. Responding to the editorial in Saamana, Opposition leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “We have taken up issues related to inflated electricity bills, on farmers and on Covid [response], but they did not see these issues. They only saw the issues that hurt them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-row-shiv-sena-slams-opposition-ruckus-in-legislature-101615491814693.html
12-03-2021||Other||Covid complacency a concern in Ludhiana as cases swell||At a time when Covid-19 cases in the district have increased by over four times in a month, the residents are throwing caution to the wind by not adhering to social distancing norms or wearing masks in public places.Despite the administration having directed the heads and managements of religious places to follow safety norms in their premises, heavy rush of devotees was seen in temples across the city on the occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday, with most of them without masks and adequate social distance among them.However, the managing bodies of temples including Sangla Wala Shivala Mandir in old city, Nav Durga Mata Mandir in Sarabha Nagar, Krishna Mandir in Model Town extension, among others, claimed that devotees were being regularly told to main social distancing and wear masks.Mahant Narayan Das from Sangla Wala Shivala Mandir said, “A large number of people came to the temple on the auspicious occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday. We have been urging the residents to follow the norms and awareness posters have been put up on the premises. Masks are being distributed at the entrance.”A resident of Kundan Nagar in Model Town Extension, Daljit Singh, said, “Wearing masks in public places is important, but sometimes it becomes difficult to breath and manage the irritation/itching, especially in the scorching heat. With virus cases on the rise, people should stay safe and avoid moving out whenever possible.”Despite the Covid scare, reckless behaviour by citizens has become a concern, especially in public places and markets, including Chaura Bazaar, Jawahar Nagar camp, Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Dugri, Shivpuri, Janakpuri, Field Ganj among others. Shopkeepers and eatery owners have also become complacent and are generally seen without face masks.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “Challans were issued to the violators at public places on Thursday. We had also conducted a meeting with heads of religious organisations asking them to follow all the safety norms. People should also understand their duty and follow all the guidelines while moving out.”Infection surge quadruplesThe number of coronavirus cases in the district has increased by nearly four times from last month. While the district witnessed 35 cases on February 10, the number fresh cases reported on Thursday (March 11) were 152.Fresh infections reported in the district crossed the 100-mark for the eighth time this month on Thursday. The district also witnessed the highest single-day spike in the cases in the last over five months with 152 cases of Covid-19 logged on Thursday. Previously, 160 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on October 5, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-complacency-a-concern-in-ludhiana-as-cases-swell-101615491515291.html
12-03-2021||Other||Mohali MC to take over 105 parks from GMADA on April 1||The municipal corporation of Mohali will take over the possession of 105 parks in Sectors 76-80 from Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) on April 1.A survey is being conducted by the civic body, who will only take over fully developed parks. GMADA had already released funds ₹25 crore as maintenance charges for parks.At present, the MC is taking care of around 565 parks from Sectors 48C to 71. Since Sectors 71 to 75 in the Industrial Area have no parks, MC will now be taking over 105 parks in Sectors 76-80.‘Almost all our parks are ready’On the other hand, a senior official of GMADA said, “All our parks are ready and in some parks in Sectors 79 and 80, civil work is pending, which is going on now.”The announcement about the parks was made last year in December by cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. He had also said that the MC would take over the maintenance of city roads, too. GMADA has already taken over the maintenance of the water supply and sewerage system in the new sectors of GMADA from January 1 onwards.MC councillor and president of Plot Allotment and Development Welfare Committee, Sector 76-80, Sucha Singh Kalaur, said, “It was a long pending demand of the residents. Now, the maintenance would be easier, quicker and to the satisfaction of the people. Local councillors would be able to identify and follow up on requisite repairs and maintenance of local roads and the big and small parks of the city.”GMADA-MC tussle over paymentsIn the past, many a tussle has erupted between GMADA and the MC over the payment of ₹50 crore for 540 parks, which were handed over to the civic body in 2017. The MC, however, has not paid the amount to resident welfare associations for the past three months.As per the agreement in 2016, GMADA was to pay ₹5 crore every year to MC for the maintenance of parks and the total amount fixed was ₹50 crore, but in the last four years, GMADA has paid only ₹34 crore.The civic body pays the RWAs ₹2.45 per square metre per month for maintenance of around 56 acres (2.2 lakh square metre) of park land, which comes out to be around ₹6 lakh a month. The MC makes the payment to the RWAs by the seventh of each month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-to-take-over-105-parks-from-gmada-on-april-1-101615491335328.html
12-03-2021||Other||Prostitution racket busted at Panchkula massage parlour, four held||Police claim to have busted a flesh trade racket running at a massage parlour in Sector 14, with the arrest of four people, including a woman.The male accused have been identified as Mohd Aazam of Manimajra, Ramakant Pandey of Mauli Jagran and Swami Parshad of Sector 28, Panchkula.The racket was unearthed following a raid by assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Vijay Kumar Nehra and crime branch in-charge Aman, who led their teams to the parlour on Wednesday following secret information.As a decoy customer finalised a deal with Aazam, police raided the parlour, and arrested three men and a woman.All accused were booked under the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act. They were produced before a court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prostitution-racket-busted-at-panchkula-massage-parlour-four-held-101615491276656.html
12-03-2021||Other||Vax-takers in Ludhiana shower health staff with queries on alcohol intake||Senior citizens may be coming forward to get inoculated in encouraging numbers, but they are full of queries regarding the vaccination aftermath.The health officials associated with the vaccination drive in the district say that the most frequently asked question by the jab-takers is how long they need to wait before they can start consuming liquor.The elderly subjects also ask if they need to wear masks after the vaccination, or could they go out for a morning walk, what precautions they should take in case of fever, and can have fried or high-fat food.Head of the community medicine department of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Dr Anirudh Chaudhary said, “These are the most frequently asked questions. However, as a physician I will not approve of consuming liquor, but any alcoholic drink can be had 72 hours after the vaccination.”At vaccination sites, some senior citizens are also seen showing social media videos to the medical staff which suggest avoiding alcohol for over a month.Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, who is looking after the vaccination drive at Arora Neuro Centre, said some of the senior citizens or immune-compromised residents are avoiding vaccination due to the myth that they have to avoid consuming alcohol for over a month.“It is completely safe to consume moderate amounts of alcohol 72 hours after vaccination,” said Dr Sachdeva and added that vaccination is like wearing a seatbelt or putting on a helmet.“The two doses of the vaccine build 72% immunity against the virus. Though the persons could suffer from Covid-19, the possibility of adverse events could be avoided,” said Dr Sachdeva.On the other hand, Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, civil surgeon and nodal officer for the vaccination dive in the district, said that in case of any inconvenience or complaint, people are advised to visit a nearby health facility or call a health worker. The helpline numbers for the said services are being made available through SMS after getting vaccinated.“Another common rumour is that of fever. As per the data of vaccination available, only 5% of the people have suffered from fever or any other complication post vaccination,” said Dr Ahluwalia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaxtakers-in-ludhiana-shower-health-staff-with-queries-on-alcohol-intake-101615491275442.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kitab Khana opens its doors to booklovers again||It’s an iconic bookstore that’s had more than its share of troubles, but Kitab Khana is now open again, having weathered a year of lockdowns and pandemic-era restrictions as well as a large fire that gutted its interiors. A simple lamp-lighting ceremony was held to mark the reopening on Thursday. “We turn 10 today and will have a celebration to mark the occasion, but all in good time,” co-owner Amrita Somaiya said. It will be a while before the store can resume its popular events calendar, which pre-pandemic ranged from book readings to discussions and sessions for children. But already on day one, the small ceremony at the rebuilt store was followed by warm conversations as frequent visitors arrived, masked and distanced, to reconnect with the books and each other. “This is not just a place of transactional interests. It guards a common point where people crisscross and where social, cultural and intellectual interactions happen, both by chance and design,” said architect, author and city researcher Kaiwan Mehta, who visited on Thursday. “Now that it is up and about, a vacuum has been filled.” A void has been filled for Somaiya too. “We had a series of setbacks in the last year,” Somaiya said at the reopening. “My father, who had supervised the interior design of the bookshop, was suffering. And a week before his death, I received a letter of hope from a 12-year-old girl named Dania Khan. She described how her love for books had blossomed in the corners of Kitab Khana and shared her wish to help us through crowdfunding. I was too full for words. I am so glad she lit the lamp for us this morning. And I thank everyone else who has been a pillar of support.” Virtual book discussions and events are planned, with details set to be shared via social media. “This is not only a place where we come to read, browse or buy books, it is also a centre for a community of readers and writers,” said poet Ranjit Hoskote, who also visited the bookstore on its reopening day. “The revival is a miraculous measure of continuity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-kitab-khana-opens-its-doors-to-booklovers-again-101615490615256.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: At 75, a renewed resolve to build New India together||An individual or a nation turning 75 often invites anxiety. What next? But, for us, India turning 75 is a moment for joy and celebration and indicates a fresh resolve towards nation building. A New India, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for in his address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on August 15, 2017, should emerge on the 75th anniversary of Independence in 2022 from the joint strength of all. The next 75 weeks will lay a spread to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav to mark 75 years of independence. The impressions of resistance against the British are still young and have failed to age in our nation’s memory. March 12 is a major milestone in India’s freedom struggle against British imperialism. The day captures Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violent feat to achieve freedom through the Dandi March from Sabarmati Ashram in 1930. Nation’s destiny on the cusp of change The country’s destiny is on the cusp of a change. The emerging New India is eager to come out of the shackles of impediments that have held the nation hostage from realising human potential and development that leaders such as Gandhi had dreamt of. The celebrations should hold the spirit of the freedom movement, express gratitude to martyrs, and reflect the glory of Sanatan Bharat and Modern India, which glows under the twin lights of the spirituality of mystics and the contribution of our scientists. Now is the time for each one of us to take a pledge again on our duties towards the nation – that’s what Gandhi and Constitution-maker BR Ambedkar told men and women to vow for post-Independence. But ponder over what Gandhi told us that is relevant even now. “The true source of rights is duty. If we all discharge our duties, right will not be far to seek. If leaving duties unperformed we run after rights, they will escape us like a will-o’-the-wisp. The more we pursue them, the farther they fly.” Of valour, sacrifice and compassion History testifies that India has stood for Vasudev Kutumbhakam every time a crisis has stared at humanity. The latest insight into the country’s potential and determination was writ large in the compassionate way we distributed vaccines to other countries in our fight against Covid-19. Free India also managed a spirited economic recovery off-setting financial costs the British had imposed. Over less than seven decades since 1947, India’s per capita income has grown six times. Similarly, other economic parameters too jumped significantly. The culture of our country teaches us that one must visit a pilgrimage site before starting festivities. Today, my desire is fulfilled. I’ll be visiting the holy birthplace of Brigadier Rajendra Singh, an epitome of valour and sacrifice. If we’ve been able to save the soul of Jammu and Kashmir from Pakistani invaders, it’s due to the gallantry of Brigadier Singh and his soldiers at Uri in October 1947. The Women Self Defence Corps also protected the composite culture of J&K by putting their lives at stake. To commemorate 75 years of Independence, the tales of saviours such as Brigadier Rajendra Singh, Maqbool Sherwani, Subedar Major Swaran Singh and Ram Saran must reach the entire population of J&K. Sowing seeds of a new awakening In Mandukya Upanishad, a word, jagrit, is used to demonstrate awakening. The celebration will be a glory of our cultural heritage with the fragrance of talent pool, strength of our youth power and vision of scientists and technology experts. This occasion too will sow seeds of a new awakening for the people of J&K. One of the stalwarts of the freedom movement, Lokmanya Tilak, was way ahead of his times. Another visionary but less told facet to his personality was the support he lent to small entrepreneurs and industrialists to have businesses of their own, a great proponent of what we now call startups and atmanirbhar (self-reliant) India. Tilak took to crowd funding to establish paisa fund, a corpus for financing village enterprises and local factories. Borrowing from Tilak’s vision, J&K has created an ecosystem for startups. Within months, the administration has registered 69 startups to allow entrepreneurs to explore and realise business opportunities in different sectors. One of the fundamental laws of life is dignity to every human being. It’s the master key to bring peace and development. I seek the support of every citizen of J&K with the spirit of “jan bhageedari (people’s participation)” to usher in a new era of growth. Our seers, freedom fighters had taken similar steps to build the idea of New India. With this spirit, we need to work towards inclusive socio-economic development so that prosperity reaches all. That’s the J&K administration’s priority. We need to provide youngsters prospects for the future, invest more in education and skills and strengthen the position of women in society. During the next 75 weeks of celebration, we will demonstrate our shared commitment to the fundamental values of harmony, Sarv Dharm Sambhav, freedom, democracy and duties. J&K must strive to reach milestones set out by our founding fathers. The writer is the lieutenant governor of Jammu & Kashmir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-at-75-a-renewed-resolve-to-build-new-india-together-101615490495648.html
12-03-2021||Other||HC for help desks, safe houses for runaway couples||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has suggested that to help runaway couples, help desks should be provided at the tehsil level. It also reiterated that safe houses should be constructed at district level.The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan while dealing with a plea from Jalandhar couple observed that the non-acceptability of inter-caste marriage was a social problem which needs to be dealt at multifarious levels.“Inter-caste is not the only reason for non-acceptability of marriage, there are numerous other socio-economic reasons acting as hurdles for young couples in selecting life partner of their choice,” the bench said, adding that a large number of such petitions are being filed by the couples who performed marriage against the wishes of their parents and relatives. It was in 2014 that the high court had directed both the states and the Chandigarh administration to establish a ‘safe house’ in each district to help runaway couples.One of the ways to tackle the problem is that safe houses should be made available in each district and a website or an on-line module should be provided for such couples to raise their grievances without being physically present, it said. Arranging a 24x7 help desk at the tehsil level for filing of such representations by aggrieved persons or through someone can be of great help, the bench added, further stating that Legal Services Authorities have a strong network at the grassroots level and can help by setting up these help desk for such couples with telephone service and internet connectivity at the local level.The court, while fixing the next date of hearing for February 22, has asked both governments and the Chandigarh administration to come up with suggestions to devise a mechanism to help runaway couples.It added that a large number of pleas are being filed in high court due to which petitions involving really serious and imminent threats get mixed up with petitions filed in routine. Couples who apprehend threat have to travel all the way to this court for completing formalities for filing the plea, exposing them to threat, the bench said. It added that despite directions from the high court that the sessions courts would take up such pleas, cases continued coming directly to the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-for-help-desks-safe-houses-for-runaway-couples-101615490435216.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Surge in Covid-19 cases leaves more with anxiety, depression||With the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai, city psychiatrists and psychologists have noted a rise in the number of patients struggling with anxiety and depression. Since February 17, when the city’s daily Covid tally crossed the 700 cases mark, the number of reported cases has seen a sharp increase. The number of active Covid-19 cases at present has increased by almost 89% compared to the first week of February. Consequently, there have been rumours of another lockdown in the city, which is impacting the mental health of many with a history of ailments such as depression and anxiety. A 34-year-old Borivli resident, who runs a business and requested anonymity, said he has been getting anxiety attacks at the thought of another lockdown. Last year in March, his business came to a grinding halt when the lockdown was declared and only after relaxations were introduced in September 2020 did his work revive. “Every month, I have to pay ₹36,000 [as an equated monthly instalment] for a flat I bought for ₹56 lakh in 2018 since my business was flourishing then. Due to the lockdown, however, I sustained a loss of ₹15 lakh. Now, finally when my business was beginning to catch up again, the fear of another lockdown keeps me awake at night. I can’t sleep and due to the anxiety, I feel nauseous and dizzy,” he said, adding that he will be seeking professional help from a psychotherapist for his anxiety. City psychiatrists say many patients are expressing fear of contracting Covid-19. “When the pandemic curve flattened, there was a belief that it was over. But as cases are increasing again, the anxiety level is increasing. Many fear losing their jobs or getting isolated again. In fact, recovered patients are getting scared of reinfection,” said psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada. With some relaxation in lockdown rules and the resumption of local train services, many offices and businesses have opened up in Mumbai. “Many may be facing ‘travel anxiety’ triggered by transit during this pandemic. This happens when people overestimate the worst-case scenarios, anticipating the worst incident may happen with them or their family. The only way to look over anxiety is to distinguish between real risk and over-estimated catastrophising,” said Dr Sahir Jamati, consultant psychologist and psychotherapist, Masina Hospital. Doctors recommend figuring out coping strategies and being careful. “I suggest my patients to follow the TOWN policy — travel only when needed. They should also listen to music or read funny and humorous books during their commute. They need to accept the current situation because it won’t go away so fast. There is nothing they can do other than taking precautionary measures,” said psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-surge-in-covid-19-cases-leaves-more-with-anxiety-depression-101615490255241.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||₹22K-crore yet to be recovered from toll on Mumbai-Pune Eway: MSRDC to Bombay HC||In response to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging extension of toll collection on Mumbai-Pune Expressway till April 2030, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has disputed calculations by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) that the entire capital outlay of the expressway was recovered by 2019.MSRDC has, in its affidavit, stated that the CAG audit was faulty as it did not consider various aspects such as traffic flow in initial years, fluctuation in interest and value of money at the time when the first contract was awarded in 2004, and hence the cash flow and revenue collection figures in the CAG audit report till 2019 are not accurate and cannot be relied upon. It further said that while the cost of the project was in excess of ₹4,000 crore in 2004, the corporation had received an upfront amount of ₹918 crore only. After taking into consideration the internal rate of return at 16%, the total amount recoverable in 2021 was ₹22,370 crore and hence the extension of contract was justified and the PIL should be dismissed. The PIL has alleged that as the entire capital outlay of the project has been recovered as per the CAG, further extension granted to the contractor to collect toll will not only result in a burden on commuters but also rob the state exchequer of revenue as the contractor will make illegal gains. The affidavit filed by Kamlakar Phand, chief general manager, MSRDC, stated that the PIL is not bona fide and is motivated and a publicity-seeking proceeding. Phand said as the PIL raises technical and scientific issues which involve experts, the court should not involve itself in it unless there is an allegation of mala fide, which is absent in the case. Refuting the claims of the petitioner Pravin Wategaonkar, MSRDC said the allegations are based on the CAG report which is erroneous. The affidavit states that the allegation in the PIL that the contract was granted for a mere ₹918 crore while the CAG report held that the cash flow could be up to ₹3,946 crore, thus recovering the entire capital outlay of the project, were misconceived. It further states that the CAG report estimations were based on revenues apart from toll collection in the form of income from real estate, land leased, etc. However, as the latter did not materialise, the revenue collected by the contractor in the form of toll over a 15-year period sufficed to fulfil his contract agreement only and there was no recovery of capital outlay. In light of these submissions, the affidavit states that taking into consideration the net present value and cash flow, an amount of ₹22,370 crore was yet to be recovered. In view of this, MSRDC was justified in extending the contract in 2020 for a period of 10.2 years, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/22kcrore-yet-to-be-recovered-from-toll-on-mumbai-pune-eway-msrdc-to-bombay-hc-101615490015198.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 20% dip in child sex abuse cases in three yrs||Punjab has seen a drop of 20% in cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, in three years. The number of cases has decreased to 389 in 2019 from 489 in 2017, according to data shared by the Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation (KSCF) in its report titled ‘Status of Pocso Cases in India’ on Thursday. There were 392 victims in the cases registered under the Act in 2019 as against 493 in 2017. The state witnessed the decrease during the period in which the total number of Pocso cases in the country increased from 32,608 cases in 2017 to 39,827(up 22%) in 2018 and further to 47,335 in 2019 (up 19%).Cases registered under Pocso Act constituted 32% of the total crimes committed against children in 2019 and Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra registered the highest number of cases under the law. However, the state’s conviction rate in such cases of 36% was only slightly better than the national figure of 34% in 2019. The non-governmental organisation’s report said that as per the Act, trials in such cases should be completed within a year but over 1.6 lakh cases of sexual abuse of children were pending trial in the courts across the country. “Data presented by the NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) in its ‘Crime in India’ report 2017-2019 shows that even though in terms of absolute numbers, the cases in which has been completed is increasing, yet the percentage of trials completed to the total cases for trials remains constant at 10%. By the end of 2019, the cases pending trial stood at 89% of the total cases for trial,” it said, stressing the need for more fast-track courts. Last month, the Punjab government decided to set up nine more fast-track courts under the Pocso Act and constitute sexual assault response teams in all 27 police districts of the state to deal with such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-20-dip-in-child-sex-abuse-cases-in-three-yrs-101615489777029.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 case positivity rate on rise in Mumbai; daily rate stands at 7.39%||With the city reporting more than 1,000 new cases of Covid-19 daily of late, the single-day positivity rate has increased from 3-4% in February to 5-7% in the last 10 days. The daily positivity rate on Thursday was 7.39%. Overall, 3.5 million tests have been conducted in Mumbai and the positivity rate is 9.64%. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the spike in cases is due mostly to increased testing and citizens not following Covid protocol. On Thursday, the city reported 1,509 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 338,643, and four deaths. The death toll stands at 11,519, with fatality rate of 3.40%. There are 10,563 active cases and the city’s recovery rate is 93.21%. The highest growth rates in the city are in Mulund, Andheri (West), Vile Parle, Bandra, Khar, Dadar and Wadala. While Mumbai’s average growth rate is 0.34%, these neighbourhoods have growth rates between 0.51% and 0.40%. According to BMC, on March 9, Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 7.12%, which is significantly higher than the February rates. On February 28, the positivity rate was 5.19%. It was 4.87% on February 19 and 3.33% on February 10. The number of tests conducted daily in Mumbai now ranges between 18,000 and 23,000. In January and February, the range was between 12,000 and 17,000 tests. BMC said 90% of the detected cases are from high-rise buildings. On March 10, there were 228 sealed buildings and 2,815 sealed floors in the city followed by 27 containment zones. On February 26, there were 127 sealed buildings, 1,849 sealed floors and 12 containment zones. Assistant municipal commissioner of Mulund, Kishore Gandhi said, “Currently, there is no plan to have any mini lockdown or night curfew, but we are implementing the existing restrictions strictly.” Mulund’s growth rate is the highest in Mumbai. BMC officials said that rather than the resumption of local trains, the spike in cases is due to people attending large gatherings and not following Covid-19 norms. “Though Nagpur — which will go under one week of lockdown from Monday — is reporting cases equal to that of Mumbai, there is an assumption that Mumbai’s situation might not be like the September peak. The sero prevalence level of those residing in Mumbai is higher compared to those in Nagpur or other rural belts of the city where cases are increasing,” said a BMC official. On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told HT that no lockdown or micro-containment zones were expected in the city. However, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hinted at a lockdown on Thursday when he said, “In a few days, we may have to lockdown some places. We may have to start from scratch, but still the situation has not gone out of control.” Experts say lockdown might not be the solution since economic activities need to resume. “We might announce a lockdown,” said city physician Dr Siddarth Paliwal, “but this will come with a cost if we do not speed up the process of vaccination.” On Monday, the state Covid-19 task force had suggested allowing door-to-door vaccination for the elderly to increase the number of people vaccinated daily. BMC has authorised private vaccination centres to operate round the clock. On Thursday, 29,264 people were vaccinated at 72 centres, of which 29,262 were senior citizens and 4,004 were above the age of 45 years with comorbidities. Overall, 190,294 senior citizens and 23,044 people above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-case-positivity-rate-on-rise-in-mumbai-daily-rate-stands-at-739-101615489775427.html
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 92 fresh virus cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 92 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 59,439 while no fatality was reported. Of the new cases, 41 were reported in Sirmaur, 15 in Una, 13 in Kangra, 12 in Solan, four in Shimla, three in Hamirpur, two in Mandi and one in Bilaspur. Active cases have increased to 662 while recoveries have reached 57,774.Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,544 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,304 cases, and Kangra with 8,697 cases. Solan reported 6,8788 cases, Kullu 4,468, Sirmaur 3,675, Hamirpur 3,090, Una 3,132, Bilaspur 3,013, Chamba 2,983, Kinnaur 1,387, and Lahaul-Spiti has 1,258 cases. As many as 11,46,871 tests have been conducted in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-92-fresh-virus-cases-101615489595771.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt faces flak over delay in MPSC exams||The Maharashtra government on Thursday received flak from aspirants over Maharashtra Public Service Commission’s (MPSC) decision to postpone preliminary examinations for recruitment, which was scheduled on March 14. Aspirants staged demonstrations at several places in the state including Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Sangli, and Amravati among others. They have demanded that the exams be held on the same day.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting of senior officials and directed them to declare the fresh dates on Friday. He assured aspirants that the exams will be conducted within a week and expressed regret over the inconvenience. He also requested people not to get provoked, without naming any political party. Thackeray also assured that the no aspirant would be affected due to age bar norms owing to the delay in holding the examinations.In Pune, the agitation by the aspirants was led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Gopichand Padalkar, who was later detained by the police for refusing to leave the venue. Initially, the exams were scheduled in April 2020 but have been delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak and were postponed four times since then, aspirants said. Recruitment for various posts in the state government is held through MPSC, and youths from all over the state participate in thousands every year.The commission took the decision to postpone the exams further considering the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. It has also received a communication from the state relief and rehabilitation department suggesting postponement of exams.On Wednesday, state relief and rehabilitation department issued a letter stating, “It would be inappropriate to hold MPSC exams in the backdrop of restrictions imposed as precautionary measures to arrest the spread of coronavirus by local administrations in different districts and cities, hence exams should be deferred.”MPSC in its order dated Thursday cited instructions from the relief and rehabilitation department and stated, “In the view of the decision taken by the state government, the exams have been postponed. The revised schedule for the examinations will be released later.” “I have directed the chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte) and concerned MPSC officials to declare a date by tomorrow and hold exams within a week. Continue your studies and I promise that the exams will be held in a week. It is being postponed only because of the rise in Covid-19 cases,” Thackeray said in his address to the state through Facebook live on Thursday evening.He added, “I have directed to assign officials and employees, who have either tested negative for Covid-19 or been vaccinated, to conduct exams. I will not allow anyone to play with the sentiments and health of the students. I can also assure that no student is going to be affected by the age bar norm in case of delay in holding the exams.” He said that the authorities are imposing certain restrictions in containment zones where cases are coming in big numbers, and they may have to prepare for alternatives in case an examination centre is located in a containment zone.Taking a veiled dig at the opposition, the CM said, “Do not get provoked. Do not allow them to use your shoulder for targeting the government.”Leaders from across political parties have opposed the move. State Congress chief Nana Patole said the state should reconsider its decision. “Since the past one year, MPSC exams could not be held. There is strong discontent among students over the sudden move, and thus the state government should reconsider its decision,” he said. Patole also called the CM and requested him for reconsideration.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Rohit Pawar said the exams should be held by following Covid-appropriate norms. “Nothing should be stopped due to Covid-19 and we have to keep moving by adopting precautionary measures. I am sure people will also cooperate in this. Accordingly, MPSC exams must be held. I request CM Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar to look into it,” Pawar tweeted.“Postponing the exams all of a sudden is wrong. If everything is allowed by following Covid-appropriate behaviour, then why not hold exams? The postponement of exams will affect many students. I express my displeasure towards the decision,” tweeted Pankaja Munde, national secretary of BJP and former women and child development minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-faces-flak-over-delay-in-mpsc-exams-101615489475243.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid death rate high in those with kidney ailments, shows study||A study conducted by SevenHills Hospital found that between April and July 2020, the mortality rate among Covid-19 patients with chronic kidney diseases (CKD) was significantly higher than that of the other Covid-positive patients. Patients above 60 years of age who were on regular dialysis were the most vulnerable to the infection due to their low immunity. When the pandemic started in March 2020, most dialysis centres shut down due to the possible risk of spreading the infection. As HT has reported earlier, this led to chaos among CKD patients, particularly those who were Covid-positive and needed regular dialysis. Soon after, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started dialysis facilities for Covid patients at the civic-run SevenHills Hospital. Between April and July 2020, the hospital saw around 70 Covid-positive patients receive dialysis treatment daily. During this period, the hospital conducted a study on 310 co-infected patients, which revealed the recovery rate was 76.1% among patients with CKD and the mortality rate was 23.87%. Titled “A cross-sectional study to assess impact of Covid-19 infections amongst patients with chronic kidney diseases”, the study was published in the International Journal of Community Medicines and Public Health in February. In April, the mortality rate was 6.5% and in July it was 5.5%The mortality rate of the surveyed patients depended on three basic factors: the age of the patient; the stage of infection spread; and frequency of dialysis. “In comparison to the general public, the mortality rate was higher among CKD patients. We have noticed that the death rate was the highest among patients above 60 years, due to their underlying health issues. Many elderly patients had comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension which further compromised their immunity,” said Dr Harshalkumar Mahajan, assistant professor, community medicines, at Seven Hills Hospital. Dr Mahajan was part of the study. The study found that more patients who were diagnosed late succumbed to the infection than those who received treatment early. “In our study, we found that the mortality rate among severely infected patients was 22.3%, which was the highest. We haven’t recorded death among mildly symptomatic patients during the study. This reflects on the importance of early diagnosis of patients with kidney ailments whose immunity is already compromised,” said Dr Smitha S Chavhan, principal researcher and additional dean of the hospital. Also, the study revealed that the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, remains longer in the bodies of those aged above 60 years. According to BMC’s data, more than 2,300 patients with CKD have contracted Covid-19 in the city since March 2020. Doctors said the mortality rate among such patients has improved since the onset of the pandemic. “When the pandemic started, the availability of dialysis centres for such patients were limited. Many faced problems commuting in the lockdown. But now, the situation has improved which has also helped to improve the mortality rate,” said Dr Chavhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-death-rate-high-in-those-with-kidney-ailments-shows-study-101615489295503.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Deshbhakti events to start from today||The Delhi government will kick-start its 75-week long celebrations to mark 75 years of India’s independence from Friday evening with a cultural event at the Central Park in Connaught Place, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.On Tuesday, Sisodia announced a series of programmes to mark the occasion while presenting the Delhi Budget 2021-22 whose theme was Deshbhakti (patriotism).The event at Central Park, which will start at 3.30 pm and go on till 9pm, will be open for all. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleagues will attend the event. The Delhi government has roped in lead singer of band Euphoria, Palash Sen, to perform patriotic songs at Friday’s event, Sisodia said.The traffic police issued an advisory and urged motorists to avoid the area from 2pm- 9pm.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also congratulated the people in a statement on Thursday. “Heartiest congratulations to all on the 75th anniversary of India’s independence. Let’s create an India which is inspired by the dreams of our freedom fighters and martyrs, and an India inspired by the principles of Ram Rajya. Let’s make our nation number one in the world,” he said in the statement.A Delhi government spokesperson said all are invited to be part of the celebration, but entry to Friday’s event will be limited to maintain Covid-19 norms and guidelines.On Thursday, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal also reviewed preparations and planning for the series of events, and also directed the officials to involve eminent citizens from all walks of life and asked for identification of themes and locations and preparation of a calendar of events for the coming 75 weeks.“Instructed for strict compliance of COVID appropriate behaviour while organising and celebrating events,” Baijal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deshbhakti-events-to-start-from-today-101615488929247.html
12-03-2021||Kolkata||Doctors unsure on Mamata Banerjee's release from hospital||The six-member medical board treating West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is yet to decide as to when the TMC supremo would be released from the SSKM hospital where she is admitted with an ankle injury following an alleged attack on her during the election campaign in Nandigram on Wednesday.“Banerjee was stable. She has a bony injury in her left ankle and has been plastered. She has a frontal headache. Further investigation has been prescribed. Her sodium level is low,” hospital authorities said in a medical bulletin.Doctors said during the day that her condition would be examined again on Friday before taking the treatment forward."We are going for further radiological investigations such as X-Ray and CT Scan. The same treatment, which was started yesterday, is going on. In addition, she would be given medicines for low sodium level," said hospital authorities.Meanwhile, a senior TMC leader said that Banerjee’s campaign schedule over the weekend, wherein she was supposed to campaign in Purulia and Bankura, has been postponed.On March 15, 16 and 17 she is likely to camp in the districts of Jhargram, West Midnapore and East Midnapore. There could be some changes to the plan, a leader said.“I hope to return to the field in the next two to three days. But the injury may be there. I will manage. I won’t drop a single meeting. Maybe I would have to take the help of a wheelchair for a few days. I want your support," Banerjee said earlier in the day.“We want her to return to the field at the earliest. Else against whom we would score the goal? All her party leaders have shifted to the BJP. Only she and her nephew are left,” said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president."The CM is responding to treatment and her general condition has improved. She still has pain and is facing some problems in her left ankle for which she is being treated. Ultrasonography of the abdomen, X-Ray of the forearm and shoulder and CT Scan of the thorax are within acceptable limits. There were some degenerative changes spotted in the left knee," the medical board said late on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/doctors-unsure-on-mamata-banerjee-s-release-from-hospital-101615488196739.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||‘Warning signs for another spike’: Caution, vaccines key, say experts||The Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi may now be at a crucial stage when urgent steps could help fend off a full-fledged new wave of infections, experts have said, underscoring the need for people to stay cautious and for the vaccination drive to be accelerated.The city added 409 new cases, according to the state health bulletin on Thursday, the highest since January 9. The current seven day average positivity rate of 0.50% is an increase over the 0.37% recorded the week before and 0.28% recorded the week before thatClick here for full Covid-19 coverage“These are the warning signs for another surge in the number of infections in Delhi; there is no doubt about that. This is the natural cycle of any virus, add to that the complacency on part of the people in following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour since the decline in the number of cases over the last three months,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Delhi has experienced three distinct wave of infections, with the last peaking around Diwali in the first half of November last year. “The situation is exactly like it was during Diwali when people were out and about, leading to a lot of asymptomatic spread of the infection. Delhi is currently a ticking time bomb,” Khilnani added.The pulmonologist added that there are also concerns that people who were infected previously may now be at risk since immunity is believed to wane after several months. “One, there are still questions about the life span of the immunity against the infection – is it three months? Five? Seven? Nobody can say for sure. Second, the latest seroprevalence in Delhi was found to be 56%, which means true herd immunity – of at least 70% population being protected against the infection – hasn’t happened yet,” he said.Additionally, the city could face a threat from mutated variants that could be more infective or cheat previous immunity.The Union government on Thursday said Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) was emerging as an area of concern, in addition to Maharashtra. “We are very worried about Maharashtra. We are reaching a stage where all those measures (lockdown) are being brought back; it is a matter of serious concern. A word of caution for Delhi and neighbourhood as well. There is a rise in positivity rate in Delhi, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, and Ghaziabad. Be careful and be watchful. We still have a huge proportion of vulnerable population,” said VK Paul, member (Health), Niti Aayog.Officials said they are working on aggressive contact tracing and testing. “Strong surveillance, testing of suspects, identifying cases, educating people for covid appropriate behaviour, vaccination of identified and vulnerable group as per guidelines is being done with greater intensity. District health teams are working hard to trace the contacts,” a Delhi government spokesperson said.Revenue officials said all district magistrates have directed their health teams to continue with aggressive testing. A second revenue official, who asked not to be named, said focus is also being directed on improving turnout at vaccination centres.Although number of tests conducted in Delhi has increased over the last one week, it is still not near capacity. On average, nearly 65,600 tests were done each day during the last seven days in comparison to 61,377 the week before. In mid-December – just after the November surge – there were over 82,000 tests being done a day.“The government should ramp up testing to capacity now as that will help us in quickly identifying more people with the infection. If they are isolated and all their contacts are traced and tested, then we can contain the spread of the infection. I believe that there is a need to trace as many as 15 to 20 contacts for each positive case, who have to be tested. The government also has to ensure that the quarantine and isolation are actually followed,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Experts also called for faster pace of vaccination as well as vaccinating everyone over the age of 18 in regions witnessing a surge in infections.“When there is a fire somewhere, should we throw all the water we have at it or distribute it equally. What are the vaccines for? The government should vaccinate everyone over the age of 18 in the six states that have started seeing an increase in the number of cases. All the vaccines from other states should be diverted; the others can wait for it,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Dr Khilnani said, “The solution to Covid-19 remains vaccination along with masking social distancing and other Covid-19 norms. There is no dearth of vaccine and although the vaccination drive is picking up it is not commensurate with the Indian population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/warning-signs-for-another-spike-caution-vaccines-key-say-experts-101615487866009.html
12-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 14,317 new Covid cases; lockdown in Nagpur, night curfew in Panvel||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded a 154-day high (since October 8), in terms of Covid-19 infections, with 14,317 fresh cases, taking its tally to 2,266,374. Mumbai, too, reported a 141-day high (since October 21) with 1,509 new infections. Active cases in the state went past the grim landmark of 100,000 as the count stood at 106,070. As cases continue to surge in many parts of the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that restrictions, including lockdown, could be imposed in the state to combat rising numbers. A decision, he said, is expected to be taken in a couple of days.The district administration, meanwhile has announced a lockdown in Nagpur from March 15 to 21. Private offices will remain shut, while government offices will operate at 25% attendance in Nagpur. Liquor shops will remain shut, but it will continue to be sold online, Nagpur district guardian minister Nitin Raut said. Also, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has declared night curfew in its jurisdiction from 11 pm to 5 am from March 12 to March 22.Maharashtra reported 57 fatalities, while the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.32%. Of the deaths reported on Thursday, 25 occurred in the past 48 hours and 19 in the past week. The remaining 13 deaths were from the period before last week. Meanwhile, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and Yavatmal district have recorded a chunk of the cases on Thursday.Thackeray, in an address to the state via social media, said looking at the surge in cases, Maharashtra is at the “threshold of lockdown” and that strict lockdown could be put in places in some cities to break the chain of transmission. Thackeray’s address was chiefly regarding the Maharashtra State Public Commission examination and to announce why it has been postponed by a few days.Thackeray said that Maharashtra where the daily numbers had come down to around 2,000 have again increased to 12,000-13,000. The transmission in increasing in cities and in the rural areas, he said. “Currently, Covid cases are increasing at several places. Looking at this increase, we will have to announce some containment zones. We are at the threshold of a lockdown. We can still avoid a lockdown. The authorities have been instructed to coordinate with the state government before announcing a lockdown in a city, taluka or a district,” the CM said in his address.Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Thackeray said that a decision on lockdown or strict restrictions will be announced in a couple of days. “In a few days, lockdown will have to be imposed at some places. I again appeal to people to avoid stepping out of home without need, wear masks in public places, keep sanitising hands, keep physical distance. We might have to start from scratch again [in combating Covid] but so far, the situation has not gone out of control… Looking at the situation, a strict lockdown will need to be imposed in some places. We will take a decision in the next two days and the lockdown will be imposed wherever required,” Thackeray told reporters after he took his first vaccine shot.Thackeray, along with his wife Rashmi and her mother Meenatai Patankar got their first dose of Covaxin at city’s JJ Hospital. Milind Narvekar, Thackeray’s PA and officer on special duty (OSD) also was vaccinated at the hospital. On Thursday, Nagpur district reported 2,150 fresh cases, of which 1,701 cases were from Nagpur city. The district reported five fatalities due to Covid-19, of which four were in Nagpur city. On Thursday, Nagpur district reported 2,150 fresh cases, of which 1,701 cases were from Nagpur city. The district reported five fatalities due to Covid-19, of which four were in Nagpur city. The Panvel civic body also gave directives to shut down educational institutions and banned sports tournaments and competitions till March 22. The decision has been taken to contain the rising cases of Covid in the region. All types of sports competitions and tournaments have been banned till March 22.The announcement was made on Thursday evening by municipal commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh. PCMC recorded 138 cases on Thursday, taking the total cases so far to 33,542. Deshmukh, said, “Taking into account the possibility of Covid cases rising in Panvel, I have decided to impose a night curfew from March 12 to March 22 between 11 pm and 5 am in PCMC jurisdiction. Essential items like milk, vegetable, fruits, newspapers and establishments and persons and their vehicles providing essential services will be exempted from the travel ban. All educational institutions, primary and secondary schools (except standard 10 and 12 classes and their private classes) too will be shut from March 12 to March 22.” A partial lockdown has also been put in place in Aurangabad district, which on Thursday saw 615 cases.During the address, Thackeray said that the state government is equipped with health facilities hospital beds, including doctors, healthcare workers, etc. He added that the second wave is more dangerous than the first wave and therefore people will have to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour including masking in public places, hand sanitsation and physical distancing.“We will have to remain alert till April-end at least… So far, we have not reached the peak we had gone in September; we do not wish to as well. But for that we have to pray and take efforts. So, we will have to face some restrictions. We will have to impose some restrictions on enclosed spaces where there is crowding, [such as] offices, hotels, etc. We will announce rules regarding it in a couple of days,” Thackeray added.Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day numbers in vaccination on Thursday after it inoculated 228,550 beneficiaries, taking the tally to 2,354,261. Thursday saw 142,148 senior citizens getting vaccinated, while 25,715 beneficiaries were people will comorbidities between the age of 45 and 60. Besides that, 34,674 healthcare workers—both first and second doses—were inoculated. 16,013 frontline workers were inoculated on Thursday.Thackeray also appealed to people, who are eligible, to get vaccinated at the earliest. “There is no need to be afraid or confused about vaccination. As the Covid-19 cases are rising, all those who are eligible for vaccination should take it without any hesitation,” said Thackeray, while speaking to the media persons after taking the vaccine. Tourism minister Aditya Thackeray, principal secretary of health Dr Pradeep Vyas and others were also present.(with inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-14-317-new-covid-cases-lockdown-in-nagpur-night-curfew-in-panvel-101615487915312.html
12-03-2021||Other||Bathinda Cantt’s covid-19 vigil has milk vendors cry for relief to ply trade||Bathinda A year after the covid-19 pandemic hit the country and has now been lifted for months, scores of vendors supplying raw milk to residents of Bathinda cantonment are struggling to survive. These vendors or milkmen are landless or own up to two acre of cultivable land, with supplying milk as their main income source. Their land was acquired in the early 1980s for building the largest cantonment in the country. Most of them took to milk vending since 1985. These vendors collected milk from dozens of small dairy farmers and supplied nearly 10,000 litres per day to the households and other establishments in the local army area. This is now not happening. Narpat Singh of Bhucho Khurd was supplying nearly 200 litres every day, but had been out of business for the past year. His monthly earning was close to ₹50,000 but now he is unable to pay his equal monthly instalments for a car, house and contribution to the informal recurring investment sector.“Milk vendors were barred from entering the cantonment in the last week of March last year after the lockdown was imposed. Now, all other professions and sectors have resumed work, we are still not allowed to restart work with cantonment. This has been our only source of income for over three decades,” he said.Cantonment Branch Milk Vendors’ Union president Buta Singh said milk vending was the main occupation of members and the authorities should revoke the ban on their entry. Singh added, “The ban has affected nearly 1,500 families from whom we buy, having one or two cattle, who are struggling even to give feed to animals due to the disrupted chain of supply.” “Cantonment staff says milk vendors cannot enter inside, but other civilians are allowed to enter to supply packaged milk. We are dependent upon the army area and our members are ready to strictly follow all medical protocols while resuming work,” said Singh, of Bibiwala village.For Sandeep Singh, 31, of Bhagu village, the ongoing restrictions have made him sell six cattle over the past few months. Singh said he was now worried about paying school fee to his two children.“Besides maintaining 16 cattle with my elder brother, I was collecting more than 125 litre milk daily from other farmers. Like others, I have to sell the cattle as the profit margin by working with organised dairy sector is uneconomical. Small dairies in Bathinda face irregular demand,” he added.Army officials say vendors may have to wait until the pandemic eases. “Army authorities have a compassionate view of milk vendors’ difficulties, but the defence forces have strict instructions of following covid-19 guidelines,” said a functionary at the cantonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bathinda-cantt-s-covid-19-vigil-has-milk-vendors-cry-for-relief-to-ply-trade-101615487795501.html
12-03-2021||Kolkata||Three ‘assaults’ that marked Mamata Banerjee’s rise through street politics||Whether it was the street fight against the ruling Marxists as a youth Congress leader in the 1980s and 1990s or the tirade against former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s industrial policies in her avatar as the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief, allegations of physical assault against her adversaries have marked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s career.On August 16, 1990, when Banerjee was about to lead a youth Congress agitation at Hazra in south Kolkata, Bengal was rocked by the news of an assault on her by Lalu Alam, a CPI(M) youth wing worker. Images of Banerjee, with her head wrapped in bandage, and reports suggesting how the injuries might have crippled or killed her, shot the sale of newspapers.Banerjee, who had made news in 1984 by defeating CPI(M) veteran Somnath Chatterjee in the Jadavpur Lok Sabha election, shot in national politics as a member of Rajiv Gandhi’s team of young leaders.Nineteen years after that incident, Alam was acquitted by the court in 2019.Also read: Mamata Banerjee still has symptoms related to bony injuries, says doctorBanerjee recounts the alleged assault at political rallies even today. “They (BJP) keep parroting the words didi and bhatija (nephew). I feel bad when I see Abhishek facing this because of me. He was a child when he saw me getting injured in that attack. After growing up he wanted to join politics,” Banerjee said at a rally on February 18, countering Union home minister Amit Shah, who targeted her and Abhishek Banerjee at a BJP rally in South 24 Parganas district the same day.In October 1998, news of another alleged assault spread faster than wildfire.A decree from a Kolkata court had empowered the police to evict around 70 families of declared squatters from Bedi Bhawan, an expensive piece of land covered by a dilapidated property at Golpark in south Kolkata. When a huge police contingent reached the spot, they found Banerjee and her supporters. When her demand, that the court order be discussed with the residents, was not met, she entered into an altercation with the officers. As mercury rose, Banerjee alleged that the police assaulted her. She also alleged that someone had bitten her and torn her saree.Within an hour, people even in remote parts of Bengal heard rumours that she had been killed in a skirmish with the police. Railway tracks and national highways were blocked for hours. In the ransacking that took place, workers of the BJP, which was then an ally of the TMC, were also arrested.The third incident, which left a scar on the Bengal assembly, took place on November 30, 2006.Banerjee, then an MP, was on her way from Kolkata to Singur in Hooghly district to protest the Left Front government’s decision to hand over 990 acres of farmland to Tata Motors when she was allegedly stopped by the police on the highway. She returned to Kolkata and headed straight for the assembly house.Banerjee alleged before TMC lawmakers that she had been assaulted by some policemen. The MLAs vandalized furniture at random places. TMC workers tried to block traffic and shut down shops. The party called a 12-hour bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/three-assaults-that-marked-mamata-banerjee-s-rise-through-street-politics-101615486797210.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Covid spike raises fears of fresh wave in Delhi||The Capital on Thursday reported 409 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest single-day increase in cases in over two months, or since January 9, prompting experts to warn that yet another wave of the viral disease appears to be on the horizon in the city.Health experts expressed alarm over the resurgence of infections at a time when most curbs on social movement in the city have been lifted, and when people have let their guards down and stopped adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour (including attending weddings and gatherings), despite a vast majority remaining vulnerable to the disease. They also warned about the drop in the testing rate and said the current situation in the Capital appeared akin to what happened in Mumbai and Maharashtra not too long ago – about two weeks ago, the western state saw a rise in cases, and is now in the midst of a full-blown Covid-19 wave.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, in the Capital touched 322 on Thursday — it had dropped to 125 for the week ending February 12, which was the lowest in eight months. This number has now been rising for 17 days in a row, something that last happened in mid-November last year, before the city brought its third wave of infections under control.With Thursday’s addition, the total number infections in Delhi stands at 642,439, while three new deaths pushed the death toll to 10,934, according to the Delhi’s government’s Covid-19 bulletin.At the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 briefing on Thursday, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul singled out Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) and cautioned authorities about letting down their guard. He said that Delhi, along with Gurugram, Faridabad and to an extent Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad, is seeing a rise in positivity rate.“We still have a huge population at risk of this virus. This pandemic is not yet over. Be vigilant… Today, using the force of vaccination, we are in a position to give a stronger fight (to the pandemic). We plead again, do not lower your guard and please embrace the vaccines that are available,” Paul said.On average, 0.51% of all samples tested in Delhi in the past week have come back positive for Covid-19 (Thursday’s positivity rate was 0.59%). While this number is low in absolute terms (the World Health Organization recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5%), the worrying trend is that is it again rising. The average positivity rate in the city had touched the lowest ever (0.21%) for the week ending February 10.Testing, meanwhile, has dropped more than 20% from peak levels, data shows. In the past week, 65,599 samples have been tested every day in the city on average. This is despite Delhi government exhibiting that its testing capacity is much higher – at its peak, the city tested 83,151 a day for the week ending December 23, 2020.Experts warned that warning signs like the rising positivity rate, drop in testing, and the complacency among people regarding Covid-appropriate behaviour indicates that a surge of infections may be on the horizon. They said the government needs to quickly expand the qualifying range for vaccinations before it is too late.Also Read | Delhi: More than 29,000 people received Covid-19 vaccine doses on Thursday“When there is a fire somewhere, should we throw all the water we have at it or distribute it equally. What are the vaccines for? The government should vaccinate everyone over the age of 18 in the six states that have started seeing an increase in the number of cases. All the vaccines from other states should be diverted; the others can wait,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.“These are the warning signs for another surge in the number of infections in Delhi; there is no doubt about that... The euphoria of having low number of cases in Delhi was short-lived because people have stopped following Covid-19 norms such as social distancing and masking. The antibody levels against Covid-19 wane off after about three months; but we still do not know how long does the protection against the disease last. And, a seroprevalence of 56% also means that there is still a large susceptible population... The situation is exactly like it was during Diwali when people were out and about attending weddings and gatherings, leading to a lot of asymptomatic spread of the virus,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.“There is always a risk of surge in cases in Delhi, we can clearly see this in other countries like the United States and the United Kingdom, as well as closer home like Maharashtra — all these regions have had to go back into lockdowns again,” Khilnani added.Others added that increasing testing remains one of the only sure-shot ways to quickly isolate cases and stop transmission of the virus. “The government should ramp up testing to capacity now as that will help us in quickly identifying more people with the infection. If they are isolated and all their contacts are traced and tested, only then can we contain the spread of the infection. I believe that there is a need to trace and test as many as 15 to 20 contacts for each positive case,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-spike-raises-fears-of-fresh-wave-in-delhi-101615484764468.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||202 prisoners out on emergency parole fail to surrender, declared fugitives||Of the 1,184 prisoners who were released last year on “emergency parole” to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi jails, at least 202 prisoners have not surrendered even after the parole period has ended, said prison officers aware of the development. The absconding prisoners have now been declared “fugitives” and Delhi Police teams across the city are looking for them.In the past two weeks, police have arrested five such persons for street crimes such as robbery, attempted murder, snatching and carrying illegal arms. A senior Delhi Police officer, who did not wish to be named, said several prisoners who were out on parole had returned to crime.As one of the first measures to decongest jails and ensure social distancing at the start of the pandemic, these 1,000-odd prisoners were released on “emergency parole” in April last year. The three jails of Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini collectively hold over 18,000 prisoners, well above their sanctioned strength and a high-powered committee had stressed upon the need to decongest prison complexes.With Covid cases abating in Delhi, the out-on-parole prisoners were told to start surrendering from February 6, in small batches of 10 or 20. The surrender process ended on March 6 and the prison department checked the records to find at least 202 prisoners missing.On March 3, absconding prisoner Vinod Yadav --- he has more than 31 cases of theft, robbery, and snatching against him -- who was out on parole since October 14, was arrested in a robbery case. Police said while on parole, Yadav had committed at least nine instances of snatching. The same afternoon, another prisoner, Kanwaljeet Singh, was arrested with illegal weapons. Three days before that, fugitive Javed (identified by a single name in police records) was arrested for snatching.Javed, who has 10 cases against him, was released on parole in April 2020 but had failed to surrender last month.A mid-level prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “In most cases, we found that their cellphones were switched off or the number they gave for the records is no longer active. In other cases, someone would answer the phone and quickly tell us that we dialled the wrong number. We have sent a message to the local police stations about such persons.”Prison officers said they have informed police stations from where the prisoners, now fugitives, were first arrested and brought to prison. Director-general, prisons, Sandeep Goel said, “There are around 200 such prisoners who did not surrender. As of now, we have informed police stations, but we will also send a consolidated list to the Delhi Police headquarters. Some prisoners may have genuine reasons for not surrendering. We will look at each case on its merits.”The punishment for not surrendering after parole includes cancellation of furlough or parole for the next one to three years, depending on the gravity of their offence.Among those who had failed to surrender and was arrested later was Shamshad, sentenced to life imprisonment in the infamous 2010 Dhaula Kuan gang rape case of a woman. Shamshad was released on parole on April 20, 2020. He had to surrender on February 20, 2021. On February 23, when he was arrested, he had been a fugitive for three days, like the 202 others who are now on the run. Delhi Police has said Shamshad, while on parole, had committed at least 12 break-ins at ATM kiosks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/202-prisoners-out-on-emergency-parole-fail-to-surrender-declared-fugitives-101615484796231.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Doorstep delivery of ration in Delhi likely from March 25||Delhi government’s ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme is likely to be launched on March 25 by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, senior officials said on Thursday. The scheme, named Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana, will be first rolled out in the Seemapuri area of north-east Delhi’s Shahdara district.Delhi food and supplies minister Imran Hussain said the service will first be rolled out in 100 households in Seemapuri and then extended to other areas across the city from April 1.On January 25, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the scheme will be operational by March. The project was cleared by the Delhi Cabinet in March 2018 but could not be rolled out because of several administrative issues, some of which even led to stand-offs between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and officials in charge of the department.The scheme, which will be an optional service, can potentially make monthly ration more accessible to 1.75 million households in the capital, exempting families from long queues at fair price shops.“The food and supplies department is currently identifying the first 100 households in Seemapuri zone where ration will be home delivered. These 100 households will be covered in a week’s time after which, from April 1 the scheme will be expanded to cover more areas such as New Delhi and Ballimaran (old Delhi) to name a few. Additional zones will be included on a weekly basis,” a senior official from the department said.On February 20, the Delhi government notified a policy document prescribing the modalities of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme.“The beneficiaries of the existing TPDS [targeted public distribution system] in Delhi will be asked whether they want to enrol under the scheme or continue getting their ration from the Fair Price shops. Those who will not opt for the scheme shall continue to get their ration as per the existing mechanism and price. Beneficiaries will be able allowed to change their mode of getting ration in the beginning of every financial year,” read the notified document, which HT has seen.It further said foodgrains will be collected from food corporation godowns by agencies empanelled by the government and sent to mills where grains such as wheat will be processed into flour and packed. Similarly, there will be units for the cleaning and packing of rice too. The packets will be delivered to fair price shops and from thereon to residences of beneficiaries who opt for the scheme.The beneficiaries will have to register the receipt of the ration with their fingerprints on the biometric-based electronic point-of-sales (e-POS) machines, which representatives of the agencies entrusted with doorstep delivery will carry. The entire operation will be monitored from the godown stage to the doorstep through CCTV cameras, GPS-fitted vehicles, e-POS logs, etc, said the document.Delhi has 1.75 million ration cardholders, which translates to 7.16 million beneficiaries, according to authorities. Of the total ration card holders, 1.51 million are covered under the priority household category of the National Food Security Act, 2013, while 0.17 million are covered under the priority state household category, and the remaining 0.07 million come under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana, show government records.While those under the first two categories are entitled to 5kg of foodgrains a month, those under the third category are entitled to 25kg wheat, 10kg rice and 1kg sugar every month. These items are distributed to them from 2,010 fair price shops that are currently functional across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doorstep-delivery-of-ration-in-delhi-likely-from-march-25-101615484794343.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Teachers of 12 DU colleges start indefinite university shutdown in DU||Teachers of Delhi University on Thursday started an indefinite “university shutdown”, suspending classes in some colleges and refraining from taking up administrative work in some others, to protest against the delayed salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff at 12 government-funded colleges.Though several principals said that the impact of the strike was minimal due to Thursday being a restricted holiday (due to Mahashivratri), members of the staff association of various colleges deemed it a success.The 12 fully state-funded colleges in DU have been at loggerheads with the Delhi government since 2019 over the formation of governing bodies and the delay in release of grants. The Delhi government had last year alleged that a special audit sanctioned by them had revealed financial irregularities in these colleges, indicating a “big fraud” and “ghost appointments”.Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “Many teachers took online classes today. Since today was a restricted holiday (under which teachers have the choice to take the leave or not), it will be tough to gauge the impact of the shutdown. We will only know in the coming days. However, teaching and non-teaching staff go on a strike , academic activities will be hampered.”Referring to the final exams slated to begin next week for first-year undergraduate students, Khanna said, “Since the exams will be held online, the strike is likely to have a minimal impact on them. We will be providing options for offline exams and only a handful of students are expected to appear in person for them. The principal and a few staff members can conduct those exams if needed.”Kumar Rahul, president of the staff association at Ramjas College, however, said that the strike had been successful. “The strike was largely successful. Since classes are still taking place in online mode, it is difficult to ascertain if people actually refrain or take online classes. When we had given the call for a strike, we received positive responses from our group. Teachers also called us and asked if they could take classes after 5pm, after their official working hours so that students do not suffer.”Sujit Kumar, executive member of staff association of the state government-funded Bhim Rao Ambedkar College and Commerce teacher said that their college had observed the strike. “We have to submit marks of practicals or internal assessments by March 13. We did not do so today because of the strike. How long can we work without a salary?” he said.A Delhi government spokesperson said the situation implies “bad financial management” by college authorities who had not paid salaries despite release of grants.“The non-submission of utilisation certificates of previous instalments by the colleges has delayed the release of final instalment by the Delhi government..It seems as if there is an attempt to hide financial irregularities by not submitting utilisation certificates,” the official said, adding that they would launch a probe into the ‘financial mismanagement’.Governing body members of Deen Dayal Upadhyay College cry scamA government-appointed governing body (GB) member of Deen Dayal Upadhyay College on Thursday alleged financial mismanagement of funds by college officials, which has led to pending wages for the staff. The 10-member governing body of the college comprises people nominated both by the university and the Delhi government and take important decisions, like appointment of staff members.GB member Anil Chaudhury on Thursday said that the Delhi government has cleared the third instalment dues for the college in December 2020 but the college has not paid the salaries of teachers and others for the last several months. He said that the college has funds to the tune of ₹6.48 crore with it“As per our knowledge, the government of Delhi has sanctioned the third instalment of grant-in-aid to the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, which amounts to Rs.1.95 crore, under the salary head and ₹0.45 crore under the other salary head. However, the college has failed to submit any utilisation certificate for the same. This non-submission of the utilisation certificate has caused a delay in the Delhi government releasing the fourth installment for the college,” said Chaudhary.Reacting to the allegations, college principal Hem Chand Jain said, “The government released ₹1.9 crore as against salary requirement of ₹10 crore. The allegations levied by them are baseless. ₹6 crore that they are talking about is the student security fund which is refundable. The other funds stated by them are hostel fund and college development fund which cannot be used for other purposes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-of-12-du-colleges-start-indefinite-university-shutdown-in-du-101615484734097.html
12-03-2021||Delhi||Light rain expected due to western disturbance||The city might receive light rain on Friday due to a western disturbance, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The IMD has predicted spells of light rain on Friday across parts of Delhi and NCR.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “We are expecting light rain in the morning on account of a western disturbance. The wind speed is also likely to pick up.”The city’s air quality entered the poor zone on Thursday, recording an air quality index (AQI) reading of 268 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, a rise from Wednesday’s AQI reading of 122 (moderate).Experts attributed the deterioration to calm surface wind conditions on Thursday.The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 156.52 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Thursday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 182.62 µg/m3 on Thursday. The PM 2.5 concentration at Teri Gram monitor stood at 232.56 µg/m3.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality likely to improve and remain in the moderate category on Friday and Saturday due to rain and better ventilation. “There is a possibility of very light rain/thundershowers accompanied by gusty winds (speed-30-40 kmph) towards evening/night on Thursday. Subsequently, over the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to poor category.”The minimum temperature on Thursday, as per the IMD’s weather system at the Palam observatory in Delhi, was 19.1 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 33.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the normal for this time of the year and a two-degree rise from the previous day’s 31.8 degrees Celsius.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 29 and 19 degrees Celsius respectively on Friday. While light rain or drizzle is expected on Thursday night, a thunderstorm with hail has been predicted for Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/light-rain-expected-due-to-western-disturbance-101615482156576.html
12-03-2021||Other||Chhatar Manzil restoration project to resume, gondola will be housed in Darbar Hall||LUCKNOW The 42-ft-long and 11-ft-wide gondola (a traditional, flat-bottomed boat) unearthed during excavation at the 220-year-old Chhatar Manzil in 2019 would eventually be housed in the building’s Darbar Hall. This will be part of the exercise for Chhatar Manzil’s restoration, which is expected to take off this month.The project will also include the excavation of the gondola that is still lying buried on Chhatar Manzil’s premises, said officials with the UP State Archaeology Department (UPSAD). “The stalled Chhatar Manzil beautification work is set to start again. Funds for the project are likely to be released by March, after which the excavation and relocation exercise of gondola would start,” said AK Singh, director, state museum who holds additional charge of UPSAD director. Singh said as per the proposed plan, the gondola would be housed in Darbar Hall of the Chhatar Manzil, which itself would be transformed into a museum. “No place would be better than the Darbar Hall to house the gondola. I think it would be a major tourist attraction,” said Singh. The UPSAD had also written a letter to UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (UPRNN) —the construction agency engaged in the ongoing work – to suggest an agency to ensure the safe excavation of the gondola, which could also be a royal boat. UPSAD officials said the excavation agency for the gondola was yet to be finalised. Some officials said the UPRNN or the UPSAD could rope in the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) or the National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property (NRLC) or UPSAD’s excavation wing to take out the gondola safely. The gondola was unearthed on May 8, 2019, during excavation work at Chhatar Manzil when excavators and experts from UPRNN stumbled upon a wooden structure that was partially visible. It was later confirmed that the wooden structure was nothing else but a colossal gondola. The faculty of architecture, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), is the consultant in the Chhatar Manzil restoration and conservation project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhatar-manzil-restoration-project-to-resume-gondola-will-be-housed-in-darbar-hall-101615462533205.html
12-03-2021||World||Refrain from forming ‘exclusive cliques’: China on Quad summit||The Quad grouping - comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia - shouldn’t undermine the interests of any third party or form “cliques”, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Friday while the state-controlled media dismissed its first-ever summit as an attempt to copy the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Nato) model.“State-to-state exchanges and cooperation should help enhance mutual understanding and trust among regional countries, instead of targeting against or undermining the interests of any third party,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters on Friday.“We hope relevant countries will follow the principles of openness, inclusiveness and win-win results, refrain from forming closed and exclusive cliques and act in a way that is conducive to regional peace, stability and prosperity,” Zhao said.The tabloid Global Times reported, “While the US is trying to contain China through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, known as Quad, or the ‘Asian Nato’, such ambition is impossible to realise.” It’s interesting how Xinhua, China’s official news agency, had described Quad last year. It had referenced Australia’s decision to join Exercise Malabar 2020.“The decision, announced after the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) held in Tokyo, has pulled Australia militarily back into Quad, an informal strategic forum originally formed by the United States, Japan, Australia and India in 2007,” Xinhua had reported.“There is no reason for China to be messed around with such baseless speculations as China, though having taken note of the latest development, has made it clear that military cooperation between countries should be conducive to regional peace and stability,” the report had added.Wang Yi, China’s state councillor and foreign minister, had last year dismissed Quad as a “so-called Indo-Pacific new Nato”.Wang was quoted in a statement by the Chinese foreign ministry as saying the “Indo-Pacific strategy” proposed by the US is in essence aimed at building a so-called Indo-Pacific “new Nato” underpinned by the quadrilateral mechanism involving India, the US, Japan and Australia.“The strategy is to trumpet the old-fashioned Cold War mentality to stir up confrontation among different groups and blocs and to stoke geopolitical competition, in a bid to maintain the dominance and hegemonic system of the United States,” Wang was quoted as saying during a visit to Malaysia last October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/refrain-from-forming-exclusive-cliques-china-on-quad-summit-101615571919983.html
12-03-2021||World||Google slams Microsoft over support for media antitrust bill||Alphabet Inc.’s Google attacked Microsoft Corp. for rallying support for legislation that would give news publishers more power to negotiate with technology platforms for payment for content.Google said in a blog post on Friday that Microsoft is engaging in “naked corporate opportunism” by appearing before Congress to back a proposal that would allow media organizations to band together to negotiate with Google and Facebook Inc.“They are reverting to their familiar playbook of attacking rivals and lobbying for regulations that benefit their own interests,” wrote Google’s chief legal officer Kent Walker. “They are now making self-serving claims and are even willing to break the way the open web works in an effort to undercut a rival.”Google’s statement came ahead of a hearing Friday held by the House antitrust panel that’s considering legislative proposals aimed at reining in the power of Google and Facebook, and fostering competition in digital markets. The committee, led by Democratic Representative David Cicilline of Rhode Island, last fall released the findings of a 16-month investigation that accused tech platforms of abusing their dominance.Friday’s hearing was focused on legislation introduced in the House and Senate this week that would give news publishers an antitrust exemption to band together to negotiate with the tech platforms.‘Lost Forever’“It’s clear that we must do something in the short term to save trustworthy journalism before it’s lost forever,” Cicilline said. “This bill is one support measure, not the answer for ensuring the long-term health of the news industry. We need an all-of-the-above approach to save journalism and to take out monopoly power.”Microsoft President Brad Smith testified in favor of the news media bill. He lamented the closing of small newspapers in communities across the country, and blamed tech companies for siphoning advertising revenue from news organizations. He placed particular blame on Google’s control over the digital advertising market.“The problems that beset journalism today are caused in part by a fundamental lack of competition in the search and ad tech markets that are controlled by Google,” Smith said in his written testimony. “As a result, there is a persistent and structural imbalance between a technology gatekeeper and the free press, particularly small and independent news organizations.”Pay for ContentMicrosoft is pushing lawmakers around the world to approve measures to force the tech platforms to pay news outlet for content. The software maker publicly backed a law in Australia that prompted Facebook last month to impose a news blackout on its site, and has called for a similar measure in Europe.Smith has couched Microsoft’s support as a way to promote a healthy news industry and democratic speech, but the move could also help Microsoft’s Bing search engine gain ground against Google. Microsoft compensates news organizations through licensing deals for its MSN web portal, and said last year that it has paid out more than $1 billion since 2014.Republicans also blamed Google and Facebook for harming news publishers and accused them of using their power to censor content.“These companies track and seek to run our lives through their technologies and algorithms,” said Republican Ken Buck of Colorado. “Big tech companies have become digital kings and they represent precisely the kind of political power the antitrust laws are designed to tackle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-slams-microsoft-over-support-for-media-antitrust-bill-101615569646563.html
12-03-2021||World||Covid-19: WHO chief says situation in Brazil 'deeply concerning'||The state of the Covid-19 pandemic in Brazil is very concerning and serious action needs to be taken to deal with rising cases and deaths there, the head of the World Health Organization said on Friday."Unless serious measures are taken the upward trend now flooding the health system and becoming more than its capacity will result in more deaths," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.He said all stakeholders should take the situation seriously, adding that neighbouring countries could be affected."The situation is deeply concerning and the measures that should be taken should be as serious as possible," Tedros said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-who-chief-says-situation-in-brazil-deeply-concerning-101615569086508.html
12-03-2021||World||Britain urges citizens to leave Myanmar as violence against protesters mounts||Britain urged its citizens to leave Myanmar on Friday as security forces cracked down on more protests against the junta, forcing patients out of a hospital in the west of the country and arresting a Polish journalist.After 12 people were killed on Thursday in one of the bloodiest days since the Feb. 1 coup, the British foreign office warned that "political tension and unrest are widespread since the military takeover and levels of violence are rising".Friday's protests came as South Korea said it would suspend defence exchanges and reconsider development aid to Myanmar because of the violence.More than 70 protesters have now been killed in the Southeast Asian nation since the military seized power, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) advocacy group said.Memorials were held for some of them on Friday, including one man whose family said his body had been taken by the security forces and not returned.A spokesman for the junta did not answer phone calls from Reuters seeking comment."Despite repeated demands of the international community, including South Korea, there are an increasing number of victims in Myanmar due to violent acts of the military and police authorities," South Korea's foreign ministry said in a statement.It said Seoul would suspend defence exchanges, ban arms exports, limit exports of other strategic items, reconsider development aid and grant humanitarian exemptions allowing Myanmar nationals to stay in South Korea until the situation improved.Protests were held in Yangon, Myanmar's biggest city, and several other towns on Friday, photographs posted on social media by witnesses and news organisations showed. Many were dispersed by security forces.Poland's foreign ministry said a Polish journalist was arrested, the second foreign reporter to be detained. A Japanese journalist was briefly held while covering a protest.Riot police and armed soldiers entered the general hospital in Hakha, in the western Chin state, forcing all 30 patients to leave and evicting staff from on-site housing, said local activist Salai Lian.Soldiers have been occupying hospitals and universities across Myanmar as they try to quash a civil disobedience movement that started with government employees like doctors and teachers but has expanded into a general strike that has paralysed many sectors of the economy.The country has been in crisis since the army ousted Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government last month, detained her and officials of her National League for Democracy party, and set up a ruling junta of generals.Junta spokesman Brigadier General Zaw Min Tun said on Thursday Suu Kyi had accepted gold and illegal payments worth $600,000 while in government. He said Phyo Min Thein, a former chief minister of Yangon, who is also in jail, had admitted making the payments.Adding corruption charges to the accusations facing Suu Kyi, 75, could bring her a harsher penalty. The Nobel Peace Prize laureate currently faces four comparatively minor charges, such as illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios and flouting coronavirus curbs."This accusation is the most hilarious joke," Suu Kyi's lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said on social media on Friday. "She might have other weaknesses but she doesn't have weakness in moral principle."'Crimes against humanity'Thursday's dead included eight people killed when security forces fired on a protest in the central town of Myaing, the AAPP said.Chit Min Thu was killed in the North Dagon district of Yangon. His wife, Aye Myat Thu, told Reuters he had insisted on joining the protests despite her appeals that he stay at home for the sake of their son."He said it's worth dying for," she said through her tears. "He is worried about people not joining the protest. If so, democracy will not return."The bloodshed came hours after the U.N. Security Council had called for restraint from the army.U.N. human rights investigator Thomas Andrews on Friday dismissed as "absurd" comments by a senior Myanmar official that authorities were exercising "utmost restraint". Addressing the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva, he called for a united approach to "strip away the junta's sense of impunity."The army did not respond to requests for comment on the latest deaths, but junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun said on Thursday the security forces were disciplined and used force only when necessary.Rights group Amnesty International accused the army of using lethal force against protesters and said many killings it had documented amounted to extra-judicial executions.Suu Kyi fought for decades to overturn military rule under previous juntas before tentative democratic reforms began in 2011. She had spent a total of about 15 years under house arrest.The army has justified taking power by saying that a November election, overwhelmingly won by Suu Kyi's party, was marred by fraud - an assertion rejected by the electoral commission.The junta has said a state of emergency will last for a year, but has not set a date for the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-urges-citizens-to-leave-myanmar-as-violence-against-protesters-mounts-101615565638600.html
12-03-2021||World||Farmers’ issue ‘absolutely, totally’ a matter for India: UK minister||India as a democracy has guaranteed the right to protest throughout and the farmers’ protests over agricultural reforms is an issue that is “absolutely and totally” a matter for the government of India, UK minister Lord Tariq Ahmad said on Friday ahead of his visit to New Delhi.A debate in a UK parliamentary committee room earlier this week over the issue was condemned by India as “gross interference in the politics of another democratic country” and even led to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla calling in British High Commissioner Alex Ellis for a meeting.Lord Ahmad, the minister of state responsible for Indian affairs in the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), will begin his five-day visit to India on Monday.“It was a very cordial meeting. It was the first time they were formally meeting and whilst the issue of the protests was discussed and India made clear their position, we have also reiterated the point that the parliamentary scheduling of debates and the nature of our parliamentary democracy is such (but) the government's position can be made very clear too,” he said during a virtual pre-visit interaction with reporters here.“The protests have been taking place for several months now and India as a democracy has totally guaranteed and secured the right to protest, which we fully acknowledge. I equally fully want to endorse, and regularly articulate, that the principle of the farmers' protest in terms of the actual nature of it is absolutely and totally a matter for the government of India. That position has been longstanding and has not changed,” he said.The minister categorically ruled out any scope of the matter overshadowing his extensive schedule in India, which covers ministerial meetings in New Delhi, followed by interactions with regional and community leaders in Chandigarh, Chennai and Hyderabad before concluding with trade talks in Mumbai.The visit is seen as further finalising the groundwork for the forthcoming tour of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who is scheduled to visit India in the coming weeks ahead of the G7 summit in Cornwall in June.“The intense programme underlines the importance of our strong relationship with India. It follows on from our ongoing senior-level engagement at ministerial level. We look forward to the Prime Minister's (Johnson) visit in advance of Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi visiting as part of the G7,” the minister said.“Our relationship with India is not just one of bilateral importance, it's also about how these two countries are working together and there's no better illustration than the current Covid-19 pandemic which grips us… The role that India has played as the pharmacy of the world has been phenomenal.“We've been extremely collaborative in our approach to this and publicly acknowledged the role India played in unlocking certain other pharmaceuticals, including the delivery of paracetamol,” Ahmad said.With reference to planned supplies of a batch of Covishield vaccines from the Serum Institute of India to the UK, the minister reiterated that it symbolised the wide range of bilateral ties and would not impact both countries’ commitment to ensuring supplies to more vulnerable regions through the UN-led COVAX facility.“We work together with India on securing domestic supplies but that hasn't taken away from our commitment through Gavi (the Vaccine Alliance) to the COVAX facility. India, through the likes of the Serum Institute of India, are absolutely integrated to ensure the supply of that,” he said.Ahmad’s visit to India will coincide with the UK’s release of the government’s Integrated Review into its post-Brexit foreign policy priorities next week, which is widely expected to confirm a so-called Indo-Pacific tilt in favour of countries like India.While not wanting to be drawn into the specifics of the review, the minister said: “It can be taken as read in as much as government policy is concerned, there is a very strong belief and focus on the Indo-Pacific tilt and it’s right we do so. When you look at the countries within that part of the region, India is foremost in our minds.”This will be the latest in a series of high-profile UK visits to India in preparation for Prime Ministers Johnson and Modi signing off on a highly-anticipated UK-India Enhanced Trade Partnership, which is seen a precursor to a wider free trade agreement (FTA) in the future.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops.The Indian government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the mandi system.Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have not been able to resolve the deadlock.India has emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity and the Ministry of External Affairs said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken," it said last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmers-issue-absolutely-totally-a-matter-for-india-uk-minister-101615568517853.html
12-03-2021||World||'Free and open' Indo-Pacific essential for all, says Biden||In a clear message to China, President Joe Biden told leaders of the Quad coalition on Friday that a "free and open" Indo-Pacific is essential to their countries and vowed that the US was committed to working with its partners and allies in the region to achieve stability amidst Beijing's coercive actions.In his opening remarks during the first virtual summit of the Quad leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Biden described Quad as a new mechanism to enhance cooperation and raise mutual ambition as the member states address accelerating climate change."A free and open Indo-Pacific is essential to each of our futures, our countries," Biden told the top leaders of the Quadrilateral alliance involving the US, India, Australia and Japan.“This is a group particularly important because it is dedicated to the practical solutions and concrete results," he said at the virtual summit, which is the first conclave of the top leaders of the Quad."We know our commitments...Our region is governed by international law, committed to all the universal values and free from coercion but I am optimistic about our prospect,” he said, in an apparent reference to China which is flexing its muscles in the strategically vital region.Biden noted that their meeting is also the first multilateral summit that he had the opportunity to host as president since assuming office on January 20."The Quad is going to be vital in our cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and I look forward to looking closely to working with all of you in the coming years," Biden told the Quad leaders as he requested Prime Minister Modi to speak."It's great to see you," Biden, who is attending the summit less than two months after he took charge as US President, told Prime Minister Modi.The other Quad leaders expressed similar excitement and willingness to collaborate in the Indo-Pacific region.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison thanked President Biden for brining in the four nations together and said that ''history teaches us that we are nations engaged together in a partnership of strategic trust of common hope and shared values, much can be achieved.''Stating that it will be the Indo-Pacific which will now shape the destiny of the world in the 21st century, Scott said that "as leaders of four great liberal democracies in Indo-Pacific let our partnership be the enabler of peace, stability and prosperity."Morrison said it was important to do so inclusively with the many nations in the region in order to respect and support their sovereignty, independence and security by upholding the values and supporting international law and to address many challenges from COVID to climate change.He said that Australia was ready to look into these tasks and do its share of heavy lifting.Earlier, Morrison dubbed the meet as "a historic meeting of four leaders from these nations, which are such close friends."Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga recalled the 2004 Tsunami disaster when Quad first member states came together."We received massive support from the US, Australia, and India in our response to the disaster. Joe visited the affected area soon after the disaster, and I think you once again," he said.The Quad summit took place as China and India are involved in a military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May last year. After lengthy rounds of talks, the two sides simultaneously withdrew troops from Pangong Lake area last month while talks are on for the withdrawal of soldiers from the rest of the friction points along the LAC.China is also engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. In the East China Sea Japan has maritime disputes with China.Beijing claims almost all of the 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory. China has been building military bases on artificial islands in the region also claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.China has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both maritime areas in the South and East China seas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are also vital to global trade.Known as the "Quadrilateral Security Dialogue,” representatives for the four member nations have met periodically since its establishment in 2007.The Quad member states have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region.The foreign ministers of the Quad countries held a virtual meeting on February 18 during which they vowed to uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes.The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness.The Quad foreign ministers held their first meeting under the Quadrilateral or Quad framework in New York in September 2019.In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. PTI LKJ NC CPS ZH AKJ AKJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/free-and-open-indo-pacific-essential-for-all-says-biden-101615567951716.html
12-03-2021||World||US lawmakers Nadler, Ocasio-Cortez call on New York governor Cuomo to resign||Multiple members of New York’s congressional delegation called Friday on Gov. Andrew Cuomo to resign in the wake of mounting allegations of sexual harassment and an allegation of groping.The Democratic governor has denied he ever touched anyone inappropriately, and has said he’s sorry if he ever made anyone uncomfortable.But a majority of state lawmakers are calling on him to resign, and Democratic congressional members including US Reps. Jerry Nadler and Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez joined those calls Friday. Nadler said Cuomo has lost the confidence of New Yorkers.“The repeated accusations against the governor, and the manner in which he has responded to them, have made it impossible for him to continue to govern at this point,” Nadler said.Cuomo’s office didn’t immediately respond to request for comment.The state Assembly allowed an impeachment investigation into Cuomo on Thursday as lawmakers investigate whether there are grounds for impeachment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-nadler-ocasio-cortez-call-on-new-york-governor-cuomo-to-resign-101615565623304.html
12-03-2021||World||'Will hike budget deficit further': Italy PM Draghi on plan to boost economy||Prime Minister Mario Draghi said on Friday he would hike this year's budget deficit further in order to support the economy hit by a worsening coronavirus crisis and promised to intensify Italy's vaccination drive.Speaking at an inoculation centre at Rome's Fiumicino airport, Draghi also played down health concerns about the AstraZeneca vaccine, which some countries have suspended following the deaths of a handful of people who had taken it."I will propose to parliament ... a new increase in the deficit," said Draghi, who took office a month ago at the head of a government of national unity.Rome's most recent estimate was for a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 8.8% this year, down only slightly from 9.5% in 2020 when the economy shrank by 8.9%, Italy's steepest recession since World War Two.Draghi spoke shortly after the cabinet approved a decree ordering a nationwide lockdown over the Easter weekend. It also toughened curbs on economic activity and freedom of movement from Monday to try to rein in a rise in COVID-19 infections.Italy has reported more than 100,000 deaths from the disease since discovering its first cases 13 months ago, the seventh highest toll worldwide.Draghi said a new decree to be presented next week will extend furlough schemes, bolster income support for the poor and simplify procedures to compensate firms whose revenue have been hit by COVID closures.This package of measures, worth 32 billion euros ($38.17 billion), was already budgeted for by the previous government, while Draghi said he would ask parliament in April for authorisation to increase spending further.Draghi said Italy's medicines authority believed there was no link between the AstraZeneca vaccine and recent deaths of people who had taken it, which prompted Denmark, Norway, Iceland and Bulgaria to suspend the vaccine and Italy to block a batch.Italy is currently vaccinating some 170,000 people per day, the prime minister said, adding: "The goal is to triple that quickly."Amid reports of many Italians managing to get vaccinated ahead of the elderly and chronically sick, Draghi appealed for a sense of responsibility."I ask everyone to wait their turn," he said, citing the example of the 79-year-old head of state Sergio Mattarella, who was only vaccinated this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-hike-budget-deficit-further-italy-pm-draghi-on-how-to-support-economy-101615564326969.html
12-03-2021||World||Explained: Mexico’s landmark move to legalise marijuana and possible impact on US||Mexico’s lower house on Wednesday passed landmark legislation that would decriminalise the use of cannabis for recreational purposes. The legislation will now go to the Senate for a review and final vote, before President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, popularly known as AMLO, signs the bill into law, which would potentially make Mexico one of the biggest legal marijuana markets in the world.Mexico’s Supreme Court has set a April 30 deadline for lawmakers to pass the bill after the apex court declared the prohibition unconstitutional. López Obrador has also backed the bill, saying it would help the government curb drug-related violence which claims thousands of lives every year. Mexico is now on the verge of becoming the third country in the world, after Canada and Uruguay, to legalise cannabis nationwide for recreational use.The bill is aimed at establishing a system of licenses required for the entire chain of production, distribution, transformation and sales. Individuals will also be allowed to grow cannabis plant for personal use, with not more than six plants per individual and a maximum of eight in a single household. According to the bill in its current form, adults will be fined if they are caught with more than one ounce (28 grams) of marijuana. The bill also provides for a jail term for adults if they are caught with more than 12 pounds (5.6 kilogrammes) of marijuana.Lisa Sanchez, director of Mexico United Against Crime, a non-governmental organisation that has been pushing marijuana legalisation, told news agency AFP that “in theory, it will create the largest legal market in the world due to Mexico's production capacity.” Sanchez said that marijuana grows in Mexico in “natural conditions without the energy investments that are made in Canada.”The United States is likely to get sandwiched between potentially the two biggest legal marijuana markets if the bill becomes law. According to a Politico report, the move could even pressure US President Joe Biden, who doesn’t support legalising weed, to embrace marijuana. Although Biden doesn’t support full legalisation, he is in favour of ending criminal penalties and expanding medical research.The US House, controlled by Democrats, passed legislation in December 2020 that would end federal penalties for cannabis possession. However, the White House is yet to comment on whether Mexico’s move would change Biden’s stance on the use of marijuana for recreational purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-mexico-s-landmark-move-to-legalise-marijuana-possible-impact-on-us-101615563753686.html
12-03-2021||World||NYC prosecutor overseeing probe against Trump probe says won't seek reelection||The veteran New York City prosecutor overseeing a criminal investigation into former President Donald Trump said Friday that he won't seek reelection, opting against a primary fight with progressive candidates who say he's a relic, not a reformer.Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. and almost certainly guaranteeing it'll be a brand-new D.A. who sees the Trump case through. His term expires at the end of the year.Vance, a Democrat, counted Harvey Weinstein's rape conviction a year ago among his crowning achievements but faced withering criticism over other high-profile cases, including dropping rape charges against French financier Dominique Strauss-Kahn in 2011 and declining to prosecute Ivanka and Donald Trump Jr. over fraud allegations in 2012.“I never imagined myself as District Attorney for decades like my predecessors. I never thought of this as my last job, even though it’s the best job and biggest honor I’ll ever have. I said twelve years ago that change is fundamentally good and necessary for any institution,” Vance, 66, said in a written statement.His decision not to seek reelection was widely anticipated, but he held off on making it official while the U.S. Supreme Court weighed whether his office could obtain Trump’s tax records. The court ruled in Vance’s favor last month.Some of the Democrats campaigning to replace Vance want to slash the office's budget, cut staff and skip prosecutions for a wider range of low-level offenses. Eight candidates — including six women and a Black man — are on the ballot for the party’s June primary, an election likely to decide Vance’s successor because Manhattan is so heavily Democratic.As D.A., Vance ended most prosecutions for possessing and smoking marijuana and for jumping subway turnstiles, slashing the cases handled by his office by nearly 60%, to about 42,000 in 2019. He also embraced diversionary programs for first-time offenders and established a unit to review old cases and remedy wrongful convictions.The Supreme Court ruling on access to Trump's taxes was a capstone for Vance's tenure as district attorney, ending an 18-month fight with Trump's lawyers and bolstering a grand jury investigation that has drawn worldwide attention.Vance's wide-ranging investigation includes examining whether Trump or his businesses lied about the value of assets to gain favorable loan terms and tax benefits, and hush-money payments paid to women on Trump’s behalf.Vance will lead that probe through the end of this year with his general counsel, Carey Dunne, who made appeals court arguments on the office's behalf. He recently hired former mafia prosecutor Mark Pomerantz to assist in the probe.The Trump case will likely be an early test for the next D.A. And in the short term, legal observers say, Vance's announcement could hasten the departure of prosecutors who've been loyal to him and won't want to work for his successor.The candidates have avoided speaking directly about the Trump matter, saying they didn't want to prejudge an ongoing investigation.“What’s really important is that if there’s a case or if it’s just an investigation that’s pretty far along that it’d be left in the hands of somebody who knows what they’re doing, who’s competent, who’s experienced, who has judgment and who doesn’t think politically,” said Daniel R. Alonso, Vance’s former chief assistant district attorney who's now a partner at Buckley LLP.Vance’s successor will be just the fourth elected district attorney in Manhattan in the last 80 years. Frank Hogan served for 31 years. Robert Morgenthau was in office for 34 years, until he was 90.It’s one of the most high-profile prosecution jobs in the world, dramatized on TV’s “Law and Order” and “Blue Bloods.” The district attorney oversees a staff of 500 lawyers and has a budget of about $125 million.A separate forfeiture fund bankrolled by Wall Street settlements and worth more than $800 million is used for grants to criminal justice and community organizations and big initiatives, such as testing backlogged rape kits.Vance ran as a death penalty opponent and positioned himself as a national criminal justice innovator, taking interest in national and global efforts to prevent cyberattacks, gun violence and the theft of artwork and antiquities.After he made a made a campaign pledge to re-examine the 1979 disappearance of 6-year-old Etan Patz, a 2012 tip led to a new suspect and ultimately a conviction.Weinstein’s conviction in a landmark #MeToo case last year boosted Vance’s lagging legacy, giving him a career-defining win in a tenure clouded by concerns that he repeatedly gave powerful people special treatment.They included sidestepping an effort to pursue charges against Weinstein in 2015 and striking a deal in 2016 so well-connected gynecologist Robert Hadden could avoid prison for allegedly sexually abusing patients. Vance's office reopened the Hadden case amid public outcry last year, and the doctor was indicted on federal charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nyc-prosecutor-overseeing-probe-against-trump-probe-says-won-t-seek-reelection-101615563762960.html
12-03-2021||World||Memo banning Afghan girls from singing prompts #IAmMySong protest||A memo from Afghanistan's education ministry banning girls 12 years old and older from singing at school functions has been causing a stir on social media, prompting the authorities to say it was a mistake and that its authors had misunderstood the objective.Still, #IAmMySong is gaining traction on Twitter, with some Afghan girls singing their favorite tunes for the camera and calls popping up for petitions to oppose the directive.The controversy comes as women’s rights activists and civil society groups are fighting to ensure that fragile human rights gains made over the last 20 years in Afghanistan — since the U-led invasion ousted the Taliban regime — take center stage in the peace talks underway with the insurgents. It also shows how the rights of girls and women are under threat from conservatives on both sides of the protracted conflict.“This is Talibanization from inside the republic,” Sima Samar, an Afghan human rights activist of nearly 40 years, said on Friday. When they ruled the country, the Taliban — notorious for their repression of women — denied girls the right to education. Music, except religious songs, was also banned, as was television.The memo, which went to all school districts in Kabul, was rescinded, said ministry spokeswoman Najiba Arian, insisting that its authors had misunderstood the purpose. A new memo was subsequently sent, saying music groups for both secondary school girls and boys are banned.The objective was not to ban girls singing but to prevent boys and girls from participating in public events that could spread the coronavirus, she said. Afghanistan has recorded more than 55,000 cases of the virus and 2,451 deaths but testing is inadequate and the real numbers are believed to be far greater.The hashtag campaign was started by Ahmad Starmast, the founder of Afghanistan's Institute of Music. It has had over 600,000 clicks, according to Haroon Baluch of BytesforAll, a Pakistan-based rights organization that monitors internet traffic. He also said the trend is building.Sarmast said he began the #IAmMySong to “let authorities know that the people of Afghanistan oppose this decision and they will stand for the rights of the children, whether boys or girls.”The memo, a copy of which was seen by The Associated Press, does not mention the pandemic or any health concerns. Rather it clearly states that girls older than 12 cannot perform in any public events and that singing at such events is strictly forbidden. It goes on to say that only female teachers can teach music to girls older than 12.“The education department of Kabul city, all government, private sector and literacy centers are seriously advised not to let female students . . . above 12 years of age participate and sing in any type of events or general programs," it said, with the exception of all-female gatherings.Samar, who launched Afghanistan's Independent Human Rights Commission in 2002 and served as its head until 2019, said the directive violates basic human rights. It also violates the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children, to which Afghanistan is a signatory, she added.The memo violates both national and international law, Starmast said. According to one tweet, 100,000 signatures have been collected throughout several Afghan provinces to protest the directive.After the fiasco of the first memo, a second one went out. It banned both boys and girls older than 12 from singing or performing in public — an even more shocking directive as it takes “the right of choice and freedom of expression away from all students in secondary and high schools,” Starmast said.The education ministry has had to deal with other missteps recently. In December, it came under attack after suggesting children in first through third grade should be taught in mosques. After a furor erupted, the ministry was forced to correct itself, saying it was referring to rural areas where there are no school buildings so mosques are the only option for some of the country's poorest.Schools linked to mosques are known as madrassas and are often attended by the country's poorest. The Ministry of Interior was said in January to be preparing to register thousands of madrassas operating in the country.Focusing mostly on religious education rather than language, liberal arts and science, madrassas are run by hard-line clerics. They have also been accused of propagating jihad or holy war and spreading intolerance between Islam's two major sects, Sunni and Shiite Muslims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/memo-banning-afghan-girls-from-singing-prompts-iammysong-protest-101615561481649.html
12-03-2021||World||Cooperation between countries should not 'target' third party: China||Ahead of the first Quad summit, China on Friday said that state-to-state exchanges and cooperation should enhance mutual understanding and trust instead of "targeting" or "undermining" the interests of any third party and hoped that relevant countries will refrain from forming "exclusive cliques”.US President Joe Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga attended the virtual summit, which is the first conclave of the top leaders of the Quadrilateral alliance, on Friday.Known as the “Quadrilateral Security Dialogue,” representatives for the four-member nations have met periodically since its establishment in 2007.Asked for China’s reaction to the Quad conclave, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here that state-to-state exchanges and cooperation should "help enhance mutual understanding and trust among regional countries, instead of targeting against or undermining the interests of any third party"."We hope relevant countries will follow the principles of openness, inclusiveness and win-win results, refrain from forming closed and exclusive "cliques" and act in a way that is conducive to regional peace, stability and prosperity," Zhao said.During the virtual meeting, the four leaders are expected to lay out their vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific, amidst China flexing its muscles in the strategically-vital region.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years.Beijing claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims. In the East China Sea, China has territorial disputes with Japan.The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cooperation-between-countries-should-not-target-third-party-china-101615561279463.html
12-03-2021||World||Saudi King Salman sacks hajj and umrah minister in royal decrees||Saudi Arabia's King Salman dismissed Mohamed Benten as minister for the hajj and umrah, a position with a leading role in organising Islam's annual pilgrimage, a royal decree carried by state news agency (SPA) said on Friday.State minister, Issam ben Saeed, was appointed acting minister.Haj and Umrah, which generated billions of dollars each year before the pandemic, is a major source of income for the Saudi government."Mohammed Saleh ben Taher Benten, Minister of Hajj and Umrah shall be relieved form his position," SPA said in a tweet, without giving reasons behind the decision. Benten was appointed minister in 2016.The kingdom, which stakes its reputation on its guardianship of Islam’s holiest sites in Mecca and Medina and its peaceful organisation of the haj, sharply scaled back last year's haj to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, after barring Muslims abroad from the rite for the first time in modern times.Companies operating in the sector have been hit hard by the government's preventive measures. Before the pandemic, more than 1,300 hotels and hundreds of stores buzzed around the clock to cater to pilgrims visiting the holy cities of Mecca and Medina.Earlier this week, Jabal Omar Development Company, one of Saudi Arabia's largest listed property developers, secured 1.6 billion riyals ($427 million) in loans from Banque Saudi Fransi backed by a Finance Ministry guarantee, after being hit hard by the Mecca lockdown.Earlier this week, SPA said King Salman approved a range of initiatives aimed at assisting firms and individuals operating in the sector to mitigate Covid-related financial and economic effects they incurred during the lockdown.Separately, the royal decrees also included relieving the head of the General Aviation Authority, Abdulhadi al-Mansouri, from his position and appointing him at a foreign ministry post.Abdulaziz al-Duaelij was appointed as new head of the aviation authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-king-salman-sacks-hajj-and-umrah-minister-in-royal-decrees-101615560394086.html
12-03-2021||World||Quad going to be vital arena for cooperation in Indo-Pacific, says Joe Biden||President Joe Biden said on Friday that the Quad – involving the US, India, Australia and Japan - is going to be a vital arena for cooperation in Indo-Pacific as he opened the first Quad Leaders’ Summit which is being attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders of the bloc.In his opening remarks, Biden also described Quad as a new mechanism to enhance cooperation and raise mutual ambition as they address accelerating climate change."We know our commitments...Our region is governed by international law, committed to all the universal values and free from coercion but I am optimistic about our prospect,” he said, in an apparent reference to China which is flexing its muscles in the region."The Quad is going to be a vital arena of cooperation in the Indo Pacific and I look forward to working closely with all of you in the coming years," Biden told Quad leaders as requested Prime Minister Modi to speak."It's great to see you," Biden told Modi.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga are other leaders who are attending the virtual summit, which is the first conclave of the top leaders of the Quadrilateral alliance.Known as the "Quadrilateral Security Dialogue,” representatives for the four member nations have met periodically since its establishment in 2007.The four countries plan to establish a series of working groups that will focus on climate change; critical and emerging technologies, including working to set technology standards and norms and jointly developing some of the critical technologies of the future, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-going-to-be-vital-arena-for-cooperation-in-indo-pacific-says-joe-biden-101615558753592.html
12-03-2021||World||Japan fears satellite it made for Myanmar might be used for 'military purposes'||Myanmar's first satellite is being held on board the International Space Station following the Myanmar coup, while Japan's space agency and a Japanese university decide what to do with it, two Japanese university officials said.The $15 million satellite was built by Japan's Hokkaido University in a joint project with Myanmar's government-funded Myanmar Aerospace Engineering University (MAEU). It is the first of a set of two 50 kg microsatellites equipped with cameras designed to monitor agriculture and fisheries.Human rights activists and some officials in Japan worry that those cameras could be used for military purposes by the junta that seized power in Myanmar on Feb. 1.That has put the deployment on hold, as Hokkaido University holds discussions with the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), the two Hokkaido University officials said."We won't get involved in anything that has to do with the military. The satellite was not designed for that," one of the officials, a manager of the project, told Reuters, asking not to be identified."We are discussing what to do, but we don't know when it will be deployed. If it is halted, our hope is that the project could be restarted at some point."The manager did not say when the satellite was meant to be deployed, or when a decision would have to be taken by JAXA either to go ahead or delay it.The second Hokkaido University official said the contract with MAEU did not specify that the satellite cannot be used for military purposes. However, data from the spacecraft would be collected by the Japanese university and cannot be independently accessed by Myanmar officials, the second official said.Since the coup, university officials had been unable to contact the rector of MAEU, Prof Kyi Thwin, the second official added.Officials at JAXA could not be reached for comment. MAEU did not respond to calls seeking comment, nor did a spokesman for Myanmar's junta.The satellite was launched by NASA on Feb 20 as a small part of a large and varied payload of supplies to the International Space Station 400 km (250 miles) above the earth. It has since been kept by JAXA inside Japan's Kibo experiment module. JAXA astronaut Soichi Noguchi is one of the seven crew members now on board the space station.Japan has close ties to Myanmar and is one of its biggest aid donors. While condemning the violence, it has not taken as hard a stance against the coup as the United States and some other Western countries which have applied sanctions.While the spacecraft has not been built to military specifications, Teppei Kasai, Asia programme officer for Human Rights Watch, said it would be easy for Myanmar's army rulers to appropriate the technology for military use."So the involved Japanese universities should suspend the project and urgently review it for potential human rights risks," Kasai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-fears-satellite-it-made-for-myanmar-might-be-used-for-military-purposes-101615557132982.html
12-03-2021||World||India, China to ensure stability on LAC, call another meeting of commanders soon||India and China agreed on Friday to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and convene another meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border.These were among the outcomes of a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which was held against the backdrop of the disengagement process stalling after the withdrawal of troops by both sides from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February.The meeting was held hours before the first summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which will be joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden. The Quad Summit is expected to lead to several initiatives aimed at countering China’s influence and actions across the Indo-Pacific.At the WMCC meeting, the two sides reviewed the situation in the western sector of the LAC and had “in-depth discussions on the remaining issues” in this sector, a statement from the external affairs ministry said.The two sides agreed to continue their dialogue through diplomatic and military channels to “reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest”, the statement said.They also agreed to convene the 11th meeting of the senior military commanders “at an early date so that two sides could work towards complete disengagement from the remaining friction areas”, the statement added.The disengagement would enable both sides to “look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. The two sides further agreed that in the interim period, they would “continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident”, the statement said.A similarly worded readout issued from the Chinese side said the two sides had agreed to continue communications through diplomatic and military channels, “hold the next round of military-level talks as soon as possible, promote further de-escalation of the situation on the ground and jointly safeguard the hard-won peace and stability in the border areas”.The Indian statement said the two sides viewed the completion of disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake as providing a “good basis for the two sides to work towards early resolution” of remaining issues. It added that the agreement between the two foreign ministers during their meeting on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow last September and their phone conversation last month “should continue to guide the work of two sides”.The Chinese readout noted that the two sides had positively evaluated the disengagement at Pangong Lake and had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on promoting resolution at other areas. It added that the two sides had agreed to stabilise the situation on the border and avoid any “repetition of the situation on the ground in accordance with the five-point consensus reached at the Moscow meeting of the two foreign ministers and the spirit of their February 25 phone call”.The WMCC meet was co-chaired additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry.The 10th meeting of the senior military commanders was held on February 20 after the two sides completed the withdrawal of frontline troops with armoured formations and artillery from the banks of Pangong Lake. However, the two sides were unable to make progress on efforts to disengage at other friction points such as Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains.The two sides have been locked in a standoff since May last year after Chinese troops impeded patrols by Indian forces and there were scuffles in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. A brutal clash at Galwan Valley last June – which left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead and was the first incident on the LAC involving fatalities since 1975 – took bilateral ties to an all-time low.India has insisted that China’s actions on the LAC have seriously damaged bilateral ties and normalcy can be restored only by disengagement, de-escalation and restoration of the status quo on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-china-to-ensure-stability-on-lac-call-another-meeting-of-commanders-soon-101615556851232.html
12-03-2021||World||Shell's oil trading earnings double in 2020 to USD 2.6 billion||Royal Dutch Shell's 2020 earnings from trading crude oil and refined products doubled from the previous year to $2.6 billion, helping to offset a sharp drop in fuel demand due to the coronavirus pandemic.Shell's oil trading operations, known internally as Trading & Supply, accounted for 43% of the Oil Products division's total earnings of $5.995 billion in 2020. Trading earnings totalled $1.3 billion in 2019, Shell's annual report, which was released on Thursday, said.The unusually high contribution from trading helped Shell to weather one of the toughest years in the industry's history, when energy consumption collapsed during the pandemic.Shell, the world's largest energy trader, experienced a 28% drop in oil sales last year to 4.71 million barrels per day on average, the annual report said.Its 2020 profit dropped to its lowest in at least two decades.Shell's oil trading figures do not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, power and renewables. Shell is the world's largest liquefied natural gas trader.Rival BP's trading arm made nearly $4 billion in 2020 on oil and gas trading, a copy of an internal BP presentation seen by Reuters showed, almost equalling the company's 2019 record trading profit.Companies can make large profits even during times of lower demand for commodities by storing products such as oil on shore or at sea. Shell's vast refining, trading and retail operations also allow it to take advantage of short-lived changes in supply and demand around the world.The strong trading results for BP and Shell show that there is real value creation which will transfer over into renewable power as the companies shift away from oil and gas, Bernstein analyst Oswald Clint said in a note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shells-oil-trading-earnings-double-in-2020-to-usd-2-6-billion-101615557698026.html
12-03-2021||World||Severe allergy added to AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine side effects: EU regulator||Severe allergies should be added to the possible side effects of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine after likely links were found to a number of cases in Britain, the EU's drug regulator said on Friday.The development comes a day after the European Medicines Agency said it was investigating a separate issue of blood clots that prompted Denmark to suspend use of the jab, but said it remained safe to use.The Amsterdam-based EMA said it had "recommended an update to the product information to include anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity (allergic reactions) as side effects"."The update is based on a review of 41 reports of possible anaphylaxis seen among around 5 million vaccinations in the United Kingdom," it said in the highlights of the EMA committee that assesses the risk of medications."After careful review of the data, (the committee) considered that a link to the vaccine was likely in at least some of these cases."The EMA said however that anaphylaxis, or what it called "severe allergic reactions", was already what it called a "known side effect that may occur, very rarely, with vaccines".The AstraZeneca vaccine's product information already said that people should be kept under "close observation for at least 15 minutes" after getting the jab in case of allergic reactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/severe-allergy-added-to-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-side-effects-eu-regulator-101615557443223.html
12-03-2021||World||Used up all suspect AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine batch: Spain||Spanish health services have already administered all the doses from a batch of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine that some countries suspect may cause severe side effects, Health Minister Carolina Darias said on Friday.Several Nordic countries suspended use of the AstraZeneca shot on Thursday following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who had been vaccinated."This batch was already supplied and distributed," Darias said on Spanish RNE radio station on Friday.She said the country's monitoring system to follow up on people after vaccination had only detected light side effects such as headaches, dizziness and intestinal troubles.A police labour union said on Friday the batch in question was mainly used to inoculate police officers, and it asked the Health Ministry to closely follow the health of the officers who got the jab.Austria earlier stopped using a batch of AstraZeneca shots while it investigated a death from a clotting disorder and a case of pulmonary embolism.Europe's EMA medicines regulator has backed the drug and said the benefits outweigh the risks.A World Health Organization spokeswoman said that a WHO expert advisory committee was looking at AstraZeneca's vaccine after some countries paused distribution of it, but that there was no reason not to use it.Darias said Spain would wait for further guidance from EMA before taking any step against using the vaccine and insisted the number of blood clot cases among vaccinated people was not higher than in the general population.An Andalusian regional health official said on Thursday he had held back on using about 1,200 vaccines from the batch until he had further information, local newspaper Diario de Cordoba reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/used-up-all-suspect-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-batch-spain-101615554772753.html
12-03-2021||World||WHO says its advisory committee looking at AstraZeneca vaccine issues||A World Health Organization expert advisory committee is currently looking at AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine after some countries paused distribution of it, but there is no reason not to use it, a spokeswoman said on Friday.Health authorities in several countries including Denmark, Norway, Iceland have suspended the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who have been vaccinated.Margaret Harris told a briefing that it was an "excellent vaccine" and that no causal relationship had been established between the shot and the health problems reported, calling the pause in use "a precautionary measure"."It's very important to understand that, yes, we should continue to be using the AstraZeneca vaccine," she said.The WHO's global advisory committee on vaccine safety is currently reviewing the reports and will revert on its findings, she added, as it does with any safety issues."It is very important we are hearing safety signals because if we were not hearing about safety signals that would suggest there is not enough review and vigilance"," she said.The AstraZeneca vaccine is the main shot in the early phase of a WHO-led global vaccine sharing scheme COVAX that aims to distribute 2 billion doses this year, ensuring access for poorer countries.WHO data shows that more than 268 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from various developers have been administered worldwide and no deaths have been found to have been caused by them, Harris said.The Geneva-based body has given emergency use listing for the Pfizer/BioNTech and versions of the AstraZeneca vaccines -- a step that broadens access to those shots considerably.Asked about the timing of emergency listings for China's Sinopharm and Sinovac Biotech vaccines, she said reviews were now underway and approval would "probably" be given this month."I don't want to put an exact date on depending on all sorts of issues but we would expect by the end of March," she added, saying that it partly depends on how quickly developers provide the requested responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-its-advisory-committee-looking-at-astrazeneca-vaccine-issues-101615554690251.html
12-03-2021||World||From sex workers to HIV patients, Myanmar unrest poses 'huge' health risks||Political turmoil in Myanmar poses "huge risks" to the health of vulnerable people including sex workers and HIV patients, aid groups said, warning that medical supplies could be disrupted as the public healthcare system struggles to operate normally.The Southeast Asian nation plunged into crisis after the army ousted Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government in a Feb. 1 coup, declaring a year-long state of emergency that has sparked strikes and protests - including by doctors.Myanmar's public hospitals and clinics, which were already under pressure due to Covid-19, are in disarray, according to medical charities, who said they were struggling to help the rising number of people turning to them for treatment."If this collapse continues and gets worse we will struggle very hard to be able to meet those needs," Pavlo Kolovos, the outgoing Myanmar head of mission at the non-profit Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone.MSF, or Doctors Without Borders, said it was especially concerned that it has been unable to get additional staff or new medical supplies into the country to meet the rising need.The group, which has more than 1,000 staff in Myanmar, runs 15 clinics and mobile services nationwide that serve "isolated, excluded and discriminated" groups, including sex workers, HIV people and migrants in one of Asia's poorest countries.There are some 240,000 people living with HIV in Myanmar, United Nations data shows.Kolovos said the political crisis posed "huge risks for the humanitarian conditions of all people - especially for the most vulnerable who already were unable to get the services they needed".MSF's current medical supplies could last "several months", he said, adding that the uncertainty about getting hold of new stocks was "very alarming".More than 70 protesters have been killed since the coup with some 2,000 people detained, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a monitoring group.The junta has said it is acting with utmost restraint in handling what it describes as demonstrations by "riotous protesters" whom it accuses of attacking police and harming national security and stability.It could not be reached for further comment.The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) has also warned that Covid-19 "may be spreading unabated" in areas of Myanmar, which has suffered one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in the region."The IFRC is alarmed about the risks of another deadly wave of Covid-19 in Myanmar as testing and access to hospitals or other health services is very limited," said Alexander Matheou, its Asia-Pacific regional director, in a statement.It called for protection for health workers, saying several Red Cross volunteers in Myanmar had been injured or wrongfully arrested during violence and that ambulances had been damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-sex-workers-to-hiv-patients-myanmar-unrest-poses-huge-health-risks-101615553214720.html
12-03-2021||World||Taliban should be included in interim Afghan administration, says Russia||Russia said on Friday that the Taliban should be included in any Afghan interim administration, ahead of a conference in Moscow aimed at supporting peace talks between the Islamist group and Afghanistan's government.Moscow is set to host a conference on Afghanistan on March 18 and has invited several regional players, including Taliban representatives. It comes at a crucial time for the peace process ahead of a May 1 deadline for foreign troops to withdraw from Afghanistan.The United States has drafted a peace plan calling for the current Afghan government to be replaced with an interim administration until a new constitution is agreed and elections held, but Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has refused to step aside for a transitional government."The formation of an interim coalition government should be decided by the Afghans themselves during national reconciliation negotiations," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told reporters at her weekly briefing."At the same time we have noted that the formation of an interim, inclusive administration would be a logical solution to the problem of integrating the Taliban into Afghanistan's peaceful political life."The US-drafted peace plans suggests that under the interim Afghan administration, the national parliament could either be expanded to include members of the Taliban or suspended until after the election.Moscow has said its conference next week is meant to support peace talks held in Doha, which have struggled to yield any breakthroughs.A source close to the Taliban told Reuters on condition of anonymity that a team of four or five members of the Taliban's political office in Doha would attend the Moscow conference.Earlier on Friday, Turkey said it would also host Afghan peace talks in April in Istanbul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-should-be-included-in-interim-afghan-administration-says-russia-101615552617295.html
12-03-2021||World||97% of women aged 18-24 in UK faced sexual harassment, reveals survey||97% of women aged 18-24 in the UK have experienced sexual harassment in public spaces, a new survey has revealed, raising concerns among quarters working for women's welfare.The survey, conducted by UN Women -- a global organisation working towards gender equality, brings with it disturbing revelations regarding the actual situation of women's safety in the UK.While the data shows that almost all young women in the UK have been subjected to sexual harassment, it adds that 80% of women of all ages have also been subjected to such harassment in public spaces.The survey was conducted in collaboration with YouGov, a global public opinion and data aggregator, and the research involved collecting opinions from more than 1,000 women.The resultant data exposes the sheer lack of adequate measures in the UK to deal with sexual harassment cases and surmises that women, especially young women, are thus having to unwittingly 'modify' their behaviour in order to avoid being objectified, harassed, or abused.It also shows how little faith survivors of sexual abuse in the UK often have on authorities, since 96% of the respondents in the survey said that they did not report the incidents, and 45% of them reasoned that "it wouldn't change anything".Claire Barnett, the executive director of UN Women UK, calls it a "human rights crisis".The organisation has launched a project titled 'Safe Spaces Now', which collects stories and ideas from women and aims to take those demands "to the owners and administrators of public spaces".It is to be noted that sexual harassment still is not a criminal offence in the UK, although rape and sexual assault are. Meanwhile, the debate on criminalising sexual behaviour and what is to be deemed offensive, subject to a universal set of rules, rages on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/97-of-women-aged-18-24-in-uk-faced-sexual-harassment-reveals-survey-101615550870254.html
12-03-2021||World||'Spy camera' in polling booths in Pakistan Senate, Twitter flooded with memes||The Senate Chairman election in Pakistan, which has already been marred with controversies, became murkier on Friday when the opposition senators claimed that the government had installed spy cameras near and inside the polling booths.In the special session, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP's) Raza Rabbani claimed that "secret cameras" had been installed at the polling booth, reported the Dawn.The opposition further demanded that an investigation be carried out into who was "in control of the Senate".Pakistanis took to Twitter to share hilarious memes and tweets on it.One person shared a screengrab of Interior Minister Sheikh Rasheed and referred to him as a spy camera.Another spy camera spotted. pic.twitter.com/WxrJ9CTRsiAnother Twitter user was disappointed that this was all that the Pakistan authorities could allegedly come up with after the billions in funds they had.Earlier in the day, PPP Senator Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar claimed that he and Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz (PML-N) Senator Musadiq Malik found "spy cameras" above the polling booth."Myself and Dr Musadik found spy cameras right over the polling booth," tweeted Khokhar along with an image of the hidden camera.Myself and Dr Musadik found spy cameras right over the polling booth!!!! pic.twitter.com/aqRGFRYFbqThere’s absolutely no need for a screw on this... camera visible in the scew pic.twitter.com/WvkXXnNgRbOn his Twitter account, Malik said: "What a freaking joke. The Senate polling booth has secret /hidden cameras installed. SO MUCH FOR DEMOCRACY."What a freaking jokeThe senate polling booth has secret /hidden cameras installed SO MUCH FOR DEMOCRACY pic.twitter.com/S7OapMhZtnDuring the morning session, Senator Syed Muzaffar Hussain Shah administered the oath to the 48 members.The session was adjourned till 3 pm.Former Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani (PPP) and Maulana Abdul Ghafoor Haideri Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI-F) have been fielded by the Pakistan Democratic Movement as its joint candidates for the posts of chairman and deputy chairman, respectively.Last Thursday, Prime Minister Imran Khan had nominated Senator Mirza Mohammad Afridi -- a billionaire from erstwhile Federally Administered Tribal Area (FATA) -- for the post of the Deputy Chairman and incumbent Senate Chairman Muhammad Sadiq Sanjrani as its candidate for the post of chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spy-camera-in-polling-booths-in-pakistan-senate-twitter-flooded-with-memes-101615551487279.html
12-03-2021||World||Germany 'regrets' pausing of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine shots by EU nations||Germany's top health official expressed regret Friday that some neighbouring countries have paused their use of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine following reports of blood clots in some people, despite the lack of any evidence the shot was responsible.Health Minister Jens Spahn said that while Germany takes reports of possible side effects from vaccines “very, very seriously,” both the European Medicines Agency and Germany's own vaccine oversight body have said they have no evidence of an increase in dangerous blood clots in connection with the shots.“I regret that on the basis of the knowledge of Friday morning some countries in the European Union have suspended vaccinations with AstraZeneca,” Spahn told reporters in Berlin.Denmark was the first to temporarily suspended use of the AstraZeneca vaccine Thursday after reports of blood clots in some people. The Nordic nation's health authority said the decision was “based on a precautionary principle” and that one person who developed a blood clot after vaccination had died.Norway decided to follow suit and halted use of the Anglo-Swedish company's vaccine, which was developed with the University of Oxford. Italy's pharmaceutical agency on Thursday ordered a precautionary ban on a particular batch of the vaccine after what it said were “serious adverse events.”The European Medicines Agency, which approved the shot for use across the 27-nation EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, said “the vaccine's benefits continue to outweigh its risks and the vaccine can continue to be administered” while a closer evaluation of the blood clot cases continues.“There is currently no indication that vaccination has caused these conditions,” the regulator said. It said the number of people with blood clots in vaccinated people was no higher than those who hadn't been inoculated.Spahn, the German health minister, said there was no evidence so far of a causal link between the blood clots and the vaccinations, adding that it was important to strike “a balance ... between being vigilant and not causing alarm.”Other health experts pointed out that the people most likely to get vaccinated against COVID-19 are also more likely to have other health problems, which could put them at higher risk for blood clots.Britain's medicines regulator said it had not received any reports of blood clots in people that were caused by the AstraZeneca vaccine. More than 11 million doses of AstraZeneca have been administered in the U.K.“Reports of blood clots received so far are not greater than the number that would have occurred naturally in the vaccinated population," the agency said. “People should still go and get their COVID-19 vaccine when asked to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-regrets-pausing-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-shots-by-eu-nations-101615550911431.html
12-03-2021||World||Gurdeep Singh takes oath as first Sikh Senator in Pakistan||Gurdeep Singh from the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party took the oath on Friday as a Senator, becoming the first turban-clad Sikh representative in the upper house of Pakistan's Parliament.Singh, from the party of Prime Minister Imran Khan became the first turban-clad Sikh representative from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan's Senate on March 3. He defeated rival candidates on a minority seat by a huge margin in the election to the upper chamber of Parliament.Singh secured 103 votes in the House of 145 whereas Jamiat Ulema-e Islam (Fazlur) candidate Ranjeet Singh secured just 25 votes and Asif Bhatti of the Awami National Party received 12.Forty-seven other Senators also took oath on Friday.Senator Sayed Muzafar Hussain Shah, who has been nominated as the presiding officer, administered the oath to the members-elect. They have been sworn in as Senators for a term of six years (2021-27).After taking oath as a member of the Senate, Singh told PTI over phone that he would work for the betterment of the minority community in the country. He was confident that being Senator he would have the opportunity to serve his community in a better way.Singh, who is in his late forties, also serves as vice president of the PTI's central minority wing.He hails from Swat district. He was previously elected as a Minority Councilor from Chakesar in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in 2005.Singh, belongs to one of the most influential Sikh families in the region.Following the Partition, his ancestors left India to settle in Chakesar. His father was a known grain trader.His sister was married to Sardar Soren Singh, who served as special assistant to the chief minister, during the previous Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party-led government in the province. Sardar Soren was assassinated in Buner in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gurdeep-singh-takes-oath-as-first-sikh-senator-in-pakistan-101615549872443.html
12-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine use halted in several EU countries. What do we know so far||Several European nations have temporarily halted the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as a precautionary measure after reports of patients developing blood clots emerged. While Denmark, Norway, and Iceland on Thursday suspended the use of all of their AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine supply, some other European states have decided to suspend its use from a particular batch of the vaccine.Austria suspended the use of an AstraZeneca vaccine batch following the death of a 49-year-old nurse due to “severe blood coagulation problems” days after receiving an anti-Covid jab. Other European nations that suspended the same vaccine batch of one million shots sent to 17 countries include Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Luxembourg. As of March 9, at least 22 cases of thromboembolic events, marked by the formation of blood clots, has been reported among 3 million people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine.On Friday, Bulgaria became the latest country to suspend inoculations using the AstraZeneca vaccine as the government urged the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to send a written statement dispelling all doubts about the vaccine's safety. Meanwhile, non-European countries like Australia and Canada have decided to continue with the rollout of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, saying there was no evidence that the vaccine caused adverse effects such as blood clotting.The European Union’s drugs regulator said in a statement that it was aware of Denmark’s temporary suspension of its vaccination campaign. However, it insisted there is currently no indication that AstraZeneca’s vaccine has caused the conditions, which are not listed as side effects. The EMA reiterated the position of its safety committee, saying the vaccine’s benefits continue to outweigh its risks and the inoculations can continue while the regulator investigates the concerns.The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday said that there was no reason to stop the use of AstraZeneca’s vaccine. During a briefing in Geneva, WHO spokesperson Margaret Harris told reporters that there has been no death “proven to have be caused by vaccination” and the health authorities “should continue using the AstraZeneca vaccine.” "We must always ensure that we look for any safety signals when we roll out vaccines, and we must review them," she said.A WHO spokesperson had earlier told Sputnik, Russia’s state-owned news agency, that Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety (GACVS) is “carefully assessing” the reports on risk related to the AstraZeneca vaccine. The spokesperson said that any changes to current recommendations will be immediately communicated to the public as soon as the UN health agency gains a full understanding of the events, reported Sputnik."The committee further noted that the vaccine can continue to be administered while the investigation of cases of thromboembolic events is ongoing," the spokesperson was quoted by Sputnik as saying.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-vaccine-use-halted-in-several-eu-countries-what-do-we-know-so-far-101615548179755.html
12-03-2021||World||Poll reveals popularity of Harry and Meghan plummets in UK after Oprah interview||The popularity of Prince Harry and his wife Meghan has tumbled in Britain and has never been lower following their explosive interview with U.S. chat show host Oprah Winfrey, according to a poll on Friday.During the interview aired last Sunday, Meghan said her pleas for help while she felt suicidal were ignored and that one unnamed member of the family had asked how dark their son Archie’s skin might be.Meanwhile, Harry, Queen Elizabeth's grandson, also bemoaned his family's reaction of the couple's decision to step back from official duties.The tell-all interview has plunged the 1,000-year-old monarchy into its greatest crisis this century, and according to a YouGov poll, the standing of the two royals has also taken a big hit in the aftermath.It found 48% percent of the 1,664 respondents had a negative attitude of Harry compared to 45% with a positive view, the first time his net favourability rating had been negative, and a fall of 15 points from a week earlier.Meanwhile, only three in 10 people had a positive view of Meghan, while 58% had a negative opinion.As with other polls conducted since the interview, there was a divide between generations, with a majority of those aged 18 to 24 liking Harry and Meghan and those over 65 overwhelmingly having negative feelings towards them.The only other member of the family to see their popularity fall was Harry's father, heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles. The survey said 42% now had a negative view of him compared to 49% with a positive opinion.That compared to the 94-year-old queen, who was liked by 80%, and Harry's elder brother and his wife Kate, who were popular with three-quarters of respondents.A separate poll, conducted partly before the interview was broadcast in Britain, found support for the monarchy as a whole was largely unchanged with 63% backing the institution and 25% wanting an elected head of state.But there were some worrying figures for the royal family. Among the youngest age group, support for an elected head of state was higher than that for the monarchy by 42% to 37%, although YouGov said this was within the margin of error.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poll-says-popularity-of-harry-and-meghan-plummets-in-uk-after-oprah-interview-101615549954998.html
12-03-2021||World||No reason to stop using AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine: WHO||The World Health Organization said Friday there was no reason to stop using AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine after several countries suspended the rollout over blood clot fears.The WHO, which said its vaccines advisory committee was examining the safety data coming in, stressed that no causal link had been established between the vaccine and clotting.The UN health agency also said that after the injection of more than 260 million coronavirus vaccine doses so far around the world, no deaths had yet been attributed to a Covid-19 jab.Denmark, Norway and Iceland paused the use of the AstraZeneca jab as a precaution after isolated reports of recipients developing blood clots.Italy and Austria have banned the use of shots from separate batches of AstraZeneca, and Thailand and Bulgaria said they would delay the rollout of the shot.A range of health authorities around the world have insisted the jab is safe, including the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the WHO."AstraZeneca is an excellent vaccine, as are the other vaccines that are being used," WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris told reporters at a briefing in Geneva."Yes, we should continue using the AstraZeneca vaccine," she added, stressing though that any concerns over safety must be investigated."We must always ensure that we look for any safety signals when we roll out vaccines, and we must review them," she said."But there is no indication to not use it."- No causal link found -The EMA said Thursday that there had been 30 cases of so-called thromboembolic events among five million people who had received the jab in Europe.But European countries could still keep using the vaccine, the EU's drug regulator said.Harris said that while a few countries had, as a precaution, suspended the use of a specific batch of AstraZeneca vaccine distributed in Europe, based on reports of blood coagulation disorders, "a causal relationship has not been shown"."Vaccination against Covid-19 doesn't reduce deaths from any other causes," she said."As of March 9, there have been over 268 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered since the start of the pandemic."No causes of death have been found to have been caused by Covid-19 vaccines to date."Harris said the WHO's advisory committee on vaccine safety, which meets at least every two weeks, systematically reviews any safety reports coming in."They're currently assessing the reports on AstraZeneca," she said.- Crucial role in Covax -The AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 jab is one of only two to have been given the WHO seal of approval so far.The organisation has granted emergency use listing to the AstraZeneca versions being manufactured in India and South Korea.The only other Covid-19 vaccine with the WHO green light is that produced by Pfizer/BioNTech.A decision is expected this month on the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, while verdicts are due at the earliest in March on China's Sinopharm and Sinovac jabs, along with the Moderna vaccine.The AstraZeneca jab makes up almost all of the doses being distributed in the first wave of the Covax global vaccine-sharing scheme.All vaccines deployed via the facility must first be authorised by the WHO.Some 238.2 million vaccine doses will be distributed to some 142 countries and territories by the end of May through the programme, which is aimed at boosting access to coronavirus jabs in poorer nations.The facility has already shipped more than 20 million doses to 20 countries.Covax aims to distribute another 14.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to 31 more countries this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-reason-to-stop-using-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-who-101615548248689.html
12-03-2021||World||Cooperation between countries should not target third party: China on Quad meet||Ahead of the Quad summit on Friday, China said exchanges and cooperation between countries should contribute to mutual understanding rather than “targeting” a third party and refrain from “pursuing exclusive blocs”.US President Joe Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will attend the virtual summit, which is the first conclave of the top leaders of the Quadrilateral alliance, on Friday.Known as the “Quadrilateral Security Dialogue,” representatives for the four-member nations have met periodically since its establishment in 2007.Asked for China’s reaction to the Quad conclave, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here that “exchanges and cooperation between nations should contribute to the mutual understanding and trust among nations, rather than targeting a third party or damaging the interest of a third party.”“We hope that relevant countries uphold the principles of openness, inclusiveness and win-win results and refrain from pursuing exclusive blocs and do things that are conducive to regional peace, stability and prosperity,” he said.The meeting to be held virtually is expected to last about 90 minutes, during which all the four leaders would also lay out their vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific, amidst China flexing its muscles in the strategically-vital region.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years.Beijing claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims. In the East China Sea, China has territorial disputes with Japan.The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cooperation-between-countries-should-not-target-third-party-china-on-quad-meet-101615544910343.html
12-03-2021||World||Texas attorney general sues government officials over not lifting mask mandate||The Attorney General for Texas is suing officials in Austin after they refused to enforce an order that ended a statewide mask mandate, he said on Thursday.Texas announced the lifting of that restriction - which had made mask wearing compulsory in public buildings and many outdoor spaces to help contain the coronavirus - on Wednesday, along with an end to occupancy curbs on businesses.But the city council in Austin, the state capital, voted to still require masks to be worn."I told Travis County & The City of Austin to comply with state mask law. They blew me off. So, once again, I'm dragging them to court", Attorney General Ken Paxton said on Twitter.Austin is located in Travis County.Several major retailers, grocery and restaurant chains in Texas have said they would still require masks to be worn in their stores.That was their right, Paxton said in a letter dated March 10 to Austin Mayor Steve Adler and Travis County Judge Andy Brown.However, such a decision "does not rest with jurisdictions like the City of Austin or Travis County," he added.Adler told MSNBC in an interview on Thursday: "We think that masking is so important. Now is not the time to take a risk. We are not far enough along yet. We are still battling this virus."The US death toll from the coronavirus pandemic is above 500,000, the highest of any single country. Around 20% of the population have received at least one dose of vaccine.Texas was one of the first US states to reopen its economy after the first wave of the pandemic last May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-attorney-general-sues-government-officials-over-not-lifting-mask-mandate-101615544171315.html
12-03-2021||World||Japanese PM Suga to be first foreign leader to visit US under Biden administration||Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will visit the United States in April, becoming the first leader of a foreign nation to hold a face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden since he took office in January, the White House announced on Friday.The dates and other details of the first visit of the foreign leader under the Biden Administration are still being worked out, a senior administration official said ahead of the maiden Quad virtual summit of leaders from Australia, India, Japan and the United States.“We are pleased to announce today that the first foreign leader to visit the United States in person will be Japanese Prime Minister Suga, who, again, the President will engage within the Quad,” said the official, who requested anonymity.“We have not established yet a firm date for this, but we are working closely to ensure that this is convenient and that the standards are in place on both sides,” the official said.While the White House did not provide any specific date about Suga’s visit to the US, various media reports have mentioned that the visit will be in April and after he and his entourage complete their Covid-19 vaccinations.Meanwhile, in Tokyo, the Japanese government announced on Friday that Prime Minister Suga will travel to Washington next month for his first face-to-face summit with President Biden after he and his entourage complete their Covid-19 vaccinations.Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato said Suga is expected to be the first foreign leader that Biden meets with since he took office on January 20.The trip is expected to take place in the first half of April, AP reported from Tokyo.Senior Biden administration officials, however, refrained from giving any further details of the first visit of the foreign leader.“I have nothing further to add on the specifics of the timing, other than Japan will be the first, the Japanese leader, Prime Minister Suga will be the first visit to Washington DC,” the official said.“I think we all recognise that our countries are both dealing with a number of issues. …Our intention is to work to find a date that is mutually convenient,” the official said.According to the official the consultations for the visit have already begun.“We are looking forward to it and we've already begun some consultations about areas that we want to enhance our cooperation,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japanese-pm-suga-to-be-first-foreign-leader-to-visit-us-under-biden-administration-101615543916433.html
12-03-2021||World||Quad to launch historic Covid-19 vaccine initiative helmed by India||Quad leaders will announce at their first-ever summit on Friday a “historic” initiative to significantly ramp up production of Covid-19 vaccines in India, one of the four member countries, to around 1 billion doses by 2022 for distribution in the Indo-Pacific region, Biden administration officials said on Thursday. US President Joe Biden is hosting the virtual summit - involving the leaders of America, India, Japan and Australia - which is the first for the grouping that was founded in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami. Biden will be joined virtually by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japan’s PM Yoshihide Suga. US secretary of state Antony Blinken will moderate the discussion and the meeting is expected to last 90 minutes, starting at 7pm, India time. US officials said the American president had convened the summit. “President Biden has worked hard to bring these leaders together to make a clear statement of the importance of the Indo-Pacific region,” an official said. The officials said, previewing the summit for reporters on background, the four members of the group will announce a task force of Covid-19 experts focused on last-mile delivery of vaccines produced through the new initiative. The meeting of the Quad leaders will also be focused on the climate crisis and they will announce “important steps” on that front. They will pledge themselves to the Paris Agreement and the “adaptation of resilience technology capacity building and climate finance”. The four leaders will then announce several working groups on the climate crisis and also, significantly, on “critical and emerging technologies”, including working to set tech standards and norms and jointly developing some of the critical technologies of the future, the officials said. Chinese telecom giant Huawei could figure in the talks in the context of progression towards 5G. The Covid-19 vaccine initiative is the most ambitious deliverable, and the only one, for the grouping, which was revived in 2017. “I do believe that this is a historic deliverable. It’s unprecedented, it’s complex, it’s deeply strategically significant, and it is timely,” said an administration official, adding that “it’s hard to do these things, and the fact that the Quad has rallied and engaged deeply essentially around the clock, over the course of the last few weeks to do this in a manner which allowed the president to host” the summit. The initiative will be financed by the governments of the US and Japan - and possibly Australia, though it’s not clear yet. They will work with the Indian government and Indian companies, which are “already able to produce and export safe and effective vaccines” to ramp up production of jabs, which the officials did not identify but said they will be those that “are authorised by the WHO or stringent regulatory authorities”. The vaccines will be meant for distribution in Southeast Asian countries that have been hit by an “acute shortage” of jabs. There was no immediate indication of the size of the investment, but officials said they are in talks with the US International Development Finance Corporation, which works with private sector companies in developing countries to find solutions to local issues. The Biden administration is touting the summit as another evidence of America’s return to the world stage in its leadership position, reversing former president Donald Trump’s “America First” approach that had alienated allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-to-launch-historic-covid-19-vaccine-initiative-helmed-by-india-101615543778807.html
12-03-2021||World||Russia: 3 charged over 2009 murder of notorious mobster Vyacheslav Ivankov||Russian prosecutors on Friday charged three men over the 2009 murder of one of the country's most notorious gangsters and drug traffickers who had served time in both Russian and US prisons.Vyacheslav Ivankov, alias Yaponchik or The Little Japanese, was shot in the abdomen in July 2009 by sniper fire as he left a glitzy Thai restaurant in the Russian capital. He died from his wounds several months later, aged 69.The Prosecutor-General's office said Friday that it had charged Kakhi Gazzayev, Murtazi Shadanii and Dzhambula Dzhanashii in Ivankov's murder, saying they had carried out the killing at the behest of a rival mobster to Ivankov."In April 2009, a previously convicted resident of the Moscow region, Ilya Simoniya, organised the murder of Ivankov in order to redistribute the spheres of influence in the criminal community," the Prosecutor-General's office said in a statement.It said that another two men, Nugzar Papava and Astamur Butba, were involved in the murder and that Butba was the triggerman. It added that both men, like Simoniya, had fled Russia.The men are subject to an international warrant for their arrest.Simoniya, known as Makho, was arrested in absentia by a Moscow court last year, charged with organising Ivankov's murder.The Prosecutor-General's office said Gazzayev, Shadanii and Dzhanashii have been taken into custody and that they have also been charged with the illegal possession of weapons and ammunition.They face up to 20 years in prison on murder charges and up to eight on the weapons charges.Ivankov was nicknamed "The Little Japanese" because of his short stature, facial features and expertise in the martial art of ju-jitsu.He began a career of racketeering, robbery, arms smuggling and drug trafficking in the 1960s and served long jail terms before his release in 1991.He fled Russia the next year, beginning a reign over the Russian community of Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, New York.After serving a nine-year sentence in a US prison, Ivankov was released in 2004 and deported to Russia.His close ally Aslan Usoyan, known as Grandpa Hassan, was shot and killed by a sniper in Moscow in January 2013, having survived four previous assassination attempts.Simoniya left Russia after an attempt on his life in the wake of Usoyan's murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-3-charged-over-2009-murder-of-notorious-mobster-vyacheslav-ivankov-101615543430493.html
12-03-2021||World||Nawaz Sharif accuses Pakistan Army of threatening daughter Maryam||Pakistan’s deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif has accused the country’s powerful military establishment of threatening his daughter Maryam Nawaz, warning that if anything happens to her Prime Minister Imran Khan and the three top generals would be responsible for it.In a video message from London, the PML-N supremo said that they (military establishment) have threatened to ‘smash’ Maryam if she does not stop against them (the military).“You have stooped so low. First you broke open the Karachi hotel room door where Maryam was staying. Now you are threatening her that if she does not stop, she will be smashed. If anything happens to her Prime Minister Imran Khan, Army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, ISI head Lt. Gen. Faiz Hameed and Gen. Irfan Malik will be responsible,” 71-year-old Sharif said in the video which he posted on his Twitter account on Thursday.Sharif has been in London since November 2019. The Khan government had allowed him to leave the country after the Lahore High Court granted him bail for four weeks on medical grounds.He was serving a seven-year imprisonment in Lahore's Kot Lakhpat jail in Al-Azizia Mills corruption case.Taunting the military for requesting politicians not to drag it in politics, Sharif said: “You (generals) rigged 2018 polls to impose inept Imran Khan on the nation and after the defeat in the Senate you helped your selected (PM Khan) to get vote of confidence and it is no more a secret”.Addressing the generals, Sharif said: “What you have done is a grave crime and you will be answerable to your deeds.”Meanwhile, Maryam, a senior functionary of the PML-N party said in a tweet that she had not only been threatened but those issuing the threat had also used abusive language.Earlier, Maryam, 47, named the intelligence agencies being used to pressure PML-N senators to vote for the government candidate in the senate chairman election being held on Friday.Since September last year Sharif had started taking on the Pakistan Army and ISI chiefs for their alleged interference in politics and installing their ‘puppet’ government of Khan by "stealing" the 2018 polls.Maryam has also been targeting the military establishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nawaz-sharif-accuses-pakistan-army-of-threatening-daughter-maryam-101615542721556.html
12-03-2021||World||Lou Ottens, Dutch inventor of audio cassette dies at age 94||Lou Ottens, the Dutch inventor of the cassette tape, the medium of choice for millions of bedroom mix tapes, has died, said Philips, the company where he also helped develop the compact disc.Ottens died Saturday at age 94, Philips confirmed.A structural engineer who trained at the prestigious Technical University in Delft, he joined Philips in 1952 and was head of the Dutch company's product development department when he began work on an alternative for existing tape recorders with their cumbersome large spools of tape.His goal was simple. Make tapes and their players far more portable and easier to use.“During the development of the cassette tape, in the early 1960s, he had a wooden block made that fit exactly in his coat pocket,” said Olga Coolen, director of the Philips Museum in the southern city of Eindhoven. “This was how big the first Compact Cassette was to be, making it a lot handier than the bulky tape recorders in use at the time.”The final product created in 1962 later turned into a worldwide hit, with more than 100 billion cassettes sold, many to music fans who would record their own compilations direct from the radio. Its popularity waned with the development of the compact disc, an invention Ottens also helped create as supervisor of a development team, Philips said.The cassette tape's success stemmed from its simplicity, Ottens said in an interview published by the Philips Museum.“It was a breakthrough because it was foolproof,” he said, adding that players and recorders also could run on batteries, making them very user-friendly and, ultimately, portable.“Everybody could put music in their pocket,” Ottens said.The prototype wooden block never made it to the company's museum. Ottens used it to prop up his jack when replacing a wheel with a flat tire and left it by the side of a road, Coolen said.“Lou loved technology, when he talked about that his eyes began to twinkle,” museum director Coolen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lou-ottens-dutch-inventor-of-audio-cassette-dies-at-age-94-101615543182433.html
12-03-2021||World||Britain urges citizens to leave Myanmar over rising violence||Britain urged its citizens on Friday to leave Myanmar or, if they are unable to exit the country, to stay at home, saying violence was rising after the army ousted Aung San Suu Kyi's government in a Feb. 1 coup.The move comes a day after a rights group said security forces killed 12 protesters and as the lawyer of deposed leader Suu Kyi ridiculed new bribery allegations against her."The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises British Nationals to leave the country by commercial means, unless there is an urgent need to stay," the foreign ministry said in a statement."Political tension and unrest are widespread since the military takeover and levels of violence are rising."Britain has condemned the violence in Myanmar and has called for the restoration of democracy, signalling earlier this week that it was exploring additional sanctions on the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-urges-citizens-to-leave-myanmar-over-rising-violence-101615542061450.html
12-03-2021||World||'Climbing without a map': Japan's nuclear clean-up has no end in sight||For one minute this week, workers at the Fukushima nuclear station fell silent to mark the 10-year anniversary of a natural disaster that triggered the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.Then they went back to work tearing down the reactors melted down in the days after a tsunami on March 11, 2011.The job ranks as the most expensive and dangerous nuclear clean-up ever attempted. A decade in, an army of engineers, scientists and 5,000 workers are still mapping out a project many expect will not be completed in their lifetime.Naoaki Okuzumi, the head of research at Japan's lead research institute on decommissioning, compares the work ahead to climbing a mountain range - without a map."The feeling we have is, you think the summit's right there, but then you reach it and can see another summit, further beyond," Okuzumi told Reuters.Okuzumi and others need to find a way to remove and safely store 880 tonnes of highly radioactive uranium fuel along with a larger mass of concrete and metal into which fuel melted a decade ago during the accident.The robotic tools to do the job don't yet exist. There is no plan for where to put the radioactive material when it is removed.Japan's government says the job could run 40 years. Outside experts say it could take twice as long, pushing completion near the close of the century.Tepco's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, which once had six reactors, was plunged into crisis by the tsunami that followed a magnitude 9.0 quake off the shore of northern Japan on March 11, 2011.The quake and tsunami flooded the back-up power generators at Fukushima, knocking out cooling systems. The reactors quickly overheated, setting off explosions as uranium cores melted down. The radioactive plumes that formed forced the evacuation of about 160,000 people.It wasn't until 2017 that engineers understood how complicated the clean-up would become. By that point, five specially designed robots had been dispatched through the dark, contaminated waters pumped in to cool the uranium. But radiation zapped their electronics.One robot developed by Toshiba Corp, nicknamed the "little sunfish", a device about the size of a loaf of bread, provided an early glimpse of the chaotic damage around the cores.Kenji Matsuzaki, a robot technician at Toshiba who led development of the "sunfish", had assumed that they would find melted fuel at the bottom of the reactors.But the sunfish's first video images showed a tumult of destruction, with overturned structures inside the reactor, clumps of unrecognizable brown debris and dangerously radioactive metal."I expected it to be broken, but I didn't expect it would be this bad," Matsuzaki said.The delivery of a robotic arm to start removing fuel, developed in a $16 million programme with the UK's Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, has been delayed until 2022. Tepco plans to use it to grab some debris from inside reactor 2 for testing and to help plan the main operation.The project has had some successes. About 2,000 spent fuel rods in reactors No. 3 and No. 4 - which could have caused another massive radiological release if they overheated - have been removed after giant frames and cranes were erected over the buildings.Radiation has been reduced in most of the Fukushima work site, about the size of New York's Central Park. In most areas of the plant, the 5,000 workers no longer need special protective equipment that had slowed work during Japan's hot, humid summers.But the cleanup has been delayed by the buildup of contaminated water in tanks that crowd the site. The melted cores are kept cool by pumping water into damaged reactor vessels.The water is pumped out and treated. Storage tanks now hold enough radioactive water to fill more than 500 Olympic-sized swimming pools. Tepco expects it will max out its storage space next year.Most analysts expect the government to release the water into the ocean after further treatment. Fishing communities have lobbied against that and South Korea and China have objected to such a move.There still is no plan for where to put the radioactive debris from the reactors."It's no good just moving highly radioactive waste from inside the nuclear reactor to somewhere else in the plant," said Hiroshi Miyano, the head of the decommissioning committee of the Atomic Energy Society of Japan. "Where will the waste go? Will it be pulverized? These are the questions that need to be asked."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/climbing-without-a-map-japan-s-nuclear-clean-up-has-no-end-in-sight-101615539939421.html
12-03-2021||World||UK economy shrank by less than feared in January, trade with EU hit by Brexit||Britain's economy shrank by less than feared in January as the country went back into a coronavirus lockdown, official data showed, but trade with the European Union was hit hard at the start of the country's new, post-Brexit trading relationship.Gross domestic product in January was 2.9% lower than in December, the Office for National Statistics said.Economists polled by Reuters had expected a contraction of 4.9%.Britain's economy is likely to shrink by 4% in the first quarter of 2021, due mostly to the latest lockdown but also because of disruption caused by new, post-Brexit rules for trade with the European Union, the Bank of England said last month.Samuel Tombs, an economist with Pantheon Macroeconomics, said Friday's data and other more recent indicators suggested the economy might now be on course to fall by a less severe 2% in the first quarter.The BoE is expected to keep its stimulus programmes on hold at the end of its March meeting next Thursday as it predicts that Britain's vaccination programme - Europe's fastest - will trigger a bounce-back in the economy in the coming months.The ONS data showed exports and imports from Britain to the EU plunged by the most on record although the ONS said a difference in the way the figures were gathered was causing a delay to some data.Exports of goods to the EU, excluding non-monetary gold and other precious metals, slumped by 40.7%. Imports fell by 28.8%.Many companies brought forward imports of goods late last year to avoid the risk of border disruption as the new UK-EU trading relationship began in early 2021 and global trade flows have been hit by the coronavirus pandemic.The ONS said the overall GDP figures were hit hard by the impact of social distancing rules on Britain's huge services sector."The economy took a notable hit in January, albeit smaller than some expected, with retail, restaurants, schools and hairdressers all affected by the latest lockdown," Jonathan Athow, an ONS statistician, said."Manufacturing also saw its first decline since April with car manufacturing falling significantly. However, increases in health services from both vaccine rollout and increased testing partially offset the declines in other industries."Britain's economy shrank by 1.7% in the three months to January, a smaller fall than a median forecast of a contraction of 2.5% in the Reuters poll.The economy was 9.2% smaller than in January last year, the ONS Statistics said.Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to ease England's coronavirus restrictions gradually before lifting most of them by late June.Growth in the next few months is also likely to get a boost from finance minister Rishi Sunak's announcement last week that he will pump a further 65 billion pounds into the economy, including an extension of his jobs-protecting furlough scheme.The ONS said Britain's dominant services sector - which has been hit hard by social-distancing rules - shrank by 3.5% in January from December. The Reuters poll had pointed to a 5.4% contraction.Manufacturing contracted by 2.3% but construction output rose by 0.9%.The monthly fall of nearly 3% in GDP in January was much less severe than its plunge of 18.3% in April last year when Britain went into its first coronavirus lockdown.Many companies have adapted to life under lockdown, including retailers who have ramped up their online shopping operations and services firms who have tried to help workers to do their jobs from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-economy-shrank-by-less-than-feared-in-january-trade-with-eu-hit-by-brexit-101615538455433.html
12-03-2021||World||Biden admin issues notification to further delay mandatory minimum pay for H-1B visa||The Biden administration on Friday issued a formal notification to delay the implementation of the previous Trump regime's controversial rule to raise mandatory minimum pay for foreign workers on the H-1B visa, the most sought after among Indian IT professionals.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.The Department of Labour in its federal notification published on Friday said that it is considering whether to propose a further delay of the final rule's effective date and accompanying implementation periods that are currently scheduled to take effect on May 14, 2021, and July 1, 2021, respectively.Before further delaying the effective date and implementation periods, the Department will provide the public an opportunity to comment, it said.On February 1, the Department of Labour proposed to delay the effective date of the final rule entitled “Strengthening Wage Protections for the Temporary and Permanent Employment of Certain Aliens in the United States,” published in the Federal Register on January 14, 2021, for a period of 60 days.The Department proposed to delay the effective date of the final rule until May 14, 2021, in accordance with the Presidential directive as expressed in the memorandum of January 20, 2021, from the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, entitled “Regulatory Freeze Pending Review.”As stated in the proposal, the 60-day delay would allow agency officials the opportunity to review any questions of fact, law, or policy. The Department invited written comments from the public for 15 days on the proposed delay of effective date. All comments had to be received by February 16, 2021.The Department received 57 comments from the stakeholder community. It has reviewed the comments received in response to the proposal and will delay the effective date of the final rule for a period of 60 days, said the notification.According to Mercury News, major Silicon Valley technology companies, which employ H-1B workers directly and via staffing firms, rely heavily on the visa and push to increase the annual 85,000 cap on new visas, claiming that they need more of them to secure the world’s top talent.“Critics point to abuses and allege that the visa is used by outsourcers and staffing companies, as well as by tech giants, to replace US workers with cheaper foreign labour, drive down wages and facilitate outsourcing,” it said.The rule is a carry-over from the administration of former President Donald Trump, which proposed revisions to proposed mandatory salaries after losing a court battle to organisations including the Bay Area Council over an initial version.If imposed, workers on the H-1B at the lowest wage level would have to receive at least the 35th percentile of the prevailing wage for their job type and location, compared to the 45th percentile in the initial version. Workers at the highest wage level would have to receive the 90th percentile, compared to the 95th percentile, the report said.Meanwhile, a US group on Thursday opposed the move of the Biden administration to reverse some decisions of the Trump administration on the H-1B visas, in particular going back to the lottery system for allocation of this most sought after work visa for foreign technology professionals.The rule, Modification of Registration Requirement for Petitioners Seeking To File Cap-Subject H-1B Petitions, requires that US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) prioritise the higher-paid and higher-skilled foreign workers for H-1B cap-subject visas, thus ensuring US businesses have access to the best pool of foreign workers, while also discouraging wage suppression and creating unfair competition to American workers.In its comment submitted to the Department of Homeland Security, the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) asserted that the implementation of the Trump administration rule would reduce abuse of the H-1B programme by unscrupulous employers while also protecting American workers.Founded in 1979, FAIR is the country's largest immigration reform group. "President (Joe) Biden often portrays himself as a man from the 'working class' who is a tireless defender of the American worker," said FAIR president Dan Stein."Yet his administration is set to postpone, by at least a year, an important rule change that prevents unscrupulous employers from using the H-1B programme to undercut American wages while ensuring that companies that truly need skilled foreign workers have access to the best and the brightest," he alleged.Current DHS policies require USCIS to select registrations on a purely random basis, utilising a lottery system, when demand for H-1B visas exceeds the numerical limit set by statute, note the comments."This random lottery selection process places no weight on wage or skill levels and fails to ensure businesses actually have access to the best and brightest workers possible. Worse, the lottery creates a scenario where American workers could be replaced by foreign workers who can be paid significantly less or who possess considerably lower skills," said Stein.FAIR strongly urged DHS to implement these critical reforms without undue delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-issues-notification-to-further-delay-mandatory-minimum-pay-for-h-1b-visa-101615538429010.html
12-03-2021||World||China hits back at US criticism of legal overhaul in Hong Kong, questions 'moral capital'||A Chinese official hit back Friday at U.S. criticism of planned election law changes in Hong Kong, noting the chaos surrounding the recent American presidential election.Semi-autonomous Hong Kong is an internal Chinese issue that no foreign country has the right to interfere in, said Zhang Xiaoming, deputy director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of the State Council.“I don’t know that after the storming of the U.S. Capitol on January 6, how the U.S. has such moral capital to point fingers at the election institutions of Hong Kong,” he said.A statement from U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken condemned what it called China's “continuing assault on democratic institutions in Hong Kong." It followed Thursday's approval by China's rubber-stamp legislature of a plan to increase Beijing's control of how Hong Kong's legislature is chosen.The changes would give a largely pro-Beijing Election Committee the responsibility of nominating all members of Hong Kong's legislature and directly electing some lawmakers to ensure that Hong Kong is administered by “patriots" and exclude “anti-China” forces from holding key roles in governance.The 1,500-member Election Committee will pick the territory’s chief executive and an unspecified “relatively large” number of its 90-seat legislature. The revision has prompted concern that the proportion of directly elected lawmakers will be reduced.“These actions deny Hong Kongers a voice in its own governance by limiting political participation, reducing democratic representation, and stifling political debate,” Blinken said.Zhang likened the changes to Hong Kong's electoral system as a “minimally invasive surgery” that will restore health to the city's “democratic system.”“The distinctive features of minimally invasive surgery are small wounds, deep penetration, and quicker recovery,” he said, adding that Hong Kong residents will be able to live and work more peacefully as a result.Zhang also said that the electoral changes are not aimed at excluding Hong Kong's pro-democracy camp from the governance structure as anti-China forces cannot be equated with the opposition.“The opposition, especially the pan-democrats, also have patriots, and they can still stand for election and be elected according to the law in the future," he said.Zhang's comments come even as 47 pro-democracy activists and former legislators were charged in court for subversion last week for their involvement in an unofficial primary election that authorities say was part of a plot to paralyze the Hong Kong government.Most of Hong Kong's prominent pro-democracy advocates are currently in jail or in self-exile. Of the 47, only five have received bail.On Friday, 21 activists who were denied bail last week appeared in court for a bail review.The court rejected 11 bail applications, including those from former lawmakers Claudia Mo and Leung Kwok-hung. The remaining 10 defendants withdrew their application. They will remain in custody.For former lawmaker Emily Lau, a member of Hong Kong's Democratic Party, Zhang's words provide little reassurance that any semblance of democracy can still be maintained.“I consider myself a patriot,” said Lau. “But our worry is that many people from my party, and from the pro-democracy camp may be excluded.”She said that even after lawmakers are elected, there is still continuous vetting throughout their service since they can still be stripped of their seats if they're found to be insufficiently patriotic.“I don't know what their definition of patriotism is, and that is the worrying thing,” she said. “Once this (electoral system) is set up, you will lose the confidence of the people, and that's bad for any government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hits-back-at-us-criticism-of-legal-overhaul-in-hong-kong-questions-moral-capital-101615537547603.html
12-03-2021||World||Defying rules, anti-vaccine accounts continue to spread misinformation on social media||With vaccination against Covid-19 in full swing, social platforms like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter say they’ve stepped up their fight against misinformation that aims to undermine trust in the vaccines. But problems abound.For years, the same platforms have allowed anti-vaccination propaganda to flourish, making it difficult to stamp out such sentiments now. And their efforts to weed out other types of Covid-19 misinformation — often with fact-checks, informational labels and other restrained measures, has been woefully slow.Twitter, for instance, announced this month that it will remove dangerous falsehoods about vaccines, much the same way it’s done for other Covid-related conspiracy theories and misinformation. But since April 2020, it has removed a grand total of 8,400 tweets spreading Covid-related misinformation — a tiny fraction of the avalanche of pandemic-related falsehoods tweeted out daily by popular users with millions of followers, critics say.“While they fail to take action, lives are being lost,” said Imran Ahmed, CEO of the Center for Countering Digital Hate, a watchdog group. In December, the nonprofit found that 59 million accounts across social platforms follow peddlers of anti-vax propaganda — many of whom are immensely popular superspreaders of misinformation.Efforts to crack down on vaccine misinformation now, though, are generating cries of censorship and prompting some posters to adopt sneaky tactics to avoid the axe.“It’s a hard situation because we have let this go for so long,” said Jeanine Guidry, an assistant professor at Virginia Commonwealth University who studies social media and health information. “People using social media have really been able to share what they want for nearly a decade.”The Associated Press identified more than a dozen Facebook pages and Instagram accounts, collectively boasting millions of followers, that have made false claims about the Covid-19 vaccine or discouraged people from taking it. Some of these pages have existed for years.Of more than 15 pages identified by NewsGuard, a technology company that analyzes the credibility of websites, roughly half remain active on Facebook, the AP found.One such page, The Truth About Cancer, has more than a million Facebook followers after years of posting baseless suggestions that vaccines could cause autism or damage children’s brains. The page was identified in November as a “Covid-19 vaccine misinformation super spreader” by NewsGuard.Recently, the page stopped posting about vaccines and the coronavirus. It now directs people to sign up for its newsletter and visit its website as a way to avoid alleged “censorship.”Facebook said it is taking taking “aggressive steps to fight misinformation across our apps by removing millions of pieces of Covid-19 and vaccine content on Facebook and Instagram during the pandemic."“Research shows one of the best ways to promote vaccine acceptance is by showing people accurate, trusted information, which is why we’ve connected 2 billion people to resources from heath authorities and launched a global information campaign," the company said in a statement.Facebook also banned ads that discourage vaccines and said it has added warning labels to more than 167 million pieces of additional Covid-19 content thanks to our network of fact-checking partners. (The Associated Press is one of Facebook's fact-checking partners).YouTube, which has generally avoided the same type scrutiny as its social media peers despite being a source of misinformation, said it has removed more than 30,000 videos since October, when it started banning false claims about Covid-19 vaccinations. Since February 2020, it has removed over 800,000 videos related to dangerous or misleading coronavirus information, said YouTube spokeswoman Elena Hernandez.Prior to the pandemic, however, social media platforms had done little to stamp out misinformation, said Andy Pattison, manager of digital solutions for the World Health Organization. In 2019, as a measles outbreak slammed the Pacific Northwest and left dozens dead in America Samoa, Pattison pleaded with big tech companies to take a closer look at tightening rules around vaccine misinformation that he feared might make the outbreak worse — to no avail.It wasn’t until Covid-19 struck with a vengeance that many of those tech companies started listening. Now he meets weekly with Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to discuss trends on their platforms and policies to consider.“When it comes to vaccine misinformation, the really frustrating thing is that this has been around for years,” Pattison said.The targets of such crackdowns are often quick to adapt. Some accounts use intentionally misspelled words — like “vackseen” or “v@x” — to avoid bans. (Social platforms say they're wise to this.) Other pages use more subtle messaging, images or memes to suggest that vaccines are unsafe or even deadly.“When you die after the vaccine, you die of everything but the vaccine,” read one meme on an Instagram account with more than 65,000 followers. The post suggested that the government is concealing deaths from the COVID-19 vaccine.“It’s a very fine line between freedom of speech and eroding science,” Pattison said. Purveyors of misinformation, he said, “learn the rules, and they dance right on the edge, all the time.”Twitter said it is continuously reviewing its rules in the context of COVID-19 and changes them based on guidance from experts. Earlier this month, it added a strikes policy that threatens repeat spreaders of coronavirus and vaccine misinformation with bans.But blatantly false Covid-19 information continues to pop up. Earlier this month, several articles circulating online claimed that more elderly Israelis who took the Pfizer vaccine were “killed” by the shot than those who died from Covid-19 itself. One such article from an anti-vaccination website was shared nearly 12,000 times on Facebook, leading earlier this month to a spike of nearly 40,000 mentions of “vaccine deaths” across social platforms and the internet, according to an analysis by media intelligence firm Zignal Labs.Medical experts point to a real-world study showing a strong correlation between vaccination and decreases in severe Covid-19 disease in Israel. The nation’s health ministry said in a Thursday statement that the Covid-19 vaccine has “profoundly” reduced the rate of deaths and hospitalizations.As U.S. vaccine supplies continue to increase, immunization efforts will soon shift from targeting a limited supply to the most vulnerable populations to getting as many shots into as many arms as possible. That means tackling the third of the country’s population who say they will not or probably won’t get it, as measured by a February AP-NORC poll.“Vaccine hesitancy and misinformation could be a big barrier to getting enough of the population vaccinated to end the crisis,” said Lisa Fazio, a professor of psychology at Vanderbilt University.Some health officials and academics generally believe that the social-platform efforts are helpful, at least on the margins. What’s not clear is how big of a dent they can put in the problem.“If someone truly believes that the Covid vaccine is harmful and they feel a responsibility to share that with friends and family ... they will find a way,” Guidry said.And some still blame business models that they say encouraged the platforms to serve up engaging, if false, coronavirus misinformation in order to profit from advertising.When the Center for Countering Digital Hate recently studied the crossover between different types of disinformation and hate speech, it found that Instagram tended to cross-pollinate misinformation via its algorithm. Instagram might feed an account that followed a QAnon conspiracy site further posts from, say, white nationalists or anti-vaxxers.“You continue to allow things to disintegrate because of the seamless intermingling of misinformation and information on your platforms,” Ahmed, the center’s CEO, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/defying-rules-anti-vaccine-accounts-continue-to-spread-misinformation-on-social-media-101615536253060.html
12-03-2021||World||Israel, Greece, Cyprus hold naval drill as they deepen ties||The Israeli military said Friday that it has conducted a joint naval exercise with Greece and Cyprus, in the latest sign of increased cooperation among three countries that increasingly view Turkey as a rival in the Mediterranean Sea.It said the “Noble Dina” exercise, which was led by Israel and also included France, covered “anti-submarine procedures, search and rescue scenarios, and a scenario simulating battle between ships.” The exercise was concluded on Thursday.“Over the past week, the Navy led a large-scale exercise in which it implemented capabilities in underwater warfare, search and rescue, convoy escort and surface combat," Rear Admiral Eyal Harel, the head of Israeli naval operations, said.“These exercises are of paramount importance in strengthening the Navy’s connection with foreign fleets who share common interests,” he added.Israel, Greece and Cyprus have taken a number of steps in recent months to cement ties, including advancing plans to build a 2,000 megawatt undersea electricity cable and a 1,900-kilometer (1,300-mile) undersea gas pipeline. The three countries' defense ministers met in November and agreed to increase military cooperation.Greece and Cyprus are embroiled in a dispute with Turkey, which has sent gas prospecting vessels into waters claimed by Greece and drilling ships into an area where Cyprus claims exclusive rights. The tension brought NATO allies Greece and Turkey close to open conflict last year, but tensions have eased since then.Israel and Turkey were once close allies but had a major falling-out in 2010, when 10 Turkish citizens were killed by Israeli forces as a Turkish-led flotilla tried to break Israel’s blockade on the Gaza Strip.The two countries agreed to a U.S.-brokered reconciliation agreement in 2016, but ties broke down two years later over a U.S. decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan portrays himself as a champion of the Palestinian cause and has provided political support to Hamas, the Islamic militant group that seized power from rival Palestinian forces in 2007. A number of Hamas leaders are based in Turkey, and Erdogan met with the group's top leader, Ismail Haniyeh, in December 2019.Israel and Western countries view Hamas as a terrorist group. Turkey considers it a legitimate political actor because it won Palestinian parliamentary elections in 2006, and denies providing any aid to the group's armed wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-greece-cyprus-hold-naval-drill-as-they-deepen-ties-101615536059747.html
12-03-2021||World||Sanofi to start human trials of its second Covid vaccine candidate||French pharmaceutical firm Sanofi on Friday announced the launch of human trials of its second Covid-19 vaccine, with its first still in the testing phase after having fallen behind in development.Sanofi and US company Translate Bio are developing the vaccine based on messenger RNA technology.The phase 1 and 2 trials aim to verify that the vaccine is not dangerous and to provide initial information on its effectiveness.Phase 3 would be carried out on many more patients to determine its effectiveness.The first trials will include 415 people, with inital results expected in the third quarter.Messenger RNA technology is also used in the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, already authorised in the European Union, the United States and elsewhere.It is the second vaccine developed by Sanofi against the coronavirus.An earlier candidate, developed with Britain's GSK, is recombinant protein-based, but its development is several months behind schedule and testing is only in phase 2, with hopes to launch it in late 2021.Sanofi has also agreed to help produce Covid vaccines developed by Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sanofi-to-start-human-trials-of-its-second-covid-vaccine-candidate-101615530942582.html
12-03-2021||World||South Africa's Zulu King Zwelithini dies, royal family says||South Africa's Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini died on Friday, the royal family said in a statement. He was 72.The king was hospitalised in a KwaZulu-Natal hospital for diabetes treatment, local media reported."Tragically, while still in hospital, His Majesty's health took a turn for the worse and he subsequently passed away in the early hours of this morning," read the statement, issued by Inkatha Freedom Party founder and traditional prime minister to the Zulu monarch Prince Mangosutho Buthelezi, on behalf of the royal family."On behalf of the Royal Family, we thank the nation for your continued prayers and support in this most difficult time."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-s-zulu-king-zwelithini-dies-royal-family-says-101615532429757.html
12-03-2021||World||US imposes new 5G license limits on some Huawei suppliers||The Biden administration has informed some suppliers to China’s Huawei Technologies Co. of tighter conditions on previously approved export licenses, prohibiting items for use in or with 5G devices, according to people familiar with the move.The 5G ban is effective as of this week, according to the people, who asked not to be identified to discuss nonpublic communications.The rules create a more explicit prohibition on the export of components like semiconductors, antennas and batteries for Huawei 5G devices, making the ban more uniform among licensees. Some companies had previously received licenses that allowed them to keep shipping components to Huawei that the Chinese company may have then used in 5G equipment, while other companies were already subject to tighter restrictions.Companies had complained about confusing rules after former President Donald Trump’s administration added Huawei to the Entity List, requiring that U.S. firms obtain government licenses if they want to sell American tech and intellectual property to the Chinese telecommunications-equipment giant. U.S. officials had deemed the company a national-security threat.The move is also a sign that the Biden administration plans to move forward on the tighter export controls implemented under Trump and more broadly indicates officials are following through on pledges to be tough on China. In an interview with MSNBC this month, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo promised to use the Entity List “to its full effect.”“From one perspective, it’s cleanup and correcting mistakes from the previous administration,” said William Reinsch, who served as undersecretary of commerce for export administration in the Clinton administration and is now senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “There’s bipartisan support for a tough line on technology transfer to China, and this reflects that.”Chinese-listed telecom equipment stocks such as Fiberhome Telecommunication Technologies Co. and Shennan Circuits Co. fell more than 1%, while rival ZTE Corp. was largely unchanged in Hong Kong and down about 1.8% in Shenzhen.Protecting InterestsThe U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security, which oversees the Entity List, said in an emailed statement that it can’t comment on “specific export licensing questions.” The bureau said it “works with its interagency partners to apply consistently the licensing policies set forth in the Export Administration Regulations to protect U.S. national security and foreign policy interests.”The Trump administration used export controls, prohibitions and executive orders to block companies including Huawei, chipmaker Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok and Tencent Holdings Ltd. from American goods and consumers. Now, it’s up to Biden whether to maintain, remove or deepen those measures.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will meet with their Chinese counterparts in Alaska next week. It would represent the highest-level in-person exchange between the two sides since President Joe Biden took office in January. Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping spoke by phone on Feb. 10.Trump slapped tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars of imports from China, sparking a trade war that hurt U.S. manufacturing and agriculture even as it protected some slices of industry like steelmakers.While Biden criticized Trump’s strategy and promised to work with global allies to confront China on issues including intellectual property theft, he’s also indicated that he won’t immediately remove the tariffs, taking time to review U.S. policy.In late February the Biden administration also signaled that it intends to go ahead with a Trump administration-proposed rule to secure the information-technology supply chain, a move that gives the Commerce Department broad authority to prohibit transactions involving “foreign adversaries.”The interim rule, which will allow Commerce to monitor transactions of governments including China’s, was first proposed by the previous administration in January -- days before Biden’s inauguration -- and follows an executive order Trump signed in 2019. The department said it would accept public comments on the plan through March 22, the same day it becomes effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-imposes-new-5g-license-limits-on-some-huawei-suppliers-101615531544805.html
12-03-2021||World||European Union drug regulator backs AstraZeneca vaccine after suspensions||The European Union’s drugs regulator said the benefits of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine continue to outweigh its risks, and the shot can still be administered while investigations of possible blood clots are ongoing.The European Medicines Agency reiterated that there is currently no indication that the Astra vaccine caused these conditions, which aren’t listed as side effects. The EMA issued the statement as Denmark, Italy and Norway joined other European countries in temporarily suspending use of some or all of their Astra Covid shots. The regulator is investigating the concerns.It’s the latest setback for AstraZeneca’s European rollout, which has already encountered a number of bumps along the way. Delayed deliveries fueled a dispute between the EU and the U.K., where AstraZeneca is based, and there were questions over its efficacy for people over 65. Several EU countries have since reversed course on earlier restrictions after new data showed the vaccine’s benefits for the elderly.Further negative perceptions among the public could affect take-up of the Astra vaccine in the EU, which is relying on the shot as it races to catch up with the rest of the developed world in inoculating its population.Even before the latest questions arose, perceptions of the shot’s safety in Europe were lower compared with the one from Pfizer Inc. and partner BioNTech SE, and the vaccine produced by Moderna Inc., according to a March 7 YouGov survey. In Britain, by contrast, Astra’s was viewed as the safest of the three.Precautionary MoveDenmark said it wants more research conducted before resuming inoculations with the company’s vaccine. Danish Health Minister Magnus Heunicke called the decision a precautionary move, following “signals of a possible serious side effect in the form of deadly blood clots” stemming from a batch of the vaccine.Shares in AstraZeneca fell 2.5%.AstraZeneca said the safety of its vaccine was demonstrated in clinical trials. An analysis of more than 10 million records has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis in any age group, gender, batch or country using the shot, the company said in a statement.“In fact, the observed number of these types of events are significantly lower in those vaccinated than would be expected among the general population,” AstraZeneca said.The U.K. government also sprang to Astra’s defense, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesman, Jamie Davies, calling it “safe” and “effective,” in response to reporters’ questions about Denmark’s decision.News of the risk of clotting drew different reactions across the EU. In Sweden, health authorities said they saw no reason to stop using Astra. Italy said on Thursday it has blocked use of the Astra batch in question, pending a review.The development follows news from Austria, where authorities last weekend suspended use of the Astra batch after reports of a death and an illness among recipients.Phil Bryan of the U.K. Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency issued a statement to underline that “it has not been confirmed that the report of a blood clot, in Denmark, was caused by the Covid-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca.”“We continually monitor the safety of vaccines to ensure that the benefits outweigh any potential risks,” he said. He also said the reports of blood clots received so far “are not greater than the number that would have occurred naturally in the vaccinated population,” and he urged people to continue seeking inoculation.In the Philippines, health authorities concurred with European regulators, saying there was no reason to stop the rollout of Astra’s shot and that they were closely monitoring the situation.Meanwhile, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Latvia have all suspended use of shots from the Astra batch, according to the EMA. Iceland has since said it will also put its Astra program on hold until more is known about the side effects.Vaccines from the lot, totaling 1 million shots, have also been delivered to France, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Ireland, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain and Sweden, the EMA said.Danish FatalityThe EMA’s list of side effects referred to one Danish fatality, identified by local authorities as a 60-year-old woman. Health authorities are stressing that it’s currently not possible to establish a link between her death and AstraZeneca’s vaccine. Denmark will pause its Astra shots for two weeks, with a new assessment due in the week starting March 22.“It’s important to underline that we haven’t abandoned the AstraZeneca vaccine,” the Danish Health Authority said in a statement. “But we’re pausing its use. There’s good documentation that the vaccine is both safe and effective.”Denmark said the development could delay its immunization program by about a month.The country’s decision represents a “super-cautious approach based on some isolated reports in Europe,” said Stephen Evans, professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. “The problem with spontaneous reports of suspected adverse reactions to a vaccine are the enormous difficulty of distinguishing a causal effect from a coincidence.”Denmark has given more than 142,000 inoculations with the AstraZeneca vaccine, accounting for about one-quarter of all Danes who have received a first Covid shot.A year ago, Denmark became one of the first EU nations to go into a lockdown and shut its borders, and it has stood out for its cautious approach to fighting the pandemic. That includes forcing its fur industry to cull the entire Danish mink population amid concerns the animals were spreading the virus.Denmark has also been one of the EU leaders in vaccinations, giving 13 shots per 100 people, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-drug-regulator-backs-astrazeneca-vaccine-after-suspensions-101615514736254.html
12-03-2021||World||No evidence of Covid-19 leak from Wuhan lab, may have emerged from wildlife trade, say WHO scientists||The four World Health Organisation (WHO) scientific experts who travelled to China to probe the Covid-19 pandemic's origins said that contrary to conspiracy theories, there currently is no evidence that suggests the novel coronavirus 'leaked' from a Chinese laboratory in Wuhan.Instead, the most likely explanation is that the pandemic may have been caused by unfettered wildlife trade in the country, the experts said.Speaking at a virtual event hosted by the Chatham House think-tank, the experts said that they found a 'link' between the wet market in Wuhan, where people first fell ill, and neighbouring regions in South China where bats were found with viruses.Dr Peter Daszak, zoologist and president of EcoHealth Alliance, a global nonprofit researching human, animal and environmental health, said, "There was a conduit from Wuhan to the provinces in South China, where the closest relative viruses [to the coronavirus] are found in bats.” It is thus possible that the virus crossed into domesticated and farmed animals and arrived in Wuhan on account of wildlife trade, he said.Dr Daszak was a part of the four-member expert team sent by WHO, along with Professor David Heymann, Professor Marion Koopmans, and Professor John Watson.Koopmans, the Head of the Department of Viroscience at Erasmus University Medical Center in Rotterdam, said that as part of their investigation, the team had also visited the three laboratories closest to the Huanan market in Wuhan and scrutinised their protocols and research."We concluded that it’s extremely unlikely there was a lab incident,” she said."Incidentally, the three aforementioned laboratories, including the much talked about Wuhan Institute of Virology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, have been the focus of several conspiracy theories and unfounded speculations on the origins of the virus, partly fueled by internet forums and imageboards playing the market for rumours.The incident was also heavily politicised in the US by the erstwhile Trump administration, which defunded the National Institutes of Health also blacklisted critical coronavirus research, which was going on in collaboration with the Wuhan labs.Addressing the issue of navigating this 'special politics' over the unfounded coronavirus origin speculations, Dr Daszak said that the scientific process related to the investigation offers a way to deal with this political intrigue."This scientific process here -- which involves looking at data, analysing it, coming to conclusions about what it means, and making it public -- is extremely important because it allows you to do the work irrespective of the politics. There is a purity to this process, and in other scientists reacting to it. I find solace in that," he said.The United Nations' health agency worked for months to send an international team to Wuhan to help determine how the novel coronavirus first jumped from animals to humans. But in a tense geopolitical climate, the highly sensitive mission only landed on the ground this past January -- more than a year after the first cases were detected in the Chinese city in late 2019. The independent experts, who spent four weeks in Wuhan visiting sites linked to early cases, wrapped up their mission last month without conclusive findings.The team, which has stressed this was just a first stage in the process, is expected to publish a report with their full findings next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-evidence-of-covid-19-leak-from-wuhan-lab-say-who-scientists-101615529203740.html
12-03-2021||World||US white wheat growers cash in as China snaps up supplies||China is scooping up supplies of US white wheat to feed livestock, pushing export forecasts for the grain usually used to make sponge cakes and noodles to a 27-year-high.The purchases are the latest disruption in commodities markets caused by Chinese buying of grains and oilseeds during the coronavirus pandemic, pushing prices of major commodity crops to multi-year highs.China has booked more US white wheat this year than any country besides the Philippines, the top buyer of the grain. While US producers have long tried to woo the growing Chinese market for confectionary foods made from white wheat flour, the recent purchases reflect a need for animal feed, Chinese traders and analysts said.On Tuesday, the US Agriculture Department (USDA) raised its forecast for exports of US white wheat to 245 million bushels, the most since 1994, due to strong demand from China and South Korea.In a sign of the varied pace of global economic recoveries, USDA lowered its export forecast for the most common U.S. wheat class, hard red winter wheat, citing lower demand to "several Western Hemisphere markets."While white wheat is not typically fed to animals, high corn prices - benchmark U.S. futures hit 7-1/2-year highs last month - made it a viable alternative in China.China is scouring the globe for feed grains as it rebuilds the world's largest hog herd, which was ravaged by African swine fever.“Most of the imported wheat is going to the feed sector as corn prices are high and there is profit (to import)," said Li Hongchao, a senior grains analyst with trade website Myagric.com.China signed a trade deal with the United States in January 2020. More recent trade tensions between China and Australia, which grows a slightly different hard white wheat, have also sent China seeking alternative wheat supplies.Nine months into the 2020/21 wheat marketing year begun June 1, 2020, China's purchases of all U.S. wheat classes are at a seven-year high of 2.9 million tonnes, according to USDA's weekly export sales data. White wheat bookings represent about a third of the total, at 947,863 tonnes as of March 4.Chinese purchases of U.S. white wheat began ramping up in November, after grinding to a near halt in 2018 and 2019 when Beijing and Washington were in the thick of a trade war.Prior to 2018, China had been building its U.S. white wheat purchases, booking 228,000 tonnes in 2016/17 and 307,000 tonnes in 2017/18. The U.S. wheat industry, anticipating the growth of China's economy, has spent years cultivating a relationship with China's flour millers and bakers."It's a growing middle class, and their interest (is) in diversifying their diet," said Randy Fortenbery, an agricultural economist at Washington State University.Most U.S. white wheat is soft white wheat, grown in the Pacific Northwest and beloved by bakers for its pale color and low gluten strength, ideal for cakes and steamed breads.'GOOD RUN-UP IN PRICES'While the wheat has been cheaper than corn in China, where feed grains are in high demand, it is earning U.S. farmers a premium. The booming export market for white wheat has sent cash prices at the Portland, Oregon, export hub hovering around $7.50 a bushel, up about $2 or 35% from July post harvest.Idaho grower Cordell Kress says he sold about a third of his expected 2021 white wheat harvest and has even pre-sold some of his 2022 crop."That is more than usual. But we have had a pretty good run-up in prices," said Kress, who grows about 3,000 acres (12 square kilometers) of wheat each year in southeast Idaho.Even so, grain merchandisers and farmers do not expect much of a jump in U.S. white wheat acres this spring, given strong prices for competing crops like canola. While most of the US white wheat crop was planted last autumn, before the price rally, a smaller portion is seeded each spring."Lots of things go into crop selection besides price," said Kress. "I do what is best for my farm and the soil, and typically that involves sticking to crop rotations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-white-wheat-growers-cash-in-as-china-snaps-up-supplies-101615530252748.html
12-03-2021||World||'America is coming back' declares President Biden on his maiden prime time address||President Joe Biden has told his countrymen that "America is coming back" as it is on a path to defeat the deadly coronavirus and revive the economy badly hit by the pandemic.The US is the worst-hit country with the world's highest number of confirmed cases and deaths at 29,150,068 and 529,102, respectively, according to Johns Hopkins University.Some 18 million Americans are still relying on unemployment insurance and some 400,000 small businesses have permanently closed their doors.“America is coming back,” Biden said in his maiden prime time address to the nation on Thursday on the 50th day of his presidency.“The development, manufacture, distribution of vaccines in record time is a true miracle of science. It's one of the most extraordinary achievements any country has ever accomplished. We also just saw the Perseverance rover land on Mars, stunning images of our dreams that are now reality, another example of the extraordinary American ingenuity, commitment, and belief in science and one another,” he said.Reflecting on the last one year wherein the country lost more than 500,000 Americans, he said there is something else that the country lost.“We lost faith in whether our government and our democracy can deliver on really hard things for the American people. But as I stand here tonight, we're proving once again something I've said time and time again to the--probably tired of hearing me say it. I say it to foreign leaders and domestic alike. It's never, ever a good bet to bet against the American people,” Biden said."And today, I signed into law the American Rescue Plan, an historic piece of legislation that delivers immediate relief to millions of people. It includes USD 1,400 in direct rescue checks — payments. That means a typical family of four earning about USD 110,000 will get checks for USD 5,600 deposited if they have direct deposit or in a check — a Treasury check," he said.This has been Biden's first and most pressing legislative priority since taking office on January 20.“It extends unemployment benefits. It helps small businesses. It lowers health care premiums for many. It provides food and nutrition, keeps families in their homes. And it will cut child poverty in this country in half, according to the experts. And it funds all the steps to beat the virus and create millions of jobs,” he said.This will tackle the pandemic and get direct financial assistance and relief to Americans who need it the most.In the coming weeks and months, Biden said he will be travelling, along with the first lady, the vice president, the second gentleman, and members of his Cabinet to speak directly to Americans, to tell them the truth about how the American Rescue Plan meets the moment.“If it fails in any place, I will acknowledge that it failed, but it will not; about how after long, dark years, one whole year, there is hope and light of better days ahead,” he said.“If we all do our part, this country will be vaccinated soon, our economy will be on the mend, our kids will be back in school, and we'll have proven once again that this country can do anything, hard things, big things, important things,” he said.“Over a year ago, no one could have imagined what we were about to go through, but now we're coming through it. It is a shared experience that binds us together as a nation. We are bound together by the loss and the pain of the days that have gone by. We are also bound together by the hope and the possibilities in the days in front of us,” he said.Biden said his fervent prayer for the country is that, "after all we have been through, we’ll come together as one people, one nation, one America.""I believe we can and we will. We’re seizing this moment. And history, I believe, will record: We faced and overcame one of the toughest and darkest periods in this nation’s history — darkest we’ve ever known," he said.More than 95.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered across the nation, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There are three Covid-19 vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from the US Food and Drug Administration from Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/america-is-coming-back-declares-president-biden-on-his-maiden-prime-time-address-101615531207415.html
12-03-2021||World||Canadian company pulls ads thanking India for Covid-19 vaccine support||Less than a day after an Indo-Canadian community group sponsored nine billboards in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) that thanked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian government for sending across Covid-19 vaccines to Canada, the ad company has taken down the hoardings apparently after receiving complaints.The billboards featured an image of Modi against the backdrop of the flags of India and Canada, and read, “Thank You, India & PM Narendra Modi. Long Live Canada India Friendship.” The domestic community group Hindu Forum Canada (HFC) had sponsored the ad campaign, signing up with Outfront Media for a five-week display at various locations in the GTA.On Thursday, Outfront Media emailed HFC, saying they “had to pause the digital impression buy because of community complaints on the creative design”.It is learnt that HFC was later informed the complaints were apparently made over the use of Modi’s image and that there was pressure from some unidentified people on Outfront Media to pull the campaign.HFC members plan to discuss the matter with Outfront Media’s CEO, Michele Erskine, and they intend to point out that Canadian PM Justin Trudeau himself had thanked the Indian prime minister for sealing a deal as per which a total of two million doses of the Covishield vaccine will be shipped to Canada.In a statement sent to HT, HFC president Rao Yendamuri said the community group was “disappointed” that the campaign was placed on hold and “still hopeful” that Outfront Media would resume it since message was “very positive”.The first shipment of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines arrived in Canada last Wednesday.HT reached out to Erskine as well as Outfront Media’s vice-president for legal matters, Kate Leslie, but received no response.It is believed in some circles that Outfront Media was forced to pull the ads possibly because of a social media campaign that was launched targeting the company.The campaign features Outfront Media’s phone number and says, “Call this number and educate them.” It uses the hashtag #AskIndiaWhy, which was initiated by Vancouver-based Poetic Justice Foundation, a non-profit that was behind the toolkit controversy that recently erupted in India surrounding the ongoing farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-company-pulls-ads-thanking-india-for-covid-19-vaccine-support-101615530758182.html
12-03-2021||World||Africa proves rocky terrain for Russian and Chinese Covid-19 vaccines||Russia and China are racing to plug the Covid-19 vaccine gap in Africa, hoping to cement their influence on a continent where many countries have yet to administer a single shot.But, so far, vaccine donations from Beijing and Moscow have been small, the commercial deals they offer are costly, and some African governments are wary about a lack of data.As rich countries ramp up their inoculation drives, Africa, without the resources to pre-order Pfizer, AstraZeneca , Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines, is being left behind.With Western nations facing criticism for hoarding supplies, flooding Africa with life-saving shots would be a soft-power coup for Russia and China.Moscow has offered 300 million doses with financing to an African Union (AU) purchasing scheme.Beijing has pledged nearly a quarter of all its vaccine donations to Africa, according to data compiled by Bridge Consulting, a Beijing-based health sector advisory."This is a vivid manifestation of China-Africa friendship," China's foreign ministry told Reuters."Africa is one of the key markets for Sputnik V," said the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the sovereign wealth fund marketing its Sputnik V vaccine abroad.French President Emmanuel Macron says Europe and the United States risk losing influence in Africa over the issue.However, John Nkengasong, head of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, cautioned against "vaccine diplomacy", saying powers must not use token allocations to curry political influence."Africa will refuse to be that playing ground where we use Covid as a tool to manage relationships," he said on a webinar hosted by the Atlantic Council think tank in late February."It becomes like you're trying to sprinkle water on a very hot day on children ... Then you can tick the box that you did that," he said. "That's not what we are after as a continent."While other developing regions have turned to Russia or China, in Africa their engagement has translated into few shots in arms.Africa has received around 3.15 million shots from China - or less than 4% of its vaccine exports - Bridge Consulting data showed."The numbers of vaccines China is donating are not going to move the needle in any of these countries. But it's as much about the optics," said Eric Olander, co-founder of The China-Africa Project.Russia has shipped a total of around 100,000 vaccine doses to Algeria, Tunisia and Guinea.The global vaccine sharing scheme COVAX, meanwhile, delivered nearly 15 million shots to 22 African countries in its first 10 days.The facility co-led by the World Health Organization, GAVI and others aims to ship 35 million doses to Africa by the end of the month and 720 million by the end of 2021.That will still only be enough to inoculate those at greatest risk.DATA DEFICITChina's leading vaccines - from the China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) and Sinovac - are not yet approved for emergency use by the WHO. Neither is Russia's Sputnik V vaccine.China offered South Africa - the African nation hardest hit by the pandemic - 2 million shots, its health minister said.But a government official involved in procurement told Reuters the lack of trial data meant Chinese vaccines were not being seriously considered for now. Sputnik V was also relegated to a second tier of vaccines South Africa says need more study, according to the health ministry.Even some countries that accepted donations have shied away from purchases.Uganda considered buying Chinese vaccines but is focused on COVAX due to their cost and the availability of data, said Ombeva Malande, director of the East Africa Centre for Vaccines and Immunization, which advised the government. Kenya is taking a similar line, he said.Diana Atwine, permanent secretary in Uganda's health ministry, said authorities would consider affordable vaccines approved by the WHO.The head of Kenya's vaccine task force confirmed it was not in talks to procure Chinese vaccines, and health ministry plans do not include Russian vaccines.DOLLARS AND DOSESWhile COVAX shots are free for most African nations, countries doing commercial deals are paying a premium.Senegal paid $20 a shot for 200,000 doses of Sinopharm, a two-shot vaccine."The worst thing that could happen now is for countries to not start vaccinating," said Tandakha Ndiaye Dieye, a member of Senegal's vaccine advisory group, explaining the decision.By comparison, India's Serum Institute is selling AstraZeneca shots it manufactures for $3. The Indian government has also donated over a half million of those shots to eight African countries, according to a Reuters tally.Beijing has so far not announced financing packages that would make vaccine deals more affordable in Africa.At around $10 per dose, Sputnik V is cheaper, and RDIF told Reuters it would be even more competitive if subsidised via COVAX.RDIF said it was in "advanced negotiations" with the WHO to be included in COVAX and could offer a one-shot version to reduce the cost. A spokesperson for GAVI, the global vaccine alliance helping lead COVAX, said all vaccines would be considered but they first needed approval from the WHO or another stringent regulatory authority.RDIF said some deliveries of the Sputnik V doses offered via the AU plan could start in May.A senior AU diplomat told Reuters that talks were taking place but no agreement had been reached. No details have been announced about the finance package. RDIF did not respond to Reuters questions about the potential deal.Both China and Russia must increase production if they hope to become major global vaccine suppliers. For Moscow, exporting shots is politically sensitive when its own population still needs vaccinating."I'm not worried about whether Russia's going to be able to deliver the doses," said W. Gyude Moore of the Center for Global Development, a Washington think tank."I'm worried about how African countries are going to pay for them ... COVAX is just not going to be enough."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/africa-proves-rocky-terrain-for-russian-and-chinese-covid-19-vaccines-101615529481306.html
12-03-2021||World||To counter China, Biden to meet leaders of Australia, India and Japan||US President Joe Biden will meet on Friday with the leaders of Australia, India and Japan, a group central to his efforts to counter China's growing military and economic power.The White House said the virtual meeting of the countries known as the Quad would show the importance Biden placed on the Indo-Pacific region and focus on ways to fight the coronavirus, cooperate on economic growth and the climate crisis.India and Australia have emphasized the importance of regional security cooperation, which has been boosted by previous lower-level meetings of the four countries.A senior Biden administration official told Reuters the meeting would announce financing agreements to support an increase in manufacturing capacity for coronavirus vaccines in India, something New Delhi has urged to counter China's widening vaccine diplomacy.The United States wants to strengthen ties with allies and partners as China adopts an increasingly assertive foreign policy in Asia and beyond. Washington says the additional vaccine capacity will be used in vaccination efforts in Southeast Asia, where Beijing is competing for influence.The virtual meeting between Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Indian Prime Minster Narendra Modi and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will aim to lay the groundwork for an in-person meeting later this year, the administration said.Among the issues to be addressed are supply chains exposed as heavily reliant on China during the pandemic.Japan's Nikkei newspaper reported on Thursday that the four countries would work together to secure rare earth metals essential to the production of electric car motors and other products.The US official told Reuters on Tuesday the United States and Japan would help fund Indian firms manufacturing vaccines for US drugmakers Novavax Inc and J&J.However, Indian government sources said US curbs on exports of critical materials could hamper that effort and those to start large-scale distribution to Southeast Asia.India, Australia and Japan have all faced security challenges from China, strengthening their interest in the four-nation alliance. Cooperation among them dates back to their joint response to the Indian Ocean earthquake and Tsunami in 2004.The Quad was revived under the Trump administration, which saw it as a vehicle to push back against China's spreading influence. The United States hosted a foreign ministers' meeting in 2019, that was followed by another in Japan last year and a virtual session in February.Friday's meeting coincides with a major US diplomatic drive to solidify alliances in Asia and Europe to counter China.On Sunday, Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will head to Japan and South Korea for the first meetings between senior officials of the Biden administration and US allies - underscoring the critical importance Washington places on Asia and the China challenge.Biden's national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, will join Blinken in Alaska next week for a meeting with China's top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, and State Councillor Wang Yi, the first high-level in-person contact between the two sparring countries under the Biden administration.Washington has said it will not hold back in its criticism of Beijing over issues ranging from Taiwan to Hong Kong and the genocide it says China is committing against minority Muslims.Biden's administration has committed to reviewing elements of policies toward China, in consultation with allies, as the world's two largest economies navigate frosty relations that sank to their lowest depths in decades during Donald Trump's presidency.Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first phone call as leaders last month and appeared at odds on most issues, even as Xi warned that confrontation would be a "disaster" for both nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-counter-china-biden-to-meet-leaders-of-australia-india-and-japan-101615529588165.html
12-03-2021||World||Hong Kong activists remain in custody after court rejects bails||Twenty-one Hong Kong activists will remain in custody after a court on Friday rejected requests by some for bail and others withdrew their applications in a widely monitored case where they are charged with conspiracy to subvert the government.The charges against a total of 47 opposition figures represent the most sweeping use yet of Hong Kong's new security law, which punishes what it broadly defines as secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in prison.The case offers an insight into how the mainland-style justice drafted by Beijing into the security law clashes with the global financial hub's common-law traditions, and is being closely watched by foreign diplomats and rights groups.In contrast with past practice, the new security law puts the onus on defendants to prove they will not pose a security threat if released on bail.Since the group of 47 were charged around two weeks ago, the court has heard a series of requests for bail. While most requests were rejected, the court approved some applications, prompting immediate appeals from prosecutors to overturn some of those approvals. Just five of the group are currently out on bail.Of the 21 defendants in court on Friday, Judge Victor So rejected 11 applications while the rest were withdrawn by the defendants. The rejected defendants have the right to file for another review in eight days, although most indicated they did not intend to do so.The 47 activists are accused of organising and participating in an unofficial, non-binding primary poll in July 2020 that authorities said was part of a "vicious plot" to "overthrow" the government.The vote was aimed at selecting the strongest opposition candidates for a legislative council election that the government later postponed, citing the coronavirus.The detentions have been fiercely criticised by governments in the West, including Britain and the United States.Hong Kong's Department of Justice has said no one should interfere with independent prosecutorial decisions. Supporters of the new law say it has restored stability after months of pro-democracy protests in 2019.Hong Kong laws restrict media coverage of the content of bail hearings. The next hearing in the case is on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-activists-remain-in-custody-after-court-rejects-bails-101615528041244.html
12-03-2021||World||UN chief Antonio Guterres blasts vaccine nationalism, hoarding, side deals||The United Nations chief criticized the “many examples of vaccine nationalism and vaccine hoarding” as well as side deals with Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers that undermine access to all people in the world.Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said in a statement marking one year since the UN World Health Organization declared Covid-19 a pandemic that “the global vaccination campaign represents the greatest moral test of our times.”Ensuring that all people are vaccinated -- and “many low-income countries have not yet received a single dose” -- is essential to restart the global economy “and help the world move from locking down societies to locking down the virus,” he said.Guterres reiterated his call for Covid-19 vaccines to be seen as “a global public good.”“The world needs to unite to produce and distribute sufficient vaccines for all, which means at least doubling manufacturing capacity around the world,” he said. “That effort must start now.”The secretary-general paid tribute to health workers and other essential workers who have kept societies running.“I salute all those who have stood up to the deniers and disinformation, and have followed science and safety protocols,” he said. “You have helped save lives.”Guterres also commended “women, men and young people everywhere for adapting to work, learn and live in new ways.”“So many lives have been lost,” he said. “Economies have been upended and societies left reeling. The most vulnerable have suffered the most. Those left behind are being left even further behind.”Some 117 million people are confirmed to have been infected by the coronavirus, and according to Johns Hopkins, more than 2.6 million people have died.Guterres said the United Nations will keep pressing for affordable vaccines available for everyone and a recovery that improves the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-antonio-guterres-blasts-vaccine-nationalism-hoarding-side-deals-101615515272253.html
12-03-2021||World||Canada: Spotlight on NDP leader Jagmeet Singh after man arrested for assault||A man believed to be New Democratic Party (NDP) leader Jagmeet Singh’s brother-in-law has been arrested by Canadian law enforcement officers and charged with assault related to an incident of violence that occurred during a car rally organised by the Indo-Canadian community in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) on February 28 to celebrate the then awaited arrival of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines in Canada.In a statement released on Thursday evening, Peel Regional Police (PRP), which is investigating the incident at the rally, said, “Jodhveer Dhaliwal, a 30-year-old man from Caledon”, was charged with assault causing bodily harm. He is scheduled to attend the Ontario court of justice in Brampton on a later date.In a report published on Thursday headlined “NDP leader’s brother-in-law in altercation under police probe as south Asian Canadian factions clash over India unrest”, the daily National Post reported that as per a video of the incident, “a man resembling” Dhaliwal “strides toward an India supporter, shoving the man in the chest and sending him toppling backwards onto the pavement”. The report says Dhaliwal is married to Jagmeet Singh’s wife’s sister and is also distantly related to Liberal Party MP Ruby Sahota.The victim of that episode had filed a complaint with local law enforcement. A spokesperson for Peel police told HT that investigations based on a couple of videos from that day were in progress. Earlier, Jaskaran Singh, a 27-year-old from Brampton, a township in the GTA, was arrested and charged with assault on March 5, also related to multiple attacks on participants in the car rally.In its statement, PRP noted that it “supports the right to peaceful and lawful assembly. However, there will be no tolerance for violence or criminality, and all reported incidents will be investigated and those involved may be charged”. The victim is not being named due to concerns over his safety.The violence at the rally, which featured nearly 350 vehicles, took place as participants faced protesters, some flashing pro-Khalistan flags. On February 7, Indo-Canadian community members had also organised a similar car rally in the Metro Vancouver area and organisers later faced protesters, and were threatened and harassed. A delegation of Indo-Canadian community members went to the office of Jagmeet Singh in the town of Burnaby on Thursday and pasted posters on a window showing his face with the word “Missing”. Other posters read “Your silence is violence” and “Denounce Hatred against Hindus”. They were protesting over the apparent lack of action or statement from Jagmeet Singh over the community being targeted by alleged pro-Khalistan elements. This was a follow-up to a February 26 protest at the same venue, when a group under the banner of Concerned Citizens of Burnaby, BC, left a memorandum with Jagmeet Singh’s staff, calling upon him to address the root causes of “hate against Hindus arising from the pro-Khalistan movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-spotlight-on-ndp-leader-jagmeet-singh-after-man-arrested-for-assault-101615528778124.html
12-03-2021||World||Japan to tighten border control against coronavirus variants||Transportation minister Kazuyoshi Akaba says Japan will tighten border controls and limit the number of entrants to up to 2,000 per day to guard against the more contagious variants of the coronavirus.Japan has confirmed 345 cases of the more contagious new variants, mostly the kind first found in Britain, the health ministry said.The health authorities have found the cases of the new variants to have quadrupled over the past month. They said the cases have been found in about half of Japan’s 47 prefectures but need to be closely watched and precautions should be increased.Tokyo and its three neighboring prefectures are under a non-binding state of emergency since Jan. 7. The measure, which was to end on March 7 in those areas, has been extended for two weeks as the infections have not slowed enough.Japan had about 444,300 cases and 8,451 deaths as of Thursday, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-tighten-border-control-against-coronavirus-variants-101615527510957.html
12-03-2021||World||Thailand puts off AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot after blood clot reports in Europe||Thailand delayed the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine scheduled to start on Friday with its prime minister and cabinet members taking the first shots, citing safety concerns after reports of blood clots in some vaccinated people in Europe.The Asian nation is the first country outside of Europe suspending the use of the AstraZeneca shot, while several countries including Canada, Australia, the Philippines and South Korea said they would go ahead.In a health ministry news conference, Prasit Watanapa, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Siriraj Hospital, confirmed the rollout would be delayed after a suspension of inoculations using the vaccine in Denmark, Norway and Iceland."AstraZeneca is still a good vaccine but with what has happened ... the health ministry based on this advice would like to postpone the usage of the AstraZeneca vaccine momentarily," Kiattiphum Wongjit, permanent secretary for the Public Health Ministry.Thailand was in a position to suspend the rollout for safety investigations because it had largely brought a second wave of coronavirus under control through quarantines and border controls, he said.AstraZeneca said on Thursday it had found no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis - marked by the formation of blood clots - in safety data of more than 10 million records, even when considering subgroups based on age, gender, production batch or country of use.More than 11 million doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine have so far been administered across the United Kingdom.Yong Poonvorawan, a Thai virology expert, told the news conference the investigation would also check on whether any issues might be related to particular batches in Europe and said the vaccines supplied to Thailand were made in Asia.Thailand has so far recorded just over 26,500 coronavirus infections and 85 fatalities in a population of 66.5 million. New cases are now registering below 100 per day."This may reflect how much the decision makers in a country tolerate temporary uncertainty about vaccine safety and balance that against the vaccine’s undoubted benefits of protection from COVID-19," said Julie Leask, a public health professor at the University of Sydney, referring to varying government decisions.Thailand's overall vaccination strategy is heavily reliant on the AstraZeneca shot to be produced locally by a company owned by the country's king, with 61 million doses reserved for its population.However, the Thai-produced AstraZeneca is not due until at least June, and Thailand last week began limited inoculations with 200,000 imported doses of Sinovac vaccine from China.Thailand last week received 117,300 doses of imported AstraZeneca vaccine, which the prime minister and his cabinet had been scheduled to receive on Friday.Austria said on Sunday it had stopped using a batch of AstraZeneca shots while investigating a death from coagulation disorders and an illness from a pulmonary embolism.It later said the batch, ABV5300, amounted to roughly one million doses in total and was sent to 17 European countries. It is not immediately clear whether the same batch has been sent to other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-puts-off-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-shot-after-blood-clot-reports-in-europe-101615526863034.html
12-03-2021||World||Biden says hate crimes against people of Asian descent are 'un-American'||US President Joe Biden has said that the "vicious" hate crimes against Asian Americans in the country amidst the pandemic were "un-American" and they must stop.Denouncing "violent" attacks on the Asian Americans, Biden in his first prime-time address to the nation since assuming office in January, said that members of the community were harassed, blamed and scapegoated.A surge in anti-Asian attacks has been reported since the start of the pandemic. It has left Asian Americans across the country scared and concerned. The actual number of hate incidents against them could be even higher, according to a civil rights group.Stop AAPI Hate, a coalition aimed at addressing anti-Asian discrimination during the COVID-19 pandemic, received more than 2,800 firsthand reports of anti-Asian hate, including physical and verbal assaults, between March 19 and December 31, 2020, the National Public Radio (NPR) reported.Recent attacks, including multiple violent attacks on elderly Asian Americans, have sparked outrage and activism in the Asian American community and spurred lawmakers and organisers to respond to the threat.Biden said that during this coronavirus pandemic too often, Americans turned against one another.“A mask, the easiest thing to do to save lives sometimes, it divides us. States pitted against one another instead of working with each other; vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed, and scapegoated,” Biden said.“At this very moment, so many of them are our fellow Americans on the front lines of this pandemic trying to save lives, and still they are forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America. It's wrong, it's un-American, and it must stop,” Biden said.Biden’s reference to the hate crime against Asian Americans was welcomed by Indian-American Congressman Ro Khanna.“Thank you” President Biden “for speaking up clearly and forcefully against the scapegoating of Asian Americans,” Khanna said in a tweet.Congressman Ted Lieu also thanked Biden for the strong words to protect Americans of Asian descent, and for the executive order to combat hate crimes."This is in stark contrast to the former President who made racist remarks like “Kung Flu” that inflamed prejudices against Asian Americans,” Lieu said.Last week, Vice President Kamala Harris said that hate of any kind is simply unacceptable.“Right now, Asian Americans and Asian immigrants in our country are facing an increase in hate and violence,” the first Asian-American US Vice President said.Biden and Harris said “are committed to working with the community to ensure all Americans are protected and respected.”On January 26, Biden issued the “Presidential Memorandum Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States.It mandates that the Attorney General shall explore opportunities to prevent discrimination, bullying, harassment, and hate crimes against Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) individuals, and expand collection of data and public reporting regarding hate incidents against such individuals.The reported incidents range from verbal harassments to physical altercations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-hate-crimes-against-people-of-asian-descent-are-unamerican-101615526169520.html
12-03-2021||World||China eyes record monopoly fine near $1 billion for Alibaba: Report||China is considering imposing a record fine of nearly $1 billion on e-commerce giant Alibaba for allegedly flouting monopoly rules, according to a report, as authorities continue to put the screws on the firm as part of a crackdown on the technology sector.The penalty could top the $975 million paid by US chipmaker Qualcomm in 2015 -- the biggest known for anticompetitive practices in China -- the Wall Street Journal report said, citing unnamed "people with knowledge of the matter".Antitrust regulators in charge of Alibaba's case did not immediately respond to AFP queries on the report, which was published by the Journal late Thursday.The company, China's largest online shopping portal, has been in the crosshairs of authorities in recent months over concerns of its reach into the daily finances of ordinary Chinese people.But its legal troubles began after comments in October last year by billionaire founder Jack Ma in which he laid into China's convoluted regulatory system.In November, financial regulators pulled the plug on the record $35 billion Hong Kong-Shanghai initial public offering of Alibaba's online payment subsidiary Ant Group.A month later, officials opened an investigation into Alibaba's business practices, deemed anti-competitive, and Ma disappeared from public view until mid-January.The company based in the eastern city of Hangzhou said it was "fully cooperating" with the investigation by the State Administration for Market Regulation last month.Regulators are also investigating whether the conglomerate should divest assets unrelated to its main online retail business, the Journal reported without offering details.An Alibaba spokesperson declined to comment on the report when contacted by AFP.The company has come under fire in the past for allegedly forbidding its merchants from listing on rival e-commerce platforms.Once finalised, measures against Alibaba will need to be approved by China's top leadership.The squeeze on one of China's most influential companies is the latest sign that the leadership is ready to deflate the ambitions of big tech firms in a runaway internet sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-eyes-record-monopoly-fine-near-1-billion-for-alibaba-report-101615525269594.html
12-03-2021||World||Joe Biden aims for 'independence from this virus' by July 4||One year after the nation was brought to a near-standstill by the coronavirus, President Joe Biden pledged in his first prime-time address Thursday night to make all adults eligible for vaccines by May 1 and raised the possibility of beginning to "mark our independence from this virus” by the Fourth of July. He offered Americans fresh hope and appealed anew for their help.Speaking in the White House East Room, Biden honored the “collective suffering” of Americans over the past year in his 24-minute address and then offered them a vision for a return to a modicum of normalcy this summer.“We are bound together by the loss and the pain of the days that have gone by,” he said. "We are also bound together by the hope and the possibilities in the days in front of us.”He predicted Americans could safely gather at least in small groups for July Fourth to “make this Independence Day truly special.”But he also cautioned that this was a “goal” and attaining it depends on people's cooperation in following public health guidelines and rolling up their sleeves to get vaccinated as soon as eligible. Only that, he said, can bring about an end to a pandemic that has killed more than 530,000 Americans and disrupted the lives of countless more.“While it was different for everyone, we all lost something," Biden said of the sacrifices of the yearlong-and-counting pandemic.The speech came just hours after Biden signed into law a $1.9 trillion relief package that he said will help defeat the virus, nurse the economy back to health and deliver direct aid to Americans struggling to make ends meet.Some cash distributions could begin arriving in the bank accounts of Americans this weekend.“This historic legislation is about rebuilding the backbone of this country,” Biden said as he signed the bill in the Oval Office.Most noticeable to many Americans are provisions providing up to $1,400 in direct payments and extending $300 weekly emergency unemployment benefits into early September. Also included are expanded tax credits over the next year for children, child care and family leave — some of them credits that Democrats have signaled they’d like to make permanent — plus spending for renters, food programs and people’s utility bills.In his Thursday night address, Biden said that as vaccine supplies continue to increase, he will direct states and territories to make all adults eligible for vaccination by May 1. The U.S. is expecting to have enough doses for those 255 million adults by the end of that month, but Biden warned the process of actually administering those doses would take time, even as his administration looks to instill confidence in the safety of the vaccines to overcome hesitance.“Let me be clear, that doesn’t mean everyone’s going to have that shot immediately, but it means you’ll be able to get in line beginning May 1,” he said.Biden announced an expansion of other efforts to speed vaccinations, including deploying an additional 4,000 active-duty troops to support vaccination efforts and allowing more people — such as medical students, veterinarians and dentists — to deliver shots. He is also directing more doses toward some 950 community health centers and up to 20,000 retail pharmacies, to make it easier for people to get vaccinated closer to their homes.Biden added that his administration is planning to launch a nationwide website to help people find doses, saying it would address frustrations so that there would be “no more searching day and night for an appointment.”Even as he offered optimism, Biden made clear that the July 4 timetable applied only to smaller gatherings, not larger ones, and requires cooperation from Americans to continue to wear face coverings, maintain social distancing and follow federal guidelines meant to slow the spread of the virus in the near term. He also called on them roll up their sleeves to get vaccinated as soon as they’re eligible.This is “not the time to not stick with the rules," Biden said, warning of the potential for backsliding just as the nation is on the cusp of defeating the virus. “I need you, the American people," he added. "I need you. I need every American to do their part.”The House gave final congressional approval to the sweeping package by a near party line 220-211 vote on Wednesday, seven weeks after Biden entered the White House and four days after the Senate passed the bill. Republicans in both chambers opposed the legislation unanimously, characterizing it as bloated, crammed with liberal policies and heedless of signs the crises are easing.Biden had originally planned to sign the bill on Friday, but it arrived at the White House more quickly than anticipated."We want to move as fast as possible,” tweeted chief of staff Ron Klain.Biden's initial prime-time speech was “a big moment,” said presidential historian and Rice University professor Douglas Brinkley. “He’s got to win over hearts and minds for people to stay masked and get vaccinated, but also recognize that after the last year, the federal government hasn’t forgotten you.”Biden's evening remarks were central to a pivotal week for the president as he addresses the defining challenge of his term: shepherding the nation through the twin public health and economic storms brought about by the virus.On Monday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released initial guidance for how vaccinated people can resume some normal activities. On Wednesday, Congress approved the president’s $1.9 trillion “American Rescue Plan,” aimed at easing the economic impact of the virus on tens of millions of people. And the nation was on pace to administer its 100 millionth dose of vaccine as soon as Thursday.Almost exactly one year ago, President Donald Trump addressed the nation to mark the WHO’s declaration of a global pandemic. He announced travel restrictions and called for Americans to practice good hygiene but displayed little alarm about the forthcoming catastrophe. Trump, it was later revealed, acknowledged that he had been deliberately “playing down” the threat of the virus.Biden implicitly criticized his predecessor, opening his remarks by referring to “denials for days, weeks, then months that led to more deaths, more infections, more stress, and more loneliness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-aims-independence-from-this-virus-by-july-4-101615526000436.html
12-03-2021||World||Ten years of conflict in Syria, from protest to war to economic decline||Ten years into Syria's conflict, President Bashar al-Assad has survived the bloody insurgency which started out with peaceful protests in March 2011.He holds sway over many parts of the country, helped by Russia's military presence and Iran's Shi'ite militias.Hostile Turkey still controls swathes of territory in the northwest and the U.S. has a presence in the northeast, a major oil and wheat producing area.But Assad's biggest challenge now is the economy.Post-war discontent with corruption, spiralling food prices, a collapsed currency, worsening power cuts and gasoline shortages have aggravated hardships for many families who have lost loved ones.This is a timeline of how the conflict began with peaceful pro-democracy protests, then developed into a multi-sided conflict that sucked in world powers, killed hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions more.* March 2011 - The first big protests against Assad's rule that began in Deraa in southern Syria spread across the country. Security forces respond with arrests and shootings.* June 2012 - World powers meet in Geneva and agree on the need for a political transition, but divisions on how to achieve it will foil years of U.N.-sponsored peace efforts.* July 2012 - Assad launches air raids on towns and cities that had rebelled against his rule, as once peaceful protesters now carry arms. Thousands are killed.* Aug. 2013 - Washington declares the use of chemical weapons a red line, but a gas attack on densely populated rebel-held Eastern Ghouta on the outskirts of Damascus kills hundreds of civilians without triggering a U.S. military response.* Jan. 2014 - An al Qaeda splinter group seizes Raqqa before grabbing territory across Syria and Iraq, declaring a caliphate and renaming itself Islamic State.* Sept. 2014 - Washington builds an anti-Islamic State coalition and starts air strikes, helping Kurdish forces turn the jihadist tide but creating friction with ally Turkey.* March 2015 - As Assad's forces lose ground in many towns and cities that rose up against his one-party Baath rule, a mainstream armed insurgency composed of former demonstrators and army defectors is slowly undermined by Islamist militants helped by foreign jihadists coming to Syria.* Sept. 2015 - Russia joins the war on Assad's side, deploying warplanes and giving military aid that, with the help of Iran, swiftly turns the course of conflict against the rebels.* Aug. 2016 - Alarmed by Kurdish advances on the border, Turkey launches an incursion with allied rebels, making a zone of Turkish control that it later extends in 2018.* Dec. 2016 - The Syrian army and its allies defeat rebels in their biggest urban base of Aleppo after months of siege and bombardment, confirming Assad's momentum.* March 2017 - Israel acknowledges launching air strikes against Hezbollah in Syria, aiming to degrade the strength of Iran whose elite Quds forces and Shi'ite militias from Afghanistan and Lebanon steadily expand their influence in Syria.* April 2017 - The United States launches a first cruise missile attack on a Syrian government airbase near Homs after a poison gas attack on rebel-held Khan Sheikhoun.* Nov. 2017 - U.S.-backed, Kurdish-led forces defeat Islamic State in Raqqa. That offensive, and a rival one by the Syrian army, drives the jihadists from nearly all their land.* April 2018 - After months of blockade and air raids, the Russian-backed army recaptures Eastern Ghouta, before retaking the other insurgent enclaves in central Syria, and then the rebels' southern bastion of Deraa in June.* Sept. 2018 - A Russian-Turkish deal over Idlib and the rebel-held northwest freezes the frontlines and reduces the bombing raids that killed hundreds of civilians in the last major opposition bastion.* March 2019 - As its local allies take Islamic State's last area in the east, the United States decides to keep some troops in Syria after earlier saying it would pull out.* April-Dec. 2019 - Russian-backed forces launch a campaign in the northwest that ends with the capture of a strategic rebel town of Khan Sheikhoun in August, a site of a major chemical attack on civilians.* A Russian-Turkish summit in October reduces fighting until Moscow resumes a major assault in December that pushes deeper into the last opposition bastion.* Dec. 2019 - March 2020 - The Russian-led offensive in northwest Syria displaces about one million civilians, marking the worst humanitarian crisis since the conflict began. Ankara sends thousands of soldiers across the border to help stem the offensive. Turkey says it will not stop Syrian refugees from reaching Europe and opens its borders. Thousands flee for Greece.* March 2020 - Turkey and Russia agree a ceasefire for Idlib, vowing to hold joint patrols and establish a secure corridor near the M4 highway.* March-Aug. 2020 - Syria struggles with widespread transmission of COVID-19 that adds to the country's hardships.* May 2020-March 2021 - The government faces severe fuel shortages and Syrians queue for hours for subsidised bread, signs of a faltering economy. The government is forced to ration supplies and apply several rounds of steep price hikes.* May 2020 - The first public signs of a fallout between Assad and his cousin tycoon Rami Makhlouf surface, with the later posting videos about the rift on social media.* June 2020 - The United States announces the toughest U.S. sanctions against Damascus known as the "Caesar Act", with wider powers to freeze assets of anyone dealing with Syria, regardless of nationality, and covering more sectors from construction to energy.* Dec. 2020-March 2021 - Israel steps up its air strikes against various parts of Syria, especially the east, hitting targets to prevent further Iranian entrenchment.* Feb. 2021 - Joe Biden's U.S. administration carries out an airstrike in Syria's east alongside the Iraqi border against a structure belonging to what it said were Iran-backed militia. Syria calls the attack "cowardly".* March 2021 - The Syrian pound hits new lows, trading close to 4,000 to the dollar as the economy weakens amid severe foreign currency shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ten-years-of-conflict-in-syria-from-protest-to-war-to-economic-decline-101615525393549.html
12-03-2021||World||Fire at Tesla's Fremont factory under control, no injuries reported||A fire at electric carmaker Tesla's factory in Fremont, California, was brought under control on Thursday evening and there were no immediate reports of injuries, the fire department told Reuters.The fire took place in a part of the factory property that was under construction, according to Aisha Knowles, a spokeswoman at the Fremont Fire Department."The deep-seated fire was contained to a vehicle manufacturing stamping machine", she added.The fire was caused by hydraulic fluid coming in contact with molten aluminum, the spokeswoman said.Fremont firefighters coordinated with the Tesla fire response team.Two Fremont Fire engines and one truck remained at the scene to monitor the situation, according to the spokeswoman.Local media outlet KTVU Fox 2 had earlier tweeted a video of smoke rising from the factory.It was not immediately clear whether production was affected.Tesla did not respond to a Reuters request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fire-at-tesla-s-fremont-factory-under-control-no-injuries-reported-101615524630508.html
12-03-2021||World||Japan-Australia venture starts producing hydrogen from dirty coal||A Japanese-Australian venture has begun producing hydrogen from brown coal in a A$500 million ($390 million) pilot project that aims to show liquefied hydrogen can be produced commercially and exported safely overseas.The plan is to create the first international supply chain for liquefied hydrogen and the next big step will be to ship a cargo on the world's first liquefied hydrogen carrier."We have the potential here to be world leaders in the production and export of hydrogen and this project is developing up that technology to do exactly that," Australian Energy Minister Angus Taylor told Reuters on the sidelines of a ceremony marking the event.Australia, already dominant in global liquefied natural gas (LNG) trade, is hoping liquefied hydrogen will give it a greener market for its coal and gas.Run by Kawasaki Heavy Industries and located in the state of Victoria, home to a quarter of the world's known brown coal reserves, the project is key to helping Japan meet its target of net zero carbon emissions by 2050.The world's fifth-largest energy consumer aims to boost its annual hydrogen demand tenfold to 20 million tonnes by 2050, equivalent to about 40% of its current power generation.Brown coal is considered the lowest rank of coal due to its relatively low energy content and has fuelled some of Australia's dirtiest power stations, some of which have already shut or are slated for closure."The important thing is hydrogen should be cost competitive, and Victorian brown coal is a cheap source of hydrogen," said Hirofumi Kawazoe, general manager of Kawasaki's Hydrogen Engineering Australia unit.The project is producing hydrogen by reacting coal with oxygen and steam under high heat and pressure in a process that also yields carbon dioxide and other gases.If the project goes commercial, the carbon dioxide would be buried off the coast of Victoria. The Australian and Victoria state governments are running a parallel project to test transporting and injecting carbon dioxide under the seabed.Studies show hydrogen produced from coal with carbon capture and storage is half to one-third the cost of producing green hydrogen, said Jeremy Stone, a J-Power director on the project.Green hydrogen is produced using wind and solar power to split water and unlike hydrogen produced from coal is dependent on the weather.Groups campaigning to end the use of brown coal say, however, that the project is a waste of money."The technology will be superseded in the next few years by clean hydrogen sourced from renewable energy. Any investment in coal-to-hydrogen infrastructure will quickly become a white elephant," said Environment Victoria campaigns manager Nicholas Aberle.The hydrogen produced in the 70 kilograms a day demonstration plant will be transported by trailer to a port site where it will be liquefied for export.The first cargo to Japan has been delayed to the second half of this year due to COVID-19 restrictions which have slowed final checks on the tanker.Partners in the project include Iwatani Corp, Marubeni Corp, Sumitomo Corp and AGL Energy Ltd, whose mine is supplying the brown coal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japanaustralia-venture-starts-producing-hydrogen-from-dirty-coal-101615524153822.html
12-03-2021||World||'Combination of punches': China justifies legal overhaul in Hong Kong||China's plans for electoral reform in Hong Kong, coupled with the imposition of a security law, amount to a "combination of punches" to quell unrest in the southern city, a top Beijing official said Friday.Hong Kong was rocked by massive and sometimes violent pro-democracy protests in 2019 against Beijing's encroachment on its unique freedoms.The Chinese government has since cracked down on the opposition, arresting dozens of activists and smothering the street movement with a draconian national security law.On Thursday it moved to ensure only "patriots" run the city, when an annual rubber-stamp parliament voted for sweeping changes to Hong Kong's electoral system -- including powers to veto candidates.The plan was swiftly pilloried by the US, EU and Britain, the city's former colonial ruler which handed control of the territory to Beijing in 1997 under a special "one country, two systems" arrangement.A Beijing official in charge of Hong Kong policy told reporters Friday the "chaos" of recent years showed that the city's electoral system has "clear loopholes and shortcomings".Alongside the national security law, the move represents "a combination of punches, to... effectively manage the ongoing chaos", said Zhang Xiaoming, of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office.The problem in Hong Kong is a "political one", he said, repeating an often-used -- but unproven -- allegation by Beijing that outside forces are fomenting disruption in the financial hub."It is a contest between a seizure of power and countering the seizure, subversion and counter-subversion, infiltration and counter-infiltration," Zhang said."We have no room for concession on this issue."'Invasive surgery'At its annual congress last year, the Communist Party leadership approved the national security law that has since seen dozens of campaigners prosecuted or jailed.Changes to Hong Kong approved this year still need to be written and then promulgated under the country's opaque political system -- but are likely to include vetting the political views of candidates in Hong Kong's legislature and reducing the number of directly elected seats.Hong Kong's influential Election Committee, which selects the city's leader and is already stacked with Beijing loyalists, will be expanded to 1,500 representatives, up from 1,200."To be precise, this is a minimally invasive surgery," Zhang said of the reform proposals."Minimally invasive surgery is characterised by small wounds, deep penetration, and quicker postoperative recovery."He insisted "you will still be able to hear different voices" in the Hong Kong government.After the proposed reform was approved criticism has poured in from the United States and the European Union.The move is "a direct attack on autonomy promised to people in Hong Kong under the Sino-British Joint Declaration" before the handover of the territory in 1997, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said.Blinken also urged Hong Kong to go ahead with the September elections, which the city's pro-Beijing leader Carrie Lam has hinted will be delayed again.The EU said the decision would have a "significant impact on democratic accountability and political pluralism in Hong Kong."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/combination-of-punches-china-justifies-legal-overhaul-in-hong-kong-101615524417496.html
12-03-2021||World||'Will never let the Fukushima Daiichi accident fade': Japan marks 10 years||Japan fell quiet at 2:46 p.m. Thursday to mark the minute that an earthquake began 10 years ago, setting off a tsunami and nuclear crisis that devastated the country’s northeast coast in a disaster that one survivor said he fears people are beginning to forget.Carrying bouquets of flowers, many walked to the seaside or visited graves to pray for relatives and friends washed away by the water. Emperor Naruhito and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga were among those observing a moment of silence at a memorial in Tokyo. Dignitaries and representatives of the survivors spoke — but most watched the ceremony online or on television because of restrictions to slow the coronavirus pandemic.The magnitude-9.0 quake that struck on March 11, 2011 — one of the strongest on record — triggered a wall of water that swept far inland, destroying towns and causing meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant.The days following the quake were terrifying for many in Japan and farther afield, as hydrogen explosions released radiation into the air and technicians worked furiously to try to cool the plant’s nuclear fuel by pumping in seawater. There were concerns and confusion about the extent of meltdowns, and how far radiation might travel, including fears that Tokyo and even the US west coast were at risk. Officials said they were not, but panicked shoppers as far away as China and Russia scrambled to stock up on goods they thought would protect them.More than 18,000 people died, mostly in the tsunami, and nearly half a million people were displaced. The government recognizes another 3,700 — mostly from Fukushima prefecture — who died of causes linked to the disaster, such as stress.Ten years on, more than 40,000 people are still unable to return home, and areas near the wrecked plant are still off-limits due to contamination from the initial radiation fallout. Many in Japan have said that the country’s intense focus on physically rebuilding has at times ignored other healing that needed to be done.“Reconstruction in disaster-hit areas has moved forward significantly, but recovery of the survivors' hearts is not making as much progress as we wish," Makoto Saito, a teacher at an elementary school in Minamisoma who lost his 5-year-old son Shota in the tsunami, said in a speech at the Tokyo ceremony.The government has said this is the last year it will organize a national commemoration for the disaster. Saito, representing Fukushima survivors, said that he is afraid memories are fading outside the disaster zone and he is committed to preventing that from happening by continuing to recount the lessons from the disaster and telling the stories of his son.Naruhito said “my heart aches” when he thinks of those who have struggled to adapt to drastic changes to their lives because of the triple disaster, including the loss of loved ones, jobs and whole communities.“I also consider it important to heal emotional scars and watch over the mental and physical health of those afflicted, including the elderly and children,” he said. He stressed that it's important for people to stand by them and help reconstruct their lives “without leaving even a single soul behind in this difficult situation.”In Tokyo’s posh shopping district of Ginza, pedestrians stopped to observe the moment of silence as in previous anniversaries. But a memorial concert at the nearby Hibiya park, which has drawn many people in past years, was held online this year due to the pandemic and attracted only a small audience. Some anti-nuclear groups also held a protest in Tokyo.Beyond Tokyo, many marked the day by raising awareness for disaster prevention. In Kyoto, authorities conducted emergency drills.Roads, train lines, houses and other key infrastructure have mostly been rebuilt in the disaster-hit region at the cost of more than 30 trillion yen ($280 billion). But no-go zones remain in parts of Fukushima, where shops and houses were abandoned and cordoned off and massive amounts of radioactive waste from decontamination pile up. Swaths of empty land remain in coastal towns farther north in Miyagi and Iwate prefectures, which were already seeing people move away before the disaster and have seen that trend accelerate.In Otsuchi town in Iwate prefecture, where the tsunami destroyed the town hall, killing about 40 employees, families in dark suits gathered on a piece of empty land where the building used to stand. In Ishinomaki, Miyagi prefecture, dozens of residents prayed at a cenotaph carrying the names of more than 3,000 victims.In Rikuzentakata, another Iwate city where a tsunami as high as 17 meters (56 feet) killed more than 1,700 residents, dozens of police officials wearing orange life vests combed the coastline in search of remains of those who have not been found — an effort that is still repeated in many towns every month. The remains of a woman found in February were returned to her family on Tuesday.No deaths have been confirmed directly from the radiation, but Fukushima has fallen behind in the recovery efforts, with pieces of land totaling 33,000 hectares (81,500 acres) in seven towns near the nuclear plant still classified as no-go zones. Securing the nuclear fuel, dismantling the reactors and decontaminating the plant is an unprecedented challenge, with some questioning after 10 years of work whether it can be done.But the president of Tokyo Electric Power Co. Holdings, which ran the plant, said in a statement Thursday that the company is determined to continue the cleanup and help develop jobs and businesses related to that process.“We do not consider the 10th anniversary a breaking point, and will never let the Fukushima Daiichi accident fade,” Tomoaki Kobayakawa said.Thursday's ceremony comes just two weeks before the Olympic torch relay begins from Fukushima for the delayed Tokyo Summer Games in July.Suga has said the Olympics will showcase Japan’s recovery from the disaster and will be proof of human victory over the coronavirus pandemic. Some survivors, however, say the recovery is not yet done.___Follow Mari Yamaguchi at https://www.twitter.com/mariyamaguchi___Follow AP's coverage of the anniversary of Japan's triple disaster at https://apnews.com/hub/tsunamis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-never-let-the-fukushima-daiichi-accident-fade-japan-marks-10-years-101615516306821.html
12-03-2021||World||Philippines secures $900 mn in loans from World Bank, ADB for Covid-19 vaccines||The Philippines received on Friday a total of $900 million in loan commitments from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines and to help its pandemic-hit economy recover, the lenders said on Friday.Despite recording one of the highest number of coronavirus cases in the region, the Philippines is playing catchup with some of its neighbours in vaccine procurement and was one of the last Southeast Asian nation to receive its first doses."Procuring and administering vaccines provides the country an added layer of defence against Covid-19 on top of public health measures," Ndiamé Diop, World Bank country director for Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand, said in a statement.The World Bank extended $500 million financing for the purchase and distribution of vaccines and to strengthen the country's health systems. In May, it extended a $500 million loan to provide relief to Filipinos who had lost jobs during lockdowns.Separately, the ADB allotted $400 million for the Philippines, the first recipient of its vaccine access support programme.The Philippines, which started its inoculation programme on March 1 with 600,000 Sinovac doses donated by China, is battling a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases.The country, which aims to inoculate 70 million of its more than 108 million population, is in talks with vaccine manufacturers to buy 161 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-secures-900-mn-in-loans-from-world-bank-adb-for-covid-19-vaccines-101615521838098.html
12-03-2021||World||Lou Ottens, Dutch inventor of cassette tape, dies at 94||Lou Ottens, the Dutch inventor of audio cassette tapes, has died at the age of 94, Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad reported. Ottens, who engineered the concept of magnetic tape players and compact discs (CDs), passed away at his home on Sunday in Duizel, the Netherlands. The cause of his death has not been given yet.Born on June 21, 1926, Ottens showed keen interest in engineering and even built a radio as a teenager which his family used to receive Radio Oranje during Germany’s wartime occupation of the Netherlands. The device that he made was equipped with a directional antenna which he termed as “Germanenfilter” because it was resistant to the jammers used by the Nazi regime. After the war, Ottens obtained an engineering degree and joined Philips in 1952. Five years after joining Philips, Ottens became the head of the company’s product development department at its audio plant in Hasselt, Belgium. In 1960, Ottens with his team developed the first portable tape recorder and two years later, he invented CDs.“Nothing can match the sound of the CD,” Ottens had then told the Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad. “It is absolutely noise and rumble-free. That never worked with tape … I have made a lot of record players and I know that the distortion with vinyl is much higher. I think people mainly hear what they want to hear.”In 1963, the devices invented by Ottens and his team were presented at the Internationale Funkausstellung which is a trade exhibition for audio products in Berlin and were widely praised. Ottens struck a deal between Sony and Phillips with the aim to manufacture cassettes at feasible rates for the portable tape recorders after which Japanese manufacturers quickly copied Ottens’ ideas and sold the copies of the model in the Japanese market in a different format, according to Philips. Ottens himself managed to sell approximately 100 billion cassette tapes worldwide, according to Philips, before retiring in 1986.On the 50th anniversary of the invention of the cassette tape in 2013, a special exhibition was created at the Philips museum to honour Ottens' work. "When your time has gone, it’s time to disappear,” Ottens was quoted saying during the exhibition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lou-ottens-dutch-inventor-of-cassette-tape-dies-at-94-101615520224389.html
12-03-2021||World||North Korean defectors struggle to send money home due to Covid crisis||For the first time in years, Choi Bok-hwa didn’t get her annual birthday call from her mother in North Korea. Each January, Choi’s mother had climbed a mountain and used a broker's smuggled Chinese cellphone to call South Korea to wish her happy birthday and arrange a badly needed money transfer.Choi, who hasn't sent money or talked to her 75-year-old mother since May, believes the silence is linked to the pandemic, which led North Korea to shut its borders tighter than ever and impose some of the world’s toughest restrictions on movement.Other defectors in the South have also lost contact with their loved ones in North Korea amid the turmoil of Covid-19 — and the trouble is not just on the North Korean side. The disconnection between defectors and their families in the North is shutting down an important emotional and financial link between the rival Koreas, whose citizens are banned from contacting each other.Defectors in the South have long shared part of their income with parents, children and siblings in North Korea. But these defectors, who face chronic discrimination and poverty in the South, now say they’ve stopped or sharply reduced the remittances because of plunging incomes. Others are postponing them because they can’t contact the brokers who act as middlemen or because the brokers are demanding extremely high fees.Choi, a singer in a North Korean-themed art troupe, last year earned only about 10-20% of what she usually gets because of canceled performances.“I’m waiting for her call more than ever these days,” said Choi, 47, who lives in Ansan, just south of Seoul.About 33,000 North Koreans have escaped to South Korea since North Korea suffered a famine in the mid-1990s. Last year, during the pandemic, only 229 came to South Korea, down from 1,047 in 2019.Many defectors use brokers to stay in touch with their families in the North, but that process is complex, expensive and risky.Brokers in North Korea often use smuggled mobile phones to call the South from mountains near the border with China, where they can get better reception and avoid official detection.The calls are often followed by money transfers, which require defectors to send money to the bank accounts of other brokers on the Chinese side of the border. The brokers in China and in North Korea are often separately smuggling goods in and out of North Korea. This means that money transfers don’t need to be sent across the border immediately; instead, brokers in North Korea can give the cash to defectors’ relatives and get paid back by their smuggling partners in China later.But North Korea’s year-long border closure has battered the smuggling business, leaving brokers with little money to use for defectors’ remittances, observers say.Gen. Robert Abrams, the chief of US troops in South Korea, said last year that North Korea had sent special forces along its border with China to keep smugglers out and had “shoot-to-kill orders in place.”Lee Sang Yong, managing editor at Daily NK in Seoul, an online media organization with sources in North Korea, said Pyongyang has tried to jam mobile signals and enforced severe restrictions along the border.Brokers in North Korea and China have long taken 30% of the money being transferred as commission. But during the pandemic some brokers have taken a 40-50% slice, according to defectors and activists.There are no official, extensive studies on how the pandemic has affected money transfers. But separate surveys of several hundred defectors by civic groups showed 18-26% of respondents sent money to North Korea last year, down from about 50% in a similar-sized poll in 2014.Shin Mi-nyeo, head of the Saejowi civic group that conducted one of the recent surveys, said that money transfers were down even before the pandemic because many defectors had cut contact with their families in the North for financial reasons.“They are initially eager to support their families in the North because they know what their lives are like there,” Shin said. After a while, though, it becomes “out of sight, out of mind.”Each time Choi’s mother called her, she often gave the phone numbers of neighbors who had fled to South Korea who weren’t answering calls from their families back home.When Choi reached some of them, she said they told her that illness or financial difficulties meant they couldn't afford the regular requests for money from their families in the North, where the estimated gross national income per capita in 2019 was one-27th of South Korea’s.It's not clear how much worse this will make the North's already moribund economy. South Korea’s spy agency last year reported a four-fold price increase of imported foods like sugar and seasoning in the North, while Chinese data show its official trade volume with North Korea plunged by 80% last year.“The money we send is a lifeline,” said Cho Chung Hui, 57, who transferred the equivalent of $890 to each of his two siblings every year before the pandemic. “It’s such big money. If someone works really diligently in North Korea's markets, they make only $30-40 per month.”Cho said his siblings used to travel for hours to the border to meet brokers and call him for money. But he hasn't heard from his siblings since November 2019.Cho said some “robber-like brokers” now ask for a huge cut of the transferred money and that many of his defector friends are waiting for commissions to stabilize before resuming remittances.Kim Hyeong Soo, 57, said North Koreans with family members in South Korea used to be called “traitors’ families.” But the sneer turned to envy when they began receiving money. Kim, co-head of a human rights group called the Stepping Stones, said he stopped sending remittances last year because his income plummeted.South Korean law bans its citizens from unauthorized contact with North Koreans, but authorities don’t strictly apply the regulations to defectors because of humanitarian reasons. North Korean officials often overlook money transfers because they get bribes from those receiving money.“North Korean police officers are poor, too,” Cho said.Cho, head of the Seoul-based NGO Good Farmers, said it’s “very burdensome” to send money to his siblings, but he'd do it again if his family called. “I feel sorry for them because we couldn’t come here together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-defectors-struggle-to-send-money-home-due-to-covid-crisis-101615519496811.html
12-03-2021||World||China to soon try 2 Canadians on spying charges, says newspaper||A Communist Party newspaper says China will soon begin trials for two Canadians, who were arrested two years ago in apparent retaliation for Canada’s detention of a senior executive for Chinese communications giant Huawei Technologies.The Global Times said Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor “will soon be tried" after they were charged with “crimes undermining China’s national security” in June 2020.Kovrig, a former diplomat, and Spavor, an entrepreneur, were arrested in December 2018, days after Meng Wanzhou was stopped at Vancouver airport. The U.S. wants her extradited to face fraud charges.China has revealed few details of the charges against the two, and Canadian diplomats allowed occasional visits have said little other than to call for them to be released.Global Times said Kovrig was “accused of having used an ordinary passport and business visa to enter China to steal sensitive information and intelligence through contacts in China since 2017, while Spavor was accused of being a key source of intelligence for Kovrig.”Meng, who remains free on bail in Vancouver, is also the daughter of the founder of Huawei, which China's government has promoted around the world as one of its national champions. Her arrest enraged Beijing, which sees the U.S. case as a political move designed to prevent China’s rise, and it sent China-Canada relations into a tailspin.China has also retaliated by placing restrictions on various Canadian exports to China, including canola oil seed, and handed death sentences to four Canadians convicted of drug smuggling.Beijing has repeatedly demanded Meng's immediate, unconditional release as her case winds its way through the Canadian legal system.The Communist Party newspaper's report late Thursday gave no details on the timing or location of the proceedings again Kovrig and Spavor and cited a “source close to the matter” whom it did not further identify.Hearings have been delayed because of Covid-19 prevention measures but the court will “push forward the trial soon," the paper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-soon-try-2-canadians-on-spying-charges-says-newspaper-101615518014378.html
12-03-2021||World||Thai PM, cabinet cancel Friday's scheduled AstraZeneca vaccinations||Thailand's Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha and members of his cabinet on Friday cancelled plans to receive AstraZeneca vaccine shots after the country delayed use of the vaccines over reports of blood clots in some European nations, a health official said.In a health ministry news conference, Prasit Watanapa, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Siriraj Hospital, confirmed the rollout would be delayed after a suspension of inoculations using the vaccine in Denmark, Norway and Iceland.Thailand was in a position to suspend the rollout for safety investigations because it had brought under control a second wave of coronavirus cases, said Kiattiphum Wongjit, permanent secretary for the Public Health Ministry."AstraZeneca is still a good vaccine but with what has happened ... the health ministry based on this advice would like to postpone the usage of the AstraZeneca vaccine momentarily," Kiattiphum said.Yong Poonvorawan, a virology expert, told the news conference that the investigation would also check on whether any issues might be related to particular batches in Europe and said the vaccines supplied to Thailand were made in Asia.Thailand has so far recorded just over 26,500 coronavirus infections and 85 fatalities in a population of 66.5 million. A second wave that began in December is now registering below 100 new infections per day.Thailand's overall vaccination strategy is heavily reliant on AstraZeneca, which will be produced locally by a company owned by the country's king, with 61 million doses reserved for the Thai population.However, the locally made AstraZeneca is not due to be ready until at least June, and Thailand last week began limited inoculations with imported doses of the Sinovac vaccine.Thailand has so far administered about 40,000 of the 200,000 recently received doses of Sinovac’s CoronaVac, Kiattiphum said.The country also last week received 117,300 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which the prime minister and his cabinet had been scheduled to receive on Friday.Kiattiphum said that Thailand's imported doses were not from the same batch that is being investigated in Europe."We got this from global supply and there is no report of this (problem) in Asia," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-premier-delays-astrazeneca-shot-over-probe-into-blood-clots-101615517342115.html
12-03-2021||World||Myanmar: More protests planned as Suu Kyi's lawyer dismisses bribery claims||Myanmar activists pledged to hold more rallies and strikes on Friday, a day after a rights group said security forces killed 12 protesters and as the lawyer of deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi ridiculed new bribery allegations against her.The Southeast Asian country has been in crisis since the army ousted Suu Kyi’s elected government in a Feb. 1 coup, detained her and officials of her National League for Democracy party and set up a ruling junta of generals.Junta spokesman, Brigadier General Zaw Min Tun, said on Thursday Suu Kyi had accepted illegal payments worth $600,000, as well as gold, while in government, according to a complaint by Phyo Mien Thein, a former chief minister of Yangon.Adding corruption charges to the accusations against Suu Kyi could mean she faces a harsher penalty. She currently faces four comparatively minor charges - including illegally importing six walkie talkie radios and flouting coronavirus restrictions."This accusation is the most hilarious joke," Suu Kyi's lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said in a statement posted on social media. "She might have other weaknesses but she doesn't have weakness in moral principle."Thursday was one of the deadliest days since the military took power.Among the dead were eight people killed in the central town of Myaing when security forces fired on a protest, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said.In Myanmar's biggest city, Yangon, protester Chit Min Thu was killed in the North Dagon district. His wife, Aye Myat Thu, told Reuters he had insisted on joining the protests despite her appeals for him to stay home for the sake of their son."He said it's worth dying for," she said through her tears. "He is worried about people not joining the protest. If so, democracy will not return to the country."The bloodshed also came hours after the U.N. Security Council had called for restraint from the army, which has been trying to put down daily anti-coup protests and paralysing strikes.Pro-democracy activists urged people not to be cowed and in posts on social media called for night demonstrations on Friday and for strikes and civil disobedience campaigns that have paralysed swathes of the economy to continue.Candlelight vigils by protesters in defiance of a curfew have occurred more frequently in recent weeks.'CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY'Thursday's deaths brought the number of protesters killed since the coup to more than 70, the AAPP said. Some 2,000 people have also been detained since the coup, it says.UN human rights investigator Thomas Andrews told the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva the military may have committed crimes against humanity. He called for multilateral sanctions on the junta and the state energy firm, Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise.The army did not respond to requests for comment on the latest deaths but the junta spokesman said on Thursday the security forces were disciplined and used force only when necessary.Amnesty International accused the army of using lethal force against protesters and said many killings it had documented amounted to extra-judicial executions.Suu Kyi, 75, fought for decades to overturn military rule under previous juntas before the start of tentative democratic reforms in 2011. She had spent a total of around 15 years under house arrest.The army has justified taking power by saying that a November election, overwhelmingly won by Suu Kyi's party, was marred by fraud - an assertion rejected by the electoral commission.Junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun reiterated the military would only be in charge for a certain period before holding an election. The junta has said a state of emergency will last for a year, but has not set a date for the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-more-protests-planned-as-suu-kyi-s-lawyer-dismisses-bribery-claims-101615516789300.html
12-03-2021||World||Australia continues AstraZeneca roll-out, says no evidence of blood clots||Australia said on Friday it will continue to roll-out AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine as there was no evidence of a link to blood clots, despite some European countries suspending its use.Denmark, Norway and Iceland on Thursday suspended the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who had been vaccinated.Australia's government said that while its pharmaceutical regulator was monitoring those cases, there would be no pause in the roll-out of the vaccine."We're getting on with the vaccine, we're getting on with the roll-out," Deputy Prime Minister Michael McCormack told reporters in Melbourne.Australia's Chief Medical Officer Paul Kelly said there is no evidence to suggest the vaccine caused blood clots."We do take them seriously and investigate," Kelly said in an emailed statement, referring to the reports of blood clots.Australia has secured about 54 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which Health Secretary Brendan Murphy this week described as the "the workforce vaccine for Australia", with 50 million to be locally produced.Australia's vaccination roll-out has only just begun, but the conservative government is already under pressure over the speed of the Covid-19 inoculation programme.Prime Minister Scott Morrison had said Australia would vaccinate all adults by the end of October. Instead, all adult Australians wanting a Covid-19 vaccine will receive their first dose by October, he said on Friday.So far only around 150,000 people have been vaccinated, though Australia is under less pressure than other countries, as it has not recorded any locally Covid cases in nearly two weeks.Australia has reported just over 29,000 Covid-19 cases and 909 deaths since the pandemic began, far fewer than many developed countries, due international border closures, lockdowns and strict social distancing rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-continues-astrazeneca-roll-out-says-no-evidence-of-blood-clots-101615514852251.html
12-03-2021||World||China's environment minister urges crackdown on steel mills' illegal production||China's Ministry of Ecology and Environment (MEE) urged top steelmaking city Tangshan to severely crack down on violations of atmospheric environment rules after it found four steel mills failed to implement production curbs during heavy pollution.Tangshan government had issued a second-level pollution alert on March 8, urging heavy industrial companies such as steelmakers and coking plants to cut production accordingly.However, an inspection team led by Huang Runqiu, the minister of MEE, had found on Thursday that a stainless steel producer belonging to HBIS Group, plus Tangshan Jinma Steel Group and two other mills, were producing at high rates during the pollution alert and had falsified production records."We must deal with it in according with law with a zero-tolerance attitude," the MEE cited Huang in a statement published on late Thursday, adding that suspected crimes will be transferred to the public security department.China has pledged to cut its crude steel output in 2021 from a record 1.06 billion tonnes it churned out last year to reduce carbon emissions. The steel sector accounts for 15% of China’s total emissions, topping all other manufacturing categories."Steel companies are the main body responsible for air pollution...(they) should not just focus on performance and leave pollution to local people," said Huang.The minister also asked local government to eliminate outdated capacity and said the MEE will guide companies to improve their pollution control levels.The most-traded iron ore futures on the Dalian Commodity Exchange has slumped over 5% so far this week on concerns of tighter production controls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-environment-minister-urges-crackdown-on-steel-mills-illegal-production-101615514615302.html
12-03-2021||World||US group opposes Joe Biden administration's steps on H1B visas||A US group on Thursday opposed the move of the Biden administration to reverse some decisions of the previous Trump administration with regard to H-1B visas, in particular going back to the lottery system for allocation of this most sought after work visa for foreign technology professionals.The rule, Modification of Registration Requirement for Petitioners Seeking To File Cap-Subject H-1B Petitions, requires that US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) prioritise the higher-paid and higher-skilled foreign workers for H-1B cap-subject visas, thus ensuring US businesses have access to the best pool of foreign workers, while also discouraging wage suppression and creating unfair competition to American workers.In its comment submitted to the Department of Homeland Security, the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) asserted that the implementation of the Trump administration rule would reduce abuse of the H-1B program by unscrupulous employers while also protecting American workers.Founded in 1979, FAIR is the country's largest immigration reform group."FAIR strongly supports the substance of the final rule and urges DHS to implement the rule without delay. As DHS has reiterated throughout the rulemaking process, prioritising wage levels in the registration selection process incentivises employers to offer higher wages, or to petition for positions requiring higher skills and higher-skilled aliens that are commensurate with higher wage levels, to increase the likelihood of selection for an eventual petition," the comments note."President (Joe) Biden often portrays himself as a man from the 'working class' who is a tireless defender of the American worker," said FAIR president Dan Stein."Yet his administration is set to postpone, by at least a year, an important rule change that prevents unscrupulous employers from using the H-1B program to undercut American wages while ensuring that companies that truly need skilled foreign workers have access to the best and the brightest," he alleged.Current DHS policies require USCIS to select registrations on a purely random basis, utilizing a lottery system, when demand for H-1B visas exceeds the numerical limit set by statute, note the comments."This random lottery selection process places no weight on wage or skill levels and fails to ensure businesses actually have access to the best and brightest workers possible. Worse, the lottery creates a scenario where American workers could be replaced by foreign workers who can be paid significantly less or who possess considerably lower skills," said Stein.FAIR strongly urged DHS to implement these critical reforms without undue delay"This final rule will allow DHS to more effectively protect US workers against competition from foreign labor at a time when US workers need protection more than ever. The acute fiscal harm that US workers are facing as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic will only be exacerbated if employers are encouraged to continue to underpay H-1B beneficiaries because of an outdated and illogical current wage structure," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-group-opposes-joe-biden-administration-s-steps-on-h1b-visas-101615515369095.html
12-03-2021||World||Canada says no evidence AstraZenca vaccine causes adverse reactions||Canada on Thursday said there is no indication at this time that the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine causes adverse effects such as blood clotting, which prompted Denmark and Norway to temporarily suspend the use of the shot earlier in the day."At this time, there is no indication that the vaccine caused these events," Canada's health department said in a statement. The statement added that none of the batches of the vaccine that were the focus of investigation in Europe had been delivered to Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-says-no-evidence-astrazenca-vaccine-causes-adverse-reactions-101615513212104.html
12-03-2021||World||Covid-19 claimed more US lives than World Wars, Vietnam War and 9/11 combined: Joe Biden||United States President Joe Biden on Thursday paid his tribute to those who lost their lives in the Covid-19 pandemic and said that the nation witnessed a collective sacrifice. He stated that the US will overcome one of the "toughest and darkest periods" by beating the virus.Over 29 million Americans have been infected by the virus and more than 500,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the US.Biden was addressing the nation on the anniversary of Covid-19 in the US."A year ago, we were hit with a virus that was met with silence and spread unchecked... denials for days, weeks then months which led to more deaths, more stress and loneliness," Biden said in his address to the nation."While it was different for everyone, we all lost something... a collective sacrifice," Biden said.The US President underlined the national spirit and said, "Finding light in the darkness is a very American thing to do, in fact, it may be the most American thing we do, and that's what we have done."Biden said he carries a card in his pocket with the Covid-19 fatality toll of American."I know it's been hard, I truly know... I carry a card in my pocket with a number of Americans who have died due to Covid-19 till date... As of now, total deaths in America - 527,726 - that's more deaths than World War I, World War II, Vietnam War and 9/11 combined," Biden said.The President has also said that he wants states to make all US adults eligible for coronavirus vaccinations by May 1, further accelerating the government’s effort to end the pandemic to create a greater sense of normalcy in the country by July 4 Independence Day holiday.Earlier in the day, Biden signed the Rescue Plan law, designed to be a financial bridge to hard-hit Americans and a boost to the economy, with Vice President Kamala Harris at his side in the Oval Office. The package is a major political victory for the Democratic president less than two months into his administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-claimed-more-us-lives-than-world-wars-vietnam-war-and-9-11-combined-joe-biden-101615512834736.html
12-03-2021||World||China's first potential target is Taiwan, says US Commander||As Taipei continues to remain at the forefront of the escalating tensions between Washington and Beijing, Taiwan could be the first potential target of Chinese military aggression in the next five to 10 years, a top US military commander said.According to Focus Taiwan, Philip Davidson, commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command, made the comments in response to questions from Republican lawmaker Scott DesJarlais during a House Armed Services Committee hearing on national security challenges on Wednesday, including what he considers to be the most likely target of Chinese aggression or military action in the next 5 to 10 years."Given what they've said both publicly and over time, and certainly during the tenure of Chairman Xi Jinping, I would say Taiwan is the first," Davidson said.On Tuesday, the commander said that Beijing's threats toward Taiwan could manifest in the next six years as China seeks to supplant the U.S. leadership role in the international order.Focus Taiwan further reported that the US Commander was also asked to express his views on how cross-Taiwan Strait relations have evolved over the past three years during his tenure as commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command.He responded that China's revocation of its "one country, two systems" approach in Hong Kong alarmed Taiwan to an extent that during Taiwan's 2019 legislative elections, both the Democratic Progressive Party and the Kuomintang had to voice their opposition to the "one country, two systems" approach."So it has steeled, I think, Taiwan's status in the region and I think all other nations in the region as well have noticed a very pernicious approach that China took to Hong Kong and that has put a chill on many relationships as well," Davidson said.David F. Helvey, acting assistant secretary of defense for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs, said the future of the US is inextricably linked to that of the Indo-Pacific region."As our department's priority theater, we're committed to upholding a free and open Indo-Pacific region where all nations, large and small, are secure in their sovereignty, can pursue economic opportunity and resolve disputes without coercion, and can exercise the freedoms of navigation over flight, consistent with an open and stable international order," Helvey explained.The White House on Monday said that Washington will continue to contribute to Taiwan's self-defence capabilities."Our position on Taiwan remains clear. We will stand with friends and allies to advanced our shared prosperity, security and values. And in the Indo-Pacific region, we maintain our long-standing commitment," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters in a press briefing."We maintain our long-standing commitments as outlined in the three communicates, the Taiwan Relations Act and the six assurances. We will continue to assist Taiwan in maintaining a sufficient self-defense capability. So our position remains the same," she added.Sputnik citing an official reported that a State Department bilateral fact sheet stated the US and Taiwan enjoy an unofficial relationship, but Washington does not support the Island's independence.A 1979 pact with China switched US diplomatic recognition to Beijing, although The Taiwan Relations Act, passed by Congress in that same year, allows Washington to support the island's defensive capabilities.Deeming one-China policy as outdated and counter-productive, recently two United States congressmen have introduced a resolution calling for the US government to resume formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan.The bill, US Congress House Concurrent Resolution 21, was sponsored by US House representatives Tom Tiffany and Scott Perry on February 26, Focus Taiwan reported. The resolution called US government to scrap the one-China policy.Beijing claims full sovereignty over Taiwan, a democracy of almost 24 million people located off the southeastern coast of mainland China, despite the fact that the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.Taipei, on the other hand, has countered the Chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the US, which has been repeatedly opposed by Beijing.Taiwan returned to the forefront of US-China tensions last weekend when Beijing sent more than two dozen warplanes into the self-governing island's air defence identification zone in a 48-hour period.While the frequency of such drills has increased in recent years, the timing and the composition of the latest formations -- mostly fighter jets and bombers -- appeared intended to send a message to the new administration in Washington, reported CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-first-potential-target-is-taiwan-says-us-commander-101615514879266.html
12-03-2021||World||South Korea extends Covid-19 social distancing rules amid vaccination drive||South Korea will extend social distancing rules with a ban on private gatherings of more than four people in a bid to stamp out the possibility of a fourth wave of Covid-19 infections, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said on Friday.The announcement at a government meeting comes as South Korea has been ramping up its immunisation drive, authorising use of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine for people aged 65 years and older in a bid to inoculate 70% of its 52 million residents by September.The country has administered 546,277 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of Thursday midnight, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) said, including both AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech treatments.Chung said the number of daily confirmed Covidcases has been frustratingly stagnant, hovering between 300 and 400 over the past eight weeks. The country reported 488 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest in three weeks.South Korea has so far reported a total of 94,686 infections, with 1,662 deaths.The Prime Minister warned of the constant risk of cluster infections in greater Seoul area, where the third wave began. Over 60% of infections were recorded in the capital and neighbouring areas, according to the KDCA."We are aware that the citizens are getting weary of drawn-out social distancing," said Chung. "A retreat from virus-prevention measures could lead to a fourth wave of infections."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-extends-covid-19-social-distancing-rules-amid-vaccination-drive-101615513173109.html
12-03-2021||World||All Covid restrictions lifted from New Zealand's Auckland||All remaining restrictions in New Zealand's largest city Auckland have been lifted after no locally transmitted cases of coronavirus were reported for two weeks, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Friday.Ardern imposed a seven-day lockdown on the city of 1.7 million after a cluster of cases were detected domestically. The lockdown was eased earlier this month but some restrictions were retained, including limits on large public gatherings under an alert level 2 setting.Ardern said the city will now join the rest of the country in alert level 1, which has no restrictions on gatherings or activity."I know everyone in Auckland will be looking forward to a weekend with fewer restrictions," Ardern said at a news conference.Swift public health measures combined with aggressive contact tracing, border closures and compulsory quarantine for travellers have been credited with making New Zealand highly successful in keeping the pandemic from spreading.The country has had about 2,000 cases and 26 deaths linked to coronavirus so far.New Zealand started its national rollout of vaccines last month and expects to inoculate its entire population by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/all-covid-restrictions-lifted-from-new-zealand-s-auckland-101615509797704.html
12-03-2021||World||White House says no export prohibitions on Covid-19 vaccines||The Biden administration on Thursday ruled out that it has imposed any kind of restrictions on export of Covid-19 vaccines, amidst reports that European Union has been told by the US that they cannot expect any AstraZeneca shipments anytime soon."We don't purchase AstraZeneca supplies. So there's no export prohibitions and all vaccine manufacturers in the United States are free to export their products while also fulfilling the terms of their contracts with the US government," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference.Vaccine manufacturers in the United States are free to export their products while also fulfilling the terms of contracts with the United States. There are supplies that they are producing for the United States but they can also work with other countries, she said in response to a question.These companies can work with other countries on selling their products, she said."We have conveyed privately what we've conveyed publicly which is our focus is on ensuring the American people are receiving the vaccine and that we are vaccinating the American public," she said."That's our first priority. But we are also engaging with and working with the global community to figure out how we can get the global pandemic under control together. Whether that's through financial contributions or through you know, navigating with them how we can work together to address it. But we'll continue to evaluate as more vaccines become available in the United States. AstraZeneca isn't even approved at this point," Psaki said.She said any company can work with any country around the world on the purchase of vaccine supply. "And certainly, that wouldn't be something the US government would be directly engaged with. But in terms of the supply we have purchased our first focus, our primary focus is on vaccinating the American people. That is what we've conveyed publicly and privately as well," Psaki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-says-no-export-prohibitions-on-covid-19-vaccines-101615509812668.html
12-03-2021||World||US condemns Beijing's move to overhaul Hong Kong's electoral system||The United States has condemned China's national legislature approving a resolution to drastically overhaul Hong Kong's electoral system to ensure only 'patriots' can rule the city, a move which is feared to further clamp down on opposition voices in the city."We condemn the People's Republic of China (PRC's) continuing assaults on democratic institutions in Hong Kong," US Department of State spokesperson Ned Price said during a press briefing."The changes approved by the National People's Congress today, on March 11, are a direct attack on Hong Kong's autonomy, its freedom and democratic processes limiting political participation, reducing democratic representation, and stifling political debate in order to defy the clear will of people in Hong Kong and deny their voices in their own governance," he added.The National People's Congress (NPC) on Thursday passed the resolution by a near-unanimous vote, paving the way for the biggest shake-up to the city's electoral system since its return to China in 1997, reported South China Morning Post (SCMP).A total of 2,895 delegates voted in favour of the proposal, which will authorise its standing committee to finalise the details of the electoral reform process and applauded for the longest period after the Hong Kong electoral proposal was passed.Under the new electoral system, NPC members and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the country's top political advisory body, will be part of the Election Committee in the selection process of the city's leader next year, reported Xinhua news agency.Less than a year after imposing the draconian National Security Law, China last week had launched a legislative process for drastic electoral system reform in Hong Kong, which could benefit the pro-establishment camp and further quash the political opposition in the city.The Election Committee will be expanded to add these 300 Beijing loyalists and the Legislative Council will also be expanded to 90 seats from 70.Although Chinese officials have insisted that the measures are necessary to establish a 'democratic electoral system with Hong Kong characteristics', critics have warned that it would limit the space for the opposition in the city and roll back years of effort to liberalise the system, reported SCMP.Ahead of the NPC's vote on the electoral measures, Britain said the proposed changes to Hong Kong's electoral system would be another attack on the former British colony's rights and freedoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-condemns-beijing-s-move-to-overhaul-hong-kong-s-electoral-system-101615508599842.html
12-03-2021||World||WHO assessing reports on risks related to AstraZeneca's vaccine against Covid-19||A spokesperson for the World Health Organization (WHO) told Sputnik that its Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety (GACVS) was carefully assessing the reports on risks related to the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine against Covid-19.A number of European states have suspended vaccination with the AstraZeneca drug as a precaution after reports on severe side-effects, including blood clots, that were allegedly triggered by the vaccine, Sputnik reported.The European Medicines Agency said there was currently no indication that the reported negative effects had been caused by the vaccination."The GACVS is carefully assessing the current reports on the AstraZeneca vaccine. As soon as WHO has gained a full understanding of these events, the findings and any changes to current recommendations will be immediately communicated to the public," the spokesperson said on late Thursday as quoted by Sputnik.The WHO representative stressed that the global health body was aware of some EU countries' decisions to suspend the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine."The information available so far indicates that the number of thromboembolic events in vaccinated people is no higher than that seen in the general population. The Committee further noted that the vaccine can continue to be administered while the investigation of cases of thromboembolic events is ongoing," the spokesperson added.The World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11, 2020. To date, more than 118.34 million people have been infected with the coronavirus worldwide, with over 2.62 million fatalities, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-assessing-reports-on-risks-related-to-astrazeneca-s-vaccine-against-covid19-101615508282268.html
12-03-2021||World||UK becomes fifth country to cross 125,000 Covid-19 deaths||Coronavirus deaths in the United Kingdom topped 125,000 on Thursday.CNN, citing Johns Hopkins University reported that the UK becomes the fifth country to reach that number of Covid-19 deaths and 125,403 Covid-19 cases. The UK has one of the highest death rates per capita in the world, with 188.33 per 100,000 residents, JHU data shows.On January 26, the UK became the fifth country in the world to reach 100,000 deaths following the United States, Brazil, India and Mexico, according to JHU data.The US continues to report the most deaths from the virus with 529,377 lives lost while Brazil has the second-highest death toll of 270,656. Mexico's death toll is also nearing 200k as the country's toll stands at 192,491. India has reported the fourth highest death toll of 125,168 deaths from the deadly pathogen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-becomes-fifth-country-to-cross-125-000-covid-19-deaths-101615507113325.html
12-03-2021||World||Biden will order states to make US adults eligible for Covid-19 vaccine by May 1||President Joe Biden will announce that he is directing states to make all US adults eligible for coronavirus vaccinations by May 1 in a prime-time address on Thursday, further accelerating the government’s effort to end the pandemic.Biden will say in the speech that if the US can reach its vaccination goals, it will be possible for Americans to gather in small groups to celebrate July 4, according to senior administration officials who briefed reporters ahead of the president’s remarks.They asked not to be identified on the condition of participation in the briefing.Biden has previously said the administration expects to have enough vaccine by the end of May to vaccinate all US adults, though officials have warned that actually administering shots will take more time.Biden’s address will mark the one-year anniversary of the World Health Organization declaring the coronavirus outbreak a global pandemic. At about the same time, Americans began to adopt social-distancing practices that would lead to the temporary collapse of the economy, throwing millions out of work.The president said Wednesday that his speech would outline “the next phase” of the government’s response to the pandemic. In addition to setting the May 1 and July 4 vaccination goals, he will announce that his administration will begin distributing vaccines to 700 more community health centers, to reach underprivileged communities and that it will double the number of retail pharmacies receiving shots directly from the federal government, the officials said.The president’s also expected to laud his signing earlier Thursday of a $1.9 trillion stimulus bill. Eligible Americans can expect to begin receiving government payments of as much as $1,400 as soon as this weekend, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-will-order-states-to-make-us-adults-eligible-for-covid-19-vaccine-by-may-1-101615507082858.html
12-03-2021||World||US President Joe Biden signs $1.9 trillion relief bill before speech to nation||Marking a year of loss and disruption, President Joe Biden on Thursday signed into law the $1.9 trillion relief package that he said will help the U.S. defeat the coronavirus and nurse the economy back to health.The signing came hours before Biden delivers his first prime-time address since taking office. He's aiming to steer the nation toward a hungered-for sentiment — hope — as he marks one year since the onset of the pandemic that has killed more than 529,000 Americans.“This historic legislation is about rebuilding the backbone of this country," Biden said as he signed the bill in the Oval Office.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBiden originally planned to sign the bill on Friday, but it arrived at the White House more quickly than anticipated."We want to move as fast as possible,” tweeted White House chief of staff Ron Klain. He added, “We will hold our celebration of the signing on Friday, as planned, with congressional leaders!”Previewing his remarks, Biden said he would “talk about what we've been through as a nation this past year, but more importantly, I'm going to talk about what comes next.”Biden's challenge Thursday night will be to honor the sacrifices made by Americans over the last year while encouraging them to remain vigilant despite “virus fatigue” and growing impatience to resume normal activities given the tantalizing promise of vaccines. Speaking on the one-year anniversary of the World Health Organization's declaration of a pandemic, he'll mourn the dead, but also project optimism about the future.“This is a chance for him to really beam into everybody's living rooms and to be both the mourner in chief and to explain how he's leading the country out of this,” said presidential historian and Rice University professor Douglas Brinkley.“This is a big moment,” Brinkley added. “He's got to win over hearts and minds for people to stay masked and get vaccinated, but also recognize that after the last year, the federal government hasn't forgotten you.”Biden's evening remarks in the East Room are central to a pivotal week for the president as he addresses the defining challenge of his term: shepherding the nation through the twin public health and economic storms brought about by the virus.On Monday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released initial guidance for how vaccinated people can resume some normal activities. On Wednesday, Congress approved the president's $1.9 trillion “American Rescue Plan,” aimed at easing the economic impact of the virus on tens of millions of people. And the nation was on pace to administer its 100 millionth dose of vaccine as soon as Thursday.Also Read: Will share Covid-19 vaccine if it has surplus, says US President Joe BidenBiden said he would focus his remarks on what his administration plans to deliver in the coming months, but also reiterate his call for Americans to continue to practice social distancing and wear face coverings to hasten the end of the pandemic.“I'm going to launch the next phase of the COVID response and explain what we will do as a government and what we will ask of the American people,” he said.He added: “There is light at the end of this dark tunnel of the past year. There is real reason for hope.”Almost exactly one year ago, President Donald Trump addressed the nation to mark the WHO's declaration of a global pandemic. He announced travel restrictions and called for Americans to practice good hygiene but displayed little alarm about the forthcoming catastrophe. Trump, it was later revealed, acknowledged that he had been deliberately “playing down” the threat of the virus.For Biden, who has promised to level with the American public after the alternate reality of Trump's virus talk, the imperative is to strike the correct balance “between optimism and grief,” said Princeton history professor and presidential scholar Julian Zelizer.“Generally, the country likes optimism, and at this particular moment they're desperate for optimism, but you can't risk a Mission Accomplished' moment,'” he said, warning against any premature declaration that the threat has been vanquished.Fifty days into his presidency, Biden is experiencing a polling honeymoon that his predecessor never enjoyed. Yet public sentiment remains stubbornly polarized and fewer people among his critics seem willing to say they'll give him a chance than was the case for earlier presidents. Overall, he has earned strong marks on his handling of the pandemic.According to a poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research released last week, 70 per cent of Americans back the Democratic president's handling of the virus response, including 44 per cent of Republicans.The White House hopes that as Biden assumes the role of cheerleader for the virus relief package, the elements of the USD 1.9 trillion bill that are popular with Republicans will boost his support even further.Brinkley said Biden's decision to deliver a speech aimed directly at the nation before he makes the traditional presidential address to a joint session of Congress signals that it is as much an “introduction” of the president and his administration to the American people as a status report on his first 50 days in office.Presidential addresses to Congress “tend to be a series of soundbites,” Brinkley said. “This way, he can make his case directly.”Still, the prime-time speech is in many ways an anachronism, better suited for an era when Americans had vastly fewer television options and in which a presidential address could reframe the national conversation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-signs-1-9-trillion-relief-bill-before-speech-to-nation-101615493592860.html
12-03-2021||World||Quad nations to boost India’s vaccine output||The race between India and China to provide Covid-19 vaccines to more countries across the world has moved into high gear, with efforts to ramp up delivery of doses to developing countries expected to be a key item on the agenda of the first Quad leaders’ summit on Friday.As of Wednesday, India had shipped more than 58 million doses to 66 countries, ranging from Mongolia to Sao Tome & Principe. This includes nearly eight million doses provided as grants to small and developing countries, and 16 million doses from India’s contribution to the Covax global vaccine sharing scheme of WHO.China has donated or is donating vaccines to 69 developing countries and exporting doses to 43 more countries. Unlike India, China has no publicly available official data on vaccine supplies, though officials have said the country also plans to provide 10 million doses to Covax.When leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad – which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US – meet virtually for their maiden summit on Friday, they will discuss ways to ramp up vaccine manufacturing by India, the world’s largest producer, and measures to get doses speedily to more developing countries in Asia and Africa, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Several options are expected to be on the table – including forming a group or fund with financial support from Australia, Japan and the US to procure vaccines from Indian manufacturers for developing countries, the people said. Another option is using India as a hub for supplying vaccines procured with the Quad’s support to South and South-east Asian countries, the people said.Japan is expected to help with establishing cold storage facilities for storing vaccines before they are shipped to countries in South and South-east Asia. Discussions are still on among officials of the four countries to firm up contours of the plan and financial contributions of the Quad members before the leaders meet on Friday evening, the people added.The Quad Summit plans to announce financing agreements to back an increase in vaccine manufacturing capacity in India, an unnamed senior US administration official told Reuters. These agreements will focus on companies and institutions in India manufacturing vaccines for American drug majors Novavax and Johnson & Johnson, the official said. Novavax has a manufacturing arrangement with Pune’s Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest maker of vaccines. Johnson & Johnson has a similar arrangement with Biological E Ltd.The initiative’s aim is to reduce manufacturing backlogs, speed up vaccination and defeat Coronavirus mutations, the official said. “The idea is that the quicker you can vaccinate, the more that you can defeat some of these mutations. So this is a capacity that will come online later this year, and it will substantially increase our capacity, collectively,” he added.Indian manufacturers such as Serum Institute of India (SII), Biological E, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Cadila Healthcare and Bharat Biotech have a combined capacity of billions of doses. SII, the world’s largest manufacturer, is producing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine as Covishield and will begin making the Novavax vaccine soon. India also plans to provide at least 200 million doses to Covax.The people said all these moves are aimed at countering China’s vaccine diplomacy, which initially couldn’t match India’s roll-out of doses since January 21 but has appeared to be catching up in recent days.“Ramping up production will help roll out more doses as assistance and also meet the commercial needs of countries across the Indo-Pacific,” one of the people cited above said.Vaccines from Chinese firms have rolled out in countries such as Pakistan, Brazil, Indonesia, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates. China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has also supplied doses to the armies of Pakistan, Cambodia, Mongolia and the Philippines.The reluctance of China’s pharmaceutical companies to share details of their trials has raised concerns about effectiveness of the vaccines and lack of public confidence in several countries. Shots by Sinovac, Sinopharm and CanSino Biologics were approved for use in some countries without the publication of comprehensive Phase 3 clinical trial results.Human Rights Watch, in a report issued on March 4, said more than a dozen vaccines developed in China are in clinical trials, with about half of them in phase III trials or large-scale studies to assess the vaccine’s level of protection. “At the time of writing, only one Chinese vaccine has received emergency approval from what WHO identifies as a ‘stringent’ regulatory authority. None of the vaccines have received full regulatory approval or released phase 3 trial data,” the report said.In Cambodia, where Prime Minister Hun Sen has received the first shot of the made-in-India Covishield, authorities had to briefly suspend vaccinations at state-run facilities due to a clamour among people for Indian vaccines.When Cambodia’s health ministry issued a notification on March 5 asking people above the age of 60 to get inoculated, large numbers of people of all ages gathered at hospitals in Phnom Penh. “The stir caused the health ministry to suspend AstraZeneca vaccines temporarily as hospitals were overwhelmed with crowds,” the Khmer Times reported on Wednesday.Another of the people cited above said, “The people are asking for Indian-made vaccines as they don’t have much trust in China’s Sinopharm.”Though a close ally of China, Cambodia has sought one million doses from India. India has cleared a proposal to provide 100,000 doses to Cambodia while 324,000 doses of Indian-made vaccines were supplied to the country last week from the Covax facility. China donated 600,000 doses to Cambodia last month.Chinese officials have sought to play down the issue of vaccine diplomacy. “A number of vaccines are now available around the world. It is up to each country to decide which one to choose. Whether it is a Chinese vaccine or not, it is a good vaccine so long as it is safe and effective,” Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi told a recent news conference.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said India’s vaccine efforts shouldn’t be seen solely in the context of competition with China.“India has a track record of mass production of critical drugs. Look at the work done by India in providing the anti-AIDS cocktail at competitive prices to African countries. India also has had a reputation as a first responder since the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami,” he said.“India has financial constraints and if the other members of Quad join hands, every dollar can go that much further. If the Quad shows it cannot only deliver on security issues but also on critical issues like health care, then it will establish its credentials as a more significant player in crisis management and tackling regional and global issues,” Prakash added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-developing-nations-to-be-key-issue-at-quad-meet-101615385797322.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP to contest by-polls to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Jana Sena drops out||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will contest the forthcoming by-elections to Tirupati parliamentary seat in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district with the support of Jana Sena Party headed by actor Pawan Kalyan.Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs and BJP in-charge of Andhra Pradesh affairs V Muralidharan announced this on Friday evening after a meeting of state BJP leaders with their Jana Sena Party counterparts.“Leading the fight for the people and by the people, a @BJP4Andhra’s candidate, backed by @JanaSenaParty will fight Tirupati by-election. An unanimous decision was taken at a meeting attended by Shri @PawanKalyan Ji & Shri @somuveerraju Ji. @JPNadda @Sunil_Deodhar @blsantosh,” Muralidharan tweeted.The by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat is needed due to the sudden demise of sitting YSR Congress party MP Balli Durgaprasada Rao due to Covid-19 in September last year.Jana Sena Party, which has an alliance with the BJP, had been very keen on contesting the Tirupati by-poll for various reasons. The constituency, reserved for SCs, has considerable number of Kapu votes which are the backbone of Jana Sena Party (Pawan Kalyan belongs to Kapu community).Secondly, the Tirupati assembly segment was earlier represented by Pawan Kalyan’s elder brother K Chiranjeevi, a popular Telugu actor and former Union minister, between 2009 and 2012 and he has a huge fan following there.Thirdly, the BJP is not a very significant force in Tirupati. Its candidate Bommi Srihari Rao had got just 1.22 per cent of votes, which is lesser than the votes polled under NOTA (1.96 per cent).The Jana Sena Party chief went to New Delhi a couple of times in the last four months to meet the BJP national leadership, including party president J P Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah and lobby for the Tirupati seat.Yet, the BJP refused to give up the seat to its alliance partner. At the meeting held with Pawan Kalyan and his senior colleague Nadendla Manohar, BJP state president Somu Veerraju and party co in-charge of Andhra affairs Sunil Deodhar conveyed the message by the central leadership that it was keen on contesting the Tirupati seat.“After detailed discussions, it was decided that the BJP will contest the Tirupati by-poll. The candidate will be decided by the party Central Election Committee and announced shortly,” Veerraju said.There has been no statement from Pawan Kalyan in support of the BJP so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-contest-by-polls-to-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-jana-sena-drops-out-101615572750178.html
12-03-2021||India||Govt employees can’t head state poll bodies: SC||New Delhi/Panaji: The Supreme Court on Friday directed that any person employed with the central or state governments should not be appointed as election commissioner “across the length and breadth of the country”, in a ruling that aimed at ensuring the independence of poll panels. “The independence of the election commission cannot be compromised in a democracy. Entrusting additional charge of state election commissioner to a government official is a mockery of the Constitution,” held the bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai. It added that the election commissioners have to be “independent persons” and that nobody, who has been employed or holds an office of profit under the central or any state government, should be appointed as election commissioners. The court issued the direction exercising its powers under Articles 142 and 144 of the Constitution. Under Article 142, the apex court is empowered to issue directives to do “complete justice” whereas Article 144 obligates all authorities to act in aid of the Supreme Court. The judgment came as the top court censured the Goa government for appointing its law secretary as the state election commissioner for conducting municipal council elections in the state. Law secretary Choka Ram Garg was given additional charge as state election commissioner to hold municipal elections. Calling this a “disturbing feature”, the bench ordered that Garg will immediately cease to hold the post of the state election commissioner and directed that henceforth, no such person shall be appointed as election commissioner by the Centre or state governments. The top court also dismissed the appeal by the Goa government against the order of the high court, which had cancelled elections to five municipalities in the state for not reserving wards for women as per the law. It upheld the order of the high court that fresh notifications ought to be issued after reserving seats for women and for candidates under other reserved categories as the law. The Opposition has claimed a moral victory calling the Supreme Court judgement “a complete slap and indictment of the government led by [chief minister] Pramod Sawant in Goa”. Speaking to reporters, Congress leader and advocate Carlos Alvares Ferreira, who represented some of the original petitioners before the high court, said: “The SC has straightforward dismissed the appeals filed by the state government. The SC has found that there was clear machination done by the SC in trying to manipulate the entire constitutional machinery and override constitutional provisions.” Leader of Goa Forward Party Vijai Sardesai tweeted: “The Highest Court of the land has crushed @DrPramodPSawant’s blatant attempt to violate our constitution and derail democracy; He’s brought disgrace not only to Goa but also to his own leader @narendramodi who had bowed before the Constitution before taking office in 2019.” The case had come up before the high court after Fouzia Imtiaz Shaikh and some other candidates challenged the notifications issued by the Director of Municipal Administration (DMA), in charge of notifying which seats in municipal councils were to be reserved for candidates like women, STs, SCs and OBCs. The DMA had “rounded off” the number of seats to be reserved for women to the lower integer that emerged when the total number of seats was sought to be divided into three. For example, in the Mapusa Municipal Council of the 20 seats only six were reserved for women (30%) when the constitution mandated that “no less than” 33% be reserved for women which meant that at least seven seats should have been reserved. This was also done some other municipal councils, prompting the high court to nix the poll schedule for five councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-employees-can-t-head-state-poll-bodies-sc-101615573179400.html
12-03-2021||India||TMC and BJP meet EC over Mamata’s injury||Kolkata: Delegations from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) met the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday in connection with the injury suffered by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during an event in Nandigram two days ago. A five-member team of TMC parliamentarians met the poll watchdog in Delhi and alleged that the attack on Banerjee, 66, was premeditated and part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. On Wednesday, Banerjee had alleged that 4-5 men had attacked her though some eyewitnesses suggested that her car may have hit a pole jutting out of the road. To back its claim, the TMC cited several social media posts and comments by BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The party also cited caricature and cartoons shared by BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh and alleged that the ECI “abruptly” removed the director general of police after appeals from the BJP. Similar allegations by the TMC on Thursday had drawn a sharp response from the ECI, which called the insinuations unfortunate. “Even the Prime Minister said at his recent rally in Kolkata that Mamata Banerjee’s scooty would fall in Nandigram. The entire episode smells of a conspiracy,” said Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. The TMC memorandum also alleged that eye witnesses were planted by the BJP. The BJP rejected the charges. “The TMC is distorting the Prime Minister’s comment at the rally. He never said Mamata Banerjee would get hurt in Nandigram,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. On Friday evening, a six-member BJP delegation met EC officials in Kolkata with the demand for a through probe. The leaders also urged the poll panel to check video footage. “We also want a special observer for Nandigram since it is a high-profile constituency,” Dasgupta said after the meeting. Bhupender Yadav, BJP general secretary, said, “The party also requested the election commission to make public the video of Banerjee’s rally in which she got injured.” A section of BJP leaders - Barrackpore Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh one of them - accused the chief minister of lying about the attack. But others, such as Bhattacharya, said the BJP did not want to do politics about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-and-bjp-meet-ec-over-mamata-s-injury-101615572940489.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP leader Adhikari files papers from Nandigram||Kolkata: Suvendu Adhikari, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and one-time protege of chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday, filed his nomination from Nandigram constituency to take on his former mentor in what promises to be one of the most watched contests in the West Bengal assembly elections, which will be held in eight phases starting March 27. The Nandigram contest is scheduled for April 1. Adhikari was flanked by two central ministers, Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan, as he filed his nomination at the sub-divisional office in Haldia. Banerjee already filed her nomination on Wednesday. She later sustained injuries on her leg following an alleged attack and was discharged from the state-run SSKM hospital in Kolkata on Wednesday. Located around 100 km south of Kolkata, Nandigram is a historically important for the TMC as mass movements against land acquisitions in the area in 2006-08 paved the way for Banerjee’s political resurrection. It is also in south Bengal, where 240 of the state’s 294 assembly constituencies fall.The nondescript town is all set for the big political battle and is decked up with banners, posters, cut-outs and wall graffiti of the two leaders. Both the TMC and BJP have come up with their own helipads and Banerjee has also rented a house to stay in Nandigram amid the polls. The TMC posters portraying Banerjee say that Bengal wants its own daughter, and the BJP posters in favour of Adhikari say that Nandigram wants it Bhoomiputra (son of soil). “The people of Nandigram will teach Adhikari a lesson. The people will show him who is an outsider and who is the daughter of Nandigram,” TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy said. The Left-led grand alliance has fielded CPI(M)’s youth leader Minakshi Mukherjee from this seat. Mukherjee also submitted her nomination on Friday. On Friday, attacking the TMC for a series of chit fund frauds that have defrauded investors of hundreds of crores, Adhikari said only the BJP would be able to return the money to the depositors if it came to power. “Only the BJP can return you your money by selling off the assets, which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized, once it comes to power. No one else will be able to give you the money back.”The TMC, however, hit back . “Two central agencies – the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) – have been investigating the cases since 2013-14. How can he say that if the BJP comes to power, it will return the money by selling off the assets seized by central agencies? He is making false promises,” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.During the 2016 assembly elections, Adhikari won over 67% of the votes as a TMC candidate and defeated his nearest rival of the CPI by a margin of 81,230 votes. Citing “extremely deep rot” with the TMC, he quit the party in December last year and joined the BJP in the presence of Union minister Amit Shah in Midnapore. Meanwhile, Irani also targeted the chief minister, saying that the latter can continue playing with the lives of the people while Prime Minister Narendra Modi looked after the welfare of the state. “Khela hobe (the game is on). You (Banerjee) have played with the lives of people and respect of women. Your game has turned the soil of Bengal red with blood. Have you played with Bhawanipore or do you want to play with Nandigram? You can play while Modi will bring development. A real transformation will be brought by Modi. Bengal has decided that the TMC will go and the BJP will come,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpleader-adhikari-files-papers-from-nandigram-101615572941072.html
12-03-2021||India||CBI, ED to question key TMC contestants ahead of Bengal polls||Kolkata The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are set to question key Trinamool leaders Partha Chatterjee and Madan Mitra as part of investigations into two chit fund cases, days ahead of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly polls.State education minister Partha Chatterjee is contesting the Behala West seat in south-west Kolkata while former minister Mitra is the candidate from Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas. Chatterjee is also the secretary general of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the state’s parliamentary affairs minister. The ED on Friday questioned Samir Chakraborty, a Trinamool MLA from Taldangra in Bankura district, over two hours in connection with an investment he made in a news channel a few years ago. “I will cooperate with the agency whenever it calls me,” Chakraborty said while leaving the ED office. Chakraborty, a veteran TMC leader, is not contesting the polls this time. While Chatterjee is being summoned in a probe into the I-Core chit fund company, Mitra is a suspect in the Saradha chit fund case. Mitra was arrested in 2014 and unsuccessfully contested the 2016 assembly polls from jail.The CBI also plans to question Ankush Arora, brother-in-law of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. CBI officials questioned Arora’s wife Maneka Gambhir and Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, a few days in connection with a coal smuggling case. Arora’s father, Pawan Arora, has also been summoned to the CBI office on March 15, agency officials said. No member of the Arora family could be reached for comments. TMC leaders reacted sharply to the development, saying they were being targeted because of the elections. “Using probe agencies against prominent political adversaries is not something new. We have seen this happening in other states. It will have no effect in Bengal because people know the BJP very well,” said deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy. “One cannot scare an honest man. They can do whatever they want. This is being done because of the elections,” said Chatterjee, who took part in a campaign rally in his constituency on Friday. “I have not received the summons yet.”Mitra was not available for comments as he was busy with a roadshow. Kunal Ghosh, one of the spokespersons of the TMC and an accused in the Saradha case, has already been summoned by the ED twice over the past two weeks. On February 21, chief minister Mamata Banerjee reacted in public for the first time after the CBI sent summons to Rujira Banerjee. “A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats... We have stood before guns,” Banerjee retorted at a public event hours after the CBI visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew and TMC Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and served a notice on his wife for questioning in the coal smuggling case.“Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee said. Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter, saying that he will not be “cowed down”. “TMC leaders start seeing political vendetta whenever the CBI or ED probes a case but they did not hesitate to get involved in corruption,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said on Friday. On December 31, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and the TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra in connection with the coal smuggling case. Mishra is missing since then and has been declared an absconder by the agency. Abhishek Banerjee is the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, was sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where Eastern Coalfields Ltd runs several mines. Another prime suspect, Anup Majhi, alias Lala, is also missing.In early December, the CBI raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant. The homes and offices of three more businessmen have been raided since January. The agency has not made any official statement before the media till date. Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that money from the sales was “whitewashed” through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee. Banerjee has dismissed the allegations as political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-ed-to-question-key-tmc-contestants-ahead-of-bengal-polls-101615572939936.html
12-03-2021||India||MHA tells 4 N-E states to prevent influx of people from Myanmar||New DelhiThe ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked four north eastern states – Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, as well as the Assam Rifles, to prevent a possible influx of people from Myanmar in the wake of massive civilian protests in the neighbouring country following a military coup, people familiar with the matter said. In a letter to the states, sent on Wednesday, the home ministry has also reminded the states that they do not have powers to grant refugee status to any foreigner and India is not a signatory to the United Nations Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol. Mass demonstrations are being held in Myanmar against the declaration of a year-long emergency by the country’s armed forces.In its communication, seen by HT, the MHA said, “As you are aware, there is a possibility of large scale illegal influx into Indian territory through India-Myanmar Border due to current internal situation in Myanmar. In this regard, MHA has already issued an advisory (dated February 25) to chief secretaries (of these four states) to stay alert and take appropriate action to prevent a possible influx into Indian Territory.” According to MHA, “Now it has been reported that illegal influx from Myanmar has started.” The development came in the wake of nearly 16 people from Myanmar crossing over to Mizoram last week, of which eight were police officers. Myanmar authorities asked the Mizoram government to send back the policemen. Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh also said that several people from Myanmar tried to enter Manipur but returned amid the presence of a large number of security personnel on the border. While Mizoram shares a 510-km long border with Myanmar, Manipur shares a 398-km border with the nieghbouring country. Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland share 520 kms and 215 kms long border with country, respectively. The border along the four states is unfenced and porous. The MHA also referred to a 2017 communication, in which it told the states to “sensitise all law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking prompt steps in identifying the illegal migrants and initiate the deportation processes expeditiously and without delay”. Similarly, the letter sent on Wednesday talks about its 2018 direction to the states to take biographic and biometric details of all illegal migrants in the country and cancel their fake Indian documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-tells-4-n-e-states-to-prevent-influx-of-people-from-myanmar-101615572759435.html
12-03-2021||India||At WMCC meet, India, China agree to ensure peace at LAC||New Delhi/BeijingIndia and China agreed on Friday to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and convene another meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border. These were among the outcomes of a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which was held against the backdrop of the disengagement process stalling after the withdrawal of troops by both sides from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. The meeting was held hours before the first summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which will be joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden. The Quad Summit is expected to lead to several initiatives aimed at countering China’s influence and actions across the Indo-Pacific. At the WMCC meeting, the two sides reviewed the situation in the western sector of the LAC and had “in-depth discussions on the remaining issues” in this sector, a statement from the external affairs ministry said. The two sides agreed to continue their dialogue through diplomatic and military channels to “reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest”, the statement said. They also agreed to convene the 11th meeting of the senior military commanders “at an early date so that two sides could work towards complete disengagement from the remaining friction areas”, the statement added. The disengagement would enable both sides to “look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. The two sides further agreed that in the interim period, they would “continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident”, the statement said. A similarly worded readout issued from the Chinese side said the two sides had agreed to continue communications through diplomatic and military channels, “hold the next round of military-level talks as soon as possible, promote further de-escalation of the situation on the ground and jointly safeguard the hard-won peace and stability in the border areas”. The Indian statement said the two sides viewed the completion of disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake as providing a “good basis for the two sides to work towards early resolution” of remaining issues. It added that the agreement between the two foreign ministers during their meeting on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow last September and their phone conversation last month “should continue to guide the work of two sides”. The Chinese readout noted that the two sides had positively evaluated the disengagement at Pangong Lake and had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on promoting resolution at other areas. It added that the two sides had agreed to stabilise the situation on the border and avoid any “repetition of the situation on the ground in accordance with the five-point consensus reached at the Moscow meeting of the two foreign ministers and the spirit of their February 25 phone call”. The WMCC meet was co-chaired additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. The 10th meeting of the senior military commanders was held on February 20 after the two sides completed the withdrawal of frontline troops with armoured formations and artillery from the banks of Pangong Lake. However, the two sides were unable to make progress on efforts to disengage at other friction points such as Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. The two sides have been locked in a standoff since May last year after Chinese troops impeded patrols by Indian forces and there were scuffles in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. A brutal clash at Galwan Valley last June – which left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead and was the first incident on the LAC involving fatalities since 1975 – took bilateral ties to an all-time low. India has insisted that China’s actions on the LAC have seriously damaged bilateral ties and normalcy can be restored only by disengagement, de-escalation and restoration of the status quo on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-wmcc-meet-india-china-agree-to-ensure-peace-at-lac-101615572699428.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP changes Uttarakhand unit president||DehradunThe Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday changed the president of its Uttarakhand unit, replacing Bansidhar Bhagat with Madan Kaushik, days after it removed Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister. Talking to reporters after his appointment, Kaushik said, “We will win the 2022 elections in a big way and we will pass this agni-pariksha by winning over 60 seats.” The overhaul in the party has come just a year ahead of the elections to the 70-member assembly. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday, nine days before his government was to complete four years in power, following a rebellion in the ranks against his decision to announce Gairsain as a new administrative division, party leaders said then. Several MLAs were upset that the leader kept many of his cabinet colleagues out of the decision-making process. Kaushik, a four-time MLA from Haridwar constituency, was the spokesperson in the Trivendra Singh Rawat government. He also served as the cabinet minister between 2007 to 2012 in the governments of BC Khanduri and Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Following the announcement, Bhagat told mediapersons that the party took the decision after considering all aspects and he will work in the interest of the party in whatever new role he is assigned. Welcoming the change, BJP MLA Dhan Singh Rawat said Kaushik’s experience within the party and the government will benefit the party unit.State BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin said he welcomed the changes in the party. “We are having elections here soon and these changes have been brought to strengthen the party and make sure that the party becomes victorious in the 2022 elections in a big way,” he said. Ahead of the polls, with the appointment of Kaushik, who hails from Garhwal region, the BJP is expected to bring more changes to the state unit to balance the regional and caste equations. The newly appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat also hails from the Garhwal region, while the former state unit president Bhagat is from the Kumaon region.A senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity said that for the first time the party unit president is from the plains and not the hill region of the state. “Also, it is likely for the first time that both state BJP president and the chief minister are from the Garhwal region. This will push the party leadership to bring more changes in the leadership here to strike a balance along the axis of caste (Thakur-Brahmin) and region (Garhwal-Kumaon),” the leader said. The Brahmin community in the state was unhappy with the Trivendra Rawat government after he constituted the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board in January 2020 to manage all temples in the state. “From Brahmins managing these temples, it was handed over to bureaucrats. This decision by Trivendra Rawat deeply upset the community,” a party leader said after the former CM resigned on Tuesday. “A few days ago, when CM Trivendra Rawat carved out a new division of Garsain out of the existing Kumaon and Garhwal regions, it led to an outcry all over social media from many who considered themselves Kumaonis or Garhwalis but were now part of Garsain. Hopefully, Tirath ji will change these orders,” this leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-changes-uttarakhand-unit-president-101615572640564.html
12-03-2021||India||SC to review law barring suits to reclaim holy sites||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the validity of a 30-year-old law that prohibited lawsuits to reclaim any place of worship after India was declared independent -- a move that could open the way for a clutch of lawsuits in several parts of the country. The Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991 fixed the “character” of all places of worship prevailing as on August 15, 1947, except the Ramjanmabhoomi at Ayodhya. A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justice AS Bopanna sought the response of three Union ministries, home, law and justice, and culture, on a plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.The petition challenged the provisions of the 1991 Act on the ground that it barred Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists from restoring their places of worship and pilgrimage and placed an arbitrary cut-off date by which the “illegal barbarian acts of invaders” were allowed to continue in perpetuity.“It is necessary to state that members of other faiths have occupied those places taking advantage of the pitiable condition of Hindus during Mughal and British Rule,” the petition stated. The move comes amid court cases regarding the status of Krishna Janmasthan (regarded by some as the birthplace of Hindu God Krishna) in Mathura (where the Shahi Idgah mosque stands), and the Kashi Vishwanath Temple - Gyanvapi mosque case. Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi were often mentioned in the same breath at the peak of the Ram Janmabhoomi - Babri Masjid case. It was against this background that the then Congress government headed by PV Narasimha Rao in 1991 passed the Places of Worship Act, freezing the status of places of worship at the time of Independence (August 15, 1947). Ayodhya was excluded because of an ongoing litigation regarding the status of the disputed site. The BJP criticised the law at the time of its passing. In November 2019, the Supreme Court delivered the final word in the Ayodhya case, ruling in favour of Hindu parties, paving the way for the construction of a Ram temple, work on which has begun. The Muslim parties were allocated a five-acre site in Ayodhya to build a mosque. Interestingly, that judgement referred to the law being challenged and said it “imposes a non-derogable obligation towards enforcing our commitment to secularism”. Section 4(1) of the 1991 Act said: “The religious character of a place of worship existing on the 15th of August 1947 shall continue to be the same as it existed on that day.” The same provision further stated, “if any suit, appeal or other proceeding with respect to the conversion of the religious character of any place of worship existing on the 15th day of August 1947 is pending before any court, tribunal or other authority, the same shall abate and no suit, appeal or other proceeding with respect to any such matter shall lie on or after such commencement in any court, tribunal or other authority.” The law came into force from July 11, 1991. Upadhyay’s petition challenged Section 4(1) as unconstitutional on the grounds that it violated Article 25 (right to practice and propagate religion), Article 26 (right to manage religious affairs), besides being discriminatory to religious communities by barring them from approaching courts to restore their places of worship. Even the Centre’s power to enact such a legislation was called in question. “In the garb of secularism, injustice cannot be done with places of worship and pilgrimage. Religious and cultural heritage plays vital role in laying the future foundation. Therefore, we cannot say goodbye to our cultural legacy. It will be the height of injustice if the rights of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, Buddhists are junked,” added the petition. In June 2020, a Hindu trust, Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh, and other people , moved a petition in the Supreme Court challenging Section 4(1) of the 1991 Act. This petition was opposed by Jamait Ulama-i-Hind which filed an application to be heard in that case. Although the matter came up for hearing once, no order was passed as the same was adjourned. The present petition made reference to the pending claims of Hindu groups to restore the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura. “While enacting the Act, Centre excluded the birthplace of Lord Ram at Ayodhya but not the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura, though both are the incarnations of Lord Vishnu, the creator,” the plea said. Upadhyay’s petition also pointed out that a retrospective cut-off fixed by the legislature was even historically wrong as foreign rule in India began in the 11th century and continued till India gained independence in August 1947. According to the petition , the cutoff date ought to have been the date when India was conquered by Muslim invader Mohammd Gori in the 11th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-review-law-barring-suits-to-reclaim-holy-sites-101615572579416.html
12-03-2021||India||Ministry of Home Affairs asks 4 northeast states to stop influx from Myanmar||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked four northeastern states – Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur - along with the Assam Rifles to prevent a possible influx of people from Myanmar in the wake of massive civilian protests in the neighbouring country following a military coup.The state governments have been asked to take appropriate action as per law to check illegal influx from Myanmar into India.The home ministry has also reminded the state governments that they have no powers to grant ‘refugee’ status to any foreigner and India is not a signatory to the United Nations Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol.Around sixteen people from Myanmar had crossed over to Mizoram last week, of which eight were police officers. Myanmar authorities had asked Mizoram to send back the policemen.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh had also said several people from Myanmar tried to enter Manipur but returned after seeing the presence of security personnel. While Mizoram shares a 510 kilometre-long border with Myanmar, Manipur shares a 398-kilometre border with the neighbouring country and Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland share 520-kilometre-long and 215-kilometre-long border respectively. The entire 1,623 kilometre-long border is unfenced and porous.Also read: Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM ModiIn its communication sent on Wednesday, the MHA told states, “As you are aware, there is a possibility of large scale illegal influx into Indian territory through India-Myanmar Border due to current internal situation in Myanmar. In this regard, MHA has already issued an advisory (dated February 25) to chief secretaries (of these four states) to stay alert and take appropriate action to prevent a possible influx into Indian Territory”.According to the MHA, “Now it has been reported that illegal influx from Myanmar has started.”The MHA has reminded the state governments about its 2017 communication in which states were told to “sensitise all law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking prompt steps in identifying illegal migrants and initiate the deportation processes expeditiously and without delay”.Similarly, the letter sent on Wednesday talks about its 2018 direction to the states to take biographic and biometric particulars of all illegal migrants in the country and cancel their fake Indian documents.HT has reviewed the MHA letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-home-affairs-asks-4-northeast-states-to-stop-influx-from-myanmar-101615571608908.html
12-03-2021||India||Over 1.8 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered on Friday: Government||India administered over a million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement. “Total 18,40,897 vaccine doses were given till 8pm today, the fifty-sixth day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination,” according to the statement. With this, cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country climbed to over 28 million doses. Also, the country administered more than a million doses on all days in the week except on Thursday, when only 389,337 doses were given, because of a gazetted holiday in multiple states.#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 2.80 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.18.40 lakh vaccine doses given till 8 pm today.https://t.co/bHK2PabeDI pic.twitter.com/ewAe0ky9tPThe ministry’s announcement comes on a day when the country reported a fresh spike of 23,285 new Covid-19 cases and 117 related deaths. Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Delhi, Karnataka, Haryana and Tamil Nadu have reported an upward trajectory in the number of daily new cases, the Union health ministry observed on Friday.Also read | Punjab reports over 1,400 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload jumps by over 350 casesDay 56 of vaccination driveAccording to the latest data from the ministry, 1,840,897 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 1,464,779 first doses and 376,118 second doses, were administered on Friday. Healthcare workers received 61,335 first doses and 120,161 second doses, while frontline workers received 94,691 first doses and 255,957 second doses of the vaccines.While the second dose of vaccination is yet to begin for the general public, 1,108,661 people over 60 years of age and 200,092 between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities received their first dose, the data showed.Covid-19 vaccination drive so farIndia has administered 28,005,817 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine so far. A total of 7,284,406 healthcare workers and 7,215,815 frontline workers have received their first dose and 4,176,446 healthcare workers and 928,751 frontline workers have received their second.Meanwhile, among the general public, 7,169,695 people over 60 years of age and 1,230,704 between 45 and 59 years have received the first dose of the vaccine, the ministry said.Watch | Ramdas Athawale, his wife take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine in MumbaiIndia’s Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16, 2021, and entered its second phase on March 1, 2021. Since then, private hospitals are also administering vaccines at a charge of ₹250 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-8-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-administered-on-friday-government-101615570543618.html
12-03-2021||India||'India specially offers you wellness tourism': PM Modi at Global Ayurveda festival||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called on the world to visit India for 'wellness tourism' at a time the world is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the virtual conference on the fourth global ayurvedic festival, the Prime Minister said the strongest pillars of wellness tourism are Ayurveda and traditional medicines."India specially offers you wellness tourism, at the core of wellness tourism is the principle of treating illness for wellness. When I talk about wellness tourism, its strongest pillars are Ayurveda and traditional medicine."During his address, he urged people to imagine doing yoga beside the gushing river of the mountains in Uttarakhand or detoxing in Kerala."If your life’s deadlines and timelines are stressing you out, it is time to tap into the timeless culture of India. Whenever you want to treat your body or retreat your mind, come to India," he said.Also Read | Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM ModiPM Modi added that the rise in the popularity of Ayurveda due to the coronavirus pandemic brings about great opportunities to integrate Ayurveda with evidence-based medical science. The Prime Minister also proposed a global summit on Ayurveda.Praising the 25 countries which took part in the conference, PM Modi said it is a great sign and this shows the rising interest in Ayurveda and traditional medicines.Signifying the link between Ayurveda and nature, he said that the Indian culture is closely linked to Ayurveda that is associated with nature and the environment. He said Ayurveda not only cures existing ailments but also protects the overall health of the body."Ayurveda is closely linked to the respect Indian culture gives to nature and the environment. It could rightly be described as a holistic human science, from the plants to your plates," the Prime Minister said.Assuring full support of the Centre to Ayurveda, the Prime Minister also talked about the measures taken by the government to promote Ayurveda and the use of traditional medicines. He cited the national Ayush mission to promote the medical system through cost-effective services. The mission is also aimed at enforcing quality control measures on Ayurveda, siddha, homoeopathy and unani drugs and to ensure sustainable availability of raw materials.He also urged academics to deepen research into Ayurveda and traditional forms of medicines and the vibrant community of startups to focus on this arena.PM Modi also welcomed the World Health Organization's (WHO) step to build a global centre for traditional medicines in India. Highlighting the link between Ayurveda and turmeric, ginger and other spices, the demands of which have gone up during the pandemic, the Prime Minister called upon to spread awareness about millets, as WHO two days ago announced 2023 as the year of millets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-specially-offers-you-wellness-tourism-pm-modi-at-global-ayurveda-festival-101615562121611.html
12-03-2021||India||Medical entrance exam NEET for under graduate admissions to be on August 1||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical courses will be conducted on August 1, the Ministry of Education's National Testing Agency (NTA) announced on Friday."The NEET (UG), 2021, is going to be conducted by NTA for admission to MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BSMS, BUMS and BHMS courses as per the relevant norms, guidelines and regulations notified by the regulatory bodies concerned."The exam will be conducted in 11 languages, including Hindi and English, through pen and paper mode on August 1," the NTA said in an official notification.Bulletin containing detailed information regarding the test, syllabus, eligibility criteria for age, reservation, categorisation of seats, examination fee, cities of examination, state code will be available shortly when the submission of the application form for NEET (UG) starts, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-entrance-exam-neet-for-under-graduate-admissions-to-be-on-august-1-101615569303375.html
12-03-2021||India||CBI, ED to question TMC leaders, Abhishek Banerjee’s relatives in crucial cases||With the eight-phase Bengal assembly polls only 19 days away, the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday found the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) breathing down the neck of some of its prominent contestants.The agencies want to question education minister Partha Chatterjee, who is contesting from Behala West in south-west Kolkata, and former minister Madan Mitra, the nominee from Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas, in connection with the probe into two chit funds. They will be summoned next week. ED officials said they, too, want to question Mitra.Chatterjee is also the secretary general of the TMC and the state's parliamentary affairs minister.Chatterjee is being summoned in connection with the probe into the I-Core chit fund company, while Mitra is a suspect in the Saradha chit fund case. Mitra was arrested in 2014. He unsuccessfully contested the 2016 assembly polls from inside the jail.Significantly, the CBI also wants to question a non-political person, Ankush Arora, the brother-in-law of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. CBI officials questioned Arora’s wife Maneka Gambhir and Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, a few days ago in connection with a coal smuggling case.Ankush Arora’s father, Pawan Arora, has also been summoned to the CBI office on March 15, agency officials said. No member of the Arora family could be contacted.TMC leaders reacted sharply to the development, saying they were being targeted because of the elections.“Using probe agencies against prominent political adversaries is not something new. We have seen this happening in other states. It will have no effect in Bengal because people know the BJP very well,” said deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy.“One cannot scare an honest man. They can do whatever they want. This is being done because of the elections,” Chatterjee, who took part in a campaign rally in his constituency on Friday, said. “I have not received the summons yet,” he added.Mitra was not available for comment as he was busy in a roadshow.Kunal Ghosh, one of the spokespersons of the TMC and an accused in the Saradha case, has already been summoned by the ED twice over the past two weeks.On February 21, Mamata Banerjee reacted in public for the first time after the CBI sent summons to Rujira Banerjee.“A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats…We have stood before guns,” Banerjee retorted at a public event hours after the CBI visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew and TMC Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and served notice to his wife for questioning in the coal smuggling case.“Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee said.Abhishek Banerjee retaliated by taking to Twitter and saying that he will not be "cowed down".“TMC leaders start seeing political vendetta whenever the CBI or ED probes a case but they did not hesitate to get involved in corruption,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said on Friday.On December 31, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra in connection with the coal smuggling case. Mishra is missing since then and has been declared an absconder by the agency.Abhishek Banerjee is the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra.It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Another prime suspect, Anup Majhi, alias Lala, is also absconding.In early December, the CBI also raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant. The homes and offices of three more businessmen have been raided since January.The agency has not made any official statement before the media till date.Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that the money from the sales was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee.The ED on Friday questioned Samir Chakraborty, TMC's sitting MLA from Taldangra in Bankura district, for more than two hours in connection with an investment he made a few years ago into a news channel. "I will cooperate with the agency whenever it calls me," he said while leaving the ED office.Chakraborty, a veteran leader, is not contesting the coming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-ed-to-question-tmc-leaders-abhishek-banerjee-s-relatives-in-crucial-cases-101615566726969.html
12-03-2021||India||Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM Modi||The leaders of the four Quad countries — the United States, India, Japan and Australia — have agreed to build an Indo-Pacific specific vaccine initiative during their first virtual summit on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted."United in our fight against Covid-19, we launched a landmark Quad partnership to ensure accessibility of safe Covid-19 vaccines. India’s formidable vaccine production capacity will be expanded with support from Japan, the US & Australia to assist countries in the Indo-Pacific region," PM Modi wrote."Reiterated India’s commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific in line with our vision of SAGAR - Security and Growth for All in the Region," PM added.Our discussions today on vaccines, climate change, and emerging technologies make the Quad a positive force for global good and for peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific.Explaining what Quad vaccine initiative is, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, "This is a vaccine supply chain which is built by trust and being built to convey trust. It is an example of human-centric international cooperation and globalisation that the Prime Minister has referred to on more than one occasion.""It is also a validation of our reputation as a reliable manufacturer of high-quality vaccines and pharmaceutical products during this Covid crisis that has been much in evidence. And I must say that during the discussions, there was a wholesome appreciation by the other Quad leaders on India's role in providing vaccines to 70 countries all over the world under the Vaccine Maitri initiative," he added."What we are creating are additional capacities. This, I repeat, will not, in any matter, affect our domestic vaccine production and roll-out," he said.Quad vaccine Initiative will be like an extension of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, the foreign secretary said, adding that Make-in-India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat are reliable contributors to global supply chains and augment global reliability of critical commodities and products.The Quad leaders agreed to create three working groups — vaccine expert working group, critical and emerging technology working group and climate working group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-vaccine-initiative-will-be-additional-won-t-affect-domestic-supply-mea-101615565927851.html
12-03-2021||India||Telangana alerts border districts amid Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, Karnataka||The Telangana government on Friday sounded a high alert for the administrations in the districts bordering Karnataka and Maharashtra amid increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring states.State health minister Eatala Rajender held a teleconference with collectors and medical and health officers of Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Nirmal, Adilabad, Asifabad, Mancherial, Jayashankar Bhupalpalli and Jagitial bordering Maharashtra, besides Medchal-Malkajgiri, Ranga Reddy, Hyderabad and Sangareddy bordering northern Karnataka.He issued special instructions to the officials of these districts to be on high alert due to the possibility of large-scale inflow of people from the neighbouring states into these border districts for the sake of employment, agricultural work, personal work and for attending marriages.“We need to be careful about the people coming from the neighbouring states and ensure that there are no mass gatherings. Testing, tracing and treating should be stepped up and implemented in full scale in these border districts. The number of Covid-19 tests should be stepped up to at least 50,000 a day,” Rajender told the officials.The minister also asked the authorities to make all the necessary arrangements in the local hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients, if there was a sudden increase in the number.In the last 24 hours, Telangana recorded 181 new Covid-19 infections and one fatality, taking the total number of fatalities to 1,650 while the total number of positive cases is 3,00,717. As of Thursday night, there were 1,872 active Covid-19 cases in the state.A total of 163 people recovered during this period taking the total Covid-19 recoveries in the state to 2,97,195 with a recovery rate of 98.83 per cent, while the countrywide recovery rate was 96.8 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-alerts-border-districts-amid-covid-19-surge-in-maharashtra-karnataka-101615562902839.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi nods, smiles as US President Biden says, 'Great to see you'||US President Joe Biden greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said 'great to see you', as he addressed the first leaders summit of Quad on Friday, which took place virtually. This marked the first meeting between Biden and PM Modi after the former became the president in January. In February, PM Modi had a telephonic conversation with Biden where regional issues were discussed. Apart from PM Modi and Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison took part in Friday's virtual meet.Speaking at the First Quad Leaders’ Virtual Summit. https://t.co/Ypom6buHxS"Free and open Indo-Pacific is essential for each of our future. The United States is committed to working with all the other three countries," Biden said in his opening remark adding that this group is particularly important as it is dedicated to practical solutions and concrete results.Biden's warmth was reciprocated by PM Modi as he nodded and smiled after Biden's greetings and said, "It feels good to be among friends.""Excellencies, we're united by our democratic values and commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technology make the Quad a force for global good," PM Modi said. When Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison began his address, he folded his hands and said 'Namaste', adding, "My fellow prime ministers, it's great to see you."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-nods-smiles-as-us-president-biden-says-great-to-see-you-101615564741461.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Google to aid in finding Covid-19 vaccination centres and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 vaccination centres can now be found through GoogleGoogle India on Friday announced that to aid the world's largest vaccination drive it will be providing accurate information regarding Covid-19 vaccination centres on Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant. Read more‘Rain saved wildlife and trees’, says Similipal forest official who won heartsSnehalata Dhal, the Odisha forest official whose dance in rain went viral said she was dousing the flames at Similipal biosphere reserve and started dancing in joy when the rain came pouring, saving the reserve’s wildlife and trees. Read moreIndia, China to ensure stability on LAC, call another meeting of commanders soonIndia and China agreed on Friday to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and convene another meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border. Read more'We dream of hosting 2048 Olympics': Delhi CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said it is his government's dream to host the 2048 Olympics, adding that he would approach the Central government and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for it. Read moreIt's breaking news': Parthiv Patel reacts after India pick KL Rahul and Shikhar Dhawan as openers for 1st T20IIndia captain Virat Kohli sprang in a surprise at the toss when he declared the name of Team India’s openers for the first T20I against England in Ahmedabad. Read moreTwinkle Khanna's funny vacation photos with Akshay Kumar make Sikandar Kher ask, 'Are you beating him up regularly?'Twinkle Khanna drew attention to the deceitful nature of social media, as she shared a hilarious ‘Instagram vs reality’ post, featuring Akshay Kumar. In the first picture, they were seen happily posing for the camera, while in the second, she could be seen smothering him. Read morePost Alexi McCammond's racist tweet outcry, Ulta Beauty pauses Teen Vogue adsA major advertiser at Teen Vogue, the retailer Ulta Beauty, has paused ad spending at the Conde Nast publication amid a growing outcry over anti-Asian tweets by the site's new editor in chief, Alexi McCammond. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-google-to-aid-in-finding-covid-19-vaccination-centres-and-all-the-latest-news-101615559842394.html
12-03-2021||India||PM gifted copy of Gandhi's speech about need to make India 'Atmanirbhar'||The Sabarmati Ashram trust on Friday gifted Prime Minister Narendra Modi a framed copy of a page from Mahatma Gandhi's 1919 speech where he talks about the need to make India "Atmanirbhar" (self-reliant).Modi, in recent times, has often stressed the need for economic policies aimed towards `Atmanirbhar Bharat'.The Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust which manages the century-old Ashram established by Mahatma Gandhi here found a speech by Gandhi where the term was used."In October 1919, Gandhiji gave a speech at Bhagini Samaj, Mumbai. In that speech, he stressed the need for making India Atmanirbhar. We framed a copy of that part of the speech and gifted it to the PM during his visit today," said trustee Kartikeya Sarabhai.The exact words used by the Mahatma in the Hindi speech were: "Hindustan ko Atmanirbhar hona sikhna hi hoga (India must learn to be self-reliant)."The speech referred to the benefits of the charkha or spinning wheel which could be a source of income for women."There is no other occupation in which millions of women can engage while staying at home. It does not call for much intelligence. India must learn to be self-reliant."When India produces brave men and women, we shall become self-reliant," Gandhi further said in the speech.He went on to say that satyagraha needs more courage than that needed for using arms, and if the nation could show that bravery, "we shall be free right away."Modi visited the Ashram before launching `Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', the government's initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence.Incidentally, in his speech later, the prime minister said that India's 'Atmanirbhar' approach of development will give momentum to the development journey of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-gifted-copy-of-gandhi-s-speech-about-need-to-make-india-atmanirbhar-101615561093613.html
12-03-2021||India||5 policemen among 8 arrested for possessing tiger skin in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh forest department arrested eight persons, including five policemen and two health department personnel, for possession of a tiger skin in Bastar district on Friday.The interrogation of the accused is on and more arrests could follow, it said. Police have also detained two assistant sub-inspectors in Bijapur district in connection with the case.Sunderaj P, Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, in a statement to the media, said that the arrest took place in the early hours of Friday from Jagdalpur city.The accused claimed that they got the tiger skin from two persons in Dantewada district.“The accused were going to do some puja from the tiger’s skin to get prosperity and wealth, but they were arrested before that. We have seized the tiger skin, further interrogation is on,” said the IG, adding that a team of forest officials and police arrested the accused.The accused include constable Bhomraj Thakur, constable Arun Godiyam, constable Pavan Kumar Nakka, assistant constable Rakesh Emla and assistant constable Babulal Majji.The other three - Har Prasad Gavde, Surendra Kumar Dewangan (43), Anil Nakka (25) - were health personnel, the IG said.“We have also detained two assistant sub inspectors in Bijapur district and interrogation is underway. We are yet to find out where the tiger was killed,” said the IG.Police said that they had inputs that some people were performing ‘tantrik puja’ (sorcery) with a tiger skin on the occasion of Mahashivratri and subsequently raided a spot where the accused were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-policemen-among-8-arrested-for-possessing-tiger-skin-in-chhattisgarh-101615560316548.html
12-03-2021||India||Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas joins BJP||Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas, who was a general secretary in the party, joined the BJP here on Friday. The BJP has been looking to make inroads among the Christian voters in the southern state. It may field Thomas, who hails from the minority community which has a sizeable presence there, in the assembly polls.Elections in the state are scheduled to be held on April 6.Thomas took a swipe at his former party, claiming that it does not have a regional-party presence in many parts of the country and that its leadership does not know what is happening.Echoing the views of P C Chacko, another Kerala Congress leader who quit the party recently, that the party is divided into two factions in the state, he said a lot of its senior leaders may leave soon. Inducting him into the BJP, its general secretary Arun Singh said Thomas is influenced by the policy and programmes of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government. Thomas had earlier quit the Congress apparently over denial of a party ticket to fight the assembly polls. He, however, rejected the view and said it had become very difficult for a "principled" person like him to continue in the party.There had been a buzz about Thomas joining the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well. Speaking at Thomas's joining ceremony, BJP spokesperson Tom Vadakkan took a dig at Congres leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he is "responsible" for opening the floodgates in the party for its leaders to leave. In Kerala, where the fight is primarily being seen as between the ruling Left front (LDF) and the Congress-led UDF, the BJP has been working hard to emerge as a strong force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-congress-leader-vijayan-thomas-joins-bjp-101615558342517.html
12-03-2021||India||Costly food, higher fuel prices take retail inflation to 3-month high of 5.03%||The consumer price index, a measure of what households pay for everyday items, accelerated to 5.03% in February on the back of costlier food and sharply higher fuel prices, the highest in three months, data released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation showed on Friday.Retail inflation remained above the Reserve Bank of India’s targeted range of 4(+/-2) % for eight months in this fiscal. In January, retail prices had risen 4.06%, a 16-month low.The CPI for February and March will be the last set of inflation data based on the current target range of 4(+/-2)%, also called the ‘acceptable limit of inflation’. After March 2021, the Reserve Bank and the government are set to announce a new band of desirable inflation range.Data released by the statistic department also showed that the index of industrial production (IIP), a measure of factory output and key barometer of economic activity, shrunk 1.6% in January after rising 2.1% in December, prompting analysts to say that the uptick in manufacturing is yet to be surefooted after devastating shocks in a pandemic year.Households paid higher prices in key categories, such as food, fuel, healthcare and transport and communication, Friday’s data showed.Food prices rebounded 3.87% in February against a 1.96% climb in January. High food costs affect poorer households more than affluent ones. The poor tend to spend a higher proportion of their monthly budgets on food.Vegetable prices fell 6.27% but this was more than offset by sharply rising prices of pulses (12.54%) and oils and fat (20.78%).Prices of protein items also rose sharply, as eggs and meat inflation stood at 11.13% and 11.14%.Fuel and light prices rose at 3.53%. Higher oil prices drove inflation in the “transport and communication” category to 11.36% in February compared to 9.32% in January, while shoppers also had to spend higher for clothing and footwear articles, whose inflation was at 4.21% compared to 3.82% in January, the data showed.People in urban areas paid more for their daily needs, as urban inflation, at 5.96%, exceeded price growth in rural areas, which stood at 4.19%.Elevated retail prices not just affect consumers but also shrink the Reserve Bank’s room to lower interest rates to boost growth. The economy grew 0.4% in December after two straight quarters of recession.“Inflation has risen across all three categories – food, fuel, and core – in the pandemic year. Uptick in core inflation, an indicator of underlying demand conditions, during an economic slump is, however, surprising,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist of Crisil Ltd, the ratings firm. Core inflation excludes price rise in volatile components such as food and fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/costly-food-higher-fuel-prices-take-retail-inflation-to-3-month-high-of-503-101615558947292.html
12-03-2021||India||Kerala reports less than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases after 3 days, active cases continue to decline||Kerala on Friday reported 1,780 new Covid-19 cases and 14 related deaths, taking the state’s tally to 1,087,443 cases and death toll to 4,369, according to a bulletin released by the Kerala government. The state reported less than 2,000 daily new cases on March 8 (1,412 cases), as per official data. The state had reported 2,316 cases on Tuesday, 2,475 cases on Wednesday and 2,133 cases on Thursday.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination centres can now be found through GoogleActive caseload fell by over 1,600 cases on Friday and currently stands at 32,174 from the 33,785 cases on Thursday. Also, the active cases have witnessed a decline since the beginning of the month. Kerala had 47,868 active cases on March 1, 2021, according to the department of health and family welfare. Ernakulam reported the maximum number of active cases with 4,796 cases followed by Kozhikode and Thrissur districts with 3,994 and 2,964 cases, the bulletin showed.Total recoveries in Kerala reached 1,050,603 so far, of whom 3,377 were reported as recovered on Friday. Also, the state currently has 152,760 patients in home isolation and another 4,829 in hospital isolation, data from the bulletin showed.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday said that Kerala along with Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report an upsurge in daily new Covid-19 cases. The ministry also noted that these states cumulatively accounted for over 85 per cent of the total new cases India reported on Friday. Kerala is also one among six states that accounted for nearly 83 per cent of the new deaths recorded in the country on Friday.#Unite2FightCoronaMaharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and TN continue to report an upsurge in Daily New Cases; cumulatively account for 85.6% of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours.23,285 new cases registered in the last 24 hours. https://t.co/iRe1FpGbqu pic.twitter.com/Bnh0YSUWj2Earlier on Thursday, the ministry identified Kerala as the top district where the active caseload has declined the maximum in a one-month period. On February 11, Kerala had 64,607 active cases which fell to 35,715 on March 11, the ministry noted.Watch | Covid update: Covishield under ₹200; cheapest RT-PCR test; Patiala night curfew﻿Meanwhile, 1,346,252 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 1,105,629 first doses and 240,623 second doses, have been administered in Kerala to eligible beneficiaries as of 7am on Friday. It only lies behind Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal in terms of the total vaccine doses administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-less-than-2-000-new-covid-19-cases-after-3-days-active-cases-continue-to-decline-101615558512280.html
12-03-2021||India||Maharashtra: Man celebrates buffalo's birthday, case filed for violating Covid-19 norms||The police in Thane district of Maharashtra on Friday registered an FIR against a man who allegedly celebrated the `birthday' of his buffalo in spite of Covid-19 restrictions.Kiran Mhatre (30) allegedly organized a celebration of his buffalo's birthday at his house in Reti Bunder in Dombivali area on Thursday.Those who attended it did not wear masks or observe social distancing even as coronavirus cases are increasing in the district as well as in the state, said an official of Vishnu Nagar police station.A case under IPC section 269 (act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and the Epidemic Act was registered against him. No arrest has been made, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-man-celebrates-buffalo-s-birthday-case-filed-for-violating-covid-19-norms-101615559017330.html
12-03-2021||India||Over 15k new Covid cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai sees highest jump in months||Mumbai city reported 1,646 new Covid-19 infections registered in the last 24 hours, recording the highest single-day spike in months. On March 10, Mumbai's daily infection tally crossed the 1,500-mark for the first time in 2021 as the city recorded 1,539 fresh infections. With 1,508 cases on March 11, there was a slight dip on Thursday, only to be followed by a sharp rise again that breached the 1,600-mark.Maharashtra too sustained its surge with 15,817 fresh Covid-19 infections, which broke all the records of this year. On Thursday, the state reported 14,317 cases, which was the highest single-day spike till yesterday.Maharashtra lockdown: These districts have announced fresh curbs amid Covid-19 spikeSeveral districts of the state, including Nagpur, Thane, Nashik. Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Nanded, Parbhani have imposed restrictions in view of the sudden surge in the number of cases. Pune on Friday brought back night curfew and restricted the timing of hotels, restaurants. Nagpur will be going under a strict lockdown from March 15.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has revealed that in Mumbai, most of the positive cases reported in January and February were from highrises. Giving a percentage of the data, the civic body said at least 90 per cent of cases were from apartments and only 10 per cent were from slums and chawls.Speculations of a complete lockdown have been doing the rounds since February when the number of cases started to rise. Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola were the first to place curbs for the second time after the nationwide lockdown. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has dismissed any immediate lockdown in Mumbai as it is relying on surveillance and testing, tracking. No decision on whether the services of Mumbai local trains will be curtailed for the public has been taken yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-1-647-fresh-covid-19-infections-highest-in-months-101615559113902.html
12-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination centres can now be found through Google||Google India on Friday announced that to aid the world's largest vaccination drive it will be providing accurate information regarding Covid-19 vaccination centres on Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant. The tech giant expects to roll out the feature in the coming weeks.The move comes as India in March entered its second phase of the vaccination drive where it is inoculating the elderly population and people between the age of 45-59 years with certain comorbidities."With vaccinations for the vulnerable population having commenced from 1st March in thousands of hospitals across the country, we are also working with the MoHFW and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accurately surface the information on vaccination centres on Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant, and expect to roll this out in the coming weeks," Google India said on Friday.Also Read | Covid-19 spike: Maharashtra sees back-to-back cluster outbreaks of Covid casesSignifying the assistance of the company in the vaccination drive, Google said that as soon as the first phase of inoculation began, knowledge panels on its search engine were used to provide credible information, sourced from the ministry of health and family welfare(MoHFW), relating to the two coronavirus vaccines in the country (Covishield and Covaxin), the effectiveness of the vaccines safety, distribution, side effects and more in multiple Indian languages."These panels provide consolidated information such as details on the two vaccines, effectiveness, safety, distribution, side effects, and more, and is available in English and eight Indian languages (Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, and Hindi). This information is sourced from MoHFW, and provides answers to commonly asked questions, displays real-time statistics around vaccinations completed, and provides links to the MoHFW website for additional local resources," the company said in its blogpost.The company also said that it has been working with the health ministry's Rapid Risk Response team and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to track misinformation pertaining to vaccination drive using social media tools and combat it with science-based messaging on vaccines and pandemic.Additionally, the company highlighted the launch of information panels that show up while searching for Covid-19 related queries and banners on the YouTube homepage, both of which redirect the resources on the website of the health ministry.Teams have also helped in optimising the website of the ministry for mobile viewers including localisation of several vaccination resources pages into the eight Indian languages, the company claimed.India, as of Friday morning, has administered more than 2.61 crore Covid-19 vaccines doses through 487,919 sessions. This includes over one million vulnerable people aged between 45-59 years who have received the first dose of the vaccine and six million people above age 60 who have received the first dose, as per the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-centres-can-now-be-found-through-google-101615553375168.html
12-03-2021||India||‘Rain saved wildlife and trees’, says forest official who won hearts for dancing in rain-hit Similipal||Snehalata Dhal, the Odisha forest official whose dance in rain went viral said she was dousing the flames at Similipal biosphere reserve and started dancing in joy when the rain came pouring, saving the reserve’s wildlife and trees.“Two days ago, a fire broke out in my area, in Similipal. I thought I would have to stay here for long. While we were dousing the fire, it started raining. I started dancing with joy. Rain saved wildlife and trees," she told ANI.A massive forest fire devastated large tracts of the Similipal biosphere reserve in the Mayurbhanj district of Odisha. It was finally brought under control on March 9, two weeks after it had started towards the end of February. Sandeep Tripathy, who has been tasked with suggesting ways for containing the rising number of forest fires in the state, told HT that the core area containing wildlife has escaped unscathed from the blaze.He also said that two teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and four fire brigade teams had been deployed in the areas of Barehipani, Gudugudia, Talabandha, Kendumundi, Chahala, and Nawna. Dhal was a member of one such teams, dispatched to bring the fire under control.“The forest fire in Similipal is now almost contained. The core area with precious wildlife has not been impacted much, with fire mostly confined to the peripheral areas of the Similipal Tiger Reserve. Two teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have been sent to the reserve," Tripathy said to HT.Local youth and student wings of the ruling Biju Janata Dal joined hands with the villagers and forest officials to extinguish the fire in the biosphere reserve, reported news agency PTI. The raging inferno was finally brought under control by mother nature’s gracious downpour, becoming the cause for Dhal’s celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-saved-wildlife-and-trees-says-forest-official-who-won-hearts-for-dancing-in-rain-hit-similipal-101615558335780.html
12-03-2021||India||‘United by democratic values’: PM Modi at historic first Quad leaders' summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the first summit of the leaders' of the Quad, laying emphasis in his opening address upon the ‘shared democratic values’ among the four member nations-India, the United States, Australia and Japan.President Joe Biden was the first leader to address the summit, followed by PM Modi. "Now PM Modi I'm sticking over to you. And again great to see you," the US President told the Prime Minister."It's good to be among friends," PM Modi commenced his address, expressing thanks to Biden for the initiative. "Excellencies, we're united by our democratic values and commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technology make the Quad a force for global good," he added.Calling the Quad a 'positive vision,' he said that this was an extension of India's philosophy of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam,' which, he explained, regards the world as 'one family.'PM Modi also said that the four countries would work together 'closer than ever before,' to advance the shared values and promote a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific.The Quad has come of age and will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region, the Prime Minister concluded his address.Quad stands for the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or QSD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/united-by-democratic-values-pm-modi-at-quad-summit-101615557133927.html
12-03-2021||India||India's forex reserves fall by over USD 4 billion to USD 580.299 billion: RBI||The country's foreign exchange reserves declined by USD 4.255 billion to USD 580.299 billion in the week ended March 5, according to RBI data.In the previous week ended February 26, the reserves rose by USD 689 million to USD 584.554 billion. It had touched a record high of USD 590.185 billion in the week ended January 29, 2021.In the reporting week ended March 5, the fall in reserves was due to a decline in the Foreign Currency Assets (FCA).The FCA dipped by USD 3.002 billion to USD 539.613 billion, the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) weekly data showed.Expressed in dollar terms, FCA includes the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.The gold reserves declined by USD 1.206 billion to USD 34.215 billion in the reporting week, as per the data.The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) fell by USD 11 million to USD 1.506 billion in the reporting week.The country's reserve position with the IMF also declined by USD 36 million to USD 4.965 billion in the reporting week, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-forex-reserves-fall-by-over-usd-4-billion-to-usd-580-299-billion-rbi-101615557244335.html
12-03-2021||NA||1st Quad leaders' summit updates: Quad is force of global good, says PM Modi||Hours before the first historic virtual summit of Quad leaders began on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the summit will provide an opportunity to discuss a wide range of regional and global issued of hared interest. PM Modi will be joined by US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.Vaccine initiative will be one of the major issues to be discussed. This is likely to allow new manufacturing capacity to be added in India for exports to the Indo-Pacific region.Follow all the updates here:Quad summit: White House issues statement, mentions 'challenges in South China Seas'After the first-ever Quad leaders' summit, the White House issued a statement —"We have convened to reaffirm our commitment to quadrilateral cooperation between Australia, India, Japan, & the United States. We bring diverse perspectives & are united in a shared vision for the free & open Indo-Pacific. e pledge to respond to economic & health impacts of Covid-19, combat climate change & address shared challenges, including in cyberspace, critical technologies, counterterrorism, quality infrastructure investment & humanitarian-assistance, disaster-relief domains. We'll collaborate to strengthen equitable vaccine access for the Indo-Pacific, with close coordination with multilateral organizations including the World Health Organization and COVAX. We call for transparent and results-oriented reform at World Health Organization. We'll continue to prioritise the role of international law in the maritime domain, particularly as reflected in UNCLOS, & facilitate collaboration, including in maritime security, to meet challenges to rules-based maritime order in the East and South China Seas," the statement read.Today's summit saw Quad leaders adopt a positive agenda and vision: Foreign secretaryPM Modi emphasised Quad is a partnership for global good. Today's summit saw Quad leaders adopt a positive agenda and vision. Focusing on contemporary issues such as vaccine, climate change and emerging technology: Foreign Secy Harsh Vardhan Shringla on First Quad Leaders’ Virtual SummitWatch: PM Modi’s QUAD gambit and why China is rattledIndo-Pacific will shape 21st century: Scott Morrison"It's the Indo-Pacific that'll now shape the destiny of the world in the 21st Century. As four leaders of great democracies in Indo-Pacific, let our partnership be an enabler of peace, stability and prosperity and to do so inclusively with many nations in the region," Australian PM Scott Morrison said.An extension of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam: PM ModiIn his address, Prime Minister Modi said Quad is an extension of India's tradition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. "We will work together closely as ever before for advancing shared values & promoting secular, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific," PM Modi said.Quad is a force for global good: PM ModiOur agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies make the Quad a force for global good, says PM ModiQuad has come of age, says PM Modi"It will now remain an important pillar in the stability of the region," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.Great to see you, Joe Biden says to PM ModiAddressing the summit, US President Joe Biden said, "Increased vaccination to be key power in global growth."Quad Summit: How to watch liveLeaders of Quad to hold first summit today: Here’s what’s on agendaThe Quad leaders, in addition to discussing regional and global issues of shared interest and practical cooperation to ensure a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, will exchange views on post-Covid-19 recovery, resilient supply and production chains, cooperation on emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change. ReadWhat is the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad?The genesis of the Quad is a “core group” that was formed by the four countries in 2004 to coordinate their response to the Indian Ocean tsunami after India emerged as the first responder. After several meetings of senior officials, the grouping was sidelined by 2007, largely because of the concerns of the US and Australia about its impact on their relations with China.An opportunity to discuss global issues of shared interest: PM ModiThis evening, will be taking part in the First Quad Leaders’ Virtual Summit with @POTUS @JoeBiden, PM @ScottMorrisonMP and PM @sugawitter. The Summit will provide an opportunity to discuss a wide range of regional and global issues of shared interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-1st-leaders-summit-live-global-issues-of-shared-interest-pm-modi-tweets-101615554952208.html
12-03-2021||India||Covid-19 spike: Maharashtra sees back-to-back cluster outbreaks of Covid cases||Maharashtra is witnessing a steady rise in the number of daily Covid-19 cases. One factor that has contributed to this astronomical rise is several cluster outbreaks in the state. Cluster outbreaks are when a number of cases get reported from one particular place and thus can have a connection.Here is the list of cluster outbreaks in the state in the last few weeks. All of these took place in residential schools.PalgharAccording to news agency ANI, 79 persons, including students, teachers and other staff of three residential schools in Jawahar Taluka of Palghar district tested positive in the last week.LaturOn March 11, it was reported that a total of 44 students of a hostel in Maharashtra's Latur tested covid positive. In February, 47 students from the same hostel were found infected.Maharashtra Covid-19 situation very worrying, says Centre as lockdowns returnWashimIn February, as many as 229 students as a residential school in Maharashtra's Washim tested positive, following which the hostel was sealed and declared as a containment zone.Similar such clusters have been reported from temples as well. In February, the district administration of Maharashtra's Jalna closed the Jalicha Dev temple after 55 people living in and around the temple tested positive.In February itself, at least 12 people, including the chief priest of Washim's Pohradev temple, tested positive after Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod visited the temple and thousands of supporters gathered during his visit.The spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is entirely being attributed to a violation of Covid-19 norms. As part of the government's 'Mission begin again', education institutes started reopening gradually in January. Civic elections were also held in January. All of this collaboratively resulted in the spike in Maharashtra, the Centre's report has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spike-maharashtra-sees-back-to-back-cluster-outbreaks-of-covid-cases-101615554419846.html
12-03-2021||India||Jagan writes to Centre, seeks Bharat Ratna for Andhra man who designed tricolour||Andhra Pradesh chief minister and YSR Congress president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday appealed to the Centre to confer the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country, on Pingali Venkaiah, a prominent freedom fighter from Andhra Pradesh who had designed the national flag.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief minister said honouring late Venkaiah with the Bharat Ratna would be a matter of pride for every Indian on the occasion of the 75th Indian Independence Day celebrations.On Friday morning, Jagan went to the residence of Venkaiah at Macherla in Guntur district and felicitated the freedom fighter’s daughter Ghantasala Seetha Mahalakshmi and other family members. He also garlanded the portrait of Venkaiah and paid tribute to him.Appreciating the Prime Minister’s decision to celebrate Azadi ki Amrut Mahotsav programme to mark 75 years of Independence, the Andhra CM recalled that during the first meeting of the national committee held on March 8, “Har Ghar Jhanda” had been selected as one of the key themes for the celebrations.“A call will be given to every citizen to hoist the National Flag in their house on August 15, 2021 and become part of the festivities. In this context, I would like to draw your attention towards the immense contribution made by Pingali Venkaiah in designing the Indian National Flag,” he said.He recalled that Venkaiah, also known as Jhanda Venkaiah was born on August 2, 1876 at Bhatlapenumarru village near Machalipatnam and was deeply influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideology. “He worked on various designs of the national flag and on March 31, 1921 in Vijayawada, he gifted his designs to Mahatma Gandhi, who mentioned Venkaiah’s efforts in his journal Young India,” Jagan said.The chief minister said Venkaiah’s design of the tricolour was adopted as the national flag of free India by the Constituent Assembly on July 22, 1947. “Thus, Venkaiah was credited as the architect or designer of the Indian National Flag. The flag designed by him came to be synonymous with the spirit of free and independent India. However, his life and works largely remain unrecognised and he breathed his last on July 4, 1963,” he said.Jagan requested that as the nation was celebrating 75 years of Independence, the Centre recognise Venkaiah’s contribution to the nation and confer him with the Bharat Ratna (posthumously).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-writes-to-centre-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-andhra-man-who-designed-tricolour-101615552458097.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi to address Global Ayurveda Festival today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Global Ayurveda Festival through video conferencing on Friday."At around 8:45 PM this evening, will address the Global Ayurveda Festival. This Festival is a commendable effort to further popularise Ayurveda and traditional forms of medicine," PM Modi tweeted.The festival is being held virtually between March 12 and March 19.Union Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister V Muraleedharan, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) President Uday Shankar and former FICCI President Dr Sangita Reddy will also be present at the event.Muraleedharan is the Chairman of the Organizing Committee of the festival.The keynote address in the event will be delivered by World Health Organization Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Central AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha and Central AYUSH Advisor Vaidya Manoj Nesari.The festival will also include international seminars, a global exhibition and business meet. The festival will hold an all-time record in the number of delegates, the number of scientists presenting papers and the number of participating countries and institutions.It will feature lectures by 35 internationally renowned scientists and more than 150 Indian scientists. As many as 650 of the 1,150 selected research papers will be presented live and 500 research papers will be with a poster presentation.The festival, which was scheduled to be held in Angamaly in May 2020, was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And, now it is being held virtually in five virtual venues from 9 am to 10 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-global-ayurveda-festival-today-101615552462368.html
12-03-2021||India||CBI summons family members of TMC MP Abhishek's sister-in-law in coal scam||The CBI on Friday issued summons to two family members of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in connection with the multi-crore rupees coal pilferage scam being investigated by the central probe agency, sources in it said.The two - Gambhir's father-in-law Pawan Arora and her husband Ankush Arora have been asked to appear before the CBI on March 15, they said.The probe agency has already interrogated Banerjee's wife Rujira and Gambhir at their respective residences in the city in the last week of February for their alleged involvement in the scam.Banerjee is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.According to the sources, Gambhir had told the CBI sleuths during interrogation that she as not aware of anything and that her husband and father-in-law were in the know of what was happening.The agency has been on the look out for the scam kingpin Anup Majhi, alias Lala, who has been been absconding. A lookout circular had also been issued against him.CBI had also raided several premises of Majhi in the city and in the coal bearing belt of Asansol and Ranigunj in the state.The investigation agency is of the view that the coal scam arising out of illegal mining from abandoned mines of Eastern Coalfields, runs into thousands of crores of Rupees and part of the crime proceeds had been transacted through the hawala route for which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also joined the probe.On Nov 28, 2020, CBI had conducted raids at 45 different places, including in West Bengal in connection with the coal pilferage scam.The state is set to witness an eight-phase Assembly election starting March 27. The BJP, which has emerged as the main opposition, is campaigning vigorously to oust the ruling Trinamool Congress which had secured consecutive electoral wins in 2011 and 2016 under Mamata Banerjee.Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, weilds considerable influence in the party and has been leading the TMC's counter-attack in the run-up to the Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-summons-family-members-of-tmc-mp-abhishek-s-sister-in-law-in-coal-scam-101615550232348.html
12-03-2021||India||Delhi records highest single-day spike in 2 months with 431 fresh Covid-19 infections||Delhi reported more than 400 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day on Friday, which is the highest single-day spike in over two months. According to the health department’s daily bulletin, there were 431 Covid-19 cases in Delhi between Thursday and Friday. The national capital, which has been reporting a surge in infections for more than a week now, logged 409 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. There were 424 daily infections on January 3, the health department’s data shows. According to the government's Covid-19 bulletin, 356 recoveries and two deaths have been reported on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Delhi is one of the eight states in India that has been reporting an upward trajectory in daily coronavirus cases. The other states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, as per the data provided by the health ministry.In February, Delhi was reporting around 200 daily infections. From March 1, the daily cases in the Capital have been rising. Delhi on January 27 for the first time in nine months reported daily cases below 100.The positivity rate of the coronavirus cases in the Capital has been registered to be 0.60 per cent and the total number of containment zones have reached 488. A total of 72,031 tests have been conducted in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin.India on Friday reported 23,285 new coronavirus cases and 117 fatalities, registering a massive spike. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu cumulatively contribute more than 85 per cent to the active Covid-19 caseload of the country, according to the data of the health ministry. Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab are at the top spots in respect to their contribution to the daily cases and death toll.The surge in the coronavirus cases in these states comes at a time when the country has administered more than 2.61 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The active coronavirus case tally of the country is on the path to reach the two lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-2-months-with-431-fresh-covid-19-infections-101615545869513.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC judge gets emotional during farewell address and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At her farewell, Justice Indu Malhotra chokes with emotion during speechSupreme Court justice Indu Malhotra, first woman member of the Bar to be directly appointed as a judge in the top court, choked on her farewell speech on Friday that got chief Justice of India SA Bobde to cut in. Read MoreI have worked, says deputy CM Panneerselvan as he files nominationDeputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Friday sounded confident of winning from his stronghold of Bodinayakanur in Theni district of Tamil Nadu, where assembly elections will be held in a single phase next month, for the time in a row. Read MoreTamil Nadu’s freebie culture is here to stay, say parties, expertsFrom promises of free laptops to colour TVs and grinders, Tamil Nadu’s political parties have tried to outdo each other in offering freebies ahead of the polls for decades. Read More'Too good a cricketer not to be in India's playing XI': Kris Srikkanth calls India batsman a 'class act'Everyone is pondering what would India's team composition be for the T20I series against England starting Friday. Read MoreKangana Ranaut weighs in on Meghan Markle-Prince Harry interview, says 'saas, bahu, sajish' never interests herAfter maintaining an unusual silence on the Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's bombshell interview with Oprah Winfrey, Kangana Ranaut has finally delivered her hot take. Read MoreSamiksha Pednekar plays demure modern bride in sequinned Manish MalhotraSamiksha Pednekar's claim to fame may be her actor sister Bhumi Pednekar, but the lawyer by profession has managed to rake up quite a social media following and a legion of fans for herself. Read MoreMan edits pics to make it look like he is inside a fridge, post sparks laughterHave you ever come across those posts which are absolutely creative but also equally hilarious? If you know what we’re talking about, then this share will not come as a surprise to you but will surely leave you thoroughly entertained. Read More‘Mamata Banerjee only remembers Nandigram during polls’: Suvendu AdhikariBJP candidate from Nandigram and local strongman Suvendu Adhikari filed his nomination and slammed the incumbent Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-judge-gets-emotional-during-farewell-address-and-all-the-latest-news-101615547560741.html
12-03-2021||India||Rape survivors, who become pregnant, must be told about their legal rights: SC||Rape survivors, who become pregnant, must be told about their legal rights, the Supreme Court said on Friday, issuing a notice to the central government on a plea for setting up medical boards in states and union territories to decide cases of unwanted pregnancies of over 20 weeks for termination.Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act 1971 prohibits termination of pregnancy after 20 weeks."If a woman is raped and is pregnant, she must be told about her legal rights," said the bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde.The bench, also comprising justice A S Bopanna, took up the larger issue of setting up of medical boards in every states and UTs after lawyer V K Biju, appearing for a 14-year-old rape survivor, decided not to seek permission to terminate the 26-week pregnancy apparently on account of some medical opinion.The court has sought a response from the Centre in four weeks.Earlier, besides seeking a nod to abort the fetus of the victim, the plea has sought the framing of a guideline on the appointment of medical boards “to decide cases of unwanted pregnancies that has crossed 20 weeks” in every states and UTs for termination of pregnancy.During the brief hearing, Biju said he was not seeking permission to abort now, but sought setting up of medical boards in states saying "When I was drafting this petition, I had seen the pain of the parents (of the girl)"."We will issue notice on this (prayer two). We will record your statement that you are not pressing prayer 1 (termination of pregnancy of the girl)," the bench said.If there is a local board to check such cases, it will be helpful, the bench told Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati who was appearing in the matter."It is a different case when rape is not reported to you as a state. If it is reported, there can be some mechanism where you can follow up with the victim whether she is pregnant and what are her legal rights," the bench told the law officer.The law officer said she will file an affidavit giving all the details on the issue.Bhati said that the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020 is passed by the Lok Sabha and it will be discussed in the Rajya Sabha.The top court had on March 2 sought a report from the medical board of civil hospital Karnal about the feasibility of her request for termination of pregnancy.The bench was hearing a plea filed by the minor girl who has said that she was pregnant after being raped by one of her relatives.The top court had earlier issued notices to the Centre and Haryana government seeking their responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-survivors-who-become-pregnant-must-be-told-about-their-legal-rights-sc-101615546312476.html
12-03-2021||India||Pune lockdown: Schools to be shut till March 31; Mall, market timing restricted||A day after the Nagpur administration announced a seven-day strict lockdown from March 15 to March 21, the Pune district administration on Friday announced a few restrictions to curb public movement, crowding, the operation of business establishments at night. But it is not being officially called a lockdown.Pune district has the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases in India, according to health ministry data. Apart from Pune City taluka, there are 14 talukas in the Pune district. These new curbs will be applicable to all those areas.Schools and colleges of the district will remain shut till March 31. Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 10pm, with 50 per cent seating capacity. The authorities will have to display the number of people seated inside at any given time.There will be a night curfew between 11pm and 6am. Without calling it a curfew, the administration is saying that citizens will not be permitted to roam around the roads unnecessarily.Weddings, funerals will be allowed to take place but with only 50 persons.While morning walkers are allowed to take a stroll, parks will remain shut in the evening.Mall and multiplexes won't be allowed to operate after 11pm.Covid-19 situation in Pune districtAccording to Union health ministry data on Thursday, Pune district has 18,474 active Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, the district reported 2,840 fresh infections.How Covid-19 cases in Pune spikedThe overall Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra turned serious since the middle of February. The spike is not concentrated in Pune or Nagpur or any specific region. Pandemic fatigue, laxity in tracking testing, flouting of social distancing norms, municipal elections are being blamed for the spike.Lockdown status of MaharashtraChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has clarified that he is not in favour of lockdown. But at the same time, district authorities have been asked to take steps, including 'lockdown', to contain the spread of the infections. Since announcing lockdown goes against the spirit of the Maharashtra government's 'Mission Begin Again', district authorities are not officially announcing lockdown, but are bringing back restrictions.VaccineNiti Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Thursday suggested that people in the areas where the second wave is being seen can be prioritised for vaccination.Pune city wants its adults to get vaccinated on priority. "As Pune city is witnessing a rise in active cases and daily count of infections is also high, the authorities plan to send a proposal to the Centre seeking a policy decision to inoculate people above the age of 18 in Pune, as an exception," the official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-lockdown-schools-to-be-shut-till-march-31-mall-market-timing-restricted-101615543401692.html
12-03-2021||India||Mobile phone found inside terror convicts' cell at Tihar Jail; probe ordered||Delhi Home Minister Satyendra Jain on Friday said that he has ordered an investigation in the matter related to a cellphone that was found by the Tihar Jail authorities from a cell where certain terror convicts were lodged."I have ordered an investigation. Action will be taken against anyone who is found to be at fault. I have written to DG (Prisons) that it should be properly investigated that how was a phone found inside the jail," Jain said while speaking to reporters here on Friday.Tihar Jail authorities seized a cellphone from a jail where certain terror convicts were lodged. The mobile was allegedly used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/threats," police said on Friday."Based on Special Cell's information, Tihar Jail authorities seized a cellphone from a jail where certain terror convicts are lodged. It is suspected that the phone was used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/threats," Delhi Special Cell police said.The police also said that further investigation and forensic analysis will be done after the mobile handset and details of the seizure are received from Tihar Jail authorities.Considering the importance of the matter, Delhi Home Minister ordered the investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-phone-found-inside-terror-convicts-cell-at-tihar-jail-probe-ordered-101615542809609.html
12-03-2021||India||Banks to remain closed for 4 days from March 13. Here's why||United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), which represents nine bank unions has called for a 2-day nation-wide strike from March 15 to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders by the government. With banks being shut on March 13 (second Saturday of the month) and 14 due to regular holidays a 4 day consecutive shut down is on the cards.Who called the strike and Why?All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI), Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO) are the nine bank unions that make up UFBU and represent a total of 10 lakh employees. All these unions have collectively called for a two-day nationwide strike to protest the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the Centre's disinvestment plan announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman during last month’s budget session.Conciliatory meetings held with the additional chief labour commissioner on March 4,9, and 10 failed to produce any tangible results. AIBEA general secretary C H Venkatachalam told news agency PTI that the failed meetings have influenced the union’s decision to hold a strike. "Hence, it has been decided to go ahead with the strike for two continuous days on 15th and 16th March 2021. About 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike," PTI said quoting Venkatachalam.Which banking services will be affected?With banks being on holiday for March 13 and 14 and the strike coming into effect from March 15, regular banking services like opening a savings account, applying for loans, issue of demand drafts is expected to be hit. The State Bank of India has cautioned its customer about the strikes hitting regular banking hours and services, reported PTI.Private banks like ICICI, Kotak Mahindra, Axis Bank etc are not a part of this strike and hence their working hours will not be affected. ATMs will also be operational across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-remain-closed-for-4-days-from-march-13-here-s-why-101615542480467.html
12-03-2021||India||90% of Mumbai's Covid-19 patients in past 2 months from highrises, 137 buildings sealed||As many as 90 per cent patients in Mumbai, who tested positive for Covid-19 in January and February this year, were residents of high-rise buildings, while the remaining 10 per cent were from slums and chawls, the city civic body has said.However, the situation has changed to some extent this month as the number of cases from slums are also going up, civic officials said.Of the total number of 23,002 people, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the first two months of this year, 90 per centwere residents of building and 10 per cent others from slums and chawls, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)said in a release."But we are now receiving a large number of patients from slums as well. Most of them are from middle and lower class background," a senior doctor of a civic hospital, who did not wish to be named, said.The number of coronavirus containment zones and sealed buildings in the city increased by 170 per cent and 66.42 per cent, respectively, from the beginning of this month, the civic body said.According to the BMC's Covid-19 dashboard, while the city had 10 containment zones and 137 sealed buildings on March 1, the number of containment zones increased to 27 and sealed buildings to 228 on March 10.The dashboard pointed out that of the 7.46 lakh people living in these zones, over 23 per cent were from slums and chawls, while the remaining 77 per cent were from sealed buildings.An assistant municipal commissioner said the number of Covid-19 cases from slums has certainly gone up, but it cannot be called a spike.Also the patients are scattered across slums and not concentrated in any particular pocket of the slums.Mumbai's coronavirus tally till Thursday night was 3,38,631, while the death toll was 11,515.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-of-mumbai-s-covid-19-patients-in-past-2-months-from-highrises-137-buildings-sealed-101615541952635.html
12-03-2021||India||Farm laws protest: Train services resume in Amritsar after farmers end 169-day-long dharna||Train services resume in Amritsar after farm union on Thursday suspended 169-day long 'dharna' on tracks ahead of the wheat harvest season."Dharna at Jandiala Guru Railway Station suspended for the time being and passenger trains operational now," the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Khaira said while speaking to ANI.A group of farmers was squatting on railway tracks near Amritsar to protest against the Centre's farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protest-train-services-resume-in-amritsar-after-farmers-end-169-day-long-dharna-101615541753738.html
12-03-2021||India||India becoming increasingly chained by authoritarian forces, says Rahul Gandhi||On the anniversary of the historic "Dandi March", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday that India is becoming increasingly "chained by authoritarian forces led by the RSS" and urged people to be guided by Mahatma Gandhi's example to continue with the march for freedom.On March 12, 1930, Mahatma Gandhi walked from the Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Gujarat to break the salt-tax law imposed by the British. It was an act of civil disobedience to protest against the British rule in India."Gandhiji's Dandi March gave a bold message of freedom to the entire world," Rahul Gandhi said in a Facebook post."Today, as India is becoming increasingly chained by authoritarian forces led by the RSS, we must renew our individual commitment to collective freedom. Let us be guided by Gandhiji's example and continue the march for freedom. Jai Hind!" the former Congress chief said.In a tweet, he also attacked the Centre over the issue of employment, saying students want jobs but the government is giving them "beating by police, spraying by water cannon, tag of 'anti-national' and unemployment".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-becoming-increasingly-chained-by-authoritarian-forces-says-rahul-gandhi-101615540869189.html
12-03-2021||India||India's self-reliance in Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing has proved beneficial for entire world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that India's self-reliance in Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing has proved beneficial for the entire world.The Prime Minister, earlier in the day, flagged off 'padyatra' (foot march) from Ahmedabad to Dandi, as part of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' program to mark the 75 years of India's independence.Speaking at the Mahotsav here, Prime Minister Modi said, "To relieve the humanity of the crisis of Covid-19 pandemic, India's self-reliance in vaccine manufacturing has proved beneficial for the entire world. The achievements of India are not only our own today, but they are going to show light to the whole world.""Today we have the vaccine, so with the emotion of Vasudev Kutumbkam, we are useful in reducing the sorrows of others. This is the ideal and philosophy of Bharat and the basis of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Today other countries are trusting Bharat and thanking us. This is the first light of our golden future," he added.In his speech, Prime Minister Modi said that the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' of independence, which began today, will continue till August 15, 2023."Today is the first day of the Amrit Mahotsav of independence. This Mahotsav has started 75 weeks before 15th August 2022 and will continue till 15th August 2023," he said.The Mahotsav is a series of events to be organised by the government to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India's independence. It will be celebrated as a "Jan-Utsav" in the spirit of "Jan-Bhagidari".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-self-reliance-in-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturing-has-proved-beneficial-for-entire-world-pm-modi-101615541357333.html
12-03-2021||India||India is likely to be included in global bond index by October: Report||India is confident of getting included in a global bond index by October but it will not be able to raise funds in the coming financial year as the actual listing could take around 12 months after its inclusion, said two senior sources aware of the discussions.Since 2019, India has been working toward getting included in global bond indexes as rising government borrowing has necessitated opening the largely domestic bond market to a broader investor base.India was hopeful of completing the listing in the upcoming financial year, starting on April 1, as it would help bring down borrowing costs, which have been rising in recent weeks due to a lack of appetite amid high supply, one of the sources said.The government plans to issue bonds worth $165.24 billion to fund its spending programme in the upcoming fiscal year to revive the pandemic-hit economy from a slump."The indices will be reviewed in September. We have dealt with most of their concerns, we should be able to resolve the other issues too," said one of the sources, referring to an index provider."We expect to be included in at least one of the two major indexes in September or October," he said.However, he said the actual listing could take longer and would not be concluded before the end of the fiscal year.The finance ministry and the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Last September, J.P. Morgan opted not to include India's government bonds in one of its flagship emerging market indexes after investors cited problems with capital controls, custody and settlement and other operational snags.Two other senior officials said India was in the final stages of negotiating with Euroclear for settlement of Indian bonds and that could likely be a precursor for a bond listing as it would allay most investor concerns.'OPEN UP MORE'India expects to get approval from major index operators like J.P. Morgan and Bloomberg Barclays in September as it is planning to move fast on resolving taxation concerns of investors in these passive funds and bond settlement issues by August, the first source said.Bloomberg and J.P Morgan did not respond to requests for comment.Several bonds are now part of the "Fully Accessible Route" (FAR) and as of January, the outstanding FAR bonds were over $145 billion. The government sets a limit on foreign institutional investors' government securities purchases, but the FAR category introduced in 2020 is free from such limits."We have already opened investments through the fully accessible route and securities across the curve are available from five to 30 years. We will definitely open up more securities on a need basis," a second source said requesting anonymity.There have been concerns about outflows if the bond market is fully opened to foreign investors and what is largely thought of as "hot money" flows that flood in to chase high yields but can exit just as quickly during times of distress.Over the last couple of years, however, there has been a shift in the attitude of regulators and the government towards the global bond indexes, which largely have passive fund houses among their investor base, which are known to be longer-term investors.The government is expecting to be given a 3-4% weightage initially for the first 2-3 years after listing, which is expected to be raised gradually to 10% over five years, the first official said.India has one of the largest bond markets among emerging-market economies with more than $800 billion in debt stock. Long-held restrictions on foreign buying of its bonds have kept it out of the top benchmarks used by global money managers and an inclusion could be a landmark change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-likely-to-be-included-in-global-bond-index-by-october-report-101615540094663.html
12-03-2021||India||6 TMC MPs arrive at EC office in Delhi to raise concern over Nandigram incident||A delegation of six MPs of Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday arrived at the Election Commission office in the national capital to raise their concern over the Nandigram incident in which West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee suffered injuries."Today, six TMC Member of Parliaments are meeting ECI to raise Nandigram incident issue that left Mamata Banerjee injured. They (BJP) have replaced ADG Law and Order and DG immediately after, the incident occurred. The entire responsibility now is with ECI to prove where are the lapses and why it has happened," said party leader Partha Chatterjee.The delegation on Thursday had filed a complaint at the EC office in Kolkata over the attack and have called the incident a "deep-rooted conspiracy to take her life".The Chief Minister, who was on a two-day visit to Nandigram from where she filed her nomination earlier on Wednesday, alleged that she was pushed by a few unidentified people during her election campaigning.She was brought to Kolkata's SSKM Hospital by road from Nandigram.Banerjee sustained "severe bony injuries" on her left foot and ankle as well as bruises and injuries on her shoulder, forearm and neck, according to the report of her initial medical examination.Elections to 294-member West Bengal Assembly will be held in eight phases starting from March 27 with the final round of voting taking place on April 29. The counting of votes will take place on May 2. (||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-tmc-mps-arrive-at-ec-office-in-delhi-to-raise-concern-over-nandigram-incident-101615539003849.html
12-03-2021||India||Do not want to contribute to rise in Covid cases: SC on limiting physical hearings||The Supreme Court on Friday erred on the side of caution by citing the surge in Covid-19 cases across many states to justify its decision to hold limited physical hearings. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta said, “We do not want to contribute to the situation... The troubling aspect is that Maharashtra is facing a serious problem.”The bench was hearing a petition filed by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) which challenged the Supreme Court order of March 5 introducing limited physical hearing of cases beginning March 15.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is also the president of SCBA, said that the recent surge in Covid-19 cases is because people are becoming irresponsible and not wearing masks. He said that the standard operating procedure prepared by the top court was taken out without discussion with the Bar. Also Read | Officials associated with govts cannot work as state election commissioners: SC“I don’t want lawyers to die of starvation. The positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 0.3%. Lawyers are daily wagers. Today, the government has permitted 200 people to gather in closed spaces.”The bench told Singh, “All of us were hesitant to use the virtual medium. But now we see many lawyers are beginning to use it. Ultimately all will use it but at the moment we are concerned what manner of hearing and to what extent should we open.”The Court emphasised that medical opinion was the basis for the court to arrive at a decision of allowing limited physical hearing. Since the SCBA alleged that the Bar was not consulted on the SOP, the bench said, “We will call for the minutes of meeting that went into preparing the SOP.” The court will now hear the case on Tuesday. On March 5, the Supreme Court issued a circular introducing hybrid mode of hearing cases in the top court. Only regular or old cases were to be taken up on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday through physical hearing, provided that an advance request for physical hearing is made by the lawyer for the concerned party, according to the circular. The circular stated that the pilot scheme was being tried out on an experimental basis based on recommendation of a Supreme Court Judges Committee of seven senior-most judges and requests by Bar Associations for resuming physical court. SCBA alleged that this decision of the court was taken unilaterally without consulting the Bar. Although SCBA met the CJI on March 1 and the SCBA president wrote a letter to CJI on March 2, the SOP did not reflect the same. The petition, filed through advocate Rahul Kaushik, said, “In the meeting of the Executive Committee of the SCBA with Chief Justice of India on March 1 regarding the physical/hybrid hearing, it was assured that the needful would be done by the Registry expeditiously taking into consideration the suggestions given by the Executive Committee of SCBA, however the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) dated March 5 has been issued unilaterally by the Registry.”The SCBA wanted the hybrid option to be available even on Mondays and Fridays with right of uninhibited entry for lawyers into the high security zone of the court. The SOP required lawyers to make special entry passes for entry into the courtroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-want-to-contribute-to-rise-in-covid-cases-sc-on-limiting-physical-hearings-101615538678586.html
12-03-2021||India||India recorded close to 1 lakh Covid-19 cases in the last 5 days||India, which experts say may be witnessing a second wave of the pandemic, has witnessed nearly 100,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the second week of March, data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. The likely signs of the second wave are surfacing almost a year after India announced its first lockdown triggered by rising cases in March 2020.The country has recorded 98,047 Covid-19 cases in March so far and on Friday clocked the highest daily infections at 23,285, data shows. The surge in cases is being reported in six states, including Maharashtra where authorities have announced a weeklong lockdown in the densely-populated Nagpur city next week and placed restrictions in other regions. Five states account for 82.96% of the total active cases in the country, and two severely affected states—Maharashtra and Kerala—account for 71.69% of India’s total active cases, according to the health ministry’s data.According to the health ministry, eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. These include Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.The 117 new fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours include 57 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. More than 82 per cent of casualties due to the virus have been traced to six states, the health ministry has pointed out. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (57), followed by Punjab with 18 daily deaths, Kerala (13), Tamil Nadu (5) and Andhra Pradesh (4). There have been 158,306 deaths so far in the country, including 52,667 from Maharashtra followed by 12,535 from Tamil Nadu, 12,381 from Karnataka, 10,934 from Delhi, 10,286 from West Bengal, 8,741 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,179 from Andhra Pradesh.In a weekly press briefing, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Thursday had expressed concern over the rise in active cases in a few states and said the trend was "worrisome", especially in Maharashtra. "Don't take this virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly. If we have to remain free of this virus, Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy as well as vaccination has to be brought in," he said.Pointing at the states in the red, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "We think Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are at a tipping point. They are yet to have a surge. But looking at early signs of an increase in numbers, we have had three meetings where the states have been told to increase the number of tests, surveillance, containment areas."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-recorded-close-to-1-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-the-last-5-days-101615533989440.html
12-03-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre on plea challenging 1991 Places of Worship Act||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the Centre on a petition challenging the validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991. This law introduced on July 11, 1991, placed a status quo retrospectively on the character of places of worship as existing on the date of Independence, i.e. August 15, 1947.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and Justice AS Bopanna issued notice on the petition challenging this Act. The petition was filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.The petition said, “The Centre has barred remedies against illegal encroachment on places of worship and pilgrimages and now Hindus, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs cannot file a suit or approach a high court under Article 226. Therefore, they won’t be able to restore their places of worship and pilgrimage including temple endowments in spirit of Articles 25-26 and illegal barbarian act of invaders will continue in perpetuity.”Also Read | Officials associated with govts cannot work as state election commissioners: SCThe petition, argued by senior advocate Vikas Singh, added that the 1991 law violated the principle of secularism which is an integral part of Preamble and a basic feature of Constitution.The 1991 law exempted the suit pending with respect to Ayodhya, the birthplace of Ram.The petition referred to the ongoing dispute before a trial court for reclaiming the birthplace of Lord Krishna at Mathura which is directly hit by the bar under the 1991 Act.The petition said, “Hindus are fighting for restoration of birthplace of Lord Krishna from hundreds of years and peaceful public agitation continues, but while enacting the Act, the Centre has excluded the birthplace of Lord Ram at Ayodhya but not the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura, though both are the incarnations of Lord Vishnu, the creator. The apex court has finally decided Ayodhya dispute on November 9, 2019 and found substance in the claim of Hindus and now a new temple is going to be constructed after more than 500 years of demolition.”As per Upadhyay, “Centre has without resolution of the disputes through process of the Law, abated the suit/proceedings, which is ‘per se’ unconstitutional and beyond its law making power.”Interestingly, there is another petition pending in Supreme Court challenging the validity of the 1991 Act. This petition was filed by Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Mahasangh. In this petition, the Jamait Ulama-i-Hind had also moved an application asking the court not to disturb the status quo laid down by the 1991 Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-challenging-1991-places-of-worship-act-101615537778848.html
12-03-2021||India||Stalin retains his seat in DMK's list of candidates for TN assembly polls||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Friday released its first and full list of candidates for the upcoming assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Party chief MK Stalin is contesting again from Kolathur, while his son Udhaynidhi will debut from Chepauk constituency.Thanga Tamilselvan, who quit the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) to join TTV Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and later the DMK, has been given the ticket from Bodinayakanur. He will face deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.The DMK is contesting the single-phase election in alliance with the Congress and the Left. Apart from these two, the DMK has also firmed up tie-ups with other parties including the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK). It is contesting on 173 of the 234 seats and has allotted the rest to its alliance partners.The election will be held in Tamil Nadu on April 6 and the counting of votes will take place on May 2. The DMK-Congress-Left alliance will seek to oust the BJP-AIADMK alliance and return to power after a gap of a decade.This is the first assembly election after the demise of towering leaders J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi. The filing of nominations will start on Friday and the last day is March 19.The big fights will be between DMK’s Senthil Balaji and transport minister M R Vijayabaskar in Karur. Former mayors of Chennai, AIADMK’s Saidai Duraisamy and DMK’s Ma Subramanian will clash in Saidapet. Environment activist and a pro-jallikattu crusader Karthikeya Senapathy, who joined the DMK in 2020 will go head on with AIADMK heavyweight and minister for municipal administration SP Velumani in his stronghold of Thondamuthur constituency in Coimbatore.The DMK has retained its party veterans, sitting MLAs and prominent faces across the assembly seats such as party general secretary Durai Murugan, Thangam Thennarsu, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, P K Sekhar Babu, former state IT minister Poongothai Aladi Aruna. The AIADMK has retained most of its incumbents apart from fielding two Lok Sabha MPs in party’s list of 177 candidates. However, to challenge chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami in Edappadi constituency, DMK has fielded Sampath Kumar as a candidate. “He may be an ordinary man but he has the potential to win,” Stalin told reporters after reading out the list of 173 candidates.Also Read: The significance of Trichy for the DMK in TN pollsThe party has fielded only 13 women.In Trichy, party principal secretary and Trichy West MLA K N Nehru is fielded from the same seat and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi will seek re-election from Thiruverumbur constituency. Stalin will file his nomination on March 15 and continue his campaign, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-retains-his-seat-in-dmk-s-1st-list-of-candidates-for-tn-assembly-polls-101615537180768.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: DMK releases first list of candidates for TN polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DMK releases first list of candidates for TN pollsThe Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Friday released its first list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. While party chief MK Stalin is contesting again from the Kolathur, his son Udhaynidhi will debut from Chepauk constituency. Read moreHighest number of border violations by Pakistan before February ceasefirePakistan resorted to the highest number of ceasefire violations over the 12 months preceding the announcement by the Indian and Pakistani militaries that they had begun strictly observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) from midnight of February 24. Read moreJacobites come closer to BJP, church leaders to meet Shah in Delhi on FridayThree top Jacobite church leaders are in Delhi on Friday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and others to find an amicable solution to the long- standing feud between Orthodox and Jacobite sects of the Malankara Syrian Church, said a church spokesperson. Read moreQuad owes its revival to President Xi’s 'fortress China' doctrineAs leaders of the four-nation Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, hold their crucial meeting on Friday, the credit for creating the circumstances that led to the resurrection of the informal security dialogue in 2017 goes to China’s Xi Jinping. Read more'My mind was messed up': Shaw reveals the advice he got from Sachin Tendulkar after disappointing tour of AustraliaPrithvi Shaw had a miserable 2020 with the bat as he failed to capitalize on the chances provided to him. The 21-year-old batting sensation had to endure a below-par season in Indian Premier League 2020 for Delhi Capitals as coach Ricky Ponting highlighted the shortcomings in his game. Read moreHonda rolls out new cabin air filter, claims it can fight off coronavirusAround one year since coronavirus was declared as a pandemic by World Health Organization, the threat from the virus remains every bit as real even though vaccination drives have started in several parts of the world. Read moreToofaan teaser: Farhan Akhtar packs a resounding punch as a goon who turns boxing champion. WatchFarhan Akhtar has unveiled the first teaser of his upcoming film Toofaan. The film is directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra of Rang De Basanti and Bhaag Milkha Bhaag. It also stars Mrunal Thakur, Paresh Rawal, Supriya Pathak Shah and Hussain Dalal in pivotal roles. Read moreJaw-dropping drone video of Minneapolis bowling alley goes viralA video of a bowling alley at Minneapolis captured by a drone is now going all kinds of viral online. People cannot stop expressing their amazement at the clip. It even received words of appreciation from Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn who wrote that he wants to hire the creators of the amazing video. Read moreKiara Advani's famous lime yellow athleisure set was a gift, has a special storyRemember Kiara Advani's lime-yellow athleisure co-ord set that she was snapped wearing outside her dance class? Yes, that one. The outfit that proved athleisure is upping its game with bright colours and quirky prints, has an adorable story behind it which the Kabir Singh actor recently shared with her followers. Read moreWatch: ‘Haryana Job quota law to be tweaked’: Deputy CM Dushyant ChautalaIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks with the deputy chief minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala about the 75% job quota for locals in the state and how industry says it will destroy ease of business. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-dmk-releases-first-list-of-candidates-for-tn-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101615534846354.html
12-03-2021||India||Jacobites come closer to BJP, church leaders to meet Shah in Delhi on Friday||Three top Jacobite church leaders are in Delhi on Friday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and others to find an amicable solution to the long- standing feud between Orthodox and Jacobite sects of the Malankara Syrian Church, said a church spokesperson.The delegation is headed by Metropolitan of Kottayam diocese Thomas Mar Timotheos. The Jacobites, who lost control of many churches to the rival Orthodox faction following the implementation of the Supreme Court verdict in 2017, have had several rounds of discussions with the BJP top brass and also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to find a solution to the vexatious issue.Denominations of the Malankara Syrian Church, both the factions have been fighting for the control of 2000-odd churches and their rich coffers for more than two decades. In 2017 the Supreme Court upheld the 1934 constitution of Malankara church and gave the Orthodox group control over more than 1000 parishes and churches in Kerala but Jacobites, who were controlling the majority of them, were not ready to give up. While Orthodox is an indigenous group, the Jacobites have more followers. Both share the same rites of worship but have a long-standing rivalry that goes back to 1912 when Malankara church split into two-- Orthodox and Jacobites.Though the SC verdict came four years ago, it was not implemented fearing violence, but later the government enforced it after the court began contempt proceedings.The meeting assumes much significance ahead of the assembly elections and the Jacobite high priests have already made it clear that believers will vote for the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance if it helps in finding a lasting solution. It is also a golden opportunity for the saffron party, which is desperately trying to get a foothold in the southern state.“We have no untouchability towards anyone. Our discussions with the Prime Minister and others were really fruitful. It is a question of our survival and we will help the BJP if it ensures justice to us,” said church spokesman Bishop Kuriakose Mar Theophilos. He said nobody was willing to hear them sincerely and the Prime Minister and others gave them patient hearing. “We will vote for those who will serve justice to us,” he said. Earlier, the RSS top brass also met Jacobite leaders.Also Read: Kerala temple affairs minister regrets Sabarimala stand in poll seasonThe loss of many churches and burial grounds became an emotional issue for the Jacobites and triggered law and order problems at several places. Though small in numbers when compared to the Syro-Malabar church, the Jacobites hold sway in at least eight constituencies in central Kerala.Mizoram governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, hailing from the state, was the first to take initiative to solve the impasse and took the issue to the PM. Reacting to the latest development, BJP state president K Surendran said the church was happy with the intervention made by the PM and a lasting solution will be found soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jacobites-come-closer-to-bjp-church-leaders-to-meet-shah-in-delhi-on-friday-101615532988213.html
12-03-2021||India||NCPCR asks Netflix to stop streaming Bombay Begums: Key points||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), the apex child rights body, has asked Netflix to stop streaming the series Bombay Begums citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series. Here is all you need to know about the direction:• The apex child right body National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) issued a notice to Netflix on Thursday asking the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours.• It said the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series will pollute young minds and also result in their abuse and exploitation.Also Read | OTT industry representatives welcome new guidelines, says Javadekar• NCPCR said in case Netflix did not respond to the notice, the body will be forced to initiate appropriate legal action.• “Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things,” the commission said in its notice.• Bombay Begums is based on the lives of five women wanting different things in life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-asks-netflix-to-stop-streaming-bombay-begums-key-points-101615533158374.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi flags off 'Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, remembers freedom fighters||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad to mark the celebrations ahead of India’s 75 years of Independence. He flagged off the event by paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and all the freedom fighters who lost their lives fighting for the country’s independence. “I pay my respects at the feet of Bapu on this auspicious occasion. I bow to the feet of all the great personalities who sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle of the country and lead the country. I salute them,” the Prime Minister said.The Prime Minister flagged off a padyatra or foot march from Sabarmati Ashram to re-enact Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi March. The 25-day padyatra will be undertaken by 81 people and cover a journey of 241 miles from Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Navsari. Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel will lead the first lap of 75 kilometres.The Prime Minister said ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav means elixir of the energy of freedom, it means the nectar of inspiration from freedom fighters, the nectar of new ideas, the nectar of new resolutions. and the nectar of self-reliance’. This nectar of inspiration from the past will serve to further inspire the coming generations of this country, he added.PM Modi invoked the Hindi idiom ‘desh ka namak’ and during the freedom, struggle salt became India’s symbol of self-reliance. “We still say we have eaten ‘desh ka namak’. This is not because salt is a very valuable thing. Salt has never been valued by its cost in our country. The salt here means honesty. Salt means faith. Salt means loyalty,” he said.The Prime Minister talked about the contributions of Bhakti saints in 'continuously awakening this flame of the freedom movement' across all regions of the country. “In a way, the Bhakti movement had prepared the bench for the nationwide freedom movement,” PM Modi said.Talking about freedom fighters from across the country, he invoked the memory of Kodi Kathmaran, the 32-year-old martyr from Tamil Nadu who lost his life while protecting the Indian flag. “The British shot the young man in the head, but he did not let the country's flag fall in the ground even while dying,” the Prime Minister said. He also talked at length about Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and Birsa Munda for their contribution to the freedom struggle.“Whether it is a memorial in Jallianwala Bagh or a memorial in remembrance of the Paika movement, work has been done on all. The places associated with Baba Saheb, which had been forgotten for decades, have also been developed by the country in the form of Panchtirtha,” said the Prime Minister.He also talked about India’s present-day achievements, especially the country’s advancement in the fields of vaccine manufacturing and space exploration. “The whole world is benefitting from India’s self-sufficiency in vaccine manufacturing,” he said.The Prime Minister concluded his speech by passing over the baton to the youth and scholars of the country, asking them to take forward the exercise of writing India’s history and the history of her freedom fighters. He also asked artists associated with theatre, literature, film, and digital entertainment to bring to life the unique stories of India’s past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-amrut-mahotsav-to-mark-75-years-of-india-s-independence-101615531590477.html
12-03-2021||India||Teen rapes 7-year-old on pretext of making her watch TV in Uttar Pradesh||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 15-year-old relative in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district, police said on Friday.The alleged incident took place on Wednesday evening in an area under the Charkhari police station limits, Station House Officer (SHO) Lakhan Singh said.Based on the complaint of the girl's family, a case in this connection was registered on Thursday, the SHO said.Citing the FIR, Singh said the girl was playing outside her house on Wednesday evening, when the relative took her to his home on the pretext of making her watch TV and allegedly raped her.The girl later narrated the incident to her mother, the SHO said.He said the accused, a class 10 student, has been apprehended and will be produced before a juvenile court on Friday.The girl was sent for medical examination, the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-rapes-7-year-old-on-pretext-of-making-her-watch-tv-in-uttar-pradesh-101615529570162.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP CEC expected to meet on Saturday, clear candidates for poll-bound states||The Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) central election committee (CEC) will hold a meeting on Saturday for discussing the names of candidates for the upcoming Assembly polls in Assam, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry, news agency ANI reported.The committee had met on Thursday to finalise party candidates for the initial phases of assembly polls in West Bengal and Assam, two of the four states going to the elections besides the union territory of Puducherry.The committee, which includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party president Jagat Prakash Nadda, met at the BJP headquarters along with other members.The CEC may clear the names of the candidates for most of the seats in the two states where elections will be held in the first two phases on March 27 and April 1, news agency PTI reported.While the third and last phase of polling in Assam will be held on April 6, West Bengal is scheduled to undergo elections in eight phases ending on April 29.Bengal is set to witness a high-pitched contest as chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former aide and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat have been pitted against each other.Polling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will take place in a single phase on April 6.The upcoming polls have set the tone for a fierce political battle between regional parties and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP has high stakes in West Bengal and Assam. In Bengal, it has mounted an aggressive, all-out campaign, deploying a battery of leaders and state heads to end the 10-year-old reign of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress party.In Assam, where the party came to power for the first time in 2016, the BJP has been pulling out all the stops to retain power, with the Congress joining hands with regional parties to capture its old bastion.Before the CEC meeting, top BJP leaders like Shah and Nadda have held long deliberations with Assam party leaders, including chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and minister Himanta Biswa Sharma, and those from Bengal, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cec-expected-to-meet-on-saturday-clear-candidates-for-poll-bound-states-101615524444535.html
12-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand Cabinet expansion today, new ministers set to take oath||New chief minister of Uttarakhand Tirath Singh Rawat will expand his cabinet on Friday, with new ministers set to take oath at 5pm, news agency ANI reported.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Bansidhar Bhagat had hinted on Thursday that the new government will soon see cabinet expansion.Rawat was sworn-in as the Uttarakhand chief minister on Wednesday. Governor Baby Rani Maurya administered the oath of office to him alone at a simple function held at the Raj Bhawan.Three cabinet posts are up for grabs and will be filled soon, BJP Rajya Sabha member Dushyant Gautam told news agency PTI.Amid this talk of the impending expansion, Madan Kaushik, state minister for urban development, met Gautam on Thursday in the national Capital.Three more ministers can be sworn in during the expansion, PTI reported.Tirath Singh Rawat became the chief minister after his predecessor Trivendra Rawat resigned following a report from BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Dr Raman Singh. The report highlighted rebellion in the party, paving way for Rawat's exit.Assembly polls in the state are scheduled to take place in 2022.The BJP had swept the elections in 2017, winning 57 seats in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. The Congress, on the other hand, was able to win just 11 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cabinet-expansion-to-take-place-today-new-ministers-to-take-oath-101615527589896.html
12-03-2021||India||Govt employees can’t be election commissioners, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that any persons employed with the central or state governments could not be appointed as election commissioners “across the length and breadth of the country”. The ruling aims at ensuring independence of the election commissions. A bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai issued the direction exercising its powers under Articles 142 and 144 of the Constitution. Under Article 142, the apex court is empowered to issue directives to do “complete justice” whereas Article 144 obligates all authorities to act in aid of the Supreme Court. “The independence of the election commission cannot be compromised in a democracy. Entrusting additional charge of state election commissioner to a government official is a mockery of the Constitution,” held the court. Also Read | Supreme Court to hear plea for appointment of regular CBI director todayThe bench held that election commissioners have to be “independent persons” and that nobody, who has been employed or holds an office of profit under the central or any state government, could be appointed as election commissioners. The judgment came as the top court censured the Goa government for appointing its law secretary as the state election commissioner for conducting municipal council elections in the state. The law secretary was given the additional charge as the state election commissioner. Calling this a “disturbing feature”, the bench ordered that henceforth, no such person shall be appointed as election commissioner by the Centre or state government. The Goa government had appealed in the Supreme Court against the order of the high court which had cancelled elections to five municipalities in the state for not reserving the wards for women as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-employees-can-t-be-election-commissioners-rules-sc-101615527698271.html
12-03-2021||India||Leaders of Quad to hold first summit today: Here’s what’s on agenda||The leaders of the Quad—which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US—will hold their first summit on Friday to decide on specific areas of cooperation to boost post-pandemic recovery and maritime security across the Indo-Pacific. Here’s a closer look at the summit and what’s on the agenda.What is the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad? The genesis of the Quad is a “core group” that was formed by the four countries in 2004 to coordinate their response to the Indian Ocean tsunami after India emerged as the first responder. After several meetings of senior officials, the grouping was sidelined by 2007, largely because of the concerns of the US and Australia about its impact on their relations with China.With the emergence of the Indo-Pacific as a key strategic region and a growing convergence between the four countries on key challenges in the region, the Quad was revived as a loose grouping in 2017 at the level of senior officials. As India’s comfort levels grew and all four countries faced challenges from an increasingly assertive China, the Quad was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers in September 2019.Also Watch | QUAD summit on 12 March: The agenda, significance & the China factor﻿What’s different about the Quad Summit? The Quad has never even issued a joint statement after any of its meetings, reflecting the slightly ambiguous nature of the grouping. So, for the leaders of the four countries to come together for a summit less than two months after US President Joe Biden assumed office is a big deal.India sees the Quad Summit as an opportunity for evolution because the grouping didn’t traditionally have definite areas of cooperation and restricted itself to discussing principles and shared strategic approaches. For India, the summit will help build on crucial partnerships to address challenges across the Indo-Pacific, which is home to some of New Delhi’s key partners.What’s on the agenda for the Quad Summit?The Quad leaders, in addition to discussing regional and global issues of shared interest and practical cooperation to ensure a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, will exchange views on post-Covid-19 recovery, resilient supply and production chains, cooperation on emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change.There is also, as former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, puts it, the unstated part of the agenda —the challenge posed by an assertive and aggressive China or the “dragon in the room”.All members of the Quad are currently dealing with challenges emanating from China. India has been locked in a military standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control since May last year; Australia has faced the impact of China’s escalating trade sanctions and has concerns about Chinese influence within the country; Japan has witnessed countless incursions by Chinese vessels in waters around the Senkaku Islands and has concerns about the Chinese Coast Guard law that authorises the use of force; the US administration has identified China as its main security and trade challenge.What are the expected outcomes of the Quad Summit?The launch of a Vaccine Initiative is being seen as the most significant deliverable of the summit. Vaccines developed in the US will be made in India, the world’s largest producer of vaccines. This initiative will be funded by Japan and the US and will add to India’s capacity as the “pharmacy to the world”, while Australia will provide logistics support to ship vaccines across the region.The Quad is also expected to launch a new initiative for the refining and production of rare earth metals, the production of which is currently controlled by China. These metals are critical for products such as mobile phones and batteries for electric vehicles.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has spoken on Friday about the four countries pursuing a “new energy economy right across the Indo-Pacific”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-of-quad-to-hold-first-summit-today-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101615527518312.html
12-03-2021||India||Domestic flight departures grew by 63.4% from Sept 2020 to Feb 2021: ICRA||The number of flight departures grew by 63.4% from September 2020 to February 2021, as Indian airlines continued to add services following the government’s allowance for operating higher capacity in phased manner. During the same period, according to ICRA, a rating agency, the number of domestic passengers flown by the airlines increased more than four-fold to around 45.6 million from around 11 million. Indian airlines operated around 64,288 flights in February vis-à-vis 39,330 flights six months ago ie. September, last year, when the government allowed domestic carriers to operate up to 70% of their total flight capacity. This data, collated from rating agency ICRA’s monthly traffic numbers, reiterates the government’s claim that domestic air traffic has been growing every month since the first day restrictions were lifted. At the time domestic air services were reopened on May 25 last year following the pandemic-induced lockdown, which brought total flight movements to a halt for nearly two months, the government had allowed airlines to deploy only one-third of their capacity. Also Read | Airlines can take action against passengers not wearing masks: Delhi HCHowever, this threshold was increased to 80% in December, 2020.In 2020, IndiGo was the only airline to cross 100,000 scheduled departures. According to ICRA, it operated the most aircraft, 104,549 departures in 2020, followed by SpiceJet, Air India and GoAir respectively. In the last six months (from September, 2020 to February, 2021) approximately 24,958 flights have been added by Indian airlines. While, domestic air traffic continues to grow, the government is yet to allow airlines to utilise 100% flight capacity. Kinjal Shah, vice president, ICRA, said, “The average number of passengers per flight during February 2021 was 121, against an average of 136 passengers per flight in February 2020. Thus, it is expected that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor (PLF) of ~78% in February 2021, against 87.7% in February 2020, that too on a low capacity. Overall, from May 25, 2020 till February 28, 2021, domestic passenger traffic has been pegged at ~45.6 million.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-departures-grew-by-63-4-from-sept-2020-to-feb-2021-icra-101615527098156.html
12-03-2021||India||Gulmarg gets over 13 inches of fresh snow as Kashmir weather remains erratic||The upper reaches of Kashmir are receiving fresh snowfall, while rains lash many other parts of the region. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted erratic weather conditions in Jammu and Kashmir till March 15. Tourist resort of Gulmarg has received more than 13 inches of snow during the night.Snowfall was recorded in several north Kashmir towns including Kupwara and Baramulla. Srinagar city and south Kashmir witnessed heavy snowfall through the night, bringing down the temperature.Director MeT, Sonum Lotus said widespread incessant light to moderate rain, snow (on higher reaches) in Kashmir and at scattered places in Jammu was likely to continue. "We expect significant decrease in rain from March 12 but weather is likely to remain erratic till March 15," he said, while warning about the possibility of landslides and avalanches at vulnerable spots as the land is fully saturated.Also Watch: Two terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's AnantnagThe maximum temperature in Srinagar at night was 2.2 degree Celsius, while Pahalgam and Gulmarg recorded minimum night temperatures of 0.3 degree and minus 2.4 degree Celsius respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulmarg-gets-over-13-inches-of-fresh-snow-as-kashmir-weather-remains-erratic-101615526706715.html
12-03-2021||India||Another activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari gets relief in toolkit case||After Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, another climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari was given interim relief by a Delhi court in the toolkit case related to farmers' protest. Chaudhari has been given protection from arrest till March 15.An FIR was registered against him in Delhi under sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The Goa bench of the Bombay high court had earlier granted Chaudhari protection from arrest until March 12, so that he can approach a court in Delhi where the FIR is registered against him.Additional public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed told the court that similar pre-arrest bail petitions of the co-accused Muluk and Jacob is listed for March 15 and hence the matter should be taken up then. The prosecutor told the court that facts of the case are same and hence the matters can be taken up together.Advocate Soutik Banerjee, representing Chaudhari, requested the court that the protection be extended as the interim relief from the Goa bench is going to end today. Banerjee also said that his client has no role in the creation, editing and dissemination of the toolkit.Chaudhari also said through his lawyer that he has volunteered with environment organisation Extinction Rebellion and is presently its South Asian liaison. Both Jacob and Muluk are members of the said organisation, said the lawyer Banerjee, making it clear that his association with the duo is strictly in their capacity as volunteers and he has nothing to do with the creation of the online toolkit.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana then posted the matter for hearing on March 15 stating that "meanwhile no coercive steps would be taken against the accused till then".The court had earlier granted regular bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in the case.On February 3, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had shared this 'toolkit' in a tweet, which she later deleted. Greta had also extended support to the protest by farmer unions on the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws.As per Delhi Police, the toolkit shared by the Swedish climate activist played a major role in turning the January 26 tractor parade violent, leaving a few hundred police personnel injured.Police said that the toolkit was not created just by a handful of activists in India but in collaboration with pro-Khalistani organisations.The Special Cell of Delhi Police lodged an FIR against creating and spreading the toolkit and said that a probe is on to unravel an "international conspiracy" to defame India.The police had registered the case on February 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-activist-shubham-kar-chaudhari-gets-relief-in-toolkit-case-101615526202751.html
12-03-2021||India||'A lump of salt': Significance of Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off a commemorative 25-day long foot march from Mahatma Gandhi’s Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad on Friday to launch the celebrations of the 75th year of India’s Independence, the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. The day marks the start of the Dandi March, also known as the Salt March or the Salt Satyagraha, a part of Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violent protest against the British monopoly over the production of salt. Led by the Father of the Nation, 78 people started the Salt Satyagraha on March 12, 1930, from Gandhi’s Sabarmati Ashram.Read more: Guest Column: At 75, a renewed resolve to build New India togetherBefore beginning the foot march, Gandhi addressed a letter to the viceroy expressing his intention to launch a civil disobedience movement in the country by symbolically breaking the salt tax law imposed by the Britishers, calling the law as "the most iniquitous of all from the poor man's standpoint." On the eve of the March, Gandhi said in a speech, “In all probability, this will be my last speech to you. Even if the Government allows me to march tomorrow morning, this will be my last speech on the sacred banks of the Sabarmati. Possibly, these may be the last words of my life here.”The march ended on April 5, 1930, in Dandi when Gandhi defied the salt law by picking a lump of salt. After this, millions of people broke the salt law as salt depots were raided everywhere and the manufacture of salt was undertaken. "Now that the technical or ceremonial breach of the salt law has been committed, it is now open to anyone who would take the risk of prosecution under the salt law to manufacture salt, wherever he wishes and wherever it is convenient,” Mahatma Gandhi said in a statement issued after breaking the salt law.Read more: National Salt Satyagraha Memorial: Recreating the historic Dandi MarchIn response, the British government arrested more than 95,000 people by March 31. After making salt at Dandi, Gandhi headed to Dharasana salt works and was arrested on May 5, 1930, and taken to the Yerwada central prison. But the salt satyagraha spread nationwide, becoming the first call for civil disobedience and thus, one of the most important chapters of India’s Independence struggle.Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel has said the nearly 387km padayatra flagged by PM Modi will also start on the same root on which Mahatma Gandhi led that march. "There is a group of 81 youth from Gujarat, who will complete the journey from Sabarmati to Dandi. There is another group of 81 people, who will complete the 75km journey and I will also be in it. This journey will be a 75km journey from Sabarmati to Nadiad," the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-lump-of-salt-significance-of-dandi-march-led-by-mahatma-gandhi-101615525901443.html
12-03-2021||India||Isro’s NISAR to be first satellite to enable earth observation in 2 frequencies||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) sent its s-band synthetic aperture radar to Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory for integration with their l-band radar last week. Coupled together, the Nasa-Isro Synthetic Aperture Radar (NISAR) will become the first satellite to enable earth observation in two frequencies. After integration, the payload will be sent back to India for launch from the country’s only spaceport at Sriharikota sometime in April or May next year. According to Nasa, the satellite will provide an “unprecedented view of the Earth” at less than one centimetre across.It will help scientists understand the surface as well as the interior of the planet we live on. It will provide better understanding of the effects and pace of climate change by measuring ice sheet collapses, officials said. Also Read | Satellite set for Mar 28 launch will provide real time images of India’s bordersThe satellite will also allow governments to better manage natural disasters—the satellite will provide highly spatial data on tsunamis, earthquakes, landslides,and volcanoes. And,it will also help in better management of natural resources, including detection of disturbances in ecosystems. Nasa’s partnership with Isro for the mission began after a decadal study identified three thrist areas for Earth Science Studies—ecosystems, deformation of Earth’s crust and cryospheric sciences. For its payload, Isro identified objectives such as agricultural monitoring and characterisation, landslide studies, Himalayan glacier studies, soil moisture, coastal processes, coastal winds, and monitoring hazards. A second radar frequency was added to the mission to better fulfil these science requirements by Nasa.This is not the first time that the two space agencies have collaborated on scientific missions. It was Nasa’s Moon Minerology Mapper sent aboard Isro’s moon mission Chandrayaan-1 that confirmed the presence of water on the celestial body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isros-nisar-to-be-first-satellite-to-enable-earth-observation-in-2-frequencies-101615525598078.html
12-03-2021||India||'Vocal for Local' wonderful tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, freedom fighters: PM Modi||Announcing the beginning of the 'Amrit Mahotsav', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that 'Vocal For Local' is a wonderful tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and other great freedom fighters."Today's #AmritMahotsav programme begins from Sabarmati Ashram, from where the Dandi March began. The March had a key role in furthering a spirit of pride and Aatmanirbharta among India's people. Going #VocalForLocal is a wonderful tribute to Bapu and our great freedom fighters," Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet.He added, "Buy any local product and post a picture on social media using #VocalForLocal. A Charkha will be installed near Magan Niwas at Sabarmati Ashram. It will rotate full circle with each Tweet related to Aatmanirbharta. This shall also become a catalyst for a people's movement."Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate ''Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' and flag off Padyatra from Sabarmati Ashram, Ahmedabad in Gujarat to mark 75 years of India's Independence.PM Modi will also flag off the freedom march or 'padyatra' from Sabarmati Ashram.The Mahotsav is a series of events to be organised by the Government to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of India's Independence. It will be celebrated as a Jan-Utsav in the spirit of Jan-Bhagidari. The curtain raiser activities are beginning from March 12, 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vocal-for-local-wonderful-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-freedom-fighters-pm-modi-101615525280590.html
12-03-2021||India||After din over fuel price hike, peace likely to return to Parliament from Monday||After a stormy budget session week due to the din over the hike in fuel prices, chances are bright for the two Houses of Parliament to return to normalcy from Monday. The Opposition parties agreed to participate in House proceedings at a meeting chaired by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday after the latter’s negotiations. According to two Opposition leaders, Birla told them that while their issues—fuel price hike and farm laws—are important, urgent business with constitutional requirements needs to be completed. “The Speaker told us we need to pass the Finance Bill and the demand for grants on an urgent basis. He also told us that he will adjourn the House quickly so that the MPs can go back to their states for poll campaign,” said senior Trinamool leader Saugata Ray. The budget session of Parliament is likely to be cut short by 10 days and is expected to adjourn on March 25. Also Read | PM won’t make March 12 statement as Oppn seeks debate on fuel priceA senior Congress leader admitted that disruptions “can’t go on forever”. “We have protested for three consecutive days and didn’t allow any government business. Now, we also need to raise our issues on the floor of the House and corner the BJP over people’s issues,” a senior Rajya Sabha strategist of the Congress said on Friday on the condition of anonymity. The Opposition parties are likely to meet informally on Monday morning and jointly strategise on how to utilise the debates on demand for grants and Finance Bill to underline the alleged mismanagement of the government on various sectors and the economy. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make a statement on Monday to commemorate the celebrations of 75 years of independence. He was scheduled to speak on March 12 but deferred the plan due to lack of consensus between the ruling dispensation and Opposition parties. The Opposition disrupted both Houses of Parliament for three consecutive days over fuel price hikes and three contentious farm laws before proceedings were adjourned till Monday. After negotiations with the Opposition failed, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said: “PM Modi wanted to make a statement in the House on the 75th independence celebrations ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. But due to lack of consensus, the statement will not be made. It will happen when a consensus is reached.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-din-over-fuel-price-hike-peace-likely-to-return-to-parliament-from-monday-101615524578268.html
12-03-2021||India||Historic first Quad summit today; focus on vaccine supply: All you need to know||The first Quad leaders’ summit on Friday will create a framework to allow the four-nation grouping to take the lead in post-Covid-19 recovery efforts, especially access to vaccines, and the creation of resilient supply chains for materials such as rare earth metals. Here is all you need to know about the summit:• The maiden summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, convened by US President Joe Biden less than two months after he assumed office, reflects the urgency attached to coalesce the loose group to bolster cooperation on key challenges across the region and to counter a belligerent China.• India perceives the summit as key to building on crucial partnerships to address challenges in the Indo-Pacific and securing the maritime domain.Also Watch | QUAD summit on 12 March: The agenda, significance & the China factor• Among the key initiatives expected to be on the agenda when Biden, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Scott Morrison, Yoshihide Suga, gather virtually at 7pm on Friday is a “Vaccine Initiative” and a procurement and supply chain for rare earth metals.• The Vaccine Initiative is being seen as the “most significant deliverable” from the summit as greater access to doses, especially for developing nations, will foster a quick global economic recovery.• This pooling of capacities by Quad members will help boost global vaccine delivery, meet the demand-supply gap, especially within the Indo-Pacific, and add momentum to efforts to contain the pandemic.• India’s role in the Vaccine Initiative will reinforce its credentials as a trusted and reliable manufacturer and supplier of medicines and expand the “Vaccine Maitri” initiative that has supplied 58.3 million doses to 69 countries so far. • Sources said the Quad’s model for collective humanitarian action through supply of Covid-19 vaccines can also serve as a template for peace, cooperation and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific, which the grouping defines as its main objective.• The genesis of the Quad was a “core group” formed by the four countries in 2004 for a joint response to the Indian Ocean tsunami. After the US and Australia sidelined the grouping because of sensitivities linked to their relations with China, the grouping faded away from the centre stage around 2007.• As the Indo-Pacific became a key strategic region, the Quad was revived, largely because of Japan’s efforts, in 2017 as a dialogue at the level of senior officials. India was represented by a joint secretary from the foreign ministry. In September 2019, the grouping was elevated to the level of foreign ministers as India became more comfortable with it and there was greater convergence among members on concerns related to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-first-quad-summit-today-focus-on-vaccine-supply-all-you-need-to-know-101615523018051.html
12-03-2021||India||NCPCR asks Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' over inappropriate portrayal of children||The apex child rights body NCPCR has asked Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series.In a notice to Netflix on Thursday, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which it said it will be constrained to initiate appropriate legal action.Objecting to the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series, the commission said this type of content will not only pollute the young minds but may also result in abuse and exploitation of children.The commission took action based on a complaint which alleged that the series normalises minors indulging in casual sex and drug abuse."Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things," the commission said in its notice."Therefore, you are directed to look into this matter and immediately stop streaming of this series and furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which the Commission will be constrained to initiate appropriate action pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the CPCR (Commission for Protection of Child Rights) Act, 2005," the commission said.'Bombay Begums' delves into the lives of five women from different sections of society who all want different things in life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-asks-netflix-to-stop-streaming-of-bombay-begums-101615521475631.html
12-03-2021||India||India's records 23,285 new Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, active cases up by 8,011||India recorded 23,285 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the nationwide tally to 11,308,846, data from the Union health ministry showed on Friday.Also Read: 4 charts that show India’s second wave has startedThe number of active cases, which has been an area of concern for the central government, stood at 197237 after a staggering 8,011 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The number represents people who are infected with the disease right now. After a recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in a few states, the active cases have risen rapidly, raising fears among the experts of yet another wave of the viral disease looming.Also Watch: Situation 'worrisome' in Maharashtra, says CentreThe country recorded 117 fresh fatalities due to the infection in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 1,58,306, the health ministry data showed. According to the government, 10,953,303 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, has seen a resurgence of the disease. On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 14,317 new infections - its highest number of new cases this year - a situation that Union health ministry officials separately described as “very worrying”.Several parts of the state will be put under a lockdown in an attempt to contain a worsening Covid-19 outbreak, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday.Also Read: Districts in Maharashtra which have announced fresh curbsIn Delhi too, there has been a fresh spike in the number of cases. The national capital on Thursday reported 409 new infections of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase in cases in over two months. The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, in Delhi touched 322 on Thursday - it had dropped to 125 for the week ending February 12, which was the lowest in eight months.The Centre also released a list of 10 districts that have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at present. Out of these, only two are outside Maharashtra.According to ministry data, Pune has 18,474 active cases, which is the highest. It is followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10.460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4.525) and Aurangabad (4,354).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-records-23-285-new-covid-19-infections-active-cases-up-by-8011-101615520095538.html
12-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea for appointment of regular CBI director today||The Supreme Court on Friday will take up a petition filed by NGO Common Cause seeking the appointment of a regular director for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Presently, the premier investigating agency is headed by interim director Pravin Sinha after the regular director, Rishi Kumar Shukla, demitted office on February 2 after serving his tenure of two years. The petition filed in Supreme Court through advocate Prashant Bhushan has sought directions to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of CBI director and to ensure that such process is initiated at least one month prior to the post becoming vacant.The matter will be heard by a bench of justices L Nageswar Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. Also Read | SC to hear NHRC plea seeking release of Senior Superintendent of PoliceOn February 3, 2021, Pravin Sinha assumed office as interim or acting director. His appointment was to last till the appointment of a new director or until further orders.As per regular practice, a high-powered committee (HPC) headed by Prime Minister and comprising the Leader of the single-largest Opposition Party and the Chief Justice of India (or any judge of the Supreme Court nominated by CJI) recommends the name of the CBI director. This procedure is detailed under Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act which governs CBI. This process was clearly bypassed in the appointment of the interim director. Also, the HPC had to meet two months before the term of the director expires, the petition said. Once the HPC makes its recommendation, the Department of Personnel and Training issues an order appointing the new director. The petition said, “The director of the CBI is the final authority in the organisation. He supervises all the work in the CBI and is responsible for constitution of investigating teams for probing cases. Hence, this court and later even Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance the functional autonomy of the CBI director and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment of this key functionary.” This is not the first time the NGO Common Cause has approached the Supreme Court over the appointment of CBI director. In 2016, the NGO had similarly faulted the government’s move to appoint an interim director. “Now again the same issue has cropped up which has to be dealt with utmost seriousness in view of the sheer power that vests with the important office of a CBI director,” the petition stated. According to the petition, the CBI is probing cases involving rampant corruption in high places in the country. The manifest unwillingness of the government to institute a transparent and accountable system to ensure that the culprits are punished seriously impairs the right of the people to live in a corruption and crime free society which violates Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty) of the citizens, added the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-for-appointment-of-regular-cbi-director-today-101615521217914.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to inaugurate 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to flag off Dandi March, launch 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday flag off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat to re-enact the famous Dandi march carried out by Mahatma Gandhi. It will also mark the beginning of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', a government initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence. Read moreRain and thunderstorms likely over NW India till SundayRain and thunderstorms are expected across the Western Himalayan region and parts of northwest India till March 14 according, to India Meteorological Department. There is a Western Disturbance (WD) as a trough (low pressure area) in westerlies. An induced cyclonic circulation is lying over central Pakistan and adjoining West Rajasthan. Read moreAustralia continues AstraZeneca roll-out, says no evidence of blood clotsAustralia said on Friday it will continue to roll-out AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine as there was no evidence of a link to blood clots, despite some European countries suspending its use. Read moreNetflix tests password sharing feature, asks users to verify in a messageNetflix Inc is testing a feature that asks viewers to verify they share a household with the account holder, the company said on Thursday, a move that could lead to a clampdown on sharing of passwords. Read more‘Prime focus would be on them’: Virat Kohli names ‘the favourites’ to win T20 World CupAs India and England gear up for the 5-match T20I series on Friday, both teams will be utilising this contest to figure out a strong combination for the much-awaited T20I World Cup which will be held in India later this year. Read morePriyanka Chopra interrupts Nick Jonas' Spaceman music video launch with kiss, he shares a cheeky pic of her. WatchNick Jonas has unveiled the music video for his latest song, Spaceman. The video shows Nick as a lovelorn man, walking on a distant planet after being separated from the one he loves. Nick has previously said that the song, and the entire album is about his feeling of isolation and his love for Priyanka. Read moreGenelia Deshmukh paints the town red in timeless co-ord set worth ₹18k, picsDo you know why we keep saying that a beautiful bright red attire is a must-have in every wardrobe? Well, today we will let Genelia Deshmukh tell you. Not long ago, the actor, for an interview, wore a gorgeous red-co-ord set and looked like a dream. Read moreWatch: 150 NSG commandos get Covid-19 vaccine doses in Mumbai﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updated-from-ht-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-today-101615518113374.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate Global Ayurveda Festival today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the fourth edition of the Global Ayurveda Festival through video conference on Friday .This festival will be held virtually between March 12 and March 19.Union Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister V Muraleedharan, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) President Uday Shankar and former FICCI President Dr Sangita Reddy will also be present at the event.Muraleedharan is the Chairman of the Organizing Committee of the festival. The keynote address in the event will be delivered by World Health Organization Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Central AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha and Central AYUSH Advisor Vaidya Manoj Nesari.The festival will also include international seminars, a global exhibition and business meet. The festival will hold an all-time record in the number of delegates, the number of scientists presenting papers and the number of participating countries and institutions.It will feature lectures by 35 internationally renowned scientists and more than 150 Indian scientists. As many as 650 of the 1150 selected research papers will be presented live and 500 research papers will be with a poster presentation.The festival, which was scheduled to be held in Angamaly in May 2020, was postponed due to the Cov-19 pandemic. And, now it is being held virtually in five virtual venues from 9 am to 10 pm.Notably, the second edition of the Global Ayurveda Festival had been also inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kozhikode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-global-ayurveda-festival-today-101615517610104.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi to flag off Dandi March, launch 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday flag off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat to re-enact the famous Dandi march carried out by Mahatma Gandhi. It will also mark the beginning of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', a government initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence."12th March is a special day in India’s glorious history. On that day in 1930, the iconic Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi began. Tomorrow, from Sabarmati Ashram we will commence Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, to mark 75 years since Independence," PM Modi said in a tweet on Thursday.The inauguration will take place at 10.30 am. Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat, Union minister Prahalad Singh Patel and chief minister Vijay Rupani will be present on the occasion.In a release, the government said that the padyatra will be undertaken by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari, a journey of about 388 kilometres. The march will end after 25 days, on April 5. Union minister Prahlad Patel will lead the first lap of 75 kilometres of the padyatra."A Padyatra would be flagged-off from Sabarmati Ashram, which would cover the journey from Ahmedabad to Dandi. People from all sections of society will take part in the Padyatra," the Prime Minister said in another tweet.A Padyatra would be flagged-off from Sabarmati Ashram, which would cover the journey from Ahmedabad to Dandi. People from all sections of society will take part in the Padyatra."There is a group of 81 youth from Gujarat, who will complete the journey from Sabarmati to Dandi. There is another group of 81 people, who will complete the 75 km journey and I will also be in it. This journey will be a 75 km journey from Sabarmati to Nadiad," Patel said.Notably, Mahatma Gandhi started the Dandi March in 1930 by announcing the 'Salt Satyagraha' on March 12 and the yatra lasted till April 5.The Centre will also launch a series of events from Friday to celebrate 75 years of India's Independence on August 15, 2022. According to government's plan, the events will be celebrated with the spirit of public participation.The government has constituted a committee under Union home minister Amit Shah to chalk out policies and planning of various events to be undertaken as part of the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-dandi-march-launch-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-today-101615516930106.html
12-03-2021||India||Rain and thunderstorms likely over NW India till Sunday||Rain and thunderstorms are expected across the Western Himalayan region and parts of northwest India till March 14 according, to India Meteorological Department.There is a Western Disturbance (WD) as a trough (low pressure area) in westerlies. An induced cyclonic circulation is lying over central Pakistan and adjoining West Rajasthan. Under the influence of the Western Disturbances and their interaction with lower level easterlies, fairly widespread to widespread light to moderate rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad on March 11 and 12.Thunderstorms, lightning or gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) or hail over the Western Himalayan region is likely during March 11 and 12. Scattered light to moderate rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh is likely during March 11 to 12 evening. Thunderstorm, lightning or gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) or hail are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Uttar Pradesh during March 11 and 12.Due to eastward movement of the Western Disturbance, thunderstorm or lightning and hail are very likely over east Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim during March 12 to 13.A fresh WD is very likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region and the adjoining plains of Northwest India from March 13. Under its influence, scattered rainfall is expected over the Western Himalayan region during March 14 and 15 and very light rainfall over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on March 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-thunderstorms-likely-over-nw-india-till-sunday-101615517138106.html
12-03-2021||India||Goa beach’s Blue Flag certification in limbo as court stays Central notification||The Bombay high court at Goa has stayed a fresh notification issued by the ministry of environment and forests, which relaxed the coastal regulation norms for Goa’s Miramar beach to set up facilities required for international Blue Flag certification since the ministry hasn't explained the reasons for dispensing with the mandatory public consultation process.Goa’s Miramar beach, located in the state capital, is one among several beaches across the country that have been identified for Blue Flag certification, an internationally recognized beach certification which gives potential visitors the assurance that the beach will maintain a minimum set standard of cleanliness and facilities for access, changing among other amenities.In a notification first issued in July 12, 2019, the MoEF relaxed the CRZ norms allowing the setting up of facilities including container based toilet blocks, change rooms, shower panels; mini grey water treatment plant enclosed in temporary structures; Mini solid waste recycling plant enclosed in temporary structures; Off grid solar PV panels; purified drinking water kiosks; watch towers; beach information hoarding boards and beach layout map hoarding boards, etc as close as 10 metres from the High Tide Line.As per the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification, no structures, barring temporary structures specifically permitted can be set up within 200 metres from the High Tide Line.The notification was challenged before the Bombay high court at Goa which had in October 2019, granted a temporary stay on the notification with regard to its operation at the Miramar beach, giving the Union ministry four weeks to reply.However, when the petition came up for hearing, the petitioner Kashinath Shetye, an activist, told the court that the Union ministry has ignored the notice from the high court and instead issued a fresh notification.“We had stayed the notification on the grounds that there were no reasons disclosed for dispensing the Public Consultative Process which was required to be followed under the Environment Protection Rules, 1986. The Ministry of Environment Forest & Climate Change has issued yet another order/notification dated 09.01.2020, again, declaring Blue Flag Certification in respect of Miramar beach. Even on this occasion, the Public Consultative Process has been dispensed with. We today stay the impugned notification dated 09.01.2020 to the extent it concerns the Miramar beach at Panaji until further orders,” the high court bench of justices M S Sonak and Bharati Dangre ruled.Also Read: Alert cop saves passenger from falling under train at a station in Goa. WatchThe Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, with a view to protect and conserve the environment and control and abate pollution in beaches and sea waters, has decided to identify beaches for the purpose of internationally recognised “Blue Flag” certification. Goa’s Miramar beach was one among an initial list of 12 beaches to be selected which was later expanded to include others.In October last year, eight beaches across the country were successfully awarded the certification while Goa's Miramar beach is yet to make headway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-beach-s-blue-flag-certification-in-limbo-as-court-stays-central-notification-101615514228494.html
12-03-2021||NA||Covid-19 highlights: Over 28 million vaccine doses administered in India so far||India recorded 23,285 new Covid-19 cases as the number of active cases went up by 8,011, and stood at 1,97,237. 117 people died due to the infection which pushed the death toll up to 1,58,306. The Covid-19 cumulative tally of the country remained affected by a surge in infections in six states which contributed to 83.76% of the new cases in the country. These six states include Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. Maharashtra, the worst-affected state in the country, reported 14,317 Covid-19 cases on Thursday.The global tally of coronavirus cases stands at 118,610,058. While 94,222,966 have recovered, 22,630,931 have lost their lives. Meanwhile, the US continues to be the worst-hit country with 29,858,913 cases.Follow all the updates here:Over 1.8 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Friday, says health ministry#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 2.80 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.18.40 lakh vaccine doses given till 8 pm today.https://t.co/bHK2PabeDI pic.twitter.com/ewAe0ky9tP"Total 18,40,897vaccine doses were given till 8 pm today, the fifty sixth day of nationwide COVID19 vaccination," the Union health ministry said in a statement, as more than 28 million doses have been administered in the country so far.Quad Covid-19 vaccine supply chain is 'built by trust, to convey trust' says foreign secretaryIndia welcomes this initiative as it recognises our own manufacturing capacities & capabilities. We look forward to wholehearted participation in this endeavour. This vaccine supply chain is built by trust & being build to convey trust: Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan ShringlaForeign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that India welcomes the Quad vaccine initiative. He also said that the supply chain is built by trust and to convey trust, reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM decides to withdraw cases of Covid-19 violations in first cabinet meetingUttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat, in his first cabinet meeting today, has decided to withdraw all cases registered in connection with COVID-19 violationsUttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat has decided to withdraw all cases registered in connection with Covid-19 violations in the state in his first cabinet meeting, reports ANI.Maharashtra records nearly 16,000 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai’s infection tally rises by 1,647With 15,817 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths, Maharashtra's tally reached 2,282,191 cases and 52,723 deaths.Mumbai reported 1,647 new cases and four new deaths, taking the city's tally to 340,290 cases and 11,523 deaths.'Increased vaccination to be key power in global growth,' says US President Biden at Quad Leaders' SummitUS President Joe Biden in his address during the Quad Leaders' Summit said that increased vaccination is the key power in global growth.Kerala reports 1,780 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths1,780 new COVID19 cases, 3,377 recoveries and 14 deaths reported in Kerala today. Total active cases: 32,174Total recoveries: 10,50,603Kerala reports 1,780 new Covid-19 cases and 14 related deaths. Active caseload in the state reached 32,174 cases, reports ANI.WHO says no reason to stop using AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine#BREAKING No reason to stop using AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine: WHO pic.twitter.com/WiFq7G7J54WHO backs AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine amid suspensions over blood clot fears, reports news agency AFP.Delhi reports 431 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths; tally reaches 642,870 casesDelhi reports 431 new #COVID19 cases, 356 recoveries and 2 deaths. Total cases 6,42,870Total recoveries 6,29,841Death toll 10,936Active cases 2,093 pic.twitter.com/d7JrKN9LivWith 431 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, Delhi's Covid-19 tally reaches 642,870 cases and 10,936 deaths, reports ANI. Active caseload stands at 2,093.Actor Manoj Bajpayee tests positive for Covid-19Actor Manoj Bajpayee has tested positive for #COVID19 & is in self-quarantine at his home, his team releases a statement. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/epldw2hJKuActor Manoj Bajpayee has tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under self-quarantine at his residence, reports news agency ANI.Puducherry logs 30 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally inches close to 40K markPuducherry added 30 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours pushing the overall tally close to the 40,000 mark. The 30 new cases took the infection tally in the union territory to 39,984, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release on Friday. The fresh cases were identified at the end of the examination of 1,202 samples with Puducherry and Karaikal regions accounting for 12 each and Mahe (six) while Yanam had no fresh case of infection.Novavax effective against original virus and British variantNovavax Inc's Covid-19 vaccine was 96% effective in preventing cases caused by the original version of the coronavirus in a late-stage trial conducted in Britain, the company said on Thursday, moving it a step closer to regulatory approval. The vaccine was 86% effective in protecting against the more contagious virus variant first discovered and now prevalent in the country.Mizoram reports one fresh Covid-19 case, tally rises to 4,435A 13-year-old boy tested positive for novel coronavirus in Mizoram, pushing the tally to 4,435, an official said on Friday. The northeastern state now has nine active cases, while 4,416 people have recovered from the disease so far, he said.The death toll remained at 10. Mizoram has tested 2,40,960 samples till date, including 516 on Thursday, the official said.Delhi records highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases since Jan: Key pointsDelhi on Thursday reported the highest single-day increase (409) in Covid-19 cases since January 9 and prompted experts to warn of another possible wave of the viral disease. Here is all you need to know about the spike and what it means. Read moreThane district's Covid-19 count rises by 937, death toll by 6With the addition of 937 coronavirus cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra mounted to 2,73,130, an official said on Friday. These new cases were reported on Thursday, he said. As the virus claimed the lives of six persons, the death toll in the district rose to 6,321. The district's Covid-19 mortality rate is 2.31 per cent at present, he added.Tokyo area Covid numbers showing signs of rising, health min saysCoronavirus cases in the Greater Tokyo area are showing signs of creeping up, Japanese health minister Norihisa Tamura said on Friday, according to Kyodo News, raising questions about whether a state of emergency could be lifted on schedule on March 21. The Japanese government last week extended the emergency declaration for Tokyo and three neighbouring prefectures by 14 days, saying Covid-19 cases hadn't fallen far enough, while new, more infectious coronavirus variants posed a threatSouth Korea extends social distancing rules amid vaccination driveSouth Korea will extend social distancing rules with a ban on private gatherings of more than four people in a bid to stamp out the possibility of a fourth wave of Covid-19 infections, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said on Friday. Read more4 charts that show India’s Covid-19 second wave has startedA minor change in trajectory that began towards the second half of February in Maharashtra and Punjab has now become a steady stream of increasing new infections of Covid-19 across the country in the past week or so. This has led some experts to speculate that this may be the start of India’s second Covid wave. But is this really the start of a new wave of infections? Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-live-updates-12-march-covid-19-cases-india-covid-19-cases-in-world-101615513582799.html
12-03-2021||India||TMC set to encash alleged attack on Mamata as BJP says no politics on incident||With the supremo of the Trinamool Congress and the country’s only lady chief minister Mamata Banerjee being allegedly attacked, days ahead of the crucial assembly polls, the state’s ruling party is planning to go all out to encash on the incident even as a Bharatiya Janata Party leader described her as “PhD in drama.”Banerjee on Thursday declared that she will be starting her campaign trail on a wheelchair and will attend the party meetings.“I hope to return to the field in the next two to three days. I will have pain but I will manage. I will not drop a single meeting. Maybe I would have to take the help of a wheelchair. I need your support,” she said in the video message from the hospital.Her party, the TMC has decided to organise silent protest across the state from tomorrow and the party workers would wear black bands to condemn the incident, party leaders said.“We are going to organize silent rallies in every block and wards across the state on Friday between 3 pm and 5 pm. People carrying black flags, wearing black badges and covering their mouth with black cloth will participate in the rally,” said Parth Chatterjee, state minister.TMC workers since Wednesday night have already been staging protests and blocked roads with burning tyres in various corners. Skirmishes were also reported between TMC and BJP workers in some places though no one was seriously injured, the police said.Pujas were performed at various temples across the states and prayers were held at mosques seeking her speedy recovery as the TMC tried to make a political issue accusing the BJP over the incident.“The only woman chief minister in the country was injured and attacked. The Prime Minister and the Union home minister however didn’t show the courtesy to call up. We condemn this,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.The BJP on the other hand, mounted an attack on Banerjee while maintaining that a thorough probe was required in the incident. It also demanded that the pictures of the incident be made public and it be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).“Even our workers sustained injuries. They underwent treatment and then returned to give a befitting reply. They didn’t stage any drama. But she doesn’t have the strength to give a befitting reply anymore and hence only staging a drama. She has done a PhD in drama,” Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president, told reporters while adding, “This is her old habit.”However, later in the day, the BJP leaders said that they would not indulge in any politics over her injuries. Saying that the fight with the TMC is a political one and on ideological and development issues, BJP spokesman Samik Bhattacharya wished her a speedy recovery and said the party hoped for her return to the electoral arena as soon as possible.“We will not do any kind of politics over the chief minister's injuries. We pray for her early recovery and return to the political stage," he told reporters at a press conference at the BJP headquarters.Also Read: TMC letter after CM injury full of ‘insinuations, averments’: ECThe TMC’s allegations of an attack against the chief minister got a shot in the arm with many of her allies, including Arvind Kejriwal, Akhilesh Yadav and Tejashwi Yadav, throwing their weight behind her.“I strongly condemn the attack on Mamta Didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery,” Kejriwal tweeted on Wednesday night.“Shocked by the reprehensible attack on @MamataOfficial at an election rally today. Shows the hatred & division that has possessed this country. My best wishes for her campaign & hope she recovers soon,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti, former CM of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday.Ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Banerjee had alleged that there was an attempt to kill her when a fire broke out in her hotel room because of a short circuit. In December 2016, she had alleged that there was conspiracy to kill her when a flight in which she was travelling had to hover for some time before landing.Also Read: Mamata injury draws new Bengal battle lineThe TMC has already started to target the state’s women voters who comprise more than 49% of the electorate. The party has also launched a slogan which translates into ‘Bengal wants its own daughter’. West Bengal has around 3.73 crore male voters, while there are around 3.59 crore female voters in the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the participation rate of women voters in Bengal was as high as 81.7%.On the politics over the incident, Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University, said all will depend on whether there is a strong anti-incumbency against Mamata Banerjee or not.“If the anti-incumbency factor is strong against Mamata and people have decided that BJP can be an alternative force, then it won't matter whether she fights the election on a wheel chair. But if Mamata is still acceptable and people still want her as the chief minister then the TMC could encash this," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-set-to-encash-alleged-attack-on-mamata-as-bjp-says-no-politics-on-incident-101615512671454.html
12-03-2021||India||4 charts that show India’s second wave has started||A minor change in trajectory that began towards the second half of February in Maharashtra and Punjab has now become a steady stream of increasing new infections of Covid-19 across the country in the past week or so. This has led some experts to speculate that this may be the start of India’s second Covid wave. But is this really the start of a new wave of infections? Is it limited to only a handful of regions, or are cases rising everywhere? Amid an ongoing vaccination drive and the fears of mutant strains gaining ground, four charts show how the talks of India’s second wave of infections may be entirely valid.1. Nationwide resurgence of new infections continuesThe seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases (also known as case trajectory) across India has risen by 67% from lows seen after the end of the first wave of the pandemic (from 10,988 cases a day week ending February 11, to 18,371 cases a day for week ending Wednesday), underlining what clearly appears to mark the start of the second wave of infections.While initially, this increase in cases was gradual, it has slowly been gaining pace and has come at a time when restrictions on several economic and social activities have eased, and people and governments are getting complacent, with almost no mask discipline in many parts of rural India, and even some cities.The worrying trend, however, is that in most countries in the West that have experienced multiple waves, the second wave (and in some cases third wave) has been stronger than the first in terms of number of daily cases, although the number of deaths were far fewer.At the same time, testing is at least 40% off its peak across India. In the past week, 725,626 samples were tested every day for Covid-19 across the country on average, against a peak of 1,196,972 tests a day on average for the week ending October 10, 2020.2. States where cases are rising twice as fast as the national averagePunjab has seen its seven-day average of daily cases go up the most in the country – it has gone up 509% from the trough after the first wave, nearly eight times the national average. The state, which has been at the centre of the farmer agitation in the past three-four months, saw a bottoming out of the case trajectory at 181 cases a day on average for the week ending January 27. Since then, however, cases started rising slowly through the first two weeks of February, after which the case trajectory rose abruptly.Maharashtra has seen the second highest resurgence of cases after Punjab. The state has witnessed a rise of 331% from its post-peak low seen for the week ending February 11 – from 2,415 average daily infections to 10,410. In absolute numbers, the western state, which is the worst-hit in the country with 2,252,057 confirmed infections and 52,610 deaths till Wednesday, leads all other states and UTs by a massive margin. More than half (57%) of the 128,599 new Covid infections reported across the country in the past week have been in Maharashtra.Haryana, another state which has seen mass mobilisation of people due to the ongoing farmer agitation, is on the third spot in terms of resurgence of cases. The seven-day average of new infections in the state has gone up 302% from the trough seen for the week ending February 8 – from 74 new infections a day on average to 297 in the past week.These three states are followed (after a fair gap) by Madhya Pradesh (164% rise from lows seen after the first wave) and Delhi (140% rise from lows), which make up the five states with the most sharply rising cases in the country.Among other of India’s 20 most populous regions, Assam (138% rise from trough), Gujarat (up 125%) and Rajasthan (rise of 111%) and Andhra Pradesh (105%) are also states of high concern.Kerala, meanwhile, remains the only state in the country which is yet to bring its primary wave of infections under control. In fact, 17 out of India’s 20 most populated states have seen cases rise 20% more from their troughs.3. Positivity rate has again started going upOn average, 2.6% of all samples tested across India have been positive for Covid-19 in the past week. While this number is still low in absolute terms (the World Health Organization recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5%), the worrying trend is that is it rising again. In less than a month, the average weekly positivity rate in the country has gone up by a percentage point – it was 1.6% for the week ending February 14.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase new cases, indicates that the virus is not only getting more common in the public, but also spreading fast. As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days, i.e. a rising positivity rate generally means cases will be rising in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in cases.4. Trajectory of active case has been rising for 20 daysActive cases are calculated by subtracting the number of people who have recovered or died from the total number of confirmed infections – it gives us an idea of the number of people that are currently carrying the virus (that we know of). Tracking the rise or fall of active cases is crucial because it reflects the actual spread of a virus in a region. A higher active caseload means that the virus has more hosts in a region, and can thus has a higher chance of spreading to more people.The seven-day average of change in active cases (unlike total caseload, active cases can fall) has been positive for the last 20 days, or since February 17. For the 80 days before February 17, the active case trend line was negative – this meant that every week, the country was reducing its active caseload. In the past week, however, the country has added 2,251 active cases every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-charts-that-show-india-s-second-wave-has-started-101615502032933.html
12-03-2021||India||Most lawmakers defected from Congress, BJP got highest joinees||In the last five years, the Congress has lost the highest number of lawmakers to rivals while the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) absorbed most of the MLAs who switched sides, a study by the Association of Democratic Rights (ADR) said.There are BJP governments in 16 states.Between 2016 and 2020, the study said, a total of 405 MLAs switched parties and recontested elections—that roughly accounts for nearly 10% of 4,036 MLAs in the country. In the same period, 28 MPs changed sides. Of these, most MPs joined the BJP.While the added strength in assemblies helped the BJP win back states such as Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the switchover of MPs helped the BJP increase its strength in Rajya Sabha and clear important bills, including the Triple Talaq bill and legislation for effective revocation of Article 370 of the constitution.The ADR study shows that the Congress, which lost substantial ground to the BJP and other parties in the last six years, has suffered the maximum damage as 170 of its MLAs quit the party and recontested polls from other parties.The BJP only lost 18 MLAs followed by the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Telugu Desam Party -- 17 lawmakers each from BSP and TDP switched over to other parties.The ADR concluded that “the recent fall of governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh and Karnataka State Assemblies were due to defections of their MLAs.”As many as 182 MLAs or roughly 45% of the MLAs who switched sides joined the BJP. The Congress got just 38 or 9.4% MLAs from other parties.Apart from the two main parties, 15 MLAs of YSRCP, 14 of NCP, 12 of Samajwadi Party and 10 of RJD defected.The ADR report linked this frequent switchover of leaders to “the failing standards of ethical and moral propriety of India’s parliamentary democracy.”“The ‘Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram syndrome and the never ending ‘hunger for power and money’ has become a common practice amongst our Parliamentarians and Political parties,” the report said, adding that “the most plausible reasons behind such defections and switching of parties are absence of value-based politics, lust for money and power, strong nexus between money and muscle and reward for office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-lawmakers-defected-from-congress-bjp-got-highest-joinees-101615501123431.html
12-03-2021||India||‘We can expect healthy changes to state quota bill’: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala tells Sunetra Choudhury there may be “healthy changes” in Haryana’s 75% domicile quota in private sector jobs. Edited excerpts:You won the vote of confidence. Was there any point at which you felt doubtful about it?Not even for a single moment. This was something the Congress just wanted to make an agenda about and disrupt the workings of the assembly for one day. They got their agenda where they didn’t even have the numbers, did not even have something to talk about. We gave them a good answer by showing them a strength of 55 and they didn’t even get one extra vote.Your party’s legacy has been to represent the farmers. How do you feel about thousands of them sitting at Delhi borders for 100 days now?There was an agenda that was started when it was an ordinance that MSP will shut down, the mandis will be shut down, farmers’ land will be taken, etc. When the whole movement took place in Punjab, the government there shifted it to Delhi. The farmers are now at three borders and at Haryana border, we have given them amenities such as mobile toilets, electricity; Haryana government employees are all working there. Most of the farmers sitting there don’t know what these three laws will do to agriculture and how they will improve or restrict them. Yes, there need to be amendments and I totally support that; the Prime Minister has spoken on it five times and said he is ready for amendments. There have been 11 meetings between the 40 leaders and three central leaders; agenda were ticked off. Twenty-five points were written and agreed on and sent to these 40 leaders. Today, what I see on why it’s not getting resolved is that there isn’t a single leader. I remember speaking to a Punjab politician and asked him what will happen to this agitation. He said “kakaji, aandolan khare karna aasan hai, khatam karna bahut mushkil hai (It is very easy to start an agitation but to conclude it is tough)”. If there are suggestions from these 40 leaders, I will take it to the PM or the home minister but they aren’t ready. They are saying just repeal these laws. We need reform; we can’t just grow paddy and rice. We have to look at alternative sectors to help agriculture grow. For the first time, we are going to procure barley which no other state does.But when you have international agencies criticising the handling of the protests and remarks about your allies throttling protests and calling protesters names such as Khalistanis, does that make you feel good about your alliance?I don’t think the Prime Minister has called them Khalistanis. There are people who may be spokespersons of the party, too, who came out with names. One fact I’ll share with you – Bangladesh used to grow paddy variety which we procured at MSP. This year, they banned that and asked their farmers to grow basmati as it can be exported. They can now come to India and ask for our paddy to feed their people at ₹2,100. They are selling their basmati to the middle-east at ₹3,500. So who’s the smarter agriculturist?So, you are a great believer in reform but don’t you feel you have let down your core farmer voters? They are now asking for your resignation.I have spoken on this multiple times. I will ensure that every grain be procured at MSP. Once the procurement is done, we will ensure the money gets to their accounts within 48 hours. This was never done and these are reforms we need to do. For the first time, I saw people going against me, I saw farmers going against me. But now they are happy. They are happy that in 74 years, they have got amount for their produce into their accounts in a very short time.So you are basically blaming it all on the farmer leaders? You are saying they don’t have legitimacy?It is an agitation that needs a single face. Can 40 people interview me like you are?Are you saying some of the farmer leaders want to end protest?Most of them want to. I will not name anybody. It is just some people trying to create nuisance. The government has power but we don’t want to get into a tussle. Today, there are 50,000 people sitting there. Ask anyone if the government has put any pressure to move back. We want positive talks to continue and life to get back to normal.Have you lost some of your support base in the agitation?We have 62% support in the state. Time will come when each and every grain will be procured and then I’ll ask you, have farmers banned me, have they not allowed me?If we can talk about the 75% quota for locals in Haryana’s private sector. Industry is saying it will completely destroy ease of business.We will speak to the industry in the future when the rules are framed (just like we did before the law). It is something that states will start thinking about. It is because the GST is now consumption-based and not production-based. We were a producing state and if we have to survive in the future, we have to get more consumption with locals than people who will take the money out of the state. We have 19 universities plus private universities; we have 100s of ITIs and polytechnics; taking all of this into consideration, the skill level in Haryana isn’t weak. But if I talk about this law, we cannot restrict someone who is specialised. For example, a make-up artist – they have a speciality and you cannot fix a pay scale. These people will be exempted from this law. But if you are based in Gurugram and someone serves you water in your office, if someone is coming from outside, then you will have to give them a place to stay, you will have to give them travel allowance; so it will be better for the industry to train local people who don’t have to travel more than 4-8km. That is the idea of this Act. I spoke to people from Maruti, Escorts.What did they say?Everybody accepts that it will save them money. Yes, everyone also says that ₹50,000 is a very big pay scale for someone who is starting out but ₹50,000 is not fixed in the bill. We can always sit, discuss and revise that on a timely basis. The Act has just been published and has to come into effect in the coming months. I spoke to DLF, I spoke to Mr Bhargava (of Maruti) again; we will sit.What change do they want?Maruti has this specific skill set of engineers that they require and their starting salary is about ₹35,000 to ₹40,000 and in two years, it may cross ₹50,000 also. I have written a letter to FICCI and to CII, all these associations, to give their suggestions on the Act. Whatever they want us to implement, let us come about with a brainstorming session, finalise on the issues and then move forward on implementation of the law.What’s interesting is that you think that the GST regime has led to this law?Earlier, producing states were the winners. Today, if I talk about Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, those with bigger production units and smaller population base, they have to find out alternative ways where consumption becomes bigger. We cannot just think about Gurugram which has 10 lakh people or Faridabad of 17 lakh people, we have Fatehabad with 3 lakh people and you cannot look at their tax base and plan the budget of the state.Of course, many people say that it is a trade-off. You agree to the BJP’s farm laws and they agree to your promise of this quota for law on locals?It was our common minimum programme. Yes, it was my primary agenda. I was working on it for the last one year. We have cleared it in the assembly and I would have followed it up with the central government also to clear it.But what about the constitutional right to move and work anywhere?Please open Article 16. It clearly states that you cannot restrict anybody for a job or position “of the state” not “in the state”. It clearly defines that you cannot restrict anybody for a government job. Maharashtra in the 80s restricted that somebody below the position of support staff, only 80% people can be employed who speak Marathi. There have been rules in Himachal and Uttarakhand, when special tax benefits were announced, it said that 90% should be local employment. Andhra has also done it.But that’s been challenged. So final word, we can expect changes in the bill?We can’t expect major changes but we can expect healthy changes which are beneficial both to the state and to the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-can-expect-healthy-changes-to-state-quota-bill-dushyant-chautala-101615499590693.html
12-03-2021||India||Gurugramwale: In Covid era, an ode to ‘forever’||As we reach the first anniversary of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, here’s a poem about our housebound days, then threatening to go on forever.In his early 20s, poet Raj Tekwani is both preparing for his MA entrance exams and giving a helping hand to his father’s business of “supplying disposable items.” Chatting on WhatsApp video from his apartment in Gurugram’s DLF Phase-4, he got the poem’s idea while on a fellowship programme in August last year. “We were all receiving training in pedagogy and education over online platforms.” He was inspired by the repeated structure and sessions of those days, he says, “especially since we were not leaving home at the time.” He kindly shares this poem with us.In Continuation of ForeverToday was just like yesterday just like tomorrow just like day after just like day before just like yesterday.Everyday now is like every other day,sleep and time are social constructs,the car in front of all our schools and homes hasn’t moved at all, its tires are punctured and its driver acupunctured.We are in a time loop, meant to live and exist and exist and live.We live. We exist.There are no I’s in a loop, only some we’s and a lot of us.We are in a construction loop.So everyday, we fall apart and build ourselves up week-by-week.We lend each other bricks and cement.We aim for the skies and like all skyscrapers, we lay our foundations thick.We are all hotshots,potshots,great shots,snapshots of sunsets and clouds,and cable wires and snails,and touch-me-nots.Touch us not, these are pandemic times,but touch our hearts, they are used to it by now.We are on a merry-go-round,so we don’t fall off, ever.Instead, every time we need to, we scream.And we take one handkerchief, we wipe our tears, sanitise it and throw it to the horse behind us.We’re all rough-riding down less-travelled roads in diverged woods.We’re all walls, white walls, blank walls, brick walls, walls built of us and for us.We are painters, caps low and brushes dripping.We are yellow and red and orange and pink and purple,we are canvasses to mandalas, doodles, music and ink.At the corner of every single world,there exists a field where there’s no right or wrong, just music.We live there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugramwale-in-covid-era-an-ode-to-forever-101615496788477.html
12-03-2021||India||Ruckus in Delhi assembly after riots report||Sweta GoswamiThere was ruckus in the Delhi assembly on Thursday when Aam Aadmi Party MLA Amanatullah Khan alleged the involvement of a political party in the February 2020 north-east Delhi riots, leading to disruption and some members rushing to the Well of the house.After objections from the opposition benches, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel ordered Khan’s mention of the political party to be expunged from the records.Khan was tabling a report on the compensation being provided to the victims of the communal riots in north-east Delhi. The report was put together by the Delhi assembly committee on welfare of minorities, which has recommended to the city administration to restart the compensation drive for those victims of the north-east Delhi riots who could not apply last year, and constitute a new team for assessment of their claims to avoid duplication. Khan, the AAP MLA from Okhla, is the chairman of the House panel.After the proceedings of the House were over, Khan, while talking to reporters outside the House, alleged that the riots were “scripted” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and added that no first information reports (FIRs) were filed against the party’s members such as Kapil Mishra who allegedly “incited people to resort to violence”.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said, “Khan is accusing the BJP because police investigation reports showed that AAP councillor Tahir Hussain was behind the riots. Rather, the BJP worked towards saving lives and helping people during and after the riots. The AAP is only trying to gain political mileage by such false and baseless accusations.”Mishra, for his part, said the AAP leaders were “obsessed” with his name. “They think of me day in and day out. I am proud of what I have done and will do the same if a similar situation arises again,” he said.It was the first report on compensation being provided by the Delhi government to the victims of the riots in which 53 people were killed and more than 400 injured.In the report, which will be adopted by the House on Friday, the committee stated that in some cases officials involved in the verification process for disbursal of compensation did not provide accurate information leading to a mismatch between the actual losses the corresponding compensation amount received. The panel has recommended that the Delhi government form a new team comprising representatives from the divisional commissioner’s office and the Delhi Waqf Board and MLAs from the affected constituencies for conducting a survey of such cases.Khan informed the House that the Delhi government has so far disbursed ₹27.19 crore as compensation to the riot victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-in-delhi-assembly-after-riots-report-101615494566397.html
12-03-2021||India||AAP MLA Raghav Chadha tests positive for Covid-19||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday said that he had tested positive for Covid-19.The Rajendra Nagar MLA said he had no serious symptoms until Thursday and will be under self-isolation for the next few days as a precautionary measure.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I would like to inform you all that I have tested positive for Covid-19. My humble appeal to all who have come in direct contact with me in the last few days - if you notice any symptoms, please get yourself tested and take all necessary precautions. It is our responsibility to keep ourselves and others safe, preventing further spread of the virus,” Chadha, who is also an AAP spokesperson, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-mla-raghav-chadha-tests-positive-for-covid19-101615488441691.html
12-03-2021||India||Bittu to lead Congress in LS for rest of session||New Delhi: With its top three floor managers busy in the run up to the elections, the Congress affairs for the remaining part of the budget session would be managed by Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, the party informed the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday.Congress floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who also heads the state unit of the party, is busy with the election campaign in West Bengal. A statement released from Chowdhury’s office on Thursday during his absence read, “his parliamentary duties and responsibilities were handed over to the chief whip K. Suresh” but he too would be away for election related responsibilities in Kerala.Party functionaries pointed out that Gaurav Gogoi, the deputy leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, and Manickam Tagore, the other office-bearer of the Congress parliamentary party in the Lok Sabha would also remain unavailable in Delhi as they are also busy campaigning in Assam and Tamil Nadu.In their absence, Ravneet Singh Bittu will attend the business advisory committee meetings and other such meetings on the behalf of the party during this session,party functionaries added. A tweet by Punjab Congress on Thursdayhad described Bittu as the floor leader but it was hurriedly pulled down. “It is just a temporary arrangement for the next few days as the session is anyway going to be curtailed after March 25,” said a senior Congress leader.Bittu’s main task would be the skillfully negotiate the party’s demand in the all-party meetings chaired by Speaker Om Birla and also articulate the party’s stand of different issues during the upcoming debates on demand for grants and the finance bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bittu-to-lead-cong-in-ls-for-rest-of-session-101615486595327.html
12-03-2021||India||Humiliation by cops may have forced rape survivor’s father to kill self: Kin||The father of a 13-year-old gang rape survivor who was killed after he was hit by a truck in Kanpur may have died by suicide due to police humiliation during the course of the probe, a relative said on Thursday.The development came a day after the deceased’s brother, in an FIR, alleged that the incident was orchestrated by the accused – son of a local police officer and his friends.The relative, a cousin of the deceased, said the girl was repeatedly asked objectionable questions at the hospital when she was sent for medical examination.“Just imagine how one must have felt running from one hospital to another with police raising questions over the character of his daughter, that too in his presence,” the relative said.It was the manner in which the cops dealt with the case that perhaps drove the father to take his life, the relative said. “He was so frustrated with the police that he committed suicide,” he added.The family claimed that the questions were asked at health centres in two districts. The sub-inspectors and constables present on the spot did not care if their questions troubled the survivor’s father, he said.The teen was reportedly sent for medical examination five times across various medical centres. “Have you ever heard a rape survivor being examined so many times,” the girl’s uncle said.The relative further alleged that the teen and her family were kept at the police station all day and that the cops had refused to register a case initially.“The police behaved strangely. They were indifferent towards the suffering of the girl and asked her all sorts of questions. She told me how she was humiliated,” he said.Providing an account of the incident on Wednesday, a tea stall owner and two sanitation workers had told police that the deceased looked distressed and suddenly ran towards the truck.Officials associated with the investigation said they were probing the abetment to suicide angle. “Several facts have come to light and they will be investigated. None will be spared,” Superintendent of police (Kanpur rural) Brijesh Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humiliation-by-cops-may-have-forced-rape-survivor-s-father-to-kill-self-kin-101615485634178.html
12-03-2021||India||Govt urges senior citizens to take vaccine||The centre on Thursday urged senior citizens to come forward and take their coronavirus vaccine doses quickly as the government plans to gradually allow younger people to become eligible, which could add to the rush at centres later.Since January 16, when the campaign began, 26 million doses have been administered. The drive was opened up to people above the age of 60 and those older than 45 but with certain medical conditions. The government said a little over 7 million doses have been given to these groups.“We request senior citizens to take the vaccine quickly because then we will add more age-appropriate groups that will increase the rush” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, during the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates, suggesting people above 50 may soon become eligible, even if they have no comorbid conditions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We are now focused on relatively large group of individuals above the age of 60 as well as those up to the age of 45 with comorbidities. We are building up momentum to cover significantly large group; we will see the progress, and moving forward further increase in the circle of those who are eligible will be considered,” he added.The officials at the weekly briefing also gave details about how vaccinations are being carried out. Close to 71% of the 25 million vaccinations so far have been done in government-run institutions, with the remaining number being done by private hospitals and nursing homes.Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, said that these are the private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantra Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), and state government sponsored health schemes that are partaking in the exercise.“In places like Odisha, Maharashtra, Delhi and Telangana, these also include such private facilities which are not covered under the above three categories. These have been permitted because they have adequate number of space, cold chain, vaccinators and arrangements to address adverse event following immunisation,” he said.On March 4, one million vaccine doses were administered in 24 hours, while on March 8, the number was two million.“While for state government hospitals, the advice is they should do it for minimum four days a week because they have other work also which is non-Covid essential facilities. The states have been given discretion, we do not want to adversely impact the non-Covid essential health services which are delivered by the same hospitals,” he said.Also Read: US President Joe Biden signs $1.9 trillion relief bill before speech to nation“Till yesterday (Wednesday), we completed 53 days of vaccination administration in India. According to Our World in Data, in the first 53 days, US vaccinated 36.8 million doses which started its vaccination in December last year. India which started its vaccination programme on January 16 has given 25.6 million vaccine doses, Brazil which started its vaccination process a day after India has administered 11.3 million doses, while the UK which started the same on December 8 last even before the US has administered 9.4 million doses,” he said.“Just 0.020% adverse event post immunisation has been reported with 0.00025% resulting in hospitalisation in India, which is minuscule,” Bhushan added.Paul also informed that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has been issued a regular emergency use authorization, as the condition to administer it in clinical trial mode was removed by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), VG Somani, on Thursday based on subject expert committee recommendation on Wednesday.“The vaccine is safe and efficacious. It is truly a make-in-India vaccine and it is a moment of pride for us,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-urges-senior-citizens-to-take-vaccine-101615485574285.html
12-03-2021||India||Lockdown to be enforced in parts of Maha, says CM||Several parts of Maharashtra will be put under a lockdown in an attempt to contain a worsening Covid-19 outbreak, the chief minister said on Thursday as the state recorded its highest number of new cases this year – a situation that Union health ministry officials separately described as “very worrying”.On Thursday, there were14,317new cases in the state – the most so far since the beginning of this year. The state has recorded a sustained increase since the middle of February. More than half (57%) of the 128,599 new Covid infections reported across the country in the past week have been in Maharashtra.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Some areas of Maharashtra will witness strict lockdown measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. The government is going to hold a special meeting with officials before coming out with the lockdown measures,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said.Later, the CM in a televised address said the state is now better prepared to deal with any surge compared to the previous waves, and that the government would try to avoid wider lockdowns as far as possible and target curbs only in hotspot areas.Earlier, state minister Nitin Raut said Nagpur – a commercial and logistics hub – will be put under a strict lockdown between March 15 and 21. Movement will be restricted and most offices and shops will be shut, except for those involved with essential services.In Delhi, at the Union health ministry’s weekly briefing on the Covid-19 situation, officials and experts said the spurt in Maharashtra was likely to be due to people becoming reckless. “At the moment we are very clear it is related to reduced number of testing and tracking, and tracing, as well as Covid-19 inappropriate behavior, and large congregations and masses (weddings, local trains etc),” said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Bhargava said mutated variants of the Sars-Cov-2 virus were not found to have been fuelling the spread. The Union government identified the districts of Pune, Nagapur, Thane, Mumbai, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nasik, and Aurangabad as being cause for concern.The surge prompted experts to stress on the need to accelerate vaccinations. “Vaccination today has to be brought into facing this virus and pandemic in full blast. It will be our suggestion for districts where the virus is on the rise in a significant way, vaccination of the eligible individuals in those areas should be intensified, should be prioritised. That will be our advice,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Paul said the government was “very worried about Maharashtra’s” situation. “It has lessons for us: one is not to take the virus for granted as it can come up unexpectedly; and the other is to understand until it is fully over, it is not over. The vaccination process will have to be ramped up fast,” said Paul.Centre has rushed expert teams to the state to assist local government in assessing and managing the situation of ground. “There is a rise in active cases which declined around mid-September when the active case load was as low as 135,000. And today these are 189,000 active cases,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.“Whatever we had been doing so far, it is more of the same that the states have to continue but in a more efficient manner. That is our message to the states,” he added.The key lies in scaling up, and speeding up Covid-19 vaccination service, say experts.“Today with the force of vaccination we are in a position to give the disease a stronger fight,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-to-be-enforced-in-parts-of-maha-says-cm-101615485454190.html
12-03-2021||India||Focus on vaccines, Indo-pacific at historic Quad Summit today||The first Quad leaders’ summit on Friday will create a framework to allow the four-nation grouping to take the lead in post-Covid-19 recovery efforts, especially access to vaccines, and the creation of resilient supply chains for materials such as rare earth metals.The maiden summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, convened by US President Joe Biden less than two months after he assumed office, reflects the urgency attached by the US to coalesce the loose group to bolster cooperation on key challenges across the region and to counter a belligerent China.Among the key initiatives expected to be on the agenda when Biden, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga gather virtually at 7pm on Friday is a “Vaccine Initiative” and a procurement and supply chain for rare earth metals.India perceives the summit as key to building on crucial partnerships to address challenges in the Indo-Pacific and securing the maritime domain, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The summit is also an opportunity for evolution as the Quad didn’t traditionally have defined areas of cooperation and only discussed principles and shared strategic approaches.The Vaccine Initiative is being seen as the “most significant deliverable” from the summit as greater access to doses, especially for small and developing nations across the Indo-Pacific, will foster a quick global economic recovery, the people said.“Vaccines will be developed in the US, manufactured in India, financed by Japan and the US, and supported by Australia. The Vaccine Initiative will allow new manufacturing capacity to be added in India for exports to the Indo-Pacific. It will not impinge on India’s existing manufacturing capacities,” said one of the people cited above.The Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced, while successful vaccines developed in the US include those from Pfizer and BioNTech, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna and the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.This pooling of capacities by Quad members will help boost global vaccine delivery, meet the demand-supply gap, especially within the Indo-Pacific, and add momentum to efforts to contain the pandemic.India’s role in the Vaccine Initiative will reinforce its credentials as a trusted and reliable manufacturer and supplier of medicines and expand the “Vaccine Maitri” initiative that has supplied 58.3 million doses to 69 countries so far. “It will strengthen India’s standing as the pharmacy of the world and a critical node in global health supply chains,” the person cited above said.HT had reported on Thursday on options being considered by the Quad members to ramp up vaccine production and delivery, which will also help in the vaccine race with China.The people said the Quad’s model for collective humanitarian action through supply of Covid-19 vaccines can also serve as a template for peace, cooperation and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific, which the grouping defines as its main objective.The four countries are also expected to build a rare earth metals procurement chain to counter China’s dominance in supplying these critical elements to makers of everything from smartphones to high-performance motors and batteries for electric vehicles, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper reported.China produced almost 60% of the world’s rare earths in 2020 and the Quad members intend to counter China’s grip on supplies by funding new production technologies and development projects, and leading the way in drafting international rules, the report said.More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earths, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.The genesis of the Quad was a “core group” formed by the four countries in 2004 for a joint response to the Indian Ocean tsunami. After the US and Australia sidelined the grouping because of sensitivities linked to their relations with China, the grouping faded away from the centre stage around 2007.As the Indo-Pacific became a key strategic region, the Quad was revived, largely because of Japan’s efforts, in 2017 as a dialogue at the level of senior officials. India was represented by a joint secretary from the foreign ministry. In September 2019, the grouping was elevated to the level of foreign ministers as India became more comfortable with it and there was greater convergence among members on concerns related to China.Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the summit would largely focus on five objectives. “China will be the unstated part of the agenda, and the other key elements will be the Covid-19 crisis, maritime security, techno-economic cooperation and climate change,” he said.“The Quad per se must increase its constituents and it must take action so that others believe it is a powerful but benign grouping in the Indo-Pacific. Though the current initiative is US-led, we must gauge the comfort level of the other three members, especially India – whether there is elbow room for it to make contributions and have a sense of ownership,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-indo-pacific-in-focus-at-1st-quad-summit-101615485334792.html
12-03-2021||India||Antilia bomb threat: Jaish-ul-Hind's Telegram channel made in Tihar, say police||A Telegram channel through which an organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here was "created in the Tihar" area of Delhi, a senior Mumbai police official said on Thursday.The Delhi Police has been informed about it, he added.The police took the help of a private cyber agency to track the location of the phone on which the Telegram channel was created, the official said.During the investigation, the location of the phone was traced near Delhi's Tihar Jail, he added.A Mahindra Scorpio car with gelatin sticks was found parked near "Antilia", the multi-storey residence of Ambani, in south Mumbai on February 25.According to police sources, the Telegram channel was created on February 26 and the message claiming responsibility for placing the vehicle outside Ambani's residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late in the night on February 27.The message had also demanded payment in cryptocurrency and mentioned a link to deposit the same.During the probe, the link was found as "not available", due to which the investigators suspected it to be mischievous, the official said.On February 28, another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident.The investigation in the case was initially conducted by the Crime Branch of the Mumbai police.After the mysterious death of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV that was later found parked outside Ambani's residence, the probe was transferred to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).On Monday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case related to the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antilia-bomb-threat-jaish-ul-hind-s-telegram-channel-created-in-tihar-say-police-101615455859989.html
12-03-2021||India||Won't insist on Mehbooba Mufti's personal appearance: ED tells Delhi HC||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday sought time to file a reply to a plea by PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti challenging a summon by the agency and informed the Delhi High Court that it would not insist for her appearance on March 15.After taking on record the submissions of ED counsel Amit Mahajan, the bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani adjourned the matter for March 19. The matter was earlier on Wednesday listed before the bench of the Chief Justice but later transferred to another bench as the chief justice bench didn't assemble.Mufti has approached Delhi High Court against the summon asking her to appear before ED on March 15 in connection with a money laundering case.Mufti has also challenged constitutional vires of Section 50, and any incidental provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA).After receiving the notice of summon, Mufti had also tweeted on March 5, saying: "GOIs tactics to intimidate & browbeat political opponents to make them toe their line has become tediously predictable. They don't want us to raise questions about its punitive actions & policies. Such short-sighted scheming won't work".Section 50 of the PMLA empowers the 'authority' i.e., officers of the Enforcement Directorate, to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. All persons summoned are bound to answer questions put to them, and to produce the documents as required by the ED officers, failing which they can be penalised under the PMLA.Mufti's petition states that she has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness. She has also not been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with, and the scheduled offence under the PMLA which gave rise to the proceedings in respect of which summons has been issued to her.The plea added that Mufti is not the subject of investigation, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences under the PMLA, to the best of her knowledge.Ever since Mufti was released from preventive detention following the formal abrogation of Article 370, there have been a series of "hostile acts", against her acquaintances and old family friends, who have all been summoned by the ED and a roving inquiry about her personal, political and financial affairs was made, in the course of which their personal devices have been seized.The petitioner also wrote a letter to the ED, inter alia, pointing to the roving nature of the inquiry undertaken in the case thus far and that in the event that she is questioned, she will insist on the legitimacy of the process.Mufti also stated that: "As a responsible member of society, the petitioner is always ready and willing to aid the process of law. However, it is equally her duty to bring to the notice of this court, deviations from due process in legislative and executive acts."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-stays-ed-summons-to-mehbooba-mufti-101615364736411.html
12-03-2021||India||Indiscriminate mining has irreversibly damaged Aravallis, suggest documents||Haryana has sought the resumption of stone mining in the Aravallis over a decade after the Supreme Court in 2009 suspended extraction of all major and minor minerals in the eco-sensitive region, triggering fears among experts that it could reverse gains made in the region over the last 12 years. The experts said wildlife has since 2009 increased in the region and that the resumption of mining could harm it besides worsening the air quality. They argued the rehabilitation measures suggested for mining to resume are also inviable given the extensive damage already caused due to mining with no regard for ecology.The court banned mining until provisions for restoration and reclamation were complied with, particularly in cases where pits or quarries had been abandoned. In an application filed before the court, Haryana on March 3, 2021 sought the resumption with compliance with all statutory permissions including environmental clearance. It said justice and the economy are required to be taken care of along with ecological balance.Also Read | Environmentalists protest against mining in Aravallis at Haryana Bhawan, ahead of SC hearingHaryana asked the court to accept its rehabilitation and reclamation plan for mined areas and allow mining operations in Gurugram, Faridabad, and Mewat. But documents, including affidavits and court orders enclosed with the application, seen by HT, suggest the damage done in the Faridabad stretch of the Aravallis is beyond rehabilitation now.An affidavit enclosed with the application submitted by YS Malik, principal secretary, mines and geology, in March 2010 said in the Aravallis, opencast mining is followed, and stocks once mined are removed from the site and can never be replenished. “The so-called rehabilitation or restoration plans can partake of provisions of tree cover, creation of water pondage and recharge systems during rains depending upon the depth of excavation or solid waste reclamation refill sites be covered with vegetation over a period of time,” the affidavit said. It added the only other possible manner of rehabilitation of mined areas used across the world is by way of creation of ecotourism sites in a project mode wherein a private initiative is called upon to develop these areas and certain areas allowed to be commercially used for the economic viability of restoration projects.”According to the documents, Haryana engaged a consultant to prepare the mining rehabilitation plan as per the Supreme Court orders. The work order was issued on November 23, 2009. Haryana simultaneously engaged another private consultant to identify a 600-hectare area in Faridabad for the mining of minor minerals. It has also prepared a 30-year prospective mining plan and specific environmental impact assessment studies in Faridabad.According to the salient features of Haryana’s rehabilitation plan, 29 pits spread across 126.67ha have been identified for restoration. Of the 29, 13 are wet pits where the groundwater level was hit during mining operations and hence have water accumulated; 16 are dry pits that have been excavated to varying depths. No backfilling can be done in wet pits. Benches will be formed along the slopes and those will be planted on. These wet pits will also be used commercially for eco-tourism. The dry pits will be backfilled only to the extent possible.RP Balwan, a former forest conservator of Gurugram, said rehabilitation of these pits is impossible. “Making steps on the pits is as bad as mining. The reason is miners have not followed any rules and regulations or mining parameters stipulated by the Indian Bureau of Mines. I was a forest officer during that time, and I saw miners only plundered with no regard for ecology. Now the entire landscape is damaged. Thankfully, after mining stopped wildlife has increased but now, they want to start again.”Anil Grover, Haryana’s senior advocate general, on March 2 said they are ready to comply with all of the Supreme Court orders on mining issued earlier. “The SC [Supreme Court] directed us to prepare a rehabilitation plan for areas which were affected by mining. ...[the Union environment ministry] prepared it in 2013 but it is yet to be finalised. Our appeal in the SC will be to finalise the rehabilitation plan and allow us to start mining operations in Gurugram and Faridabad.”Chetan Agarwal, an environmental analyst, said much forest has regrown since the ban on mining. “Handing over the mines in the name of rehabilitation to the same firms who ravaged the area in the first place would be tantamount to...[damaging] the landscape again. Wildlife habitat will be destroyed. Faridabad and Gurgaon have among the worst air quality in the country and are out of compliance with standards many times over. In such a situation allowing mining within 15-20km of urban areas will put an unconscionable load on the residents.”The Supreme Court banned mining citing inspection of 26 mines, which indicated wide-scale non-compliance of statutory rules and regulations applicable to mines. It added in most cases, mining operations were carried out unscientifically with the sole aim of maximising profits which resulted in the indiscriminate scattering of the overburden, wasteful manner of mining in complete disregard to mineral conservation aspect, rendering reclamation of mined area impossible. “What we are emphasising is extensive mining and not individual unauthorised mining because even in the case of the former no steps to rehabilitate was ever taken. The result is that mining operations have been carried out on a disproportionate scale in the Aravalli hills mainly in Gurgaon and Faridabad including Mewat.” The court cited satellite images and added they indicate devastation caused to the area by extensive mining operations. “Extraordinary situations demand extraordinary remedies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiscriminate-mining-has-irreversibly-damaged-aravallis-suggest-documents-101615263141525.html
12-03-2021||Today's||Redesigning India’s reservation system||In a political sense, India’s system of caste reservation is in robust health. Caste quotas have strong popular support — one 2018 survey in Uttar Pradesh found that 69% of adults approved of them, including a majority of forward castes. The new 10% quota for the economically weaker sections of the forward castes appears similarly popular, as do sub-quotas for the Extremely Backward Castes. The enthusiasm for reservation extends to relatively prosperous peasant groups — Jats, Patels and Marathas, among others — whose demands for quotas have led to confrontations either with groups with existing quotas or challenging the Supreme Court’s 50% limit on reservation.Meanwhile, the social scientific evidence for the positive effects of reservation is strong and getting stronger. Caste discrimination remains common in rural India, and even after nearly a century of quotas, caste is highly predictive of socioeconomic outcomes even after accounting for other factors such as parental occupation and education. Moreover, the imposition of quotas leads to broadly distributed welfare gains for the targeted groups. In a recent article, I found that the implementation of the Mandal Commission report in the 1990s increased the educational attainment of the average Other Backward Classes (OBC) adults by a year and their probability of holding a government job by six percentage points, with the largest gains coming among those with modestly educated fathers. Similarly, concerns that reservations lead to a decline in institutional efficiency appear overblown. For instance, in a recent article, I found that lower caste Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers perform better than others in implementing anti-poverty programmes.However, there is no denying that there is widespread cynicism about the reservation system among working politicians and within the Indian middle-class. They see reservation as a political “goodie’’ rather than an idealistic effort to create a more just society. The concerns can be grouped under two main headings. That the reservation system is “divisive” and that it is “unfair.” While both terms can be used as coded ways of dismissing all low-caste activism, both have some basis in fact. Reservation has probably encouraged that tendency of Indian political debate to focus on the entitlements of groups rather than individuals, and on the distribution of existing opportunities rather than the creation of more opportunities. Moreover, the nearly exclusive focus on a single ascriptive trait, caste, necessarily creates situations where the system does not promote the broad principles of fairness. There are many individuals from non-listed groups (some of whom are members of religious minorities) who have access to only limited social and educational opportunities, while there are many others who are able to produce caste and non-creamy layer certificates despite having access to very extensive social and educational opportunities. A few such “anomalies” are inevitable in any system of social entitlements, but when they proliferate, they threaten the legitimacy of the system in a fundamental way.In the mid-1990s, the system of racial preferences in the United States went through a similar crisis of legitimacy, with many arguing that it should fade away after 25 years. President Bill Clinton, in a nationally televised speech, famously suggested that the system should be reformed rather than abolished —“mend it, don’t end it”. Many dismissed this as a typical piece of obfuscatory political rhetoric, but it captured a fundamental truth — that positive discrimination can lead to important advances in societies with deep-seated social inequalities, but that such systems must be periodically examined and redesigned.As the various challenges to the 50% ceiling and specific caste listings make their way through the courts, India has a chance to rebuild the link between reservation and social justice. The most obvious reform would be to reduce the number of relatively wealthy beneficiaries. This could be done both by enhancing enforcement of the existing creamy layer system (widely thought to be defective) and by refusing to grant reservations to relatively prosperous castes on purely political grounds.A more ambitious reform would be to abolish the artificial distinction between “merit” and “quota”, and access each application holistically. The current system is indifferent to the level of social disadvantage of those who are not members of a quota category and assumes that the disadvantages of those within each category are the same. At the same time, the system is also indifferent to the qualifications of quota candidates (except relative to each other), as long as they clear a low minimum.Alternatively, one could define a “disadvantage factor” for every candidate, incorporating both family background and income and the social challenges faced by their community. This disadvantage factor would then be added to the “merit factor”, derived from exams to give an overall score. Such a system would allow for fine-grained adjustments based on the latest social scientific evidence about the socioeconomic status of particular communities and the relative role of group or individual factors. It would also change conversations around reservation from binary demands at the group level (“we are disadvantaged”) to questions of scaling at the individual level (“how disadvantaged is this person relative to other people?”). Such a system would enable the reservation system to return to its original purpose of making India a more just society. Whether politicians will give up a potent way to reward vote-banks, is, of course, another question.Alexander Lee is an associate professor of political science, University of RochesterThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/redesigning-india-s-reservation-system-101615561660236.html
12-03-2021||Today's||India must reject the one nation-one election idea||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has revived his call for simultaneous national, state and local elections, saying that “one nation, one election” was not “just an issue of deliberation”. Deliberation on this issue is not likely to favour the PM’s viewpoint, which is why he has declared it to be a “need of the country”, without any evidence of such a need. Besides, the PM’s ideological affinity to the adage of “one nation, one everything”, there seems to be no rationale for such an exercise.The PM has cited two justifications. First, that repeatedly conducting elections is a costly affair, and holding elections simultaneously will make them less expensive. Second, that “frequent” elections mean that the model code of conduct (MCC) is frequently in place, which purportedly prevents the government from carrying out developmental activities.These justifications are not supported by data. But it is more important to understand the underlying premise of what the PM is saying — that constitutional principles and democratic norms are contingent on money and administrative convenience. If one were to expand on this premise, should one discard an independent judiciary because it is simply too expensive to construct buildings for courts or pay salaries to judges? Should one do away with hiring and training police officers because the constitutional duty to protect life and property is turning out to be too expensive? The Constitution’s obligations do not come with a price tag.Parliamentary democracy is part of the basic structure of the Constitution, as is federalism. The most important facet of parliamentary democracy is that elected legislatures are tenured, and that the government of the day is only lawful as long as it enjoys a majority in the legislature. In other words, parliamentary democracy is sustained by time-bound elections, regardless of how much they cost and regardless of whether these are in tandem with other state elections or not.Similarly, the Constitution demarcates subjects on which the states alone are competent to legislate or administer, without interference from the Centre. State governments do not function at the pleasure of the Union government but the tenure of the state legislature. If a state legislature fails to throw up a government, then the Constitution provides a simple solution to this instability — re-elections. It is unfair to the voters of a state to wait for a government simply because the PM prefers that all elections be held together.The PM has also sought to include local body elections within the scope of his proposal. Local bodies are governed by statutes enacted by the states and are constituted differently in different states. The Constitution exclusively empowers state legislatures to legislate on issues concerning “local government”, and elections to these local bodies are overseen by the state election commissions, which are independent of the Election Commission of India. The underpinning assumption is that the complexity of local body elections requires separate administrative machinery and special oversight.History offers lessons too. India was the first country in the world that did not gradually expand the right to vote, and instead, embraced the egalitarian principle of universal adult franchise. Many members in the Constituent Assembly were sceptical of universal adult franchise and what it would mean in a country where the vast majority of citizens were impoverished, illiterate and had little experience with formal institutions of democracy. And yet, India held its first elections immediately after adopting its Constitution. It is unthinkable that our founders would have restricted franchise simply because it was too expensive or inconvenient, despite the fact that the young Republic was still reeling from the horrors of Partition, and had recently fought its first war with Pakistan. Subsequently, India has organised non-simultaneous elections despite financial crises, wars, armed insurgencies and communal pogroms. If administrative convenience and financial expediency were not a consideration then, they are definitely not a valid justification in New India.Modi has repeatedly referred to MCC as a roadblock to continuous developmental activity. This is not credible at all. MCC does not bar developmental or routine activity. Modi has argued that India constantly being in “election mode” has hampered developmental efforts. In fact, it is not the whole country that is constantly in election mode, but the PM, Union ministers and other “national leaders” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who are so. Their insistence to canvass even in local body elections has caused this alleged policy paralysis.One nation-one election will also mean the total annihilation of regional parties. A data-based analysis by Praveen Chakravarty points to the fact that where Union and state elections are held simultaneously, between 1999 and 2014, there was a 77% chance that voters choose the same political party. This would favour larger, more organised national parties than regional or hyperlocal parties and mean the destruction of India’s cherished multi-party system in favour of a unipolar electoral field. The absence of regional parties will mean that regional concerns are left without a voice at the decision-making table.The BJP has begun the process of manufacturing public opinion in favour of “one nation, one election” by holding webinars and carrying out public outreach. The matter has also been referred to the Law Commission of India to “work out a practicable roadmap” for simultaneous elections. Note that the Commission has not been asked to explain what harm “one nation, several elections” has caused. Instead, it is assumed that simultaneous elections are constitutionally valid, and the only thing preventing them is the absence of a “practicable roadmap”.The BJP’s tendency to treat India’s diversity as somehow dangerous will severely damage federalism and parliamentary democracy. By choosing to sacrifice constitutional principles at the altar of imaginary efficiency, it will put India’s democracy under severe strain.Asaduddin Owaisi is Member of Parliament from Hyderabad and president, AIMIMThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-must-reject-the-one-nation-one-election-idea-101615558600563.html
