13-03-2021||News||Quad leaders made history at summit. Expect pushback from China||The first summit of Quad leaders, described by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a ‘force of global good’, is expected to raise pressure on countries in the Indo-Pacific, particularly China to follow the rule of law and desist from any unilateral show of force in the region, people familiar with the matter said.US President Joe Biden, joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, held the virtual meeting on Friday; their first under the aegis of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad.While PM Modi has known US President Biden from the days he was vice president in the Barack Obama administration, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga was really the untested element on the Quad after his predecessor -- former PM Shinzo Abe had conceived the idea of the security grouping -- stepped down in August last year due to health issues.“The biggest thing about the Quad summit was that finally, it took place. All the leaders were on the same page and PM Suga firmly indicated that he is a proud successor to Abe’s legacy,” said a former foreign secretary.The Quad leaders will have an in-person meeting later this year. The dates have not been decided but it could take place either on the sidelines of G-7 in the United Kingdom or more likely as a stand-alone event in the US this year.“The best part about Quad is that every country brings something to the table, whether it be the vaccine, critical technology or climate change. The geographical location of each partner is such that Quad will be a pillar of stability in Indo-Pacific and provide ASEAN countries and far away pacific nations a voice against any coercion in the area,” said a former Indian Ambassador to the US.At Friday’s meeting, the leaders signed off on a plan to pool their financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistical strengths to ramp up the manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines across the Indo-Pacific. The Quad Vaccine Partnership, as the plan is called, will build on India’s Vaccine Maitri initiative by creating additional manufacturing capacities in India. New Delhi has already supplied close to 60 million doses to some 70 countries.As many news reports indicate, China was not named during the summit but the joint statement that was put out later is quite emphatic that Quad countries will be unrestrained from coercion.“Since the virtual summit was on an open line, confidential issues could not be discussed but we all know who was the elephant in the room,” the former foreign secretary cited above said.Also Read: Quad owes its revival to Prez Xi’s 'fortress China' doctrineOfficials have questioned suggestions from some commentators that see India as a weak link in the grouping because of New Delhi’s non-aligned approach and the land border that India shares with China. This perception is misplaced, they argue, pointing out that it is only the Narendra Modi government in New Delhi that has militarily stood up to Beijing’s expansion in East Ladakh in 2020, and at the Doklam Plateau in 2017. It was India again that first banned Chinese apps, a move that was replicated by the Trump administration in the United States.“India under PM Modi is not restricted by any dogma or doctrine, it is only defined by its national interests. India is at the centre of the Indo-Pacific stability, be it with its close allies in Quad or strategic partners like France and in the Gulf, particularly the UAE and Saudi Arabia,” said the former foreign secretary.New Delhi is expected to discuss steps to take the Quad initiative further when US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin visits India around March 20 after stops in Tokyo and Seoul.Friday’s Summit provoked Chinese state media to launch a bitter attack on New Delhi. “India has become a negative asset of these groupings...It is, in fact, carrying out a kind of strategic blackmail against China,” said the Chinese communist party-controlled Global Times, referring to BRICS grouping (which comprises Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).The Global Times article, like many others in the past, went on to emphasise that India, which is considered by the US “as the most important Quad member”, was “very inclined toward the US' Indo-Pacific Strategy”.Analysts said this line of argument indicates that China intends to drive a wedge between India and its historically close ally Russia.Also Read: Quad to launch Covid-19 vaccine initiative helmed by IndiaAt his briefing after the summit, Indian foreign secretary Harsh Shringla underlined that the Quad does not have a negative agenda. “As far as India is concerned, we have always said the Quad does not stand against something, it stands for something...which is positive, it stands for doing something in the realm of consideration for others.”Simply put, the Quad has no intention of picking up a fight with China but is on its way to build capacity and capability to block any extra-territorial ambitions of the middle kingdom, be it in the South China Sea, Taiwan, Senkaku islands or in Ladakh.Given that India’s maritime surveillance P8I aircraft is able to convey information gathered by it to others in the Japanese, Australian and US navies, the domain awareness of Indo-Pacific has risen with all the Quad partners getting real-time intelligence. This will be put to test once again when Quad navies along with France will join in naval exercises in the Bay of Bengal on April 4-7 under the La Perouse banner.Also Read: Refrain from forming exclusive cliques, says ChinaTo be sure, the Quad grouping has seen several false starts since its conception after the 2004 Tsunami. It was virtually disbanded in 2008 after China appeared to exercise a veto over the foreign policy of Quad partners but was revived in the right earnest in the face of a global pandemic and expansionist China in 2020. It is quite possible that Beijing will try to cut a side deal with at least one of the Quad partners to derail the grouping yet again. And that is the biggest threat to Quad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/quad-leaders-made-history-at-summit-expect-pushback-from-china-101615619013462.html
13-03-2021||City||Tripura's banned militant group commander held in Mizoram||A self-styled commander of banned militant group National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) was arrested in Mizoram on Saturday, said Tripura director-general of police.Parimal Debbarma, 45, was forwarded to a court in Mizoram. The Tripura police would seek histransit remand on Sunday.Parimal headed a faction of the NLFT and was held based on inputs shared by the Tripura police. He was staying in Aizawl, Mizoram."We found that his faction was taking interest in the coming Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls. We also have information that some national political party leaders are keeping in contact with the militants. We are investigating and these leaders would be interrogated," said DGP VS Yadav in a video message.The official added that they have lodged eight cases of extortions against them, mainly in bordering areas of the state. He also informed about hideouts of Parimal in Mizoram, parts of Assam and Bangladesh.In 2014, Parimal, and three others identified as Dayananda Tripura, Mohan Kumar Koloi and Bibhas Tripura, surrendered before the police. Three years later, he escaped to Bangladesh to form his own faction.The NLFT was formed on March 12, 1989, with Dhananjoy Reang as its self-styled chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripuras-banned-militant-group-commander-held-in-mizoram-101615659900149.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||SpiceJet announces 66 new non-stop domestic flights||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet on Saturday announced 66 new domestic flights, including five additional non-stop from Pune to Darbhanga, Durgapur, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Varanasi from March 28 to meet the increasing demand for air travel from smaller cities.Kolkata–Darbhanga, Chennai–Jharsuguda, and Nashik-Kolkata flights are among other new flights being launched.There will also be new non-stop daily flights on Mumbai-Leh, Leh-Srinagar, Srinagar-Mumbai, Hyderabad-Mumbai, Mumbai-Hyderabad, Mumbai-Surat, Surat-Mumbai, Kochi-Pune, and Pune-Kochi routes.“...to support the increasing travel demand from smaller cities which were initially connected by SpiceJet under UDAN, the airline has introduced new flights connecting Darbhanga, Durgapur, Jharsuguda, Gwalior, and Nashik with some key metro cities. The airline will launch new flights on the sectors of Ahmedabad-Darbhanga-Ahmedabad, Hyderabad-Darbhanga-Hyderabad, Pune-Darbhanga-Pune, and Kolkata-Darbhanga-Kolkata after connecting Darbhanga with Mumbai, Delhi, and Bengaluru earlier,” a spokesperson for the airline said.The airline will press its Boeing 737 and Bombardier Q400 aircraft into service on these new routes.“The airline will launch new flights connecting Srinagar, one of the most popular tourist destinations, with key cities with flights on Ahmedabad-Srinagar-Ahmedabad, Bengaluru-Srinagar-Bengaluru, and Kolkata-Srinagar-Kolkata sectors,” the spokesperson added.The airline also announced an increase in the frequency of flights on Delhi-Gorakhpur, Mumbai-Rajkot, Chennai-Madurai, Mumbai-Jaipur, Bengaluru-Goa, Mumbai-Srinagar, Delhi-Rajkot, Delhi-Srinagar, and Delhi-Dharamshala routes.Shilpa Bhatia, chief commercial officer, SpiceJet, said, “As the country’s largest regional operator, the new flights further reiterate our commitment towards enhancing regional connectivity, besides offering unique connections to many leisure destinations. We are committed to providing all our valued travellers easy, safe, and secure travel to their favourite destinations.” Additionally, flights have been added from Mumbai to Goa and Rajkot.The aviation sector has been one of the hardest-hit due to the pandemic as the government halted commercial flights for two months as part of the efforts to slow down Covid-19 spread. Domestic flights were later allowed in a phased manner and the government has allowed airlines to operate only up to 80% of their capacity.According to ICRA, a rating agency, the number of flights grew 63.4% in February compared to September 2020. The number of domestic airline passengers grew over four times during this period to around 45.6 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spicejet-announces-66-new-non-stop-domestic-flights-101615660004641.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai approves ₹724-crore budget for 2021-22||Taking forward the digital move to the upcoming academic year, the University of Mumbai (MU) has put aside money for digitisation of the varsity in its annual budget. The university’s budget of ₹724 crore was tabled and approved by the varsity for its senate late on Saturday. This is the first time that the annual senate meeting was conducted virtually. The senate, comprising elected and nominated members including principals, teachers and management members, works as a watchdog for the university. The body has the power to approve the varsity’s annual budget. The deficit for the 2021-22 academic year stands at ₹78.53 crore, compared to ₹66.8 crore from the previous academic year. For 2020-21, the MU senate had approved a budget of ₹809.24 crore whereas for the 2021-22 academic year, the tabled budget was of ₹724 crore. “The Covid-19 pandemic and eventual lockdown have severely affected the income and expenditure of the university. Our predictions for the 2021-22 budget as well as the deficit did not match the final outcome, so there has been a reduction in the annual budget in comparison to our original prediction,” said an MU official as he read highlight of the budget at the annual senate meeting late on Saturday night. Highlights of the budget include the allocation of ₹1 crore for the Digital University project. MU also plans to spend ₹22.5 crore towards making its campus disabled-friendly. This is in line with the state government’s disability policy for higher education, which requires universities to reserve 3% of their budget towards making campuses disabled-friendly. This includes easy accessibility to infrastructure, peer support systems, disabled-friendly furniture and teaching aids. The budget has further allocated ₹2 crore for the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Research Centre and ₹9 crore to set up the Balasaheb Thackeray Arts and Cultural Centre. Another ₹2 crore has been allocated to the digital library.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-approves-724-crore-budget-for-202122-101615659944681.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Congress demands resignation of BJP Mumbai chief over FIR in flat case||Mumbai Congress on Saturday demanded resignation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Mangal Prabhat Lodha, from the state legislature and from his post as BJP Mumbai president, after a first information report (FIR) was filed against him by a 54-year-old woman. The woman accused Lodha of defrauding her and not handing her possession of her flat, despite payment. The Congress alleged Lodha also demanded money from the woman beyond the due payment and threatened to not hand over the flat if the said amount was not paid. In a statement, Mumbai Congress chief Ashok Jagtap also taunted Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to use his investigative skills in the matter. Jagtap alleged that for Lodha’s Palava project in Kalyan and Dombivli, the builder seized hundreds of acres of land from farmers.In a Twitter clarification issued by Lodha on Saturday said the complainant was a persistent defaulter “who has not made payment of her dues (Worli flat) for many years, and is therefore liable to pay applicable penalty as per RERA”. Lodha’s Twitter statement said that on the basis of the woman’s complaint, NM Joshi Marg police station, which has jurisdiction in the area where her flat is located, investigated the matter in December 2019. The company filed a case against her for default and cancellation more than 12 months ago. Mangal Prabhat Lodha on Saturday told Hindustan Times, “I do not have anything to do with the matter. I have clarified everything on my Twitter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-demands-resignation-of-bjp-mumbai-chief-over-fir-in-flat-case-101615659884531.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Restoration work of CSMT almost complete, says Central Railway||Visitors and passengers travelling to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) will now be able to get a glimpse of the buildings in its old glory.The Central Railway (CR) has nearly completed the restoration work of the CSMT heritage building along with the restoration and up-gradation work of the suburban railway terminus.“The restoration includes short-term and long-term plans for the heritage building. The short-term plan of the conservation work of structures has been 90% completed. The long-term plan is the conservation of the fabric of the structures. Work of landscaping of gardens, restoring wooden staircases in the heritage building, conserving the glass painted ceilings and windows have been done.” said a senior CR official.The 41 crore rupees restoration work of the building includes up-gradation of the suburban railway concourse of the terminus, restoration work of the glass painted ceilings and windows of the heritage building, rectification of the corrosion in stone pillars, replacement of wood with Burma teak wood and restoring old paint of the ceilings and structures.Apart from restoration work, the railway authorities have provided openings in the wood structures that allow natural light and air to enter the suburban concourse area of the terminus. Gold lighting near the structures has been placed to enhance the look of the ceiling.Work on the relocation of railway offices from the heritage building, refurbishing the railway museum, provision of centralised air-conditioning (AC) system along with rehabilitation of woodwork and floorings of the heritage building will be undertaken.CSMT heritage building was declared a world heritage site by UNESCO in 2004. The building was designed by FW Stevens and construction was started in 1878 and completed in 1888.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-restoration-work-of-csmt-almost-complete-says-central-railway-101615659826323.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Malwani ISIS module: Rizwan Ahmed seeks bail, cites order in Areeb Majeed’s case||Rizwan Ahmed, who has been accused of radicalising local youth from Malwani to join militant group Islamic State (ISIS), has applied for bail in the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court citing the Bombay high court’s order granting bail to Areeb Majeed, a purported ISIS recruit from Kalyan. Ahmed and another accused, Mohsin Ibrahim Sayyed, are facing trial for instigating youths — Ayaz Sultan, Mohsin, Abdul Bashir, Noor Mohammad — from Malwani to join ISIS in 2015. The probing agencies claimed Ahmed was allegedly the second-in-command of the ISIS wing in India.Ahmed has, in his bail plea, relied on the recent HC judgment wherein alleged ISIS recruit Areeb Majeed was granted bail on the grounds of delay in trial.He also pleaded, “The applicant is a 23-year-old boy. The accusation that he is the head of an international terrorist organisation sounds unbelievable. It is not the story of the prosecution that the act of the applicant has caused any death. Unlike Areeb, it is not even the case of the prosecution that the applicant had left India or intended to leave India to join a proscribed terrorist organisation. The case of the prosecution is that the applicant along with co-accused and wanted accused was instigating youths to join ISIS. The prosecution until now has been unable to bring anything material on record to suggest such allegation.”Further he has claimed that he was arrested on January 21, 2016. The first witness was examined on October 04, 2018. After more than two-and-a-half years, only 23 witnesses have been examined.According to the prosecution, there are 228 witnesses, and more than 200 witnesses are yet to be examined. Refuting prosecution’s allegations, Ahmed claimed that he was a child in 2013, when the purported radicalisation of the accused Ayaz Mohamed began. He claimed that it was Ayaz who had great influence on the youth in Malwani area and was responsible for radicalising to youths there. He has also claimed that he is suffering from acute case of tuberculosis and has developed a tumour/lump in his throat.As per the prosecution case, Ahmed and Mohsin instigated and radicalised youth from Malwani area of Malad to join the ISIS with the help of two wanted accused — Yusuf Al Hindi alias Shafi Armar and Ayaz Sultan, both residents of Malwani who escaped to Syria to join ISIS.It is alleged that Sayyed, along with Noor Mohammad, a carpenter, and Wajid Shaikh, son of a vegetable shop owner, had gone missing on December 15, 2015. The agency claimed the three had decided to join ISIS after 23-year-old Sultan went missing on October 30, 2015. The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) had claimed that Sultan had escaped to Afghanistan, and then to Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malwani-isis-module-rizwan-ahmed-seeks-bail-cites-order-in-areeb-majeed-s-case-101615659764468.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Reflection of rival’s info in search results not grounds for trademark infringement: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to accept the reflection of rival’s details in online search results of a wellness spa as a ground for its trademark infringement.A single judge bench of justice Prithviraj Chavan dismissed an appeal filed by Sharmilee Kapur who challenged refusal of temporary injunction in a trademark infringement suit filed by her against Kiran Bharekar.Kapur, owner of a trademark “atmantan-be transformed”, has given exclusive right to use the trademark to Sparsh Infratech, which runs a luxury wellness centre at Mulshi near Pune. In 2019, Kapur and Sparsh Infratech filed the trademark infringement suit against Bharekar, who owns a registered trademark “TanMan” and runs an Ayurvedic treatment and research centre in that name and style, about 30 kms from Sparsh Infra Tech’s wellness spa.They had moved HC after ad-hoc district judge-6, Pune on July 19, 2019 refused to issue interim injunction restraining Bharekar from using the purported “deceptively similar” trademark.Before HC, Kapur and Sparsh Infotech alleged that the mark adopted by Bharekar was nothing but rearrangement of the first word of their trademark and was deceptively similar to that of their trademark. They contended that the nature of the trade or business was similar and was being carried out barely at a location which is 30 kms away.“That would definitely mislead the public,” their counsel submitted and also drew the court’s attention to the fact that on searching Sparsh’s wellness spa on Google, Bharekar’s trade name is also reflected in the search results. “This would definitely affect not only the reputation and business of the appellants but also the goodwill earned by the appellants by passage of time,” the lawyer had added.Justice Chavan was unimpressed by the argument and held that there was no similarity in the two marks, and therefore, there can be no confusion in the mind of any person about the two rival brands.The judge said even their respective websites were quite different and therefore, there was no substance in the contention that if one scrolls down the Google search results for Sparsh’s wellness spa, Bharekar’s mark also appeared in the search results and thus, an impression was created that Bharekar’s trademark was that of Sparsh’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reflection-of-rival-s-info-in-search-results-not-grounds-for-trademark-infringement-bombay-hc-101615659704482.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena warns of ‘consequences’ after party office attacked in Belgaum||Shiv Sena on Saturday warned of ‘consequences’ after activists of an outfit allegedly attacked Shiv Sena office in Belgaum in Karnataka and damaged the vehicle of its local leader on Friday.“Our party office was attacked on Friday. If this continues, we will have to take political steps and there could be consequences,” said Sena member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut on Saturday.Shiv Sena has blamed Kannada Rakshan Vedike, a Karnataka-based outfit for the attack. The outfit has been opposing the Marathi speaking people’s demand for inclusion in Maharashtra.Raut said the Centre should intervene to stop violence against Marathi speaking people in border areas of Karnataka.Marathi speaking people in Belgaum, Nipani and other areas of Karnataka have been agitating for inclusion in Maharashtra for over five decades. Raut said the Sena leaders and workers will reach Belgaum soon. “If we are not allowed then we will also stop people coming from Karnataka. Center should intervene to stop the injustice being done to Marathi people,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shiv-sena-warns-of-consequences-after-party-office-attacked-in-belgaum-101615659644510.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Catering company, 4 directors booked for ₹18-crore VAT default||MRA Marg police has booked Fort-based Cawasji Behramji Catering Services Ltd for allegedly defaulting in payment of ₹18 crore Value Added Tax (VAT). The case was filed based on a complaint by Maharashtra tax department. The catering company is known for providing services to overseas clients, and also provide catering and housekeeping services on vessels travelling to high seas. Presently, it’s not functional, said tax department officials. The police booked the directors of the company — Alfred Michael Arambhan, Aarti Alfred Arambhan, Puja Alfred Arambhan and Nalini Maria Arambhan — on the complaint of Sambhaji Yadav, deputy commissioner, state tax.Yadav, in his statement to police, stated the firm has an outstanding payment of taxes to the tune of ₹18.13 crore, including interest and penalty. The department has calculated the tax for non-payment of VAT tax by the company between 2012-13 and 2015-16.“As per due procedure, the accused company directors were given opportunity to clear the tax dues. The department also followed up matter with them. But on not getting satisfactory response, tax officials decided to initiate prosecution motion against them and issued show-cause notices to the company for the same. Notices were pasted on the company’s Fort office and (the Arambhan) family’s Bandra residence. But the department didn’t receive any response to the notices,” said Yadav.He added, “After all possible ways of recovering dues were exhausted, we finally lodged a police complaint recently.”Arambhan Group in an email reply stated that the matter is sub judice. “I am unaware of any FIR that has been registered, thus cannot comment on the same at this stage,” stated Puja Arambhan in the email.Police registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and section 74 (2) of Maharashtra Value Added Tax Act, 2002 against the four directors.“The tax department has already produced documents pertaining to the alleged fraud. Soon we would start recording statement of the witnesses and take further lawful action on the accused,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-catering-company-4-directors-booked-for-18-crore-vat-default-101615659584467.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Third consecutive day of 400+ Covid cases in Delhi||Delhi reported 419 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, the third consecutive day of logging over 400 new daily infections although it was lower than from Friday’s 431 positive cases, which was the highest single-day rise in over two months.In the last 24 hours, Delhi reported 302 recoveries and three deaths from Covid-19, as per the health bulletin. The positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 tests) of coronavirus cases in the city stood at 0.56%. A total number of 74,326 tests were conducted in the Capital in the last 24 hours. The number of containment zones rose to 518 from Friday’s 488. The national Capital started reporting over 400 new coronavirus cases from Thursday when it had registered 409. The last time Delhi reported cases above 400 was on January 3, when it had reported 424 coronavirus infections in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/third-consecutive-of-400-covid-cases-in-delhi-101615659523909.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Week 5 of Switch Delhi campaign to raise awareness on charging infra in city||The fifth week of the Delhi government’s Switch Delhi campaign will be aimed at raising awareness about the city’s existing and upcoming EV charging infrastructure, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Saturday. “The Delhi government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure a smooth transition to EVs for the people of Delhi. With a three-pronged strategy, the Kejriwal government has taken lead across India in installing sound charging infrastructure in Delhi for a smooth transition to EVs. The vision of the Kejriwal government to establish a charging point at a distance of every 3kms will increase confidence in people to make the switch to EV and pave the way for making Delhi the EV capital of India,” said Gahlot.The Delhi government has floated the largest tender in India, so far, to build 100 public charging stations with 500 charging points at prominent locations. These will be operational by December 2021 and will add to the existing 72 stations already operational in Delhi. “Details of these can be seen on the website ev.delhi.gov.in. Delhi government is also building a mobile app to ensure that the geo-locations of all charging stations and the status of chargers, whether they are occupied or available for use, can be seen real time,” he said. Secondly, in a historic step taken this week, Delhi will soon have more than 10,000 chargers by December as all commercial and institutional buildings such as malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls/multiplexes, office spaces, hotels, restaurants, hospitals, etc that have a parking capacity of more than 100 vehicles will soon have to set aside at least 5% of their total parking capacity for EVs along with suitable slow EV chargers, Gahlot said. A suitable amendment in Delhi’s building by-laws has already been initiated to enable this. The Kejriwal government is the first and only government in India to take such a progressive step. At present, 20% area in parking facilities already have to be kept aside for EV parking in all new constructions under unified building bylaws for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/week-5-of-switch-delhi-campaign-to-raise-awareness-on-charging-infra-in-city-101615659463891.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Two govt-funded DU colleges pass resolution to use surplus funds to pay staff||Two Delhi government-funded Delhi University (DU) colleges on Saturday passed a resolution directing its administrations to use surplus funds to pay salaries and meet other expenses. The Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) saw the move as the Delhi government forcing colleges it funded to change the pattern of financial assistance. The governing bodies (GBs) of Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and the Sports Sciences and Maharishi Valmiki College of Education on Saturday passed the resolution that read,” Special audits show that all 12 colleges have surplus grant aid excess is drawn and available with them. Consequently, the colleges are directed to use the same minus student society fund for the purpose of the salary, allowance and other approved and admissible recurring expenses.”It further said that the colleges cannot undertake any activity that entails financial liability for the government, like creation of posts and infrastructure projects over ₹2 crore, without taking prior approval from the government. The other 10 colleges were yet to pass the resolution.DUTA said in a statement, “It’s shocking that these twelve colleges are being forced to adopt in their GBs a document called ‘Pattern of Assistance’ issued by the Directorate of Higher Education, Government of Delhi. The provisions of this Pattern of Assistance are designed to ... divest Delhi Government of its funding responsibility by coercing them to gradually become self-sufficient and self-sustaining.”GBs have 10 members, both from the college as well as government-nominated and their numbers differ from college to college. It is the apex decision making body in the colleges.Deepanshu Srivastav, the government-appointed chairperson of Maharishi Valmiki College, said, “The resolution was passed after proper discussion. None was forced to sign the document. We know that the 12 Delhi government colleges have enough funds in their account to pay salaries to their employees, and that’s why we passed the resolution.”Prabhanjan Jha, a government-appointed GB member at Aditi Mahavidyalaya College, said, “The Delhi government is liable to the deficit only after the utilization of reserves as per the pattern of assistance.”Principal of one of the other 10 colleges, who wished not to be named, said, “Only those colleges having government-appointed GB chairpersons are in favour of the resolution. We are totally against it. How can we pay salaries from the money released under different heads for different purposes? This is totally against the norms.”A senior Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The pattern of assistance is already applied to all Delhi government fully-funded colleges in DU… Besides, the government has already released the pending grants to these colleges.”These 12 state government-funded colleges have been at loggerheads with the Delhi government over funds for a long time. Earlier, the colleges had alleged that the government either delayed release of funds or gave “insufficient” funds, and the government alleged financial irregularities in these colleges claiming they had surplus reserves. Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia had on Friday ordered a probe into the alleged irregularities in these 12 DU colleges. This was a day after teachers launched an indefinite strike demanding their salaries pending since November. DUTA president Rajib Ray said, “The Delhi Government released ₹82.79 crores under salary head and an amount of ₹9.50 crores under other than salaries’ head on Friday. However, the grants released are insufficient, and, in most colleges, will meet fund requirements for payment of salaries only up to January… The government can’t ask these colleges to use their savings for the payment of salaries.”The resolution related to changing pattern of assistance could further escalate the existing tussle between these colleges and the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-govt-funded-du-colleges-pass-resolution-to-use-surplus-funds-to-pay-staff-101615659405758.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||MCOCA court refuses to stay release of movie Mumbai Saga||A special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA) court on Friday refused to stay the scheduled release of the movie ‘Mumbai Saga’, allegedly based on the life of Ravi Mallesh Bora, known in Mumbai underworld as gangster DK Rao.Rao had, on Wednesday, approached the special MCOCA court through his lawyers Prashant Pandey and Pradip Singh, seeking a stay on the release of the movie, starring John Ibrahim, Emraan Hashmi, Kajal Aggarwal, Sunil Shetty and Prateik Babbar, which is scheduled to be released on March 19.Rao in the plea claimed that the case against Rao was still pending trial before the special court and the release of movie may prejudice the case and will also affect his right to a fair and impartial trial.“As the court has turned down our plea, we have no other option but to approach the Bombay high court to stop the release of this movie, as it violates fundamental rights of my clients,” said advocate Pandey.Rao, a purported key member of the Chhota Rajan gang, is presently lodged in Taloja jail in connection with an extortion case.Rao, who has survived an encounter with Mumbai Police in 1998, has told the investigators that after the encounter he was arrested and while in jail he came in contact with members of the Rajan gang. He claimed that soon he climbed the ladder within the gang and became one of its key members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mcoca-court-refuses-to-stay-release-of-movie-mumbai-saga-101615659405225.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Neeraj Bawana gang member held in encounter: Police||A 21-year-old wanted man was arrested after an alleged encounter with the Delhi Police’s Special Cell near Mundka Industrial Area in outer Delhi On Saturday.The suspect, Kamal Gehlot, is allegedly a member of a criminal gang led by jailed gangsters Neeaj Bawana and Naveen Bali. Gehlot was wanted in connection with the murder of his rival. He allegedly killed him firing three bullets into his head and face in a residential neighbourhood near Nawada Housing Complex in October last year, the police said.In Saturday’s encounter, at least four bullets were fired in which Gehlot was hit in his leg.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said that the team received information that Gehlot would travel to Mohan Garden in a white car via Mundka Industrial Area Metro station after midnight. Accordingly, a trap was laid.Around 2 am, the DCP said, the team spotted the car and ordered its driver to stop. But instead, the driver fired two bullets at the police personnel in a bid to escape. “One bullet hit head constable Lokendra Singh’s bulletproof vest. Our team members fired two bullets in self defence, one of which hit the suspect, Kamal Gehlot’s left leg,” said Yadav, adding that a pistol and a revolver were seized from Gehlot along with six cartridges.The injured suspect, previously involved in three cases of robbery and murder, was taken to a nearby hospital for medical attention. His condition was stable, the police said.A resident of Delhi’s Nawada, Gehlot’s father Pawan Gehlot is a property dealer with an office in Uttam Nagar. Pawan’s brother Praveen Gehlot was an active member of a gang led by jailed gangsters Manjeet Mahal and Pradeep Solanki and also allegedly involved in property grabbing, said DCP Yadav.“After the arrests of Mahal and Solanki, some dispute arose between Praveen and Solanki over a property. Solanki used his hitman, Vikas Dalal, to kill Praveen in May 2019. Since Kamal Gehlot was close to his uncle, he decided to take revenge,” said the DCP.While lodged in Tihar jail in two robbery cases, Gehlot joined Bawana and Bali who were in the same jail. After coming out of the jail, Gehlot and his father killed a person named Vikas Mehta in October, as they suspected he was involved in Praveen’s murder. Mehta’s murder was captured in a CCTV camera and its footage had gone viral on social media.In the 18-second video clip, the alleged killer in yellow t-shirt and a white towel around his mouth is seen chasing a man with a gun in his hand. The two come in a lane where the CCTV is installed. The suspect fires a bullet at the man who is looking towards him and walking backward with a red helmet in his left forearm.The bullets pierce the man’s left eye and he falls on the ground. The suspect first walks back but returns and pumps at least two more bullets in his right eye and forehead. He then takes out a cellphone from his pants pocket and takes the bleeding man’s photograph before leaving the crime scene, the footage shows.Pawan was arrested five days after Mehta’s murder while his son was absconding, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/neeraj-bawana-gang-member-held-in-encounter-police-101615659404009.html
13-03-2021||Other||Woman falls from 4th floor, man dumps her near garbage dump to die||New DelhiA 20-year-old woman died after falling from the fourth floor of a building in north-west Delhi’s Shakurpur in the early hours of Saturday. Soon after her fall, a 35-year-old man came out from the same building, lifted the injured woman on his shoulder and ran away — the entire incident being caught on a CCTV camera in the area as well as being noticed by some neighbours, one of whom alerted the police. The woman was later found dead near a garbage dumping yard, some metres away from the place where she had fallen off the building, the police said.In the evening, the suspect, identified as Mukesh Kumar, was caught from near Lucknow along with his family members and a pet dog while they were en-route to their hometown in Bihar’s Darbhanga, deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said.“We are bringing Kumar to Delhi and will interrogate him to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the woman’s death, his relation with her, and why was he trying to flee,” said DCP Rangnani.The police said that they have registered a case of murder and destruction of evidence, since Kumar had allegedly lifted the injured woman, threw her on the roadside and left her to die.The police also said that after leaving the injured woman near the roadside, Mukesh Kumar spread sand over the blood on the spot where she had fallen down from the building. The woman’s identity has not been revealed by the police, as they were awaiting an autopsy report, which will ascertain if she was sexually assaulted.According to the DCP, at 1.16am on Saturday, the Subhash Place police station received a call that a woman had fallen from the fourth floor of a house in Shakurpur and that someone had lifted her on his shoulder and dumped her at a nearby chowk.“Our team reached the incident spot, shifted the woman to a nearby hospital, where she was declared brought dead. A case was registered and investigations launched,” she said, adding that the suspect was identified through CCTV footage and neighbours’ accounts and teams started looking for him.The investigating team collected his cellphone’s details and found its location on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway. The police then contacted the Kakori police station in Uttar Pradesh and they intercepted and nabbed the suspect along with his car and family members and the dog, near a toll booth on the expressway, said a police officer, associated with the case.Apart from Kumar, the police have also arrested his associate Jiten alias Kana, who was with him in the car. “As soon as the Delhi Police team approached us and shared details about their suspect’s car, we deployed many teams on the exit points on the expressway between Lucknow and Agra. We caught the suspect and handed him over to a Delhi Police team,” said Kuldeep Singh, station house officer of Kakori police station.During preliminary investigations, the DCP said, it was revealed that Kumar works as a placement agent and supplied domestic helps and servants to various households. The woman, whom the police has identified as Rehsmi, 22, was from Jharkhand and had come to Kumar’s house for placement purpose. “Apparently, some argument had taken place between Kumar and the woman over payment. Further probe is on in the case,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-falls-from-4th-floor-man-dumps-her-near-garbage-dump-to-die-101615659345708.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||CM offers ₹1 crore to family of Covid warrior who died on duty||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday met the family of a Hindu Rao Hospital staff member who had died of Covid-19, and offered a compensation of ₹1 crore.Rakesh Jain, 58, worked as lab technician and died in June last year.“Rakesh contracted the infection when he was on Covid duty. He was shifted to Metro Hospital, but we could not save his life... till his last breath, he served the citizens of Delhi. The Delhi government salutes such front line workers who have relentlessly served the citizens of Delhi,” read a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office. The CM met Rakesh Jain’s wife and children. “His (Rakesh’s) elder son is looking for a job. The Delhi government will also provide a job to his son. I want to ensure the family of Rakesh Jain that the Delhi government will stand beside them in the future also, whenever they need any help.” The same day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain chaired a ceremony organised to felicitate 80 Covid Warriors from Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital at the Delhi Vidhan Assembly. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel was also in attendance. Speaking at the event, Jain said the Delhi Government’s Lok Nayak Hospital, India’s largest Covid-19 treatment facility, had treated more than 10,000 patients. He also said that the ambulance response time was reduced and it was ensured that it reached the patients’ home within 15 minutes of the call. “We have now declared Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital as a non-covid hospital because even in our dedicated Covid hospitals the number of Covid-19 patients is very less and the beds are ample. The hospital at Burari has 300 beds for Covid-19 patients that have only 10-12 patients, LNJP has 300 dedicated beds for covid-19 patients, whereas the number of patients is only 20. Similarly, at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, 500 beds have been dedicated to covid positive patients, however, the number of admissions is only 10-11,” he said. (ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-offers-1-crore-to-family-of-covid-warrior-who-died-on-duty-101615659344419.html
13-03-2021||Other||Use ‘surplus funds’ to pay pending wages, says governing bodies of 2 Delhi govt funded colleges||The Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) on Saturday alleged that the Delhi government was forcing the governing bodies (GB) of its 12 fully-funded colleges in the University to pass a resolution that would change the financial “pattern of assistance” in these colleges. On Saturday, the governing bodies of two out of the 12 collegespassed the resolution directing the college administrations to use “surplus funds” to pay salaries and other expenses. The 10-member governing body of the college comprises people nominated both by the university and the Delhi government and take important decisions, like the appointment of staff members.The government-appointed members of the GBs in these 12 colleges, however, claimed that the panels were in favour of the resolution. There are 12 Delhi government fully funded colleges in DU. While other colleges receive grants from the Centre, these 12 colleges are fully dependent on the Delhi government.These 12 state government fully-funded colleges have been at the loggerheads with the Delhi government over funds. While the colleges alleged that the state government either delays release of funds or gives “insufficient” funds, the government alleged financial irregularities in these colleges claiming that they have surplus amounts in their reserves. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday ordered a probe into the alleged irregularities in these 12 DU colleges. The probe was ordered a day after teachers launched an indefinite university shut down demanding their pending salaries. Officials at these colleges alleged that they were struggling to pay salaries to their staff since December due to the lack of funds. Even as the Delhi government had on Friday released pending funds, DUTA said that it was not sufficient to clear the salaries pending since November.This resolution related to changing pattern of assistance could further escalate the existing tussle between these colleges and the Delhi government.The resolutions passed by the GBs of at least two colleges ---Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and Sports Sciences and Maharishi Valmiki College of Education---on Saturday, stated, “special audits show that all 12 colleges have surplus grant aid available with them. Consequently, the colleges are directed to use the same, minus student society fund, for the purpose of the salary, allowance and other approved and admissible recurring expenses.”It further said that the colleges cannot undertake any activity that entails financial liability for the government without taking prior approval. “Like the creation of posts, the grant of pay scales higher than those of corresponding posts in the government of NCT of Delhi, the undertaking of infrastructure projects, estimated cost of which is above ₹2 crore, provision/extension of the pension to employees, etc.” it stated.The other ten colleges are yet to pass the resolution.Objecting to the resolution, DUTA said in a statement, “It’s shocking that these twelve colleges are being forced to adopt in their GBs a document called ‘Pattern of Assistance’ issued by the directorate of higher education, government of Delhi. The provisions of this pattern of assistance is designed to redefine association of these 12 colleges with Delhi University and divest Delhi government of its funding responsibility by coercing them to gradually become self-sufficient and self-sustaining.”A senior Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The pattern of assistance is already applied to all Delhi government fully-funded colleges in DU… Besides, the government has already released the pending grants to these colleges.”The government-appointed members in the governing bodies of these colleges dismissed DUTA’s claims. Deepanshu Srivastav, chairperson Maharishi Valmiki College, said, “The resolution was passed after proper discussion. None was forced to sign the document. We know that the 12 Delhi government colleges have enough funds in their account to pay salaries to their employees, and that’s why we passed the resolution.”Prabhanjan Jha, a governing body member at Aditi Mahavidyalaya College, said, “The Delhi government is liable to the deficit only after the utilization of reserves as per the pattern of assistance. Eight out of 12 colleges, having government-appointed GB chairpersons, are in favour of the resolution.”DUTA president Rajib Ray said, “The Delhi Government released ₹82.79 crores under salary head and an amount of ₹9.50 crores under other than salaries’ head on Friday. However, the grants released are insufficient, and, in most colleges, will meet fund requirements for payment of salaries only up to January… The government can’t ask these colleges to use their savings for the payment of salaries.”Principal of one of the other 10 colleges, who wished not to be named, said, “Only those colleges having government appointed governing body chairpersons are in favour of the resolution. We are totally against it. How can we pay salaries from the money released under different heads for different purposes? This is totally against the norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/use-surplus-funds-to-pay-pending-wages-says-governing-bodies-of-2-delhi-govt-funded-colleges-101615659345178.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Delkar wrote to PM Modi, Amit Shah and LS speaker, says Maharashtra Congress||Maharashtra Congress has alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government did not pay heed to the alarm by deceased Dadra and Nagara Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, and it resulted in his suicide. Raising question on if his complaints were deliberately left unnoticed, the Congress has also demanded that the breach of privilege committee of Lok Sabha should make it public if Delkar had warned the committee with suicide during his hearing 10 days ahead of his suicide.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, on Saturday, said Delkar, who committed suicide in a south Mumbai hotel on February 22, had written letters to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, weeks before his suicide. Sawant said the MP had apprised the top leadership of the country of the harassment he was going through and had sought an appointment to seek their intervention.“Delkar had written two letters to the PM on December 18 and January 31; two letters to Amit Shah on December 18 and January 12, and three letters to Lok Sabha speaker in December and January. He had said he was being harassed by the administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and 20-year-old cases were being raked up to frame him. He had also said that his family members were threatened to be jailed. Despite this, the deceased MP did not get any help. Had the Central government acted in time, Delkar’s life could have been saved,” Sawant said.The Congress spokesperson also said that Delkar had appeared before the breach of privilege committee of Lok Sabha and narrated the harassment he faced. “Committee chief Sunil Kumar Singh should make it public if Delkar in his statement had said that he has no option but either to commit suicide amid the harassment or resign as an MP. The MP committed suicide in just 10 days after his appearance before the committee,” he said.Maharashtra BJP’s vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “The Congress has been blaming us for Delkar’s death. But why did their top leaders who sit in Parliament kept quiet if the deceased MP was raising this issue in the houses? Why did Rahul Gandhi and party’s group leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury not raise this issue in Parliament? The Congress wants to capitalise Delkar’s death for the political gains. But the Maharashtra government took more than two weeks to register a case after Delkar’s death. It was only after the BJP raised the Sachin Vaze issue in legislature, a special investigating team was announced to probe the suicide. Congress does not have any sympathy for Delkar; it wants to play politics out of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delkar-wrote-to-pm-modi-amit-shah-and-ls-speaker-says-maharashtra-congress-101615659106128.html
13-03-2021||Other||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Topper who doesn’t rest on his laurelsGuramrit Singh, a Class 12 student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, is one of the six students in the country to have scored 100 percentile in the JEE Main exam held in February. Now, Guramrit is trending on social media following his announcement to appear for the JEE Main again in the next sessions of JEE with people joking and asking him to give others a chance, while he says he wants to prepare better for the JEE Advanced to be held later. Here’s wishing the lad from Sector 74, Mohali, the very best as he plans to pursue computer science engineering from IIT Bombay. Congress councillors leave House high and dry over water tariff The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) general House meet on March 9 was a noisy affair with the water tariff hike issue dominating proceedings. While the city Congress chief was staging a protest outside the House, party councillors were at their combative best inside, trooping into the well repeatedly. Congress member Satish Kainth even sat in the well of the House, prompting BJP councillors to place a water bottle in front of him. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma lost his cool when the Congress members kept interrupting their BJP counterparts. “We didn’t interrupt you. Why are you not allowing anybody to speak?” Sharma said, letting off some steam. MC commissioner KK Yadav too had a tough time putting his word across. “I didn’t interrupt you. Let me give the official take on the issue,” he was heard telling Congress members. Year on, Mohali MC website displays old mayor’s message The Mohali Municipal Corporation has some catching up to do on the virtual front. Even though it’s nearly a year since former mayor Kulwant Singh’s term ended on April 26, 2020, the civic body’s website, www.mcmohali.punjab.gov.in, still displays the message he posted six years ago. Mohali awaits a new mayor next week after the February elections but Kulwant is certainly out of the race, having lost the poll. Coping with exams, keeping stress at bay To help examinees cope with stress, a student of Gian Jyoti Institute of Management and Technology, Mohali, has made a short film that he has uploaded on YouTube. Gurpreet Singh, who is pursuing Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA), acts in the movie himself and appeals to viewers not to stress over a bad result. Take a look at https://youtu.be/cEJaRGBfmm0 Haryana Police website down for days The website of Haryana Police has been down for days, causing inconvenience to people trying to check details of first information reports (FIRs) online. Whenever one tries to open the website to check the status of any FIR, it shows an error. While the government insists on e-governance, it takes days for its officials to make their website functional. Mohali elections to blame for Chandigarh’s Covid spike Officials from the UT health department and Chandigarh administration are of the view that the epicentre of the recent spurt of infection is neighbouring Mohali. During review meetings on reasons for the surge, officials, including UT adviser Manoj Parida, said that the gatherings in Punjab due to the municipal corporation elections have led to the spike in infections there and it has impacted Chandigarh, too. Monkeys make a comeback on PU campus Monkeys who were nowhere to be seen on the Panjab University campus after the lockdown last March are back on the campus. Though they are fewer than earlier, the simians can be sighted around the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) and department of laws. Monkey menace has only grown over the years with the university officials trying hard to keep it in check but in vain. Inputs by Munieshwer A Sagar, Hillary Victor, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101615659105026.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||UN expert panel asks Govt to compensate Safoora Zargar for ‘arbitrary detention’||A United Nations (UN) expert panel has asked the Indian government to compensate student activist Safoora Zargar, arrested last year in connection with the violence in northeast Delhi, for being detained arbitrarily in violation of international conventions. Zaragar, an MPhil student at the Jamia Millia Islamia, was arrested in April last year in connection with the northeast Delhi riots in February last year and granted bail two months later. She was pregnant at the time of her arrest.The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), in its report that was released in Geneva, said Zargar’s detention went against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. WGAD operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights.“The Working Group considers that, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, the appropriate remedy would be to accord Ms Zargar an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law,” WGAD said in its report.The group asked the Indian government to take steps to “remedy the situation of Ms Zargar without delay”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the report.Zargar was accused of conspiring with others to instigate and start the violence in which 53 people died and 400 people were injured. She had said she was only part of protests and had denied the allegations.In its report, WGAD concluded that Zargar “was deprived of her liberty on discriminatory grounds, owing to her status as a human rights defender, and on the basis of her political or other opinion regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act”. It urged the government to “ensure a full and independent investigation of the circumstances surrounding the arbitrary deprivation of liberty” of Zargar and to take “appropriate measures against those responsible for the violation of her rights”.The WGAD considered that Zargar was “targeted for discrimination on the basis of her status as a human rights defender” and that her “political views and beliefs regarding the Government’s policies and actions are at the heart of the present case”.The group also referred Zargar’s case to the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, the Special Rapporteur on promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, and the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, for appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/un-expert-panel-asks-govt-to-compensate-safoora-zargar-for-arbitrary-detention-101615659103897.html
13-03-2021||City||'250 terrorists in launch pads, 200 active in J-K': DGP Dilbag Singh||Amid a thaw in India-Pakistan ties, Jammu and Kashmir director-general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Saturday said there were around 200 terrorists active in the region and 250 in various launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) as per the inputs of various intelligence agencies.Singh was responding to media queries after inaugurating a police sports event.The DGP said, there are around 200 terrorists who are active in Jammu and Kashmir but "we are hopeful that their number will also go down like last year".Also read: J&K Police issues list of 9 wanted militantsThe DGP also said elaborate security arrangements will be made for the Amarnath pilgrimage this year.On sticky bombs, he said that they were a new threat.“The magnetic sticky bombs can be placed with ease in vehicles and other metals. We have made a big recovery of these bombs and if there are any left, they will also be recovered,” he said.Singh said that various Pakistani agencies, for over 30 years, have been trying to disrupt peace in Jammu and Kashmir.“But we have foiled their sinister designs and will continue to do so,” he added.In this context, he also referred to narco-terror cases which were being investigated by police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/250-terrorists-in-launch-pads-200-active-in-j-k-dgp-dilbag-singh-101615658854654.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Ahead of panchayat polls in UP, cops identify sensitive villages, monitor liquor sale||NOIDA: Ahead of the upcoming panchayat polls, the Gautam Budh Nagar police have started identifying the sensitive villages in the district where anti-social elements can rig the elections, senior officials said on Saturday. Besides, to check the activities of bootleggers, the police, along with the district administration, have issued a WhatsApp number where any information can be shared. The GB Nagar commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said that special monitoring by senior officials is being arranged in the sensitive villages. “On the basis of their reports, booths will be classified as sensitive and supersensitive. Adequate police forces and provincial armed constabulary (PAC) jawans will be deployed for the security measures in these villages,” he said. Singh further said that the police have already started taking tight security measures in the villages believed to be the stronghold of gangsters and notorious criminals. “We’ve already started keeping surveillance on physical movement of such elements and locations of their mobile phones,” he said. Police are also checking the criminal past of expected candidates and the process of cancelling their arms’ licences has already been initiated. “We will take stern action against criminals, land mafias and liquor smugglers as they may influence and pressurise the mandate during the election. All the police stations have been asked to prepare the criminal dossiers of poll aspirants, and that of land and liquor mafias in their respective areas. All the weapons of those involved in any illegal or violent activities will be seized,” Singh said. The district police chief said that police will also keep a strict vigil on illegal transportation and distribution of liquor and cash, which the poll aspirants generally use to woo the gullible voters in rural areas. “All the station house officers have been asked to ensure timely closure of liquor shops in their areas concerned and take tough action against the bootleggers,” he said. Elamaran G, additional DCP of Noida Central (crime), said that at times candidates distribute liquor to woo voters during local elections. “Locals know that use of liquor during elections is illegal, but they do not know whom to complain. At times, they do not inform the local police because they don’t trust them. We have issued helpline number 8851065641 to tackle illegal distribution, sale and purchase of liquor during the elections. The informers’ details will be kept a secret, and they will also be rewarded for helping the police,” he said.Elamaran G said he himself will receive the calls, and talk to DCPs of areas concerned in the same. “We will send a special team to conduct a search operation. The local police will not be engaged in this exercise,” he added.Police will also check vehicles at the borders, to stop liquor smuggling. The date for the Panchayat elections has not been declared yet.With HTC Inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ahead-of-panchayat-polls-in-up-cops-identify-sensitive-villages-monitor-liquor-sale-101615659043859.html
13-03-2021||Noida||80-year-old dies after late night fire at first floor flat, wife hospitalised||Ghaziabad: An 80-year-old man allegedly died of suffocation after a fire broke out at his first floor flat in a two-storey building in Brij Vihar on late Friday night. Police said that his 75-year-old wife was rushed to a hospital where she is under treatment. According to police and fire department officials, Raghunath Shah and his wife Sapna were sleeping when a fire initiated at their flat in D-block of the area and the neighbours alerted the fire department and police around 1:15am on Saturday. “We received a call at 1:18am and rushed a fire tender from nearby Vaishali fire station. The couple was taken out from the flat and rushed to the hospital. The fire, which probably started due to some short circuit in the house, was doused soon after our personnel reached there,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. The neighbours living at the second floor of the building raised an alarm after they spotted thick fumes emanating from the couple’s flat. “The couple did not sustain any burn injury. The elderly man died soon after the incident probably due to inhaling fumes. They lived alone in the flat and were not keeping well. In the morning, their relatives also arrived from Delhi,” said Ajay Tyagi, one of the neighbours. The police said that the man probably died of suffocation after inhaling toxic fumes. “His wife is still at the hospital in Vaishali. The 80-year-old man died in the flat. It seems they (the couple) could not move out due to old age,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/80yearold-dies-after-late-night-fire-at-first-floor-flat-wife-hospitalised-101615658983916.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||GMDA plans to install smart traffic signals across city||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to set up smart traffic signals at new traffic locations across the city and convert the existing signals into smart ones wherever necessary, said officials on Saturday. The move is likely to ease traffic movement and keep constant vigil over the functioning of traffic signals, added the officials.A smart traffic signal is an automated one and unlike manual or conventional ones takes into account the volume of traffic on a real-time basis. As per GMDA officials, from now on only smart signals will be set up at every new traffic location. Seven such signals have already been placed at important junctions and stretches, such as Bakhtawar Chowk, Huda City Centre, Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road and Pataudi Road.Further, GMDA is also compiling a detailed project report (DPR) to identify the spots where existing traffic signals have been installed, check their working condition, and assess if the signals are providing comprehensive coverage.“Smart traffic signals are ideal for mobility as they turn red or green depending on the volume of traffic at each end. This way, commuters have to wait at a signal for the shortest duration possible. Conventional traffic signals, where the changing of signs is already pre-decided, do not conform take into account real-time traffic volume,” said JS Sindhu, engineer, traffic, mobility wing, GMDA.The GMDA’s long-term aim is to also link all of the city’s traffic signals to their Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), from where they can also monitor their functioning.“Wherever new traffic signals are being installed, the GMDA is only setting up smart ones. So far, seven major points in the city have already been covered and work on adding the same at a dozen more points is in process,” said Sindhu.Last week, GMDA floated tenders for installing traffic signals on Krishna Chowk — a key intersection on Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road.“We are also planning on phasing out conventional traffic signals from the city and replacing them with smart traffic signals. A DPR on this is being prepared but the matter is still at a nascent stage. Our long-term vision is to connect all traffic signals in the city with our ICCC so that we can monitor them on a real-time basis and quickly spot any errors in case the signals malfunction,” said Sindhu.As per GMDA officials, the city has around 130 traffic signals.Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member of the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said that the objective of smart traffic signals is to reduce delay and optimise movement as per the traffic conditions.“A smart signal allows more time for traffic to continue moving in the direction with the highest volume of traffic, which both manual and conventional traffic signals are unable to do. The GMDA should also look at the option of synchronising smart signals in such a manner that they can be altered in cases of emergencies to ensure services such as ambulances and fire tenders take the least amount of travelling time,” said Sewa Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-plans-to-install-smart-traffic-signals-across-city-101615658687443.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Air quality remains poor, faster winds predicted to clean air||The city’s air quality remained in the poor category on Saturday, recording 217 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was a marginal improvement from Friday’s AQI of 263 that was also in the same category. Experts said that the air quality is likely to improve in the coming days as wind speed is likely to pick up. The level of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s primary pollutant, was 116.7 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Saturday, as per the data recorded by the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in the poor category on Sunday and in the poor to lower range of very poor category on Monday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the poor to moderate category over the next five days.Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said, “The wind speed in places such as Noida, Ghaziabad is good in pockets. In the city, the wind speed will pick up in a day or two. We can expect relief through an improvement in wind conditions or a rain shower in the next two-three days.”While the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Saturday, the IMD’s AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 17.2 degrees Celsius. The city’s maximum temperature stood at 31.7 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 31 degrees and 16 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-remains-poor-faster-winds-predicted-to-clean-air-101615658686376.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||HSVP reclaims 10 acres in Sector 52||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Friday reclaimed around 10 acres in Sector 52 after the Punjab and Haryana high court gave a ruling in favour of the authority in a case pertaining to land ownership, officials of estate office-2 of HSVP said. Officials said that an illegal Kissan Mandi, six shops selling construction material, five vehicle workshops, ten rooms and 20 tenements that were set up on the land were demolished in a five-hour-long drive, on the directions of HSVP administrator Jitender Yadav on Friday. SK Rana, subdivisional officer, HSVP, said that after the demolition drive was completed, the authority also shared the information about the ruling with the area police station to ensure that illegal activities do not resume. “In case someone tries to encroach this land, a case would be got registered against the violators,” said Rana, adding that they will come up with a plan for the plot soon. In a related development, the enforcement team of estate office-1 also cleared encroachments from the Sector 14 market. The team cleared the passages and also removed illegal vends from open areas. “A number of shopkeepers had placed advertisement boards in open areas, restaurants had put tables and chairs (in the open) and illegal stairs were installed in the market. All of these were removed. We also cleared passages and shop owners were warned against violations,” said Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-reclaims-10-acres-in-sector-52-101615658686877.html
13-03-2021||Noida||‘Focused testing’ starts in Ghaziabad ahead of Holi||Ghaziabad: Following the directions of the Uttar Pradesh government, Ghaziabad started “focused testing” of different groups on Saturday. This comes in the view of Holi.According to the Ghaziabad health department officials, of the daily testing target, they will devote 50% of the 3,500 rapid antigen tests and 40% of the 1,700 RT-PCR tests to “focused testing”.“We have a daily target of conducting around 3,500 antigen tests and another 1,700 RT-PCR tests. The current daily achievement is lower than the daily target as many do not come for testing nowadays. However, we have been directed that 50% rapid antigen tests and 40% RT-PCR tests, of our daily testing target, will now be devoted to focused testing,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad.The drive will be carried out every day till March 27, and will cover labourers at construction sites, street vendors, school and college students, domestic travellers, workers at pan and cigarette shops, bus stands, sweets shops, liquor shops, malls, markets and shops selling items for Holi celebrations, among others.According to the district health department data, Ghaziabad conducted a daily average of 2,437 tests in January, an average of 1,971 tests per day in February, and an average of 2,174 tests per day till March 9.“We have been asked to conduct tests on travellers at railway stations and bus stands in case our daily focused testing target is not achieved. We already have 22 teams conducting the tests, and many of these teams will be devoted to focused testing,” Dr Gupta added.The district also saw focused testing before and after Diwali last year.According to the official data, the district has a total of 26,863 Covid cases till March 12, and the figure includes 26,661 discharged, 102 deaths and 100 active cases. Recently, 21 Covid-19 positive cases were reported at the central public works department’s (CPWD’s) national academy at Kamala Nehru Nagar in Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, considering the large number of assistant executive engineers getting infected, the health officials have now decided to go for genome sequencing to find the Covid variant.“Since a large number of cases was reported at the academy, we will take up genome testing of 10% of the samples and these will be sent to the Delhi laboratory. It will help us find out whether the patients are infected with the Sars-Cov-2 or the latest variant, VUI-202012/01. We are yet to get the test reports of two staffers and as many departmental stores, and one fruit shop where the patients went for shopping,” Dr Gupta added.In December 2020, genome sequencing was done on 231 travellers from the UK, but none tested positive for the new variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/focused-testing-starts-in-ghaziabad-ahead-of-holi-101615658685831.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 72 new Covid-19 infections; total tally to touch 60k||The total number of active Covid-19 cases reached 578 on Saturday, with 72 new infections being reported in the last 24 hours. As per the data of the health department, it is almost after a gap of two months that the count of active cases has reached over 550, thereby underlining the continued spike in daily new infections in the district with the positivity rate touching almost 1.9%. The last time the active caseload hit a high was in mid-January with 590 cases, after which it dipped to a low of 223 on February 20. At least 498 new infections were confirmed this week, a 32.7% increase in the 335 cases reported the previous week — between February 28 and March 6. With the rise in daily cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases till now has reached 59,770. The total death count remains at 359, with two Covid-19 deaths being reported this month. According to the district health department officials, people travelling to others states or countries should follow proper quarantine measures. “Crowded places should be avoided. People should be cautious and follow basic respiratory hygiene and mask discipline. Private labs and hospitals have already been directed to test close contacts of confirmed cases,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, He added that testing will be increased to control the transmission of the infection. Currently, 3,137 daily tests are being conducted on an average. On Saturday, at least 2,937 RT-PCR tests and 153 rapid antigen tests were conducted. In the last one year, over 863,797 samples have been tested in Gurugram. Out of the 578 active cases, at least 533 are in home-isolation and 44 moderate to severely ill patients are undergoing treatment in various private hospitals of the city. Only one patient is admitted at a district Covid care centre. Vaccination drive Over 3,960 people took the vaccine shot at 45 private hospitals on Saturday. The health department has administered more than 100,000 doses in the district till now. Data shows that on Saturday, at least 2,897 people above the age of 60 years and 503 people, aged 45 to 59 with existing illness, took the vaccine. At least 551 healthcare workers and nine front-line workers took their second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-reports-72-new-covid-19-infections-total-tally-to-touch-60k-101615658684943.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Mixed response to budget from city-based industrialists||Factory owners and city-based industrial associations gave a mixed response to the budget presented by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday that primarily focussed on agriculture and health.Businessmen running small and medium enterprises, in particular, said that they expected more relief measures from the government to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19 and the pandemic-induced slowdown. However, those running larger and organised industries, viewed the budget proposals with a focus on infrastructure as positive.JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association, said that although the budget addressed macro issues, city-based entrepreneurs wanted measures for small and medium units, which was missing. “We had expected measures to augment infrastructure for the industry in non-conforming areas — budgetary support to fight pollution, subsidy for machinery upgradation, ease of finance and few tax sops. The focus on infrastructure is positive but more needs to be done for the entrepreneurs,” he said.Industry leaders also said that they were expecting special provisions for small scale industry, budget for Gurugram Metro extension and improvement in public transport in the city, but there was not much in the budget on these aspects.“We have been demanding that backward industrial areas should be declared tax-free zones like Himachal and Uttarakhand. If it is implemented, then there will be better avenues of employment in these areas and Investors will be motivated to come to our state. There is also a strong need for an industrial peacekeeping force to maintain better labour relations,” said HP Yadav, president, NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industry.Manesar-based industrialists said that the government should implement the promises made in the budget. “The promises made in the budget are good but these should be implemented so that benefits reach both employees and employers,” said Pawan Yadav, the president of the IMT Industrial Association.Rajiv Gandhi, chairman, CII Haryana State Council, said the government’s decision to introduce a scheme to settling longstanding disputes, related to taxation, transport taxes, mining dues, dues payable to HSIIDC, HSVP, HSAMB and stamp duty payable, was a positive initiative and will provide a big relief to the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mixed-response-to-budget-from-city-based-industrialists-101615658684402.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Pedestrian trial at Sadar Bazar to commence on March 20||A week-long pedestrian trial at Sadar Bazar will be conducted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) between March 20 and March 27 — a release issued by the civic body stated on Saturday.The trial was scheduled to be held last month, from February 26 onwards. However, MCG deferred it a day before its commencement, citing technical reasons. A meeting for discussing the details of the pedestrian trial was held at the Public Works Department (PWD) Rest House in Civil Lines on Saturday. It was attended by Mayor Madhu Azad; Sudhir Singla, Gurugram MLA; Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner, along with various senior MCG officials, and representatives of World Resources Institute (WRI) India — a non-profit organisation assisting MCG in the trial. The representatives of WRI India informed the attendees regarding the current situation of Sadar Bazar via video conference.As per the MCG release, WRI officials said that due to encroachments, haphazard parking of vehicles, lack of seating arrangements, visitors to the area often face problems. They also said that while 90 percent of movement in the area is pedestrian in nature, roughly nine percent are of two-wheelers.The attendees were also informed that there was also no place for the movement of emergency vehicles due to encroachments and haphazard parking of vehicles. Almost 80 percent of people in the area agree that the market should be made pedestrian-friendly.As per the plan, the pedestrian trial will be conducted on a 650-metre stretch between Jama Masjid and Head Post Office in Sadar Bazar that happens to be the main thoroughfare of the market.The 650-metre stretch has a width of 9 to 13 metres. However, due to encroachments and haphazard parking, the width is significantly reduced. Despite its narrow lanes, Sadar Bazar has a footfall of around 20,000 people visiting the market during a weekend. It has more than 1,200 shops and 400 street vendors.“During the week-long trial, the entire market will be made vehicle-free. Barricades will be set up at all entry and exit points. All parking spots in the area will be marked and proper signage will be installed,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.A dedicated street vending zone will also be set up during the trial. Further, 70 benches will be erected and LED streetlights and green belts will also be developed.As per MCG officials who attended the meeting, vehicles will not be allowed in the market between 10am and 8pm, during the week-long trial.They added the civic body had to defer the trial last month after shop owners in the area complained against the lack of adequate parking facility provided by the civic body. “The shopkeepers complained that MCG had provided parking spaces at a distance. This time, the parking is less than 200-300 metres from their shops, with proper signage and lighting,” said an MCG official who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pedestrian-trial-at-sadar-bazar-to-commence-on-march-20-101615658683883.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mercury crosses 38°C in Mumbai, temperature likely to remain same: IMD||The city witnessed its warmest day of the season so far on Saturday. The Santacruz weather station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius, up from 37.3 degrees Celsius earlier this week.Previously, the Santacruz weather station had recorded 38.1 degree Celsius on March 4. Officials attributed the spike in Mercury levels to northeasterly winds, delaying the setting of sea breeze and causing a temperature rise. Colaba, on the other hand, the maximum temperature was recorded at 34.8 degrees Celsius.Officials also cautioned that the temperature would remain on the higher side over the next couple of days as well.“While no official heatwave is likely across the country over the next few days, Mercury levels will be on the higher side,” said Dr Shubhangi Bhute, a scientist at IMD. The minimum temperature at Santacruz and Colaba was recorded at 22 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which was at normal, and only slightly higher than the previous day’s reading.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Santacruz, there may be no relief from the heat over the next few days. The maximum temperature is expected to remain at 38 degrees Celsius for the next couple of days, while the minimum reading is also predicted to remain at 22 degrees Celsius. Mainly clear skies will prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mercury-crosses-38-c-in-mumbai-temperature-likely-to-remain-same-imd-101615658624698.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||No new restrictions for Mumbai yet, city records 1,709 Covid-19 cases on Saturday||No new restrictions have been planned for Mumbai yet, said the civic administration on Saturday, even as several cities across the state tightened restrictions in light of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, on Friday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department said on Saturday, “As of now, we have decided to implement the existing guidelines very stringently.”Mumbai on Saturday reported 1,709 Covid-19 cases. The cases have surged over 1,700 cases in 4.5 months, after October 21 when Mumbai had reported 1,791 Covid-19 cases. Mumbai also reported five deaths on Saturday, taking the death toll to 11,528.So far, Mumbai has reported a total of 341,999 Covid cases in the city, of which, 11,747 are active Covid-19 cases at present, with a recovery rate of 92%. The case fatality rate (CFR) is presently at 3.3%.Over the past few days, the number of cases reported in Mumbai per day has increased steadily. On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,647 fresh Covid cases, on Thursday, Mumbai reported 1,509 fresh covid-19 cases. and on Wednesday Mumbai had reported 1,539 fresh covid-19 cases. the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has further dropped to 186 days, from 194 days on Friday, and 205 days on Thursday. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.37%, up from 0.35% on Friday.In the month of March alone, Mumbai has reported 15,227 Covid-19 cases. In the same period last month, between February 1 and 13, Mumbai had reported 4,128 cases. In the entire month of February, Mumbai reported a total of 16,614 covid-19 cases.Aslam Shaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city said on Saturday, “The task force and the government is working on what all restrictions may be needed for the city. Within a week, we may make an announcement, which will pertain to restrictions on hotels, malls, gymnasiums, crowds at railway stations, taxis, and all public places.”On February 18, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal announced a tightening of containment and quarantine rules in the city, including sealing of buildings where more than five Covid-19 cases are found. Restaurants, malls, bars, in the city are allowed to function at 50% capacity, and wedding ceremonies cannot have more than 50 guests at the ceremony at a time. There are 31 containment zones which are usually slums or chawls, and 220 sealed buildings in Mumbai.Presently, Mumbai has 12,998 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, 537 beds for mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, 1,536 ICU beds, 944 ventilator beds, and 8,022 beds with oxygen points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-new-restrictions-for-mumbai-yet-city-records-1-709-covid-19-cases-on-saturday-101615658325379.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Cook at pvt event in Gzb held for spitting on bread||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police late Thursday arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly spitting on the bread he was tasked with baking at an event in Modinagar. Police said the incident came to light via a video of the alleged act, after which an FIR was registered at the Bhojpur police station.The suspect was identified as Mohammad Mohsin, who is from Muradnagar, who has been hired as a cook by the caterer at an engagement ceremony held at the premises of a college in Dausa Banjarpur in Bhojpur on Thursday afternoon.The complainant in the matter is Shiv Kumar Sharma.His nephew, Tarun Bhardwaj, said: “My uncle was hosting a function and had roped in a caterer who had hired the suspect to cook naan. During the function, while the food was served, one of our guests spotted the act in which the suspect was seen spitting on every naan before putting it into the tandoor (oven). The guest shot a video and informed us,” alleged Tarun Bhardwaj. He said that about 200 guests had been invited for the event.“After the incident came to light, we questioned the suspect but he ran away. We then gave the police the video along with a complaint and an FIR was lodged. However, none of our guests ate lunch after the issue came to light. It was really depressing to see someone doing such an act and serving such food to people,” he added. The police said the suspect was arrested late at night from Muradnagar.“We verified the video and traced the suspect before he was arrested. Based on the complaint given to us, we registered an FIR under several Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections. It was alleged that the suspect was spitting on the naans before cooking them,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).The FIR was lodged against the suspect under IPC sections of 295a (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 269 (unlawfully or negligently act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cook-at-pvt-event-in-gzb-held-for-spitting-on-bread-101615658323884.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Active Covid cases in Chandigarh again go past 1,000||The number of active Covid-19 cases crossed the 1,000 mark after a span of four months in Chandigarh on Saturday.The UT recorded 144 new cases — the highest since the surge post festive season last November — which took the total and number of active cases to 22,976 and 1,032, respectively. Meanwhile, the death of a 51-year-old woman from Dhanas took the number of fatalities to 358. The recovery rate stands at 94%, with 21,586 patients being cured so far.The grim milestone of 1,000 active cases, up from 430 at the beginning of the month, is coupled with a substantial increase in positivity rate, which is more than double the national average and second highest in the country despite increase in testing.Even as Chandigarh is conducting around 1,400 tests per million population in a day, against the national average of around 600, the weekly positivity rate in the city has bumped up to 6.3%, against 2.8% in India.The neighbouring state of Punjab, which is also witnessing a surge in infections, is conducting 657 tests per million population and has a weekly positivity rate of 5%, which is the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Chandigarh.‘Take precautions to beat surge’“This shows that the infection is widespread in the community, and if people do not adhere to the safety protocol, the situation can turn more serious. A similar trend was witnessed in November, but as people started taking precautions, the number of cases went down,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services.In November, the number of active cases had started to fall after reaching the peak of 1,190. “We strongly suggest that residents should venture outside only for essential work and for their jobs. Dine-in at restaurants should be avoided, and masks should be used at social gatherings. Adhering to the protocol for at least 10 days can reverse the upward trend,” said Dr Kang, while adding that it has been observed that social gatherings, and not the workplace, are the main source of infection.“In March last year, we had the target of eliminating this disease in six months. Now, we have completed one year of the pandemic, and the situation is the same,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. “We are seeing surges at constant intervals, as we don’t follow the Covid appropriate behaviour. It needs at least one year of strict adherence; otherwise we will see these waves coming regularly.” However, in the recent surge, no case of reinfection or different variant of virus has surfaced in the city, said officials. Meanwhile, the number of vaccine doses administered in Chandigarh has reached 50,670 after 2,558 people were jabbed on Saturday. The coverage among both healthcare and frontline workers is around 50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-again-go-past-1000-101615658265741.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Governance reforms: PU teachers’ body calls open meet on March 20||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) will hold an open meet for stakeholders regarding the varsity’s governance reforms on March 20.The teachers’ body, a key stakeholder in the governance reforms exercise underway at the varsity, will hold the meeting to offer a public platform to all those associated with the university and its governing structure. PUTA has already written to the varsity administration, requesting them to provide a venue on the campus for the event.The meeting will be held in the open if a venue is not provided.A high-level committee of experts, constituted by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU, had earlier decided to seek inputs from all stakeholders of the university for governance reforms.On Friday, PUTA had written to the chancellor criticising the working of the committee. The body said the panel seemed to be in a great hurry to demolish the democratic and people-centric governance structure of PU in the name of governance reforms.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “The issue at hand is extremely crucial for all stakeholders of PU, which cannot be decided in haste and in absence of any open debate and discussion.”“The decades-old system of democratic participation cannot be dispensed in one stroke, without an objective analysis of what has actually gone wrong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/governance-reforms-pu-teachers-body-calls-open-meet-on-march-20-101615658264553.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Don't force us to implement strict lockdown: Maharashtra CM's last warning to hotel, restaurant owners||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday ordered hotels and restaurants in the state to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols in their premises and not force the state to enforce drastic measures like lockdown.Speaking at a virtual meeting attended by representatives of hotel and restaurant associations, shopping centre groups, the CM said a "lackadaisical" attitude towards outbreak norms had crept in lately."Do not force us to impose a strict lockdown. Consider this as the last warning. Follow all the rules. Everyone has to realise there is a difference between self-discipline and restrictions," Thackeray said.The CM pointed out that crowds had increased in most places since activities resumed in a phased manner from October, and safety rules were not being followed and this had resulted in a steep surge in cases.Incidentally, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 15,602 COVID-19 cases and 88 deaths, taking the tally to 22,97,793 and the toll to 52,811."Last week, a Central team visited Mumbai and one of the members told me no one was wearing masks or following social distancing at a hotel they visited. Initially, hotels, restaurants were adhering strictly to COVID-19 norms, but now everyone has become lackadaisical," he said.He said his government was not in favour of a lockdown to tackle the latest surge and asked people to cooperate to avoid having to take such a drastic decision.Mumbai municipal commissioner IS Chahal suggested that the hotel and restaurant associations can organise flying squads to check if outbreak norms were being followed.These association said member establishments not adhering to rules will be removed, while shopping centre representatives said they could deploy "COVID marshals" to check people in malls, while entry into food courts will be restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-force-us-to-implement-strict-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-gives-last-warning-101615657730985.html
13-03-2021||Other||Truck mows down 3 friends on Ludhiana-Jalandhar highway||Three friends were mowed down by a speeding truck on National Highway 44 on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The victims, all residents of Rishi Nagar of Ludhiana, were headed to Jalandhar in a Maruti Suzuki when the mishap took place.The victims have been identified as Sanjiv Kumar, 30, Arun Kumar, 23, and Krishan Kumar, 22. While Sanjiv was a sanitary worker in the municipal corporation, Arun Kumar was a labourer and Krishan Kumar a waiter.As per information, the trio was going to visit Sanjiv’s mother-in-law in Jalandhar as she had suffered a paralytic attack. When they reached near Hardy’s world amusement park, their car ran out of petrol and they starting pushing the vehicle towards the fuelling station. Meanwhile, a speeding truck, which was also going towards Jalandhar side, hit them, killing them on the spot. As per the police, all three victims were crushed between the car and the truck. The truck driver escaped the spot after the mishap.Sanjiv’s relatives, who were also headed to Jalandhar, had spotted the mangled remains of the vehicle on the way and informed the police. Vikas Kumar, a relative of Sanjiv Kumar, said the accident took place minutes after the trio left home around 12.30am. Salem Tabri station house officer, inspector Gopal Krishan said an FIR under Sections 279 (reckless driving), 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified truck driver. He added that the police have seized the vehicle and launched a manhunt for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/truck-mows-down-3-friends-on-ludhiana-jalandhar-highway-101615658026156.html
13-03-2021||Kolkata||CM Banerjee more qualified than protégé-turned-adversary Adhikari, earns less||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is educationally more qualified than her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari and her annual earning has shot up ten times in the last five years, while Adhikari’s has dropped by a few lakhs, say their affidavits filed with the Election Commission of India.Banerjee, who decided to contest the polls from Nandigram in East Midnapore, filed her nomination on March 10. The BJP has pitted one of its most heavyweight candidates Adhikari against the TMC supremo. Adhikari filed his nomination on Friday.The affidavits show that 66-year-old Banerjee, a resident of south Kolkata, has completed her MA and LLB from Calcutta University. In 2016, when she contested the last assembly polls from Bhabanipur, she had also mentioned in the affidavit about completing BEd and having been trained in work education. Adhikari, who hails from Nandigram, on the other hand, is equipped with a master degree from Rabindra Bharati University.West Bengal is all set to witness one of the most high-pitched poll battles on April 1 when Nandigram goes to polls in the second phase with Banerjee and Adhikari pitted against each other. The crucial state assembly polls will take off on March 27.Also read: 'Save Bengal, don't vote for BJP' Rakesh Tikait appeals to Bengal votersThe affidavit also shows that Banerjee annual earnings have shot up around ten times from ₹1,72,910 in 2015-16 to ₹10,34,370 in 2019-20. Adhikari, however, has shown a decline in his total earning from ₹14,83,730 in 2015-16 to ₹11,15,715 in 2019-20.While Adhikari’s income comes from his business and pension as a former MP, Banerjee said that her sources of income are royalty, bank interest and others.“Banerjee does not take any salary as an MLA or as the state’s chief minister. She was a seven-time parliamentarian but has forgone the pension. She generates her income from royalties of books and music,” said a senior TMC leader.Banerjee has penned more than 100 books in Hindi, Bengali, English and Urdu. While 13 of them were released in the 2020 Kolkata International Book Fair, in the 2019 book fair she had released seven books, while in 2018 she had released nine books,” said a TMC leader.The list of books includes essays, a collection of poems, a set of political writings on current scenarios and books on Urdu shayaris. She has also written books on the uprisings in Nandigram, Singur and on the issue of demonetization.The Bharatiya Janata Party refrained from making any comments on the CM’s earnings.None of the two leaders has ever been convicted in any criminal cases neither any cases are pending against them.Apart from some cash in hand, some bank balance and NSC, Banerjee owns only around 9.75 grams of gold which is worth around ₹43,837 as per the current value. The total worth of her moveable assets is around ₹16 lakhs. She has no immovable assets in her name.Adhikari’s movable assets are worth more than ₹59 lakhs including few lakh deposits in banks, Kisan Vikas Patra, LIC policies and NSC. His immovable assets including agricultural lands and flats are worth around ₹46 lakhs.“In a democracy, it doesn’t matter who is rich or poor or who is more educated and less educated. What matters is how well a leader is accepted by the people and how the leader has performed if he or she is in the government. Mamata’s simplicity is a good political strategy even though the cotton saree which she wears, the sandals and her watch are all costly enough,” said Amal Mukherjee, a political commentator and former principal of Presidency College in Kolkata.Whether it would be Banerjee or Adhikari, who would have the last smile could only be decided on May 2 when the counting of votes takes place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-banerjee-more-qualified-than-prot-g-turned-adversary-adhikari-earns-less-101615657327553.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Younger population infecting seniors with Covid-19, say experts||Around 25 per cent of the Covid-19 cases in the district have been reported from those belonging to the age group of 31-40 years of age while maximum deaths or 29 per cent of the deaths have been reported among those from the age group of 61-70 years of age, according to experts. Experts say the younger population is spreading the infection to the more vulnerable age group. As per the information from the district health office, as of March 10 the district has reported about 4.25 lakh cases of which over four lakhs had recovered and 9,341 have been declared dead. As per the age-wise bifurcation of the cases, maximum cases which are over one lakh which is about 25% of the cases have been reported in the age group from 31-40 while maximum deaths have reported from the age group of 61-70 years of age which is about 2,783 deaths. Among children in the age group of 0-10, the highest recovery rate could be seen as the case fatality rate is 0.1 per cent. While those aged between 11-20 years of age have shown a CFR of only 0.2 per cent. The maximum fatalities in the senior citizens age group are evident in the fact that they are vulnerable and could easily succumb to the infection. Dr Abhiit More, AAP leader and Jan Aarogya Manch member which works in public health said, “It is obvious as this age group belongs to the productive age group and they come out and interact with multiple people and then they carry the infection to their parents. The senior citizens at home are more vulnerable as they are old and suffer from multiple comorbidities. The younger population has to be more cautious and not let down their guard. They have to continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. However, now that the senior citizens have the option of taking the vaccine, more and more elderly people must opt for the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/younger-population-infecting-seniors-with-covid-19-say-experts-101615657784886.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||'Delhi government's healthcare system no less than private systems': Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday the city government's healthcare system performed "no less than" that at private facilities in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.Addressing an event held on the premises of the Delhi Assembly here to felicitate 'corona warriors' from Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Baba Saheb Ambedkar Medical College, he lauded their efforts during the height of the pandemic last year.Jain said he was proud that the "Delhi government's healthcare system was no less than that of a private healthcare system in fighting the pandemic".The minister asserted that the ambulance response time was "reduced and it was ensured that it reached the patients' home within 15 minutes of the call".Also, setting up holding areas in hospitals, facilitated the admission of patients within 10 minutes.He applauded the corona warriors and said it's time to get goodwill by the virtue of providing service to the people.On the availability of beds, Jain said, "We have now declared Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital as a non-Covid hospital, because even at our dedicated Covid hospitals, the number of Covid-19 patients is very less, and beds are available in ample number."The hospital at Burari has 300 beds for Covid-19 patients, which has only 10-12 patients now, LNJP Hospital has 300 dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients, whereas the number of patients is only 20.Similarly, at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, 500 beds have been dedicated to such positive patients, however, the number of admissions is only 10-11, he added.Meanwhile, Delhi on Saturday recorded 419 new Covid-19 cases, crossing the 400-mark for the third consecutive day, while the positivity rate stood at 0.56 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.Interacting with reporters, Jain had said on Friday the figures of over 400 per day suddenly were "not alarming", and asserted that the positivity rate was still below one per cent.The city recorded 419 fresh cases on Saturday, while the death toll climbed to 10,939 with three more fatalities, as per the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-s-healthcare-system-no-less-than-private-systems-health-minister-satyendar-jain-101615657290277.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Hear the silent cry||It was not uncommon for gardeners at large schools with playfields shrouded in wild grass or greenskeepers at the Chandigarh Golf Club to bring back adorable bunnies cupped in their hands. Children would drool over them. These leverets of the wild Rufous-tailed hares were usually unearthed while slashing ‘waste’ grasses and shrubs. In the countryside encircling Chandigarh, hares were common. At night, they would astound travellers on a dusty track by getting transfixed in car headlights or race along for a distance. But these ‘lesser forms’ of biodiversity have been relegated to grandpa memories or rare sightings. Our children will never savour the joy and wonder of cradling a wild bunny.Known as ‘saiha’ or ‘seha’ in Punjabi, hares have reduced due to the application of fertilisers and pesticides, and the reclamation of grasslands and scrublands for crops and colonies. An increasing population of stray dogs also takes a toll on hares. Hare meat is a delicacy. Tribal or village poachers with hound packs leave hares with minimal chances of escape. When wounded by gunshot, hares let out the most heart-rending and piteous cries not unlike human children tortured by stereotypical stepmothers. The day is not far when hares will virtually disappear from the countryside like the hedgehogs or ‘jhar chuhas’ of yore.Teri bindiya reDepictions of Nature in painting are lush in expression and symbolism but their interpretation, or the so-called ‘meaning’ embedded in them, may elude audiences uninitiated to aesthetic review. Herein, lies the beauty of art that it can lend itself to differing interpretations or the construction of a ‘story’ according to the particularities of a viewer’s sensibilities. At the recent 19th all-India annual exhibition hosted by the WE Group of Contemporary Women Artists at Government Museum and Art Gallery, a painting depicting the gentle beauty of the water world and washed in soft, understated colours caught the eye, though no award was bestowed on it.Painted by Seema Gupta of the faculty of visual arts, Banaras Hindu University, viewers wondered at the meaning of the half-moon-like lady immersed like a Durga Puja idol. “The round bindi on her forehead seems indicative of the circle of continuity, rejuvenation and renewal; the depiction merges Nature into a mother-like figure. The universal mother beckons and nourishes all beings from the fish trying to embrace it to the lotus blooming under her care,” was the considered view of one visitor nurturing cultural and aesthetic sensibilities.The paintings were kept untitled —deliberately by organisers — to encourage interpretations free of the artists’ agenda. But left clueless, some viewers found Gupta’s work mysterious, and it was but natural for them to wonder what the artist had in mind. ‘Was the ethereal woman drowning with a gentle smile?’ Our cultures celebrate the ‘bindi’ but are there unseen, unfelt shadows to the brow’s luminous moon?When I spoke to Gupta, she revealed her work’s title: Inner Beauty. “When it comes to depicting beauty, it is the woman’s beauty which is forever foremost. However, many thoughts — unknown to all and more than those nurtured by men — race through a woman’s mind, like a fish wandering listlessly, going ‘idhar-udhar’ in the dark depths. Like the lotus, a woman presents a beautiful, happy face to the world, though her heart may be brimming with untold sadness,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzzhear-the-silent-cry-101615657605160.html
13-03-2021||Other||Amid rising Covid cases, Ludhiana bus stand authorities drop guard||At a time when the district is witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, authorities at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal seem to have dropped the guard by suspending thermal screening of visitors. What’s more, visitors can be seen openly flouting the mask norms, putting their own and others’ lives at risk. With at least 1,000 private and government-run buses departing from and entering the city, the inter-state bus stand sees a huge footfall on a daily basis, thereby increasing the chances of infection. Harmeet Singh, a city resident who travels to Doraha every day for work, says, “Authorities should not drop guard at this point. The number of cases are increasing rapidly. With no checks in place, the chances of infection become higher and as there is barely any record of visitors or passengers, contract tracing may also prove difficult.” Rakesh, another visitor at the bus stand, said, “With no checking in place, everyone is just responsible for themselves. Even bus conductors do not wear masks.”While authorities stated that required steps will be taken to start screening of passengers, the buses staff claimed that it becomes difficult for them to perform their duty with a mask on. A PRTC conductor, requesting anonymity, said, “It becomes impossible for us to speak loudly, to inform passengers about the bus destination, while wearing a mask. Also, the mask sometimes causes itching due to the scorching heat.”Station supervisor Jasvir Sahota said, “The administration had deployed special staff for conducting thermal screening of visitors. I will check why it has been discontinued. Further, our staff members continuously ask visitors to wear masks and police have also been issuing challans to violators at the bus stand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-rising-covid-cases-ludhiana-bus-stand-authorities-drop-guard-101615657544546.html
13-03-2021||Pune||At 35,687, Pune dist administered highest number of vaccine doses in state on Saturday||At least 35,687 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the Pune district on Saturday which was the highest in the state followed by Mumbai suburban district which saw 33,017 vaccinations.As of Saturday, the district saw cumulative 90,774 health care workers who have got their first dose of the vaccine and 29,614 have got their second dose. Also, 55,656 frontline workers have got their first dose and 2,657 have got their second dose.At least 15,752 people aged between 45-59 with comorbidities have got the vaccine and 114,107 senior citizens. Totally over 3.08 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the district to date.District, meanwhile, reported 3,066 new Covid cases and 12 more deaths in 24 hours, according to the state health department. This took the progressive count of the district to over 4.36 lakh out of which 4.04 lakh have recovered and 8,182 have been declared as dead.Currently, 24,025 are active cases that are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune continues to report the highest active cases in the state and double that of Mumbai which has 11,747 active cases.Pune city has reported 1,667 new cases which took the progressive count to 2.23 lakh and ten more deaths which took the death toll to 4,622.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 773 new cases which took the progressive count to 1.09 lakh and zero deaths were reported on Saturday which took the death toll to 1,343.Pune rural, meanwhile, reported 626 new cases which took the progressive count to 1.03 lakh and two more deaths which took the count to 2,168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-35-687-pune-dist-administered-highest-number-of-vaccine-doses-in-state-on-saturday-101615657484339.html
13-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports over 900 new Covid-19 infections, one death||The Covid-19 case count shot past past the 900 mark in Karnataka on Saturday, including one with the South African strain, taking the caseload to just above 9.59 lakh, while a lone fatality took the toll to 12,387, the health department said. Recoveries outnumbered new cases, with 992 people being discharged from hospitals, as against 921 infections. Karnataka has been witnessing a rapid rise in cases since March 8, when it logged 436 cases. The state recorded 590 the following day and the figure shot up to 833 on March 12. Bengaluru Urban continued to head the list of cases, accounting for 630 infections, but for the first time in many months, reported zero fatalities. Cumulatively, 9,59,338 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,387 deaths and 9,38,890 discharges, the health department said in a bulletin. Of the 8,042 active cases, 123 are in Intensive Care Units of various hospitals, it said. Mysuru was second in number of cases with 47, Dakshina Kannada reported 43, Tumakuru 38, Kalaburagi 35, Bidar 15, Bengaluru Rural and Udupi reported 13 each and Hassan 11. Four districts -- Chamarajanagar, Haveri, Koppal and Ramanagara --reported zero cases and fatalities. The lone fatality in the state on Saturday was reported from Mysuru. A total of 1.97 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 72,650 were on Saturday alone, the bulletin said. With one more person testing positive for the South African strain of the virus, the total has gone up to three. Twenty nine people have so far been detected with the UK strain of the virus. A total of 9,344 people were vaccinated on Saturday, the bulletin said, adding no instance of AEFI (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-over-900-new-covid-19-infections-one-death-101615656862202.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 FIRs lodged against farmers for illegal construction, digging borewell at Kundli||Rohtak A man from Punjab (Karam Singh) was booked by name in two FIRs registered against farmers for constructing brick-mortar houses and digging borewell along the highway at Kundli on the complaint of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) project director Anand Singh and Kundli municipal council secretary Pawan Kumar. Police also visited the protest site at Kundli and asked the farmers to stop all brick-and-mortar constructions. The FIRs have been registered under sections 283 (whoever, by doing any act, or by omitting to take order with any property in his possession or under his charge, causes danger, obstruction or injury to any person ) and 431(mischief by injury to public road, bridge, river or channel) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8-B of the National Highway Act, 1956. In the second FIR, the police booked Punjab farmer Karam Singh and others under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 8-B of the National Highway Act, 1956, for digging borewell near KFC in Kundli. Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said, “The complainants stated farmers have constructed homes along the Chandigarh–Delhi national highway and dug borewell. We visited the spot and asked the farmers to stop all construction.” Farmers getting summer-ready As the summer is approaching, the farmers protesting against three farm laws since November have started constructing low-cost brick houses at Tikri and Kundli-Singhu borders along the Rohtak-Delhi road in Bahadurgarh, eyeing for a long haul. Deepak Ahlawat, a farmer from Jhajjar said they had used tents and tractor-trolleys as shelter homes during the winter but as the harvesting of Rabi crop is on, the tractors are moving back to the villages. “We are constricting make-shift homes so that we don’t suffer in summers. We are also asking the farmers to help in harvesting the crops of those staying put at protest sites,” he added. “These permanent brick structures are being constructed by farmers at individual levels as a preparation for summers in order to install fans, coolers, and ACs, and to keep out flies and mosquitoes,” said Paramjit Singh of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers’ unions. “This government is having a misconception that the farmers will leave the site without getting their demands fulfilled. We won’t and that has been our stand since the beginning,” Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of SKM told PTI. “The construction of permanent houses tells everyone about the determination of our farmers. We are preparing for the long haul, six months or one year, we won’t budge,” he added. Beside concrete houses, the farmers were also seen beautifying the surrounding area by planting trees and flowers. They are also putting up benches and make-shift canopy to give farmers some respite from scorching heat during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-firs-lodged-against-farmers-for-illegal-construction-digging-borewell-at-kundli-101615656824535.html
13-03-2021||Other||New Kendriya Vidyalaya at IIT Ropar to start operations on March 15||Kendriya Vidyalaya at IIT Ropar will start its operations from March 15 with Anil Kumar joining as the principal. The staff will be appointed through Regional Office, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, and will join by April. The school, set up on three acres, is in project mode, wherein the whole expenditure from construction to providing infrastructure and also salaries to the KV staff will be borne by IIT Ropar. There are 40 seats in Class 1, which have been allotted through online mode in March. Admissions for Classes 2 to 5, also with 40 seats each, will be done through offline mode in April. For now, each class will have one section. “The KV at IIT Ropar will be a boon for local residents, as it will be a unique combination of higher and school education. The establishment of a Kendriya Vidyalaya on the campus will give students a dream to aspire for a career in science and technology,” said Ravinder Kumar, officiating registrar, IIT Ropar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-kendriya-vidyalaya-at-iit-ropar-to-start-operations-on-march-15-101615656644457.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Man nabbed for duping people on pretext of govt jobs||Noida: A 29-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly duping people of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of helping them get government jobs.The suspect was identified as Mukesh Kumar, a native of Deoria district, who was living with his family in a high-rise in Greater Noida West. He has worked with a public sector bank in Lucknow earlier, police said.“In Noida, the suspect would often hang out outside a cooperative society of a public sector oil marketing company in Sector 62 to show people that he lived there. He would use a different name and contact people through social media, pretending to be AGM of the company. Then he would offer to help them get jobs in that company for which he charged hefty fees,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that so far five victims have been identified -- two from Rajasthan and the rest from Noida. The suspect has duped people of different amounts ranging from ₹4 lakh to 20 lakh, they said.“He has at least one more accomplice that we have identified. We are working to nab him as well. We recovered two fake appointment letters from him as well. He had recently purchased an SUV and used two iPhones which were also seized. During questioning, he also revealed that he had spent over ₹35 lakh in his father’s treatment in Lucknow,” said the ACP.Kumar was nabbed from Sector 62, police said, adding that his bank accounts are being looked at and will be frozen.The suspect, a graduate from Gorakhpur University, has been duping people for over 18 months now, said police. Other cases against him are also being identified. Kumar was booked for cheating, impersonation and forgery at Sector 58 police station. The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-nabbed-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-govt-jobs-101615656224437.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Woman catches ‘harasser’, slaps him; video of incident goes viral||Noida: A woman, who appeared to be in her early 20s, caught a man, who she alleged had harassed her on her way to work, and allegedly struck him multiple times while a crowd gathered around the duo, on Friday morning in Noida. The purported incident, which passersby shot videos of on camera, took place near Sector 12 on the side of an unidentified road around 8:30am. The video was widely circulated on social media.It is purported that she caught the man with the help of the public.In the video, the woman could purportedly be seen telling bystanders that the man touched her inappropriately, following which she slapped him. She purportedly asked them to report the incident to the police and hand over the man to the police. Later, the man purportedly could be seen accepting his mistake and apologising to the woman. Following this, some people purportedly intervened and requested the woman to let the man go.The Noida police said they took cognisance of the matter after the video went viral on social media platforms. Senior police officers said that “no complaint was filed at the local police station”.“It appears that the incident took place in Noida Sector 12, but no one has approached us. A probe is underway to verify the authenticity of the video, and identify the parties involved. We will take action accordingly,” said assistant commissioner of police (zone 1) Rajneesh Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-catches-harasser-slaps-him-video-of-incident-goes-viral-101615656223808.html
13-03-2021||Other||Guest column: The nuts and bolts of vaccinating a country||There is no magic in magic, it’s all in the details,” said the master storyteller, Walt Disney. As India rolls out vaccines across the country, this advice should encourage officials to focus on the nuts and bolts of vaccination.The inoculations will require granular planning in scheduling, determining disseminating centres, sending communications to recipients, recruitment of adequate volunteers, safe storage and transportation of vaccines, maintenance of records, watching for side effects and keeping track of second jabs. Ideally, all information should be stored digitally so that health authorities can easily access it during follow-ups.Countries have begun with determining priority groups. Generally, these are health workers, the army and police.Senior citizens, the aged, and infirm, may have comorbidities. These citizens should be told to register with local hospitals and then visit on predetermined days for inoculations. Those who are unable to travel should be inoculated at home. The challenge will be to vaccinate millions of ordinary citizens under the age of 60. The census data with local governments will be of immense value in managing micro-localities. They will help to establish the exact number of people, their location and the doses to be administered daily. Citizens will have to be inoculated by geographical zones. Depending on the quantum of vaccines available, municipalities will have to prepare schedule for vaccinations by locality and communicate them digitally. They can allocate time schedules as per specific zones .A key element in inoculating the population will be to determine the exact number of doses to be disbursed daily to vaccination centres. This is akin to the demand forecasting models employed by corporations. Municipalities can calibrate the number of doses required in any town or locality through computer modelling. The model would need input such as population size, ages, locations of people and indicative ratios of people coming for inoculations in neighbourhoods and transport availability. The recruitment and training of an adequate number of health workers to inoculate citizens could prove challenging. Even retired health workers such as doctors and nurses should be asked to pitch in for administering jabs in nearby hospitals. Vaccines should be stored in the cold storages of hospitals and health clinics. The help of the private sector can also be sought, for accessing their cold storage facilities and disseminating the vaccines.Health authorities should maintain meticulous records of the names, ages and contact details of people who have been inoculated. This will also help to ensure that they return for the second jab.Inoculating a billion people in India is a tough call and as such we should enrol the private sector actively. Large corporations such as Tata and Unilever have their own clinics with doctors and medical staff in offices and factories. These companies should be given vaccines to inoculate their staff .While vaccinating slums, it would be useful to establish vaccination centres on sites. Vaccination can be undertaken in educational institutes. If there are enough vaccines, we could order them online. Pharmacies could pack ‘do-it-yourself’ kits. This can happen in 24 to 30 months. (The author, a management consultant, has been managing director of Unilever Tanzania. He is an alum of Harvard Business School.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-column-the-nuts-and-bolts-of-vaccinating-a-country-101615655984384.html
13-03-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt clears 75% quota for locals in private sector industry||The government of Jharkhand has approved an employment policy that requires 75 per cent of jobs in private sector industrial units to be reserved for locals, sources in the government said. The rule would be applicable for jobs up to the salary of ₹30,000 per month, officials said.Confirming the development, a minister who was part of the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday, said on condition of anonymity that the policy aims at reserving jobs for locals in the industrial units in the state."The cabinet has cleared the employment policy providing for reserving seats for locals. As of now, it will be implemented in the industrial units. In due course, other sectors could also follow," said the minister.The minister, however, refused to share the policy's blueprint, saying it will be made public at an opportune time. Sources said the chief minister is likely to make a formal announcement over the decision coming week in the ongoing budget session of the Jharkhand assembly.Also read: JMM backing TMC in WB is different; alliances are state specific - J'khand CongSources said the government is unlikely to bring any bill at this stage to back the decision. "A separate Act is not required as the new features in the employment policy could be implemented through an executive order cleared by the cabinet," a source said.Reserving jobs in the private sector was a poll promise of the ruling dispensation for the 2019 assembly election, besides increasing quota for the scheduled categories in the government jobs and educational institutions in the state in proportion to their population.Another important decision that was taken in the cabinet meeting, sources said, was giving a nod to paying an annual unemployment allowance for the trained youths registered in the state for jobs but yet to be employed.Reacting to the development, the opposition BJP said while they welcome any decision that is for the state’s youth, the party said they have doubts over effective implementation of such schemes of the Hemant Soren government.“We welcome anything good for the locals. We would comment on the decision of the government only after the government comes out with the draft of the policy officially. However, we have serious doubts that these schemes would help the beneficiaries. It is likely to meet the same fate as the agricultural loan waiver announcement which has hardly benefitted the needy as yet,” said Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.BJP government in Haryana has recently come up with a similar decision reserving 75 per cent of jobs in the private sector for the locals. However, the salary cap in the northern state has been kept higher.Reacting to the upcoming policy of the Hemant Soren government, president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce & Industries (FJCCI), Praveen Jain Chhabra said in-principle they were not against such a reservation policy but the government should simultaneously help in developing skilled labour force within the state.“Basically, the labour in the industry is classified as unskilled and skilled. Most of the unskilled labours employed in the industry here are locals. As far as skilled labour goes, a certain percentage of such workforce could be from outside. We would like the government to push for setting up skill development centres, as they have also talked in the industrial policy, and help the industry in recruiting workforce locally,” said the FJCCI president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-clears-75-quota-for-locals-in-private-sector-industry-101615655721262.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||SHO arrested in Chandigarh house grab case sent to two-day police custody||A local court on Saturday sent Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh, arrested for his involvement in the Sector-37 property grab case, to two-day police custody.Rajdeep is the fourth person to be arrested in the matter following a probe by the special investigation team (SIT).Journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta and Satpal Dagar, brother of deputy superintendent of police Ram Gopal, who were arrested earlier, are currently in judicial custody. The trio is among nine people facing charges of kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, the only surviving heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338-square-yard house and selling it to Manish’s brother for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. Constables statement did Rajdeep in According to the FIR, lodged on the complaint of Mehta’s tenant Pradeep Ratan, the inspector, who was the then SHO of the Sector-39 police station, had failed to take action against Mahajan, bouncer Surjit Singh and Shekhar, who had forcibly occupied Mehta’s house. During investigation, sources privy to it said, two constables exposed Rajdeep’s involvement in the property grab case. In their statement before the SIT, the constables said the complaint lodged by Ratan in January 2019 was brushed aside as a dispute between landlord and tenant, even when the complaint was about house trespass and forcible occupation of a house. Ratan had alleged that the property grabbers had also assaulted him and misbehaved with him. However, the SHO, who himself dealt with the matter, ignored this as well. Rajdeep is accused of being part of the conspiracy, and being aware of the house grab and treatment meted out to Mehta by the accused. The police will be questioning him about the circumstances under which he obliged the accused by not acting on the tenant’s complaint. They also want to question him about the whereabouts of the complaint as well as the mental health certificate of Mehta, which was allegedly removed by him. Ratan had alleged in the FIR that Rajdeep removed the certificate, which was attached with his complaint, and kept it in his pocket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sho-arrested-in-chandigarh-house-grab-case-sent-to-two-day-police-custody-101615655264354.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Mohali district sees 100+ cases 4th day in row||Mohali district recorded 100+ fresh cases of Covid-19 for fourth consecutive day and sixth time this month with 125 people testing positive for the virus on Saturday. Meanwhile, with three patients succumbing to it, the death toll went past 400. As many as 21,656 people have tested positive so far, of whom 401 have died and 1,237 are still undergoing treatment. Amid the surge, the administration on Friday imposed night curfew (from 11pm to 5am) for non-essential services in the district. In just four days, 617 people have been infected and 10 have died. The tally this month has climbed to 1,341 cases and 16 deaths, as compared to 840 and 20, respectively, throughout February. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 933 (70%) reported this month so far. With 64 patients being discharged, the number of those cured has reached 20,018, though the recovery rate has fallen from 95% in the beginning of the month to 92.4% on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-mohali-district-sees-100-cases-4th-day-in-row-101615654604728.html
13-03-2021||Other||250 terrorists in launch pads, 200 active in J&K: DGP||There are around 200 terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir while 250 are in various launch pads across the LoC in PoK, said director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Saturday.He was responding to media queries here after inaugurating a police sports event.Singh said though there are around 200 active terrorists in J&K, we are hopeful that their number will go down like last year.He informed that as per the inputs from intelligence agencies, there were around 250 terrorists in various launch pads in PoK.On sticky bombs, he said they were a new threat. “The magnetic sticky bombs can be placed with ease in vehicles and other metals. We have made a huge recovery of these bombs and if there are any left out, they will be seized soon,” he said.Singh said various Pakistani agencies for the past over 30 years have been trying to disrupt peace in Jammu and Kashmir. “But we have foiled their sinister designs and will continue to do so,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/250-terrorists-in-launch-pads-200-active-in-j-k-dgp-101615654424338.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Panchkula logs 62 cases, highest this year||We have entered the second wave, said Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur, after the district on Saturday recorded 62 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day jump this year that took the total to 11,285.The number of active cases has shot up from 124 at the beginning of the month to 343, and recovery rate has dropped from 97.4% to 95.6% in these 13 days. The daily positivity rate stood at 5.3% on Saturday, as 1,168 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. While 10,793 patients have been cured,149 have succumbed to the virus. “We have entered the second wave, which is going on in the adjoining regions as well. We were kind of expecting it, and that’s why we are trying to get over with vaccination on time, so that we can deal with the rush of patients,” said Dr Kaur, adding that the situation is challenging as the vaccination drive has hit the sampling work. Meanwhile, the health department will extend the ongoing vaccination drive for senior citizens and comorbid people to 42 sites on Monday. The drive took place at 27 sites — 18 government and nine private — on Saturday, and 1,726 people were vaccinated.“The cases are rising and people need to take precautions. This vaccine is good and has no side effects,” said deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, adding that citizens can now register themselves online before going for vaccination as the Co-WIN portal has been made functional. As many as 24,185 people have been vaccinated in the district to date, and 4,885 have received the second dose as well. Even though the drive for senior citizens began just this month, they constitute the major chunk with 11,963 getting the jab so far. Meanwhile, only 931 comorbid people in the age group of 45-59 years have been vaccinated.Apart from them, 6,336 frontline workers and 4,955 healthcare workers have been covered. Of them, 1,982 and 2,903, respectively, have got the second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-panchkula-logs-62-cases-highest-this-year-101615654304248.html
13-03-2021||Other||J&K Police issues list of 9 wanted militants||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday issued a list of nine wanted militants and sought information from the people about them.Of the nine militants, seven are active in Srinagar city and its outskirts.While releasing their pictures, the police promised rewards to people who would provide information about the militants and also shared phone numbers to contact the cops.One of the nine militants, Shahid Khursheed of Chanpora had joined militancy last month, while Waseem Qadir Mir of Nowgam, Bilal Ahmad Bhat, Imran Ahmad Sofi of Natipora, Saquib Manzoor of Barzulla and Ubaid Shafi Dar of Batamaloo took up arms last year.The police have also named Abid Nadeem Bhat of Eidgah in the list. He has been an active militant since 2018.Apart from them, the list includes Mohammad Yusuf Dar of Check Kawoosa, Budgam. According to the police, he had joined militancy in 2012, however, he got recycled in 2015 again and is wanted by police ever since. As per the list, Mohammad Abbas Shiekh from Kulgam, who became a militant in 2015 and is considered as one of the prominent commanders in south Kashmir, is also wanted.Police, however, has not mentioned anything about the groups these militants are affiliated to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-police-issues-list-of-9-wanted-militants-101615654244285.html
13-03-2021||Other||Two cops injured in Sopore grenade attack||Two policemen were injured in a grenade attack by militants in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday.They have been identified as constable Azad Ahmad and special police officer (SPO) Mohammad Afzal.A police spokesperson said that around 1pm, they received information that militants have hurled a grenade at a police post at Sopore bus stand and senior police officers reached the spot.“Preliminary investigation revealed that the two cops sustained injuries in the grenade attack by the ultras. Both have been evacuated to a nearby hospital for the treatment,” the spokesperson said adding that a case has been registered in this regard under relevant sections of the law.“Investigation is in progress and officers are working to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime. The area has been cordoned off and search is being conducted,” the spokesperson said.7 Hizbul overground workers held in ShopianThe police on Saturday said they have arrested seven overground workers (OGWs) of terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen from Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir. “Shopian Police arrested seven terrorist associates linked with proscribed terrorist outfit HM,” the police said in a tweet.They said incriminating materials were seized from the possession of the arrested persons. A case has been registered and a probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cops-injured-in-sopore-grenade-attack-101615654124980.html
13-03-2021||Other||Kashmir sees 81% of J&K’s Covid cases in March so far||Eighty-one percent of the total Covid-19 infections in Jammu and Kashmir in the month of March so far have been reported in Kashmir valley, official data shows.The UT has recorded 1,094 cases of novel Coronavirus from March 1 to 13, of which 893 patients were in the valley and 201 in Jammu division.Similarly, of the 17 fatalities due to the virus in the UT in March, 12 patients lost their lives in Kashmir and five in Jammu.With 99 new infections on Saturday, the overall case tally in J&K has reached 1,27,535 while the death toll is 1,974 with three fresh fatalities.As many as 24 positive cases were reported from Jammu division on Saturday and 75 from Kashmir division, including 25 travellers.Moreover, 102 more patients recovered — 11 in Jammu division and 91 in Kashmir. So far, 1,24,680 people have recuperated in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 97.75%. There are now 881 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 55.34 lakh.As many as 1,244 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 730 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 42 more people tested positive, including 19 travellers, while 12 more cases were reported in Baramulla.In Jammu division, 14 cases were recorded in Jammu district and six in Reasi.In February, of the total 1,935 Covid-19 cases, 1,495 (77%) were recorded in Kashmir. Of the 21 deaths due to the disease that month, 17 pertained to Kashmir and four to Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashmir-sees-81-of-j-k-s-covid-cases-in-march-so-far-101615653944305.html
13-03-2021||Other||Random forays: Innovative young officers can change the country||Times are currently so sullen that any innovative initiative undertaken in any district of India is bound to draw ‘oohs and aahs’. Angst-ridden news permeates our consciousness with such alarming regularity that any heartening story of compassion and change for the better is likely to resonate affably with our highest thought levels.Young officers from medical services, defence services, administrative services, police services, allied services, technical and other services have largely served the nation with great valour and grit, especially in recent times. Some of them have shone like beacons of excellence and have blazed a creative trail in public service to pull the populace out of many a quagmire.Young IAS officer Aditya Ranjan’s ‘co-bot’ innovation during the pandemic in a Jharkhand district, south Sikkim district collector Raj Yadav’s village adoption scheme, Shashanka Ala’s campaign against malnutrition in Mizoram, IPS officer Sanjukta Parashar’s already legendary campaign to combat Bodo terrorists in Assam are some relatively recent instances of high-performance work by civil servants in the face of grave challenges. Such tales of far-reaching and path-breaking efforts should kindle in other officers across the land the innate urge to create some magic of their own for the larger good. The common man seeks and indeed yearns for better governance at the ground level and will clutch at any straws of succour that the system can throw up. By breaking the dusty mould and ideating differently to provide an embalming touch, an officer of any department can make a mark in his or her own sphere.Furthermore, budgetary allocations or government sanctions are often not needed for undertaking certain innovations in governance systems. An officer can innovate and break the mould without needing approval from ‘higher authorities’ in many cases. Keeping one’s immediate superior informed is a good idea though! Why allow the familiar ego conundrum to stifle a good cause in the making?One of the most soothing-to-the-soul ideas that someone happened to come up with during a previous avatar was the ‘aadar samman’ initiative, which entailed treating the elderly with utmost respect in all offices of the district. They were welcomed, guided, aided and given a cup of tea wherever possible in government offices, big and small. Those above the age of 70 were also counselled by psychologists, legal advisors and financial experts on their personal matters as part of the initiative. The district police, in the meantime, stepped up the beat system of policing and conducted regular contact programmes, especially in localities inhabited by elderly persons living alone.Another initiative that worked well was to increase the number of public dealing hours per day in the office of the Licensing Authority instead of allowing the staff to spend half the day in compilation and calculation work. Outstanding staff members were issued certificates for their efficiency. Speedier disposal of pending applications and a welcome boost to the image of the administration was the result.Every official, at whatever level or vertical he is operating, can certainly infuse a certain amount of energy in his team by taking command and being a forthright communicator with a no-nonsense yet caring approach. That balanced acumen to deliver the goods without stepping on people’s toes is rare but can be cultivated by all young officers as they grow in the service.The concept of mentorship of young officers is much-needed idea too. I had brought this up earlier too, in this column. The police services have adopted such mentoring in parts, but there is a need for it to be comprehensive and meticulously implemented. Youngsters in various services are usually left to fend for their own selves and often their immediate bosses do not have the time or the wherewithal to guide them. Willing and able mentors need to be identified in each service.The willingness, and indeed yearning, to make a mark and solve some of the country’s problems, even at a minor scale, has to be the aim of every sarkari newbie. The whirlpool of systemic forces will very soon sweep them off their feet if they don’t dig in with such determination at the very outset!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/random-forays-innovative-young-officers-can-change-the-country-101615653764197.html
13-03-2021||Other||Another wet spell likely in Valley from today||After rains and snow intermittently lashing Kashmir for the past six days, the weather improved in the valley on Saturday. However, the meteorological (MeT) department has predicted another wet spell here for the next two days.“Since (Saturday) morning, we witnessed mostly dry weather, but there are chances of light rain at isolated places during the night,” a MeT official here said, adding, “There will be moderate precipitation at some places for the next two days.”Due to the overcast skies, the maximum day temperature has plunged while the night temperature has been hovering around normal.“On Friday, the day temperature in Srinagar dropped 10 degrees to settle at 4.6°C as against a normal of 14.7°C,” he said.The minimum temperature in Srinagar on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday was 3.8°C, while Pahalgam and Gulmarg recorded minimum night temperatures of -0.7°C and -2.6°C, respectively.On Friday, the higher reaches of Kashmir had received fresh snowfall while rain lashed other parts of the valley as the weather conditions remained erratic.Qazigund in south Kashmir recorded a maximum of 30.8mm rainfall in 24 hours ending Saturday morning while there was 6.5cm snowfall in Pahalgam in south Kashmir, and 2cm snow was recorded in the northern district of Kupwara.The Jammu-Srinagar national highway, which was closed for traffic on Friday, remained shut on Saturday too.The officials said the road was hit by landslides at Ramban.“The work to clear the road is going on. It is yet to be decided whether the road will be opened tomorrow or not. There is a prediction of more rainfall on Sunday,” said an official of the traffic control room.Meteorological department director Sonam Lotus has predicated erratic weather till March 15. “We expect a significant decrease in rain from March 12, but the weather is likely to remain erratic till March 15,” he said while warning about the possibility of landslides and avalanches at vulnerable spots as the land is fully saturated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-wet-spell-likely-in-valley-from-today-101615653652479.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to pay farmers through ahrtiyas, says state minister||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said that the state government is paying the farmers through ahrtiyas (also known as commissioning agents) as per the provisions of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act.Ashu also said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh made it clear that the payments made to farmers will directly reach them through ahrtiyas. “Accoridng to the rules of APMC Act, we are paying farmers through ahrtiyas. The chief minister made it clear that payments will directly reach farmers through ahrtiyas,” Ashu was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ahrtiyas are commissioning agents who help farmers sell their crops to buyers. Ahrtiyas facilitate the transaction between farmers and buyers - the buyers can be a person, a firm or a company or a cooperative society or a government agency or even to a public undertaking agency, a public agency or a corporation - and receive a commission for facilitating the transaction following which they pay farmers money for their crops.The minister's declaration comes in the backdrop of the farm laws protests which allows the farmer to operate outside APMCs, which negates the role of the ahrtiyas as farmers can now sell their produce to any prospective buyer anywhere in the country. The Centre on the other hand believes in sending the money to farmers directly in their bank accounts, which the Punjab government is reluctant to do.The Centre last month had said that the direct transfer of payments of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers’ accounts is a method ‘to check diversion and avoid delays’. It stressed that the Punjab and Haryana governments need to ‘compulsorily’ use electronic modes of payment to pay MSP to farmers.Ashu along with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had sought permission from the home minister Amit Shah last month to disburse the payments for the upcoming wheat procurement, expected to begin from April 1 in Punjab through the commission agents. The Centre had asked the Punjab government to make the payments directly or through Ahrtiyas, according to an HT report.Earlier on Monday, the Punjab chief minister said that the Centre’s move on direct payment to farmers is an act of provocation after the Food Corporation of India (FCI) sought land records from the Punjab government to make e-payment to the farmers directly for crop procurement, according to a PTI report.“The system of paying farmers through ahrtiyas is a time-tested system in place since 1967. Farmers hold an excellent relationship with ahrtiyas and can depend upon them when they face financial difficulties during adverse situations, can farmers rely on big corporate houses in times of crisis?” the chief minister said.Arhtiyas are also a major part of the ongoing protests against the farm laws at Delhi’s borders. In December, the IT department had conducted raids on several ahrtiyas following which the commissioning agents closed mandis across Punjab for four days in protest. Farmers' leaders and Punjab ministers called the move an attempt to defame the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-pay-farmers-through-ahrtiyas-says-state-minister-101615652300622.html
13-03-2021||Other||Ahead of bypoll, politics heats up in HP’s Fatehpur segment||Even as the schedule for bypoll in Fatehpur assembly segment is yet to be announced, political temperatures have already started rising in the constituency.The seat was vacated after the death of sitting legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania on February 12.While Congress has almost finalised its candidate, the BJP is keeping its cards close to the chest. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday visited Fatehpur to gauge the public mood and doled out sops with an eye on the elections.However, the bypoll would not be an easy one for the saffron party, which is on a winning spree in the state since 2017. Former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar is the front-runner for the BJP ticket. But a rival camp in the party is trying to push for Baldev Thakur’s name. Thakur contested the 2017 assembly polls as an independent candidate and polled more than 12,000 votes resulting in narrowly losing the election. Just ahead of the CM’s visit, a poster against Parmar was pasted overnight in the constituency.Former MP Rajan Sushant who has floated his own outfit “Apni Party Himachal Party” is also ready to queer the pitch for BJP. He had contested the 2017 as an Independent and polled more than 6,000 votes.On the other hand, Congress would probably field Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of late Sujan Singh Pathania to cash in sympathy votes.Bhawani, who worked the top position in a private insurance company, is a political greenhorn who inherits the legacy of his father and would be expected to carry it forward. Like his father, Bhawani is popular for his humble behaviour.CM doles out sopsMeanwhile, eyeing a win in the bypoll, CM Jai Ram Thakur on a day-long visit doled out sops to Fatehpur assembly segment on Saturday.He announced sub-tehsil for Raja Ka Talab to be opened in the premises of the office of commissioner (relief and rehabilitation); ₹2 crore for building a government degree college; ₹20 lakh each for creation of sports facilities in Rahan Stadium and Ex-Servicemen Bhawan in the first phase; upgrade of various schools and new road projects to link rural areas.Addressing a public meeting at Rehan, the CM said his government got only two years to serve the people as one entire year was lost to Covid-19 pandemic. “Still, we have been able to live up to the expectations of the people,” he said, thanking them for their support in fighting coronavirus.He urged the people to support the government in the upcoming elections to the four municipal corporations (MCs) and by-election in Fatehpur.Earlier, the CM laid foundation stones of nine developmental works of Public Works Department and Jal Shakti Vibhag worth ₹29.27 crore in the Fatehpur sub-division.Addressing the rally, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap said the BJP will win all the four MCs and Fatehpur segment in the upcoming polls. He urged people to provide their full support to the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-bypoll-politics-heats-up-in-hp-s-fatehpur-segment-101615653284143.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||21-year-old wanted criminal held following shootout in west Delhi: Police||A 21-year-old criminal wanted in a murder case was arrested following a shootout with a police team in west Delhi's Bakkarwala area in the early hours of Saturday, police said.The accused, Kamal Gehlot, fired three rounds while the police fired back two rounds in self defence following which he sustained injuries and was rushed to a nearby hospital, they added.He is an active member of Neeraj Bawana and Naveen Bali gang and was wanted in a 2020 murder case of a property dealer named Vikas Mehta lodged at the Mohan Garden police station, police said.On Friday, police said they got a tip-off that the accused would come to Mohan Garden area in a car. A trap was laid and the accused was arrested after a brief exchange of fire, they said. "A shootout took place in the early hours of Saturday between a police team and Gehlot in which he got injured," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.One pistol with two live rounds and one revolver loaded with four live rounds were recovered from his possession along with the car, he said.Interrogation revealed that the accused killed an Uttam Nagar-based property dealer named Mehta to take revenge from him for hatching a conspiracy to kill his uncle Parveen Gehlot, who was a member of Manjit Mahal-Pradeep Solanki gang, he said.His uncle was engaged in grabbing properties illegally with the help of gang members. There was a property dispute between Parveen and Pardeep Solanki following which, Vikas Dalal, who was a sharp shooter of their gang, killed Parveen in May 2019 on the directions of Solanki. However, Dalal was also killed in the incident, the officer said.After his uncle was killed, Kamal decided to take revenge but was arrested in two robbery cases. He was lodged in Tihar jail where he joined Neeraj Bawana and Naveen Bali, a rival gang of Manjeet Mahal and Pradeep Solanki gang, police said.After coming out from jail, he killed Vikas Mehta by shooting him in the head thrice. He also took pictures after murdering him, the officer added.Pawan Gehlot, who is father of accused Kamal Gehlot has already been arrested for conspiring to murder Mehta, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/21yearold-wanted-criminal-held-following-shootout-in-west-delhi-police-101615652670044.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old girl kidnapped from home at gunpoint in Mohali||Four youths kidnapped an 18-year-old girl at gunpoint from her house in Kandala village on Saturday morning.Her father identified one of accused as Raja from Punjab’s Moga, whom his daughter knew via Instagram for the past few months ago.He told the police that Raja and two more men visited his house posing as courier delivery boys, while another waited outside. When his wife answered the door bell, one of the men put a gun to her head and forcibly took away his daughter, a student of Class 12.As his younger daughter raised the alarm from the roof, the complainant and some villagers pursued the accused’s Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire till Jagatpura village and even smashed its windowpane with sticks, but they managed to speed away.The father said after he came to know of his daughter’s online friendship with Raja around four days ago, he had confiscated her mobile phone. But, Raja started calling his wife’s phone and also threatened to kidnap his daughter. “The accused and the girl have been friends for three months. She is aged 18 as per her documents,” said Harvinder Singh Virk, superintendent of police (SP, City) Mohali. Raja and his accomplices have been booked under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohana police station. “A manhunt has been launched to trace the accused and rescue the girl,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18yearold-girl-kidnapped-from-home-at-gunpoint-in-mohali-101615652684199.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Reclaiming the lost art of letter writing||For someone who grew up writing letters, from just about the time I learned to form short sentences in the early 60s, it is difficult to recall to whom I wrote the last letter and when. Perhaps, it was sometime in the late 90s as by the start of the new millennium even season’s greeting cards had become a thing of the past and one had started picking up cards with standardised messages and emailing them. Soon, one began simply sending a single message to all friends on Facebook with a pretty picture in tow. And for some years now it has just been festive messages on WhatsApp. But many have wondered, in prose and sometimes in poetry, about what became of all those letters that one wrote on stormy nights and sent to many a destination.Letters: Then and nowWe are quick to adapt and accept change as inevitable, thus not much thought has been given to what Gen Z has missed by forgoing this form of communication that had been nurtured for thousands of years in different cultures and chiseled to perfection. A few years back when my four-year-old granddaughter came back from a school excursion brimming with questions as she had visited a post office, I realised how she knew nothing of what to our generation had been a way of life. There was a tug at the heart when she asked all kinds of questions. “Tell me Naani, what is a post office?” she asked. Trying to explain it all to this child of a different world a hundred memories stirred in my mind and I was reminded of a Punjabi folk song by the legendary Surinder Kaur ‘Tainu deangi panj patase veh munshi khat likh de’. The song has an unlettered village girl pleading with the clerk to write a letter to her husband who is far away and the price she offers for this task is five sugar crystals!Now, before I go off on a tangent let me come to the point. I have this refreshing book in hand, in which present-day children have written letters of all kinds to the famous and the infamous. Forgive me, I will romance the letter another time though it is long overdue. The book is called ‘Unlocking Minds: Covid-19’ and its pleasing pastel cover has a notepad and a pen as and a letter beginning with ‘Dear Bhagat Singh’ and the Greek poet Sappho besides envelopes addressed to Adolf Hitler, Rosa Parks and Neil Armstrong! This amazing collection of letters, penned by young minds, is the brainchild of Chandigarh-based writer-academic Kanwalpreet Singh. Many would remember Kanwalpreet for penning sensitively the autobiography of much-loved pioneering woman activist of Punjab, Oshima Raikhy.Admiration and angstTalking about ‘Unlocking Minds’, Kanwal says: “This book is a first of its kind where Millennials have written letters to famous personalities in the form of a heart-to-heart talk, sometimes in admiration and at other times in angst.When I floated this idea of letter writing amid the pandemic, my young friends said they loved the concept. Soon we got down to work by framing a proposal and circulating it. A lot of positive response came from the young ones, when we gave the call in April 2020.” Children and adolescents were given enough time to read, research and then put down their thoughts on paper and their hard work shows in the way they have been able to deal analytically with the lives and impact of dictators, politicians, artists, poets, sports persons and many others.The list of personalities chosen is interesting and varied. It includes Benito Mussolini, Mahatma Gandhi, Indira Gandhi, Sarojini Naidu, Ruskin Bond, MF Husain, Charlie Chaplin, Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Karl Marx and many more. Students of all age groups participated in the epistolary exercise from Class-3 student Dhiren Aggarwal to Class-12 student Ameek Kaur, who penned a poignant letter to the Hathras rape victim.The book also incudes some essays on lockdown experiences and interviews by students with frontline warriors ranging from doctors to safai karamcharis. A fine effort by one and all.The letters, of course, are the mainstay of the book and before signing off I go back to the internet to browse through hundreds of nostalgic and heartwarming quotes encapsulating the spirit of the lost art of letter writing and would like to leave you with a quote by Alena Hall: “There’s something sacred and romantic, in the broadest sense about communicating in the way generations before us once did. It’s how grandma and grandpa kept their love alive during wartime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-reclaiming-the-lost-art-of-letter-writing-101615651784942.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Golden jubilee of 1971 war: Veterans pay tribute to martyrs, recall war days||It was an emotional moment for the 13 war veterans who had gathered at the National War Memorial on Saturday, to commemorate the golden jubilee of their commissioning into the Army and also to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 India-Pakistan war which had resulted in the creation of a new nation, Bangladesh.After completing the short service (NT)-10 and tech 2 courses from Officer’s Training Academy (OTA), Chennai these men aged between 21 and 23 years were commissioned in the service on March 14, 1971, as second lieutenant. Little did they know, that only after a few months, they will have to fight a war for their country as young officers.Out of the 338 cadets from this course who were commissioned into the service, seven officers lost their lives in the war. These 13 war veterans who are now in their 70s and live in Pune, gathered at the National War Memorial with their families to pay tribute to their late course mates.“It was a golden moment for all of us when as young officers we were commissioned into the service. I remember exactly 50 years before on this day (March 13, 1971) our passing out parade was taking place at OTA Chennai and Chief of the Army Staff General Sam Manekshaw was the chief guest. In a matter of a few months we taught a war under his leadership,” said Col (Retd) Alok Ghosh . He was commissioned in the Regiment of Artillery during the 1971 war. “After the completion of the course, we were commissioned in different departments and at various places. But we all are still in touch and try to meet once in a month,” said Col (Retd) Ghosh.Brigadier (Ret) Hari Sahi (73), was merely a 23-year-old officer in Army Service Core when he received an order to train the young fighters of Mukti Bahini in August 1971. “Our camp was in the deep jungle on the eastern border. We trained the young officers in Muktivahini for three weeks and later advanced towards Bogura. Though the actual war had begun on December 3, 1971, the preparation was on from several months,” Brigadier (Retd) recalled.Colonel (Retd) Abhijit Verma (73) was commissioned in engineering and he also trained Mukti Bahini fighters for several months. “We trained them how to blow up the bridges, how to use the equipment. Even after the war was over I was still in newly formed Bangladesh for the restoration work,” said Colonel (Retd) Verma.Captain (Retd) Tanaji Pawar (72), meanwhile, was part of the Maratha Light Infantry during the 1971 war. “My regiment was at the Hilli bridge. It is the place which was in East Pakistan near Balu ghat. I was guarding the bridge against the enemy forces. We got to fight the war just in a matter of a few months. We got the opportunity to fight for our nation,” said Captain (Retd) Pawar.Colonel (Retd) Yeshwant Mane was posted on the western border of India much ahead of Jaisalmer to hold the enemy on that side. “I was in Engineering and our job was to stall the enemy on the western border. We fought in the desert and every time I nearly escaped death. My soldiers fought fearlessly. I consider myself fortunate to have received an opportunity to serve the nation,” said Colonel (Retd) Mane.According to these war veterans, this war also have them a perspective on humanity. “After an enemy soldier surrenders, he is not an enemy anymore. We give them food, give shelter. In the war of 1971, 93,000 prisoners of war were captured. It the historic figure in modern human history,” said Major (Retd) Bajaj who was commissioned in Punjab Regiment in the 1971 war.The battle of Bogura was a major battle fought in the 1971 war. Major (Retd) TS. Bevli was part of this battle. He remembered the bravery of his observation post officer S Parmar who was later awarded Vir Chakra. “I saw him taking a bullet in his chest. Fortunately, he survived that injury. Leadership means everything in the Army. I operated a mountain gun in this battle,” said Major (Retd) Belvi.These also remembered the moment when they received the news of the enemy’s surrender. It was a moment of jubilation and of the pride they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/golden-jubilee-of-1971-war-veterans-pay-tribute-to-martyrs-recall-war-days-101615651364265.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Man shot dead over argument during brother's birthday party in Delhi||A 28-year-old man was arrested for shooting dead another man allegedly after an altercation between them over playing DJ songs during a birthday party in Najafgarh area here, police said on Saturday.The man, Anuj Sharma, was shot dead by accused Naveen Kumar on Thursday during the birthday celebrations of the victim's younger brother held at a farmhouse in Najafgarh area of the national capital, they said.An altercation took place between Naveen and Anuj over playing DJ songs during the birthday celebrations. The accused, who was under the influence of alcohol, opened fire at Anuj and fled from the spot, a senior police officer said.The injured Naveen was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, he said.A case was registered and with the help of technical surveillance and using call detail records of the accused, Naveen was arrested on Friday from Baba Haridas Nagar, said Santosh Kumar Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka)."During interrogation, the accused confessed that he had a small altercation with Anuj on the issue of playing DJ songs during birthday celebration and he was also in an inebriated state. Hence, he fired at him," he said.The accused was found in possession of an illegal firearm along with two live cartridges, police said, adding that both items have been seized and further investigation of the case is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shot-dead-over-argument-during-brother-s-birthday-party-in-delhi-101615650410065.html
13-03-2021||Other||Court orders SHO to remove sacked teachers’ protest from Moga school||Moga The court of additional civil judge Daljeet Kaur has directed Ajitwal station house officer (SHO) to remove a protest of sacked teachers and others from the premises of Shri Guru Hargobind High School, Gurusar Muddo Ke. Four sacked teachers, along with 10 other teachers, and two bus drivers, have been protesting while using loudspeakers on the school premises since February 24 seeking their reinstatement. They were sacked in September last year after the school administration allegedly found them indulging in ‘anti-school’ activities. The protest has started at the school gate, but they entered school premises 17 days ago. The court said, “The matter involved in the present case is with regard to the future of thousands of students. The examination of these students is yet to be conducted and a peaceful atmosphere is very much essential for the above purpose,”On March 3, the court had directed protesters to take their protest to over 100 metre away from the premises of school. The protesters, however, did not comply with the order.Anish Kant Sharma, advocate for plaintiff, informed the court that neither the protesters are moving from school nor SHO of Ajitwal is ready to move anything to remove the protest. “The SHO is claiming that there is no direction to him to remove the protest, so police cannot do anything,” Sharma informed the court, adding that the future of over 1,000 students is at stake, but the administration was not doing anything. Sharma added, “The protest is totally illegal. The school administration is compelled to hold examinations at Gurudwara Sahib in the village, but there are also other ceremonies like ‘Anand Karaj’ and Bhog. On these dates, examination of students cannot be arranged,” he informed the court. Due to the protest, the school administration was forced to cancel the ongoing pre-board examinations and classes. Board exams are to start at the school from Tuesday.After the court order, Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans also ordered the SHO to implement the court order. Later, heavy police force, especially women cops have been deployed at school by district cops. The protest, however, was still on inside the school till the filing of this report. Nihal Singh Wala DSP Parsan Singh said, “We will remove the protest from the school soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-orders-sho-to-remove-sacked-teachers-protest-from-moga-school-101615648664059.html
13-03-2021||Indore||Big hospitals in Indore allowed to vaccinate up to 500 people per day, says health official||Indore’s chief medical health officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia on Saturday said that big hospitals in the district have now been allowed to vaccinate up to 500 people in a single day to step up the fight against the coronavirus disease. “Small institutions are allowed to vaccinate 250 people a day and big hospitals are allowed up to 500.” ANI quoted Jadia as saying.The officer also said that the Covid-19 positive cases in the city witnessed an increase of 8.9 per cent. “A surge of 8.9% was recorded in Covid positive cases. The mortality rate has witnessed a decline,” he added.Also read | With 1,709 cases in 24 hours, Mumbai sees highest Covid-19 surge this yearJadia’s remarks came after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, earlier in the day, affirmed that the growing number of Covid-19 cases in Indore and Bhopal is a reason for concern. “Corona cases are rising in the state. Hike in cases in Indore & Bhopal is a matter of concern. Awareness programs are being carried out for cities reporting over 10 cases. Truck movement will continue from Maharashtra, but people will undergo temperature check,” Chouhan said while talking to reporters, as reported by news agency ANI.The chief minister, during a meeting with state officials on Friday, had said that night curfew might be imposed in Indore and Bhopal to prevent the transmission of the diseases, according to news reports by PTI. “Tough measures will be taken to flatten the curve. Night curfew might be clamped in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday,” PTI quoted Chouhan as saying.Indore remains the worst-affected district in Madhya Pradesh with 61,642 Covid-19 cases and 940 deaths so far, of which 219 cases and one new death were reported on Friday. Also, with 131 new recoveries on Friday, total recoveries reached 59,174 patients, according to the latest data from the state’s directorate of health services.Watch | Covid update: USA to help boost India's vaccine production; Oxford jab rowAs far as vaccination is concerned, Indore has vaccinated 99 per cent of its essential workers with a first dose and 63 per cent of its essential workers with a second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. So far, 136,938 beneficiaries, including the general public, have been inoculated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/big-hospitals-in-indore-allowed-to-vaccinate-up-to-500-people-per-day-says-health-official-101615647877693.html
13-03-2021||Kolkata||‘Going to Nandigram…’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says ‘BJP has robbed the country’||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said in Kolkata that farmers’ leaders protesting against the three contentious farm laws would go to the assembly constituency of Nandigram to urge people to not vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose government at the Centre brought the laws in September last year.Tikait was speaking to the media after a ‘mahapanchayat’ against the three laws in the capital city of West Bengal, where assembly elections will begin later this month. Nandigram is the assembly constituency in the eastern state from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), who is seeking a third term, will contest.“We’re going to Nandigram to tell people that crops are not being purchased at MSP (Minimum Support Price). We’ll appeal to them to not vote for BJP as they’ve robbed the entire country,” Tikait, who has been credited with single-handedly reviving the movement after violence during farmers’ rally in Delhi on January 26, said, as per news agency ANI.West Bengal: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha held a 'mahapanchayat' in Kolkata against 3 farm laws"We're going to Nandigram to tell people that crops are not being purchased at MSP. We'll appeal to them not to vote for BJP as they've robbed entire country," said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/LYisIJbNv7The BJP’s candidate from Nandigram is former TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari, once a close aide of Banerjee.With talks stuck between the central government and farmers’ unions in the wake of Jan. 26 violence, and the Centre hardening its stand of non-repeal of legislations, farmers’ leaders have decided to go to the four poll-bound states, including West Bengal, and the Union territory of Puducherry, which, too, will witness assembly elections. Leaders say that they would appeal to voters to not vote for the BJP and thus ensure its defeat; this, they claim, is the only way to pressurise the Centre to revoke the three ‘reforms.’Also Read | Permanent shelters come up at Delhi border as farm leaders warn they won’t budgeAssam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are the other three states where elections will take place. Of these, the BJP has an incumbent government in Assam, and is a minor player in the other two. However, in Bengal, it is the main opposition party and has been tipped to give a close fight to the TMC.Assembly polls will take place from March 27-April 29, while counting of votes and declaration of results is scheduled for May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/going-to-nandigram-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-says-bjp-has-robbed-the-country-101615645608458.html
13-03-2021||Other||Over 6lakh people fined in Pune for violating Covid norms||PUNE Even as restrictions are imposed by the civic administration amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, people are found carelessly roaming in public places without wearing face masks or even spitting on streets and violating the social distancing norms.As of March 10, the district administration has collected over ₹27.69 crore in fines from 6.08 lakh people for spitting in public places and not wearing face masks. A maximum number of penalised people are from Pune city followed by rural Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, said, officials.Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, said, that the penalties collected on mask violations are not a means of revenue for the administration. He said, “We do not have any intentions to increase the penalty amount from the current ₹500. However, we will come down heavily on people who continue to flout Covid-appropriate behaviour. Collecting fines for mask violations is not a means of revenue for the administration.”Ayush Prasad, chief, executive officer, Zillla Parishad, said, “We have penalised people in almost every village and sometimes even people below the poverty line are fined, but they refuse to wear masks and opt to pay penalty. Despite repeatedly appealing to the citizens to wear masks we find many flouting the norm.”As of Friday (March 12), Pune district has reported over 4.33 lakh of which 4.02 lakh have recovered and 8,170 have been declared as dead, according to the state health department. Currently, 21,788 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune continues to report the highest active cases in the state.As of now, the district’s positivity rate is about 14.3 per cent which is almost near the positivity rate which the district saw in August 2020, 19.6%, just a month before the September 2020 peak.Multiple analysis has shown that the district might witness its second wave peak in April 2021 which could be severe if restrictions are not in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-6lakh-people-fined-in-pune-for-violating-covid-norms-101615645903983.html
13-03-2021||Other||Containment zones make a comeback in rural Pune||PUNE To contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection the administration has now reintroduced containment zones in rural areas of Pune and as of March 10, there are 46 hotspots.During the first wave in September 2020, Pune rural had 165 hotspots.On March 12, out of the 3,200 new virus cases, over 570 were reported from the rural areas.In 15 days the administration found 243 index cases which further led to more than 700 odd contact cases. Around 40 per cent of the cases have been detected through the door to door surveys in rural areas, said, officials.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “We have about 50 containment zones in rural areas in Pune. An area is declared as a hotspot when there are more than ten Covid cases and in more than three unrelated families that live/work in geographical proximity - can come in contact with each other by shared market, and others which are through community transmission.”“Among the most affected villages, all are in continuation of the city. Cases in Baramati are high due to intensive survey. Most patients are asymptomatic,” he said.He further added that the spread of the infection is high as the administration has found 243 index cases through the door to door surveys. “These cases have further led to 700 odd contact cases. At least 40 per cent of the cases have been detected by surveys,” he said.From February 19 to March 6, 2021, the administration undertook three surveys, ASHA survey, Fever clinics and Super spreader surveys in which 19,25,338 people were surveyed out of which 9,809 were found to be suspected of influenza-like illnesses or severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) out of these suspected 412 were found to be confirmed cases of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/containment-zones-make-a-comeback-in-rural-pune-101615645903271.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Garden-goers, small businesses unhappy with fresh restrictions||With the summer vacation fast approaching, residents are unhappy over the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s decision of closing down public gardens in the city during evening hours. On Saturday, joggers, senior citizens, youngsters returned home with a pale look on their face with gardens authorities barring entry inside. “The garden will remain open only during morning hours from 6am to 10am, according to the district administration’s order issued on March 12. There are 200 gardens within the PMC limit and the normal rush was back in the garden from January after they reopened in November 2020. “My daily routine of evening walk will be disturbed again with the garden closing down. We have a group of senior citizens who come every day to the garden,” said Vijay Bhide who visits Tatyasaheb Thorat garden (also known as Shivaji garden), near Karve Putla. The garden department had to suffer losses of ₹11 crore during 11 months (March 2020 to January 2021) will be suffering more with the evening closure. The garden department revenue is generated from the exhibitions of flower, fruits and plants and selling saplings which is not happening at the moment. “With cases increasing, this decision was important to stop fresh Covid-19 cases as the crowd is almost back to normal at every garden. The department will suffer more losses, but we don’t have many options,” said Ashok Ghorpade, superintendent of gardens, PMC. “I prefer evening jogging than morning since there are more people in the garden in the morning but now I think I will switch again to the morning session,” said Vikram Joshi who went back to his home without jogging from Tatyasaheb Thorat garden. Street eateries fears lossesGanesh Khole of Sukhwandi Dablei centre who owns his business outside Tatyasaheb Thorat garden is worried if a lockdown will be imposed again. Khole fears he won’t be able to earn anything if a lockdown is imposed again. “70 per cent of customers who frequently visit us are from the garden but now it is closed again. It will impact the business,” Khole said. Parshuram Fawaday, Punam Bhel centre at Sambhaji Garden, JM road said, “The PMC has also closed the garden in the afternoon which makes operating the business more difficult for us.” There are 18 street eateries at Sambhaji garden premises which are also known as Hawkers area No 35. “Most of them ran away after the first lockdown. Few of them had started their business but they will remain closed from today. Our peak business hours are 4pm to 10pm,” added Fawaday. “Since January, the rush of people has increased. We keep on asking people to maintain a social distance and wear masks. Some listen to us while others ignore,” Savita Gaikwad, watch guard at Tatyasaheb Thorat Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gardengoers-small-businesses-unhappy-with-fresh-restrictions-101615645363259.html
13-03-2021||City||TRS' litmus test as two crucial MLC seats in Telangana go to polls on Sunday||The elections to two vacant seats in the Telangana state legislative council from graduates’ constituencies will be held on Sunday and are being described as a litmus test for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.Polling will be held from 8 am to 4 pm in two graduates’ constituencies, each comprising three districts: Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda. As many as 10,36,565 graduates including 3,67,808 women will exercise their franchise at 1,530 polling stations in these two constituencies.What makes this electoral battle more significant is that these six districts account for 75 out of 119 assembly constituencies in the state, thereby reflecting the mood of educated voters and indicating a possible outcome of the state assembly elections scheduled in 2023.“The victory or defeat in these MLC elections doesn’t make much of a difference to the TRS in terms of the numbers in the 40-member state legislative council as it has a huge majority with a strength of 36 members. But a defeat will indicate the voters’ perception against the ruling party which will have a bearing on its prospects in the coming elections,” political analyst Suresh Dharur said.Also read: Telangana alerts border districts amid Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, KarnatakaThe immediate impact of these elections is expected to be on the by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat likely to be held in April, besides elections to Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations, dates for which are yet to be decided.That is precisely why the TRS has taken the MLC elections to these two seats very prestigiously. The ruling party has already sensed the changing mood of the people with its defeat, albeit with a lesser margin, in the by-elections to Dubbak assembly seat in Medak district, followed by a serious drubbing in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections.The TRS has mobilised all its resources to win these two seats at any cost. For the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar graduates’ constituency, the party president has chosen Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao.It is a strategic move on the part of KCR since the state has been celebrating the birth centenary year of Narasimha Rao, the only Telangana leader to rise to the position of the Prime Minister of the country. Naturally, the TRS wants to cash in on this Telangana sentiment.The TRS mobilised all its party machinery to campaign in support of Vani Devi. Right from the party working president and KCR’s son KT Rama Rao, daughter K Kavitha and nephew T Harish Rao, the entire battalion of cabinet plunged into action, covering every section of graduates’ community.KCR held an interaction with state government employees, who constitute a large chunk of graduate voters and promised them a salary hike of 29 per cent, as against 7 per cent recommended by the Pay Revision Commission.Since Vani Devi herself is an academic, the TRS made extensive campaign among the teaching community to attract their voters. “It is a masterstroke of KCR to field her in the MLC elections, as being the daughter of the former Prime Minister, she commands tremendous goodwill among the educated voters,” Dharur said.On the other hand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in high spirits after its victory in Dubbak and an impressive show in the GHMC elections, is keen on repeating its performance in the MLC elections. It has once again fielded its sitting MLC N Ramachander Rao, who has huge support among the advocates, in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar constituency.What makes the contest more interesting in this constituency is the entry of Osmania University professor K Nageshwar who represented the seat twice in the past, as an independent. He is a prominent face among educated voters.The Congress fielded former minister G Chinna Reddy and TDP its state president L Ramana, but both have very bleak chances. Besides, as many as 88 other independent candidates are also in the fray.In Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency, where 71 contestants are in the fray, the fight is mainly between TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, the sitting MLC and Professor M Kodandaram of Telangana Jana Samithi.Kondandaram, once a protégé of KCR during the Telangana movement, fell apart from the latter and floated his own regional party before the 2018 assembly elections. Though he has not achieved any success in the electoral battle till now, he commands tremendous respect among the educated Telangana youth. That makes his chances of winning the MLC seat brighter.The BJP has fielded its general secretary G Premender Reddy, who has a considerable cadre base in Warangal, but the party has little presence in Khammam and Nalgonda and that might prove disadvantageous to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trs-litmus-test-as-two-crucial-mlc-seats-in-telangana-go-to-polls-on-sunday-101615642947708.html
13-03-2021||Patna||RJD's Tejashwi Yadav says no chief minister is as 'weak' as Nitish Kumar||Slamming the Bihar government over the issue of liquor smuggling by a kin of a minister in the state cabinet, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday claimed that no chief minister in the country is as "weak" as Nitish Kumar."The allegations of smuggling of liquor against a minister is a serious matter. The government must discuss this in the house. When there are serious allegations against his minister, Nitish Kumar has been absent. The government is scared and nervous. They are not allowing the Opposition to speak. They fear that we will show the evidence. There is no such weak chief minister in the country as Nitish Kumar," Yadav told mediapersons here.Hitting out at Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad, Yadav said, "The deputy chief minister is not a constitutional post. When the speaker is allowing me to speak then why is he interrupting. Who does give him the right to dictate the speaker? This government has made those people ministers who do not aware of the constitution."The RJD leader alleged that the state government has destroyed Bihar in every aspect."There is high inflation. Unemployment is at its peak. From farmers to students, all are unhappy. Women are not safe. The government is not allowing us to put our views in the House. It is a dictatorship. Vidhan Sabha has become the office of Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party," said Yadav.Earlier in the day, Tejashwi, Tej Pratap Yadav and other RJD MLAs held a protest march towards the Raj Bhawan after walking out of the Bihar assembly. They met the Governor and raised the issue before him.Notably, there was a ruckus in the Bihar assembly regarding the allegations of smuggling of illicit liquor against state minister Ramsurat Rai. The controversy surfaced after illicit liquor was recovered earlier this week from a school in Muzaffarpur run by Rai's brother.In 2016, Nitish Kumar banned alcohol consumption in Bihar making it a dry state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjds-tejashwi-yadav-says-no-chief-minister-is-as-weak-as-nitish-kumar-101615642336630.html
13-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav, 20 SP workers booked over alleged assault on journalists||A case has been registered against Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and 20 party workers in connection with alleged assault on some journalists in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad, police said on Saturday.An FIR was registered at Pakhwara police station late on Friday night under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of a complaint by a journalist, officials said.According to the complainant, Yadav, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, was irked by a few personal question posed by some journalists during an interaction with him at a hotel on March 11 after a press conference.Following this, Yadav allegedly instigated his security guards and aides to attack the journalists, the FIR claimed.It also alleged that the security guards and over 20 SP workers beat up the journalists causing grievous injuries.The journalists are undergoing treatment at a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-20-sp-workers-booked-over-alleged-assault-on-journalists-101615642608866.html
13-03-2021||Other||Andhra Pradesh's local job quota law cleared 20 months ago yet to pick up pace||A legislation passed by the Andhra Pradesh assembly, nearly 20 months ago, to reserve at least 75% of jobs for local candidates in private sector and public private partnership companies in the state has started slow on account of low industrial activity in the state, the lack of adequately trained local candidates, and the government decision to give time to companies to meet the quota.The Andhra Pradesh Employment of Local Candidates in the Industries and Factories Act, 2019 was passed in the state assembly on July 17, 2019. The legislation is yet to be implemented in full, as the state government has chosen to go slow in enforcing the law. “For existing industries which want to go in for expansion or fresh recruitment, we have given three years’ time to implement the new reservation law,” state industries minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy said.The state’s law has come into focus because of Haryana’s recent law, reserving for locals, 75% of jobs (paying under ₹50,000 a month) in new units, even in the private sector. The Andhra Pradesh law doesn’t mention a salary cap. The Andhra government insists that all new units submit details of the total workforce required under the heads skilled, semi-skilled, administrative and managerial employees.“The department of industries will grant the no-objection certificate (NOC) only after ascertaining that 75% of employees in all the departments are locals,” the minister said.A company can be exempted if it writes to the government that it requires specialised manpower, not available locally, but this will require an examination by the state industries department. “In such cases, the employers need to give an undertaking that they will train and engage local candidates within three years in close collaboration with government agencies. Otherwise, the NOC would be withdrawn,” Reddy said. Interestingly, there haven’t been too many new projects in the state in these 20 months.According to data from the industries department, between October 2019 and September 2020, 44 large and mega industrial projects were approved in the state with an investment of ₹22,282.16 crore, seeking to provide employment to 18,385 people; in the same period, as many as 10,019 micro, small and medium enterprises were proposed at an investment of ₹2,979.86 crore, aimed at providing employment to 76,716 people.According to Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation general secretary Potluri Bhaskar Rao, many of these ventures could not take off, due to coronavirus pandemic. “A few companies in the MSME sector have come up, but they could not find a suitable workforce locally,” Rao said.Vasireddy Murali Krishna, secretary of Federation of AP Small Industries Association, who owns a small-scale chemical business in Krishna district, said that generally, no industry or factory would prefer non-locals to work in their companies if sufficient local talent is available.“It is easy to get the work done with the locals. But where is the trained workforce locally? Even if we employ the locals as per the government guidelines, there is no guarantee that they would stick to the job. On the other hand, if we employ non-locals, they will work for at least a few years.”A businessman associated with the state unit of the Confederation of Indian Industry said on condition of anonymity that while most medium and small-scale industries employ only locals, irrespective of the enactment of the legislation by the state government, it is the “big players who engage people from outside the state in all their industries or major projects”.The businessman gave the example of the Polavaram irrigation and hydel power project built on Godavari river.”The majority of the workforce is from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Can the government insist on employing only local employees?” Hari Prasad, managing partner of Gautami Pumps and Valves said almost 30% of his employees are from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. “Unfortunately, there is a largescale attrition among the locals, whereas the non-locals stick to their job.”Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Corporation chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy admitted that there was not enough local talent in the state, and added that as a result, the government was not strictly implementing the 75% rule. He added that the government has emphasised skill development to increase their employability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-pradesh-s-local-job-quota-law-cleared-20-months-ago-yet-to-pick-up-pace-101615641920960.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Air 'moderate' in Noida, Faridabad, 'poor' in Ghaziabad, Gurgaon||The air quality was recorded in the "moderate" category in Noida and Faridabad while it was "poor" in Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurgaon, according to data issued by a government agency on Saturday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Saturday was 244 in Ghaziabad, 229 in Greater Noida, 167 in Noida, 145 in Faridabad and 217 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Friday it was 263 in Ghaziabad, 240 in Greater Noida, 199 in Noida, 243 in Faridabad and 240 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "poor" category may lead to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure, while an air quality in the "moderate" zone may cause breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-moderate-in-noida-faridabad-poor-in-ghaziabad-gurgaon-101615641199561.html
13-03-2021||Dehradun||Programs to celebrate 4 years of BJP government in Uttarakhand cancelled||Uttarakhand government has decided to cancel the programs, scheduled for March 18, to celebrate the completion of four years of BJP government in the state.The decision was made soon after the cabinet expansion by the newly-appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat.Chief Secretary Om Prakash issued orders in this regard on Saturday.On Wednesday, Tirath Singh, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal, took oath as the Uttarakhand Chief Minister.He replaced Trivendra Singh, who had stepped down from the post on Tuesday.Trivendra Singh's resignation had come after Dushyant Gautam and Dr Raman Singh had submitted a report to the BJP's central leadership detailing the rebellion in the state unit of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/programs-to-celebrate-4-years-of-bjp-govt-in-uttarakhand-cancelled-101615638862888.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Non-stop flights to five new cities from Pune beginning March 28||Passengers will now be able to fly non stop from Pune to five new cities from March 28 by low cost carrier- SpiceJet. Additionally, flights have been added from Mumbai to Goa and Rajkot giving more flight options to passengers.With an aim to meet the increasing demand from smaller cities, the low cost carrier- SpiceJet added 66 new domestic flights on Saturday.These included daily direct flights on the routes of Pune–Darbhanga, Pune-Durgapur, Pune-Gwalior, Pune-Jabalpur, Pune-Varanasi, Kolkata–Darbhanga, Chennai–Jharsuguda and Nashik-Kolkata sectors. By launching these direct flights, SpiceJet has become the first Indian airline to introduce daily flights in these sectors.The airline also introduced new non-stop daily flights on the routes of Mumbai-Leh, Leh-Srinagar, Srinagar-Mumbai, Hyderabad-Mumbai, Mumbai-Hyderabad, Mumbai-Surat, Surat-Mumbai, Kochi-Pune, Pune-Kochi. The airline spokesperson said, “In a bid to support the increasing travel demand from smaller cities which were initially connected by SpiceJet under UDAN, the airline has introduced new flights connecting Darbhanga, Durgapur, Jharsuguda, Gwalior and Nashik with some key metro cities. The airline will launch new flights on the sectors of Ahmedabad-Darbhanga-Ahmedabad, Hyderabad-Darbhanga-Hyderabad, Pune-Darbhanga-Pune and Kolkata-Darbhanga-Kolkata after connecting Darbhanga with Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru earlier. “The airline will be deploying its Boeing 737 and Bombardier Q400 aircraft on these routes.“ The airline will launch new flights connecting Srinagar, one of the most popular tourist destinations, with key cities with flights on Ahmedabad-Srinagar-Ahmedabad, Bengaluru-Srinagar-Bengaluru, and Kolkata-Srinagar-Kolkata sectors,” the spokesperson added. Besides, the airline also announced to enhance its operations with additional second frequency on Delhi-Gorakhpur, Mumbai-Rajkot, Chennai-Madurai, Mumbai-Jaipur, Bengaluru-Goa, Mumbai-Srinagar, Delhi-Rajkot, Delhi-Srinagar and Delhi-Dharamshala. It will add it’s third and fourth frequency in Mumbai-Goa sector too. Shilpa Bhatia, chief commercial officer, SpiceJet said, “As the country’s largest regional operator, the new flights further reiterate our commitment towards enhancing regional connectivity, besides offering unique connections to many leisure destinations. We are committed to provide all our valued travelers easy, safe and secure travel to their favourite destinations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonstop-flights-to-five-new-cities-from-pune-beginning-march-28-101615639064314.html
13-03-2021||Other||Prime accused in Jare murder case arrested in Hyderabad||PUNE Bal Bothe, a former journalist, who was on the run for the last three months and the main accused in the murder of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) worker Rekha Jare, was arrested in Hyderabad on Saturday.The arrest was made by the special teams instituted by Ahmednagar Superintendent of Police (SP) Manoj Patil.Jare who was the chairperson of Yashaswi Mahila Brigade was killed at Jategaon Phata in Parner tehsil of Ahmednagar by two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons on November 30, 2020, when she was going from Pune to Ahmednagar in a car along with her mother, son and a friend.“We arrested Bothe in Hyderbad on Saturday morning in connection with Jare murder case and he is being brought to Ahmednagar and will be produced in the court thereafter,” said Patil.According to officials, Bothe was arrested from a hotel where the door of the room was locked from outside to create an impression there was no one inside.Bothe masterminded Jare’s killing and had given ‘contract’ to the killers of the victim, said police.Bothe fled the city on December 2, 2020, and his anticipatory bail applications filed before the district and Aurangabad High court were rejected.The Parner court which had given time to Bothe to surrender before April 11, recently issued a standing warrant for his arrest and declared Bothe as a fugitive. The Ahmednagar police had moved an application before the court seeking attachment of Bothe’s property after April 11.Jare’s mother Sindhubai Waykar had lodged a case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) at Supa police station in the district.The accused arrested earlier had spilled the beans and revealed that Bothe had ordered them to kill Jare and even paid money for executing the murder“Six teams carried out a search operation and arrested him at 6.30 am. We were working on various leads and the operation lasted for five days. At three spots, he managed to checkmate the police, but we finally managed to nab him in one of the locked room of a hotel room in Hyderabad, “ said Patil.“A lawyer Janardhan Atkule, who protected him and three others who helped him have also been arrested. The number of arrests is likely to increase as we are investigating the role of all those who helped Bothe evade the law,” Patil said.With Bothe’s arrest, the total number of accused arrested in the case have gone to ten to date, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prime-accused-in-jare-murder-case-arrested-in-hyderabad-101615639063019.html
13-03-2021||Other||Startup mantra: Damage claims now get AI video check||PUNE Have you ever paid for damages for a rented car? Or had your insurance claim for the said damages rejected? Devesh Trivedi, an IIT Delhi graduate, faced a similar problem a few years back, but he did not let it go. He decided to find a solution, using technology, and reducing human intervention. Trivedi, along with Sanchit (who only goes by his first name) founded Inspektlabs, an inspection-as-a-service software startup in 2018. Their software uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to automate photo and video-based inspection of assets like cars. Inspektlabs reduces the cost of inspection and time of insurance and automotive companies by almost 95 per cent, with their differentiating factor being the ability to detect not only the object, but also the state of the object, such as a scratch on it. Trivedi is an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi 2008 alumni. He worked as Senior Data Scientist at Inductis for 3.5 years and then did his MBA from the Indian School of Business in 2013. Trivedi has also worked with McKinsey as a managing consultant for 4.5 years. Sanchit is a computer vision specialist. He is also an IIT Delhi 2009 alumni and has finished his MBA from the Indian School of Business in 2014. He worked with the Indian Oil Corporation, Wipro and IBM in his initial career for six years. He then co-founded Curill, an artificial intelligence-technology powered healthcare startup in 2016. Sanchit then joined Zomato in 2018 as assistant vice-president, analytics, Zomato Gold. Sanchit and Trivedi have known each other for the last 10 years. Trivedi says, “After I left my job in February 2018, I was looking for some startup ideas. Once, I rented a car, but when I returned it, I was charged heavily for damages which I was not responsible for. That is when I started looking deeper into this issue. I realised then, that there is no automated way to detect damage to a car. I had worked with some insurance companies during my previous two jobs. I had some connects there, and so I worked on this idea.” Concept of Inspekt Labs is bornTrivedi says, “We are a computer vision tech platform. Computer vision means applying artificial intelligence and machine learning on images and videos to extract insights from that data. We are presently focussing on automated car inspection where the end-client is the insurer and the automotive industry. Our team of data scientists, PHDs, mechanics, and adjustors combine AI and inspection expertise, for example in a car crash, to automatically detect the damage.” Overcoming a cold start On the initial hiccups, Trivedi says, “We found a way to collect data and built a very large damaged-car image library in-house. As a result, we do not require or store client’s images for training and production. Also, we mask all personal information before processing images or videos, and do not store any personal data. We now have data of millions of damaged assets in photos and videos and have filed international patents for select damage categories.” “Our first customer was Liberty General Insurance. To raise funds, we needed to have good traction. Initially, I put in my own money. Later, in July 2020 we raised $0.6M in a pre-series A round led by Better Capital of Vaibhav Domkundwar and Titan Capital of Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal and other angel investors.” Future plans “We are initiating a series A funding round. We are in talks with multiple VCs. Our broader vision is to include different product categories like detecting damages on cell phones, bikes. We are working with several automotive players outside India wherein the focus is multi-fold. For example, we are working with an OEM where we capture the video of the car before and after it enters a workshop. It helps us determine whether there was damage, what was repaired and what was not repaired, or whether there was any incremental damage or not. Currently we have clients in Japan, India and US and we are now expanding to other countries mostly Europe.” Kashish Nagpal, an employee at Inspekt Labs, says “It has been an amazing journey so far. I started out as an intern two years ago, to focus on computer vision aspects of the product. It has been a great to see the company scale quickly across multiple countries.” Founders’ speak“We are a computer vision tech platform. Computer vision means applying AI and machine learning on images and videos to extract insights from data,” said Devesh Trivedi, founder“We are in talks with multiple VCs. Our broader vision is to include different product categories like detecting damages on cell phones. We are working with automotive players outside India,” said Sanchit, founder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/startup-mantra-damage-claims-now-get-ai-video-check-101615638946378.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Four MC, six nagar panchayats in Himachal go to polls on April 7||Four municipal corporations of Dharamshala, Mandi, Palampur and Solan besides six nagar panchayats will go the polls on April 7. Issuing the notification on Saturday, Himachal Pradesh state election commissioner P Mitra said voting will take place from 8am to 4pm and counting of votes will begin immediately after polling ends. The process of filing nominations will start on March 22 and end on March 24. The scrutiny of papers will be done on March 25 and candidates can withdraw their nomination by March 27. The municipal corporation elections are being fought on party symbols this time. The state assembly had passed a Bill in this regard recently. With the announcement of the poll schedule, the model code of conduct has come into force within the municipal areas of the four towns. The code will be in force till the completion of the poll process. While the Dharamshala Municipal Corporation was formed in 2015, the three other civic bodies were upgraded to municipal corporation from municipal council last year. The six nagar panchayats are Chirgaon and Nerwa in Shimla district, Ani and Nirmand in Kullu, Kandaghat in Solan and Amb in Una. The nagar panchayats were also created last year but elections couldn’t be held there along with elections for other urban local bodies in January. CM blows poll bugle in Dharamshala On Saturday morning, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met BJP ward heads and in-charges for Dharamshala Municipal Corporation to chalk out the poll strategy. Addressing the meeting, Thakur said party workers would discharge whatever responsibility the party entrusts them with to ensure the BJP’s victory in all 17 wards of Dharamshala. Thakur said the election is for a local body, so local issues will remain prominent, but workers should also propagate policies and achievements of the state government among the people. He said party officials, in-charges and workers should keep an account of the problems of the wards so that they can be resolved. He said corruption in the Congress-ruled municipal corporation and failure to carry out development works despite the town having the smart city tag would be the poll plank of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-mc-six-nagar-panchayats-in-himachal-go-to-polls-on-april-7-101615637083511.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Fliers may be treated as ‘unruly’ if they violate Covid-19 protocols: DGCA||Air travellers who do not follow Covid-19 protocols during their journey will now be treated as ‘unruly’ passengers. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has issued a circular on Saturday after it noticed that some passengers were not wearing masks properly at the airport and on board; were not maintaining social distancing during the journey, from entering the airport till exiting it.“In case any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear a mask or violates the ‘Covid-19 protocol for passengers’ even after repeated warnings, during the course of the flight, such passenger will be treated as ‘unruly passenger’ as defined in para 3.1 of Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) Section 3 Series M Part Vi (dated 8” September, 2017) and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, will be followed by the airline concerned, ”DGCA said.The circular has directed passengers to wear the masks and not to move it below the nose, except under an exceptional situation, and also maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel. It has also directing the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the local police at airports to ensure that passengers who are not wearing a mask properly are not allowed to enter the airport. DGCA has asked the airport terminal managers/ airport directors (in case the airport is managed by the Airports Authority of India) to check passengers for wearing masks and maintaining social distance within the airport premises inside the airport.“In case any passenger is not following ‘Covid-19 protocol’, they should be handed over to the security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law,” read the circular.DGCA has asked airlines to de-board passengers, if needed, in case they do not adhere to wearing masks properly on board despite repeated warnings.The regulator also asked the stakeholders concerned to ensure adherence to their directions with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fliers-may-be-treated-as-unruly-if-they-violate-covid-19-protocols-dgca-101615636903710.html
13-03-2021||Other||Woman moves consumer court over delivery of non-veg pizza, seeks ₹1 crore compensation||A vegetarian woman has approached the consumer court complaining that an American pizza restaurant chain outlet delivered her a non-vegetarian pizza and has sought compensation of ₹one crore from the restaurant chain.Deepali Tyagi, in her petition, has claimed that she is a pure vegetarian because of her "religious beliefs, teachings, family traditions, own conscience, and her best choice".On March 21, 2019, Deepali placed an order for a vegetarian pizza from the pizza outlet at her residence at Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. That day it was the occasion of Holi and the complainant and their children were hungry after celebrating the festival. She further said that the pizza was delivered late as opposed to 30 minutes delivery time frame given by the company. However, she chose to ignore the same and took a bite of the pizza. It was at that moment they realised that it was a non-vegetarian pizza and there were pieces of meat instead of mushroom, the complainant said in her complaint.Her lawyer Farhat Warsi told the consumer court that Deepali immediately called customer care and raised a complaint on their "gross" negligence and delivering a non-veg pizza in a house of pure vegetarians.Then on March 26, 2019, a person who referred to himself as the district manager of the pizza outlet, made a call to the complainant and gave an offer of serving pizzas to the whole family of the complainants at the outlet free of cost. However, the complainant told him again that this is not a simple case, as they are assuming it since the (opposite party) has spoiled the religious practices of the complainant and gave her a permanent mental agony, she would have to go through "several long and expensive rituals" which will cost her lakhs of rupees during her entire life.At this, the district manager of the pizza outlet replied that since he is not authorised to negotiate in terms of money, he would hand over the matter to their own legal team, the complaint copy reads.She said that the nature of the response from the opposite party was "very casual", an offer of serving pizza free of cost was nothing but a "mockery an insult to the social and financial status" of the complainant."That the opposite party's negligent manner of performance has contaminated complainant body with food mixed with animal meat that was acquired by killing and cutting short the life given by God to any animal. In her religious belief killing any animal and eating its meat is a "paap" (sin). The opposite party has a deceitfully involved complainant in that sin of eating animal meat. They have wounded her soul giving her mental agony for her whole life. They have ravaged her religious belief," the petition said.Deepali has urged the consumer court to direct the opposite party to provide the claim of ₹one crore to her and also direct the pizza outlet to pay the complainant compensation for mental harassment and financial hardship caused by the opposite party.A Delhi District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has asked the pizza outlet to file a reply to the woman's complaint and has listed the matter for further hearing on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-moves-consumer-court-over-delivery-of-non-veg-pizza-seeks-rs-1-crore-compensation-101615636412058.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab shuts anganwari centres amid rising Covid cases||The Punjab government on Saturday ordered the closure of all anganwari (rural childcare) centres till further orders due to the resurgence of Covid-19 in the state. State social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary termed the decision a safety measure for children but clarified that ration and other material for them will be distributed door to door by anganwari workers and helpers so that nutritional support isn’t affected. She appealed to workers and helpers to generate awareness among people about the precautionary measures of wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing. The workers will call beneficiaries in a staggered manner and ensure that the growth monitoring record is prepared within the timeline given by the department, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-shuts-anganwari-centres-amid-rising-covid-cases-101615636663407.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||All anganwadi centres shut in Punjab amid rise in Covid-19 cases||Punjab Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Saturday instructed to close all anganwadi centres till further orders in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases in the state.The social security, women and child development minister said ration and other material will be distributed door to door through anganwadi workers and helpers, so that nutritional support to beneficiaries is not affected.Thirty-four more fatalities due to COVID-19 were reported in Punjab on Friday, taking the death toll to 6,030, while the infection count climbed to 1,94,753 with 1,414 new coronavirus cases in the state.In January, the Punjab government had announced that all anganwadi centres for children and other beneficiaries across the state would reopen from February 1.The centres were closed earlier due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-anganwadi-centres-shut-in-punjab-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101615632972609.html
13-03-2021||Bangalore||Shwetha Srivatsav: If there are 50 films being made for men, we need 50 for women too||It’s time for Shweta Srivatsav’s fans to rejoice. The Kannad film actor, who has been away on maternity leave since she gave birth to her daughter, Ashmitha, in 2017, is coming back to the silver screen with Hope, a film being produced by snooker player Varsha Sanjeev. “The film was offered to me and shot during the lockdown. We shot it in just 34 days and I’ll be dubbing for it in May. It revolves around administrative and legal issues, as well as political corruption,” says Shwetha. About her sabbatical from cinema, she says that staying away was a conscious decision. “I’ve been busy enjoying motherhood. Plus, visual media is such that you have to be a ceratin way physically to be in front of the camera. At that time, I was feeding my baby and it wouldn’t have been fair either to her or even the producer,” says the actor, adding that “networking is key in the industry”. “These things matter, but I am very bad at it. I suck at PR,” she laughs. Well, does she think her peers are good at PR. “I don’t know, I’m not in touch with anybody. I’ll just say that if an artist is growing, we should be happy for them. This planet needs creative people.”And creativity was the reason the Mukha Mukhi (2006) actor took up Hope. “It is such a good film, and a creative concept... maybe my daughter brought in luck,” she smiles, adding that she was “petrified” to go to work, leaving her behind. “Particularly on days that I had a double call sheet, I would miss my daughter so much, but I could do justice in front of the camera. Thankfully, my parents live right below my house. So, they took care of her. My husband is an angel. He is an amazing father, and I think that’s what women empowerment is about; parenthood has to be shared!”Up next, the actor says she’s being choosy because she wants to work in films that are “for women and about women”. “If there are 50 films being made for men, we need 50 for women. Only then the mindset will change. It’s a sad state of affairs right now. If you see, in the ‘70s and ‘80s there were amazing films being made for women. That disappeared, and from 2000 onwards, you don’t see that. That needs to change,” she says. Author tweets @mmiinniiiFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/shwetha-srivatsav-if-there-are-50-films-being-made-for-men-we-need-50-for-women-too-101615633663409.html
13-03-2021||Lucknow||'Must prepare students for tough competition': Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said instead of promoting primary school students without examination, they should be prepared for tough competition.“...the basic education department plans to promote students for the second year without exams as there were no physical classes and students only attended online classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic. ...we must prepare students for competition...,” he said after distributing appointment letters to 271 block education officers.“We must see if the students of Classes 1 and 2 are able to recognise alphabets. Teachers must work with students for two months. Thereafter, a short test should be held to assess their learning outcome. The test could be of 15 to 30 minutes or it can be oral. We must strengthen their foundations and encourage them to compete.”Also read: UP CM Adityanath withdrawing cases against himself, alleges BSP MPAdityanath said they have taken a risk by opening primary schools from March 1. "We have allowed schools to function with 50% attendance. All primary students come under the high-risk category. We must try to encourage healthy competition among students so they may take pride in it."Adityanath said his government has given 400,000 government jobs in four years and added these appointments were made in a transparent manner and candidates were relieved that they were not required to pay bribes.He said from 2012 to 2017, the government was a hurdle in the development. "Caste and money factors played a key role in appointments to government jobs. Teachers were not motivated to go to schools, and, in many cases, proxy teachers were running schools while regular teachers were engaged in other pursuits.”Adityanath said out of the four years of his rule, one year was spent fighting the Covid-19 situation. He added yet Uttar Pradesh jumped to the second position in the ease of doing the business annual ranking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/must-prepare-students-for-tough-competition-adityanath-101615632529492.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Pune district admin to propose Covid vaccination for all above 18 years||Amid a rise in Covid cases in the district, civic officials and health experts have highlighted the need to undertake vaccination for all residents of Pune district above 18 years of age. The Pune district administration will send an official proposal to the Centre and state governments regarding the same.After the weekly meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that the district administration would follow up with the central and state governments to increase vaccination.Pune district reported 3,264 new Covid-19 cases, on Friday, according to the state health department. The figure took the progressive count of the district to over 4.33 lakh of which 4.02 lakh have recovered and 8,170 have been declared as dead. Currently, 21,788 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Rao said, “Pune has maximum active cases in the country and is reporting highest new cases in the state and so for the same, we will follow up with the central and state government to increase the vaccination in the district.”“Currently, Pune’s positivity rate is 17 per cent and we are at 11th position in the state. A policy decision needs to be taken to allow Pune to open up a universal vaccination drive for all above 18 years irrespective of their comorbidities,” he said.Rao added that issues like prioritising the areas which reported a higher number of cases during the first and second wave and logistics were also discussed during the meeting. He said, “We have to take note of the administrative and medical preparedness. If we get the additional vaccines we also discussed the time frame in which it would be possible to vaccinate beneficiaries.”“The health experts have suggested that we could vaccinate the entire population above 18 even with no comorbidities which could prevent the severe second wave. Logistics and priority issues are also being discussed and we will follow up on the same,” he said.Pawar said, “The Niti Aayog members and central team members have also proposed to expand vaccination drive among those above 18 years even without comorbidities. The administration will send an official proposal. Meanwhile, I have spoken to a few MPs from the district, Girish Bapat, Supriya Sule and others to raise this issue in the Parliament .”Although the efficacy of both the vaccines is being debated especially given mutated variants, experts believe both vaccines have established that the severity of symptom in an infected and vaccinated person is far lesser compared to an infected non-vaccinated person.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid advisor to the state government who was also part of the meeting, said, “Both the vaccines, Covaxin and Covishied have proven to reduce hospitality and severity of symptoms even if they are infected after vaccination. It is beyond doubt that both the approved vaccines reduce the probability of transmission and of hospitalisation which would be a great success.”According to a study presented by Tata consultancy services and Prayas it has been estimated that the second Covid wave could see 47-52 per cent of the peak of the first wave, September 20, 2020. Without any restrictions in place, the number of critical patients could go up to 47 per cent of what the district saw during the first wave and with some restrictions in place, this could come down to 29 per cent.Rao also added that if the Centre permits then the vaccination centres could be increased and the number of beneficiaries could be taken up to one lakh daily compared to about 24,000 beneficiaries being vaccinated currently.“To increase testing we will provide additional aid to Sassoon hospital which will increase their testing capacity from 700-1,000 per day. National AIDS Control and Research Institute (NARI) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune (ISSER) where the testing is stopped would be brought on board now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-admin-to-propose-covid-vaccination-for-all-above-18-years-101615632943358.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Six bombs recovered from Markanda riverbed in Ambala district, 2 defused||Six bombs were recovered from the dry bed of the Markanda river in Saha block of Ambala district on Saturday. Two of them were defused by the bomb disposal squad, police said. According to official sources, residents of Panjail village on the Ambala-Kurukshetra border informed the police about the bombs on Saturday morning. Balkar Singh, the Saha police station in-charge, said that the Shahabad police reached the spot first when they were informed about two bombs.“Both were detonated by the bomb disposal squad but when we were about to leave, four more bombs were detected 200 metres away. They are being checked and further course of action will be taken accordingly,” Balkar Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-bombs-recovered-from-markanda-riverbed-in-ambala-district-2-defused-101615632763259.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Pune dist imposes tighter restrictions to curb Covid surge||A day after the Pune district reported over 2,800 new Covid cases, the administration on Friday announced tighter restrictions though it shied away from imposing complete lockdown imposed by some cities in the state.“As per the new rules, schools and colleges will remain closed till March 31, hotels and restaurants will be allowed to function till 10 pm while food deliveries will be permitted till 11 pm and gardens will remain closed in the evenings,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao after meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.The new guidelines will be effective Friday midnight and the restrictions apply to urban and rural parts of the district.Rao announced that dine-in timings at restaurants and bars have been advanced by an hour though parcel service will be allowed till 11 pm. Restaurants/bars are allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. The existing guidelines about night curfew between 11 pm to 6 remain unchanged with essential services exempted from these restrictions.Under the new rules, hoteliers will have to display a board at the entrance. Which will give information about total seating capacity, 50 per cent seating capacity and seats occupied.Malls, cinema halls, theatres and shops (non-essential goods) will close at 10 pm and clubhouses in housing societies will remain closed till further order. The administration has asked housing society trustees to ensure that rules are followed.The number of attendees at public and social gatherings has been reduced to 50 persons. “Strict legal action has been warned against the property owners who are found to be violating the rule,” said Rao.“These decisions have been taken in the Covid review meeting. After 15 days we will review the situation again. In the meantime, everyone is advised to strictly follow the prevention norms. Strict action will be taken against those violating norms,” said Rao.Earlier, the new set of restrictions were imposed in the Pune district on February 21.While extending the closure of schools and colleges till March 31, the administration has exempted Class 10 and 12 students for necessary and important academic activity. At the same time, coaching classes for competitive examinations as well as libraries are allowed to be operated at 50 per cent capacity.The administration has also announced that at the roadside eateries only five persons will be allowed at a time. “There will be continuous vigilance and strict action will be taken against the violators,” Rao said.Pune currently has the highest numbers of active cases in the country. As of Thursday (March 11), there are a total of 429,973 Covid cases. Of this, 400,534 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,163 deaths in the district. At present, there are 21,276 active cases in the Pune district, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-imposes-tighter-restrictions-to-curb-covid-surge-101615632584629.html
13-03-2021||Ranchi||JMM backing TMC in WB is different; alliances are state specific: J'khand Cong||Though Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is an ally of Congress in Jharkhand while it is backing Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal, but both would not have any clash of interest and alliances are state-specific, said Rameshwar Oraon, Jharkhand Congress President and Finance Minister on Friday.This comes after Chief Minister Hemant Soren announced his support for TMC in West Bengal."Mamata Banerjee has to be brought back to defeat the communal forces," Soren had said.In 2019, a coalition between the JMM, Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had formed the government in Jharkhand. But in the upcoming elections in West Bengal, the Congress campaigning against the TMC."Our alliance is only for Jharkhand. Things get different as the states change. There is an alliance in Jharkhand and we are not fighting there; so it is different. Alliances are state-specific," Oraon told ANI.Meanwhile, JMM General Secretary and Minister Mithilesh Thakur spoke in support of the TMC supremo."The election is not only fought directly but also indirectly. We are fighting this election indirectly by supporting Mamata Didi," he said.This comes ahead of the West Bengal Assembly elections set to be held in eight phases starting from March 27 with the final round of voting taking place on April 29. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.The state is likely to witness a triangular contest this time with TMC, Congress-Left alliance and the BJP in the fray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jmm-backing-tmc-in-wb-is-different-alliances-are-state-specific-j-khand-cong-101615631781498.html
13-03-2021||Bhopal||Over six Covid-19 vaccines in offing in India: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that more than six coronavirus vaccines will come up in India.He also said that 1.84 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to people so far, while 23 crore tests have been conducted."India has developed two vaccines, which have been given to 71 countries. Many more nations are seeking the vaccines, and these are not little-known nations...Canada, Brazil and other developed countries are using Indian vaccines with a great zeal," he said."More than half a dozen vaccines are going to come up," he said."Till Saturday morning, 1.84 crore vaccine shots have been given in the country and 20 lakh people were inoculated yesterday," the minister added.He was speaking while inaugurating the new green campus of the National Institute of Research in Environmental Health near here.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to create a new India to turn it into a 'vishwa guru' (world leader), he added."Respect science. There is a need to end politics over it (vaccine) given that it is a scientific fight not a political one. That is why we should work unitedly," Vardhan said.The efforts of our scientists are praiseworthy as due to their labour we have achieved all this. Year 2020, apart from being a Covid-19 year, will be remembered as the year of science and scientists, he added.He said that initially there was only one laboratory in India for Covid-19 testing. "But we have 2,412 testing facilities now," he added."We were the first in the world to isolate the coronavirus. We isolated its mutation. And our scientists helped the ICMR in vaccine. People have praised it (vaccine). Some people tried to create confusion, but truth is unbeatable," he said.Talking about the rising infection cases, the minister said this "disturbing trend" was due to the carelessness and misunderstanding."People think that as the vaccine has come and all is well now," he said, while urging them to follow the Covid-19 rules for protection against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/over-six-covid-19-vaccines-in-offing-in-india-harsh-vardhan-101615631010823.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinates nearly 255,000 on Friday, highest single-day jabs so far||Maharashtra on Friday administered 254,956 vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an official of the health department told news agency PTI adding the day’s vaccination count has been the highest in the state till now. The total vaccinations have now climbed to 2,689,922, he said.The western state started its vaccination drive on January 16 with jabs given to all health care and frontline workers under the first phase. Under the second phase of the drive which started on March 1, people above the age of 60 and between the ages of 45-59 with specific comorbidities are being vaccinated.The above-mentioned official highlighted that of the total vaccinations on Friday, the most number of doses were administered to those above the age of 60 (155,995) while 31,043 people belonged to the age group of 45-59 with co-morbidities. Nearly 852,000 senior citizens and 150,000 others between 45-60 years have been vaccinated till now, he said.The state government on March 11 had allowed all vaccination centres to be functional round the clock in order to ramp up the vaccination drive. But, this provision was only pertinent to those centres that had sufficient staff.Maharashtra has recorded 2,282,191 Covid-19 disease cases and 52,723 related deaths till now. On Friday, 15,817 fresh cases were recorded, which have been the highest since October 1 last year, when 16,476 people were tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The state has been seeing a rise in its daily tally since February 10 which has caused the authorities to impose lockdowns, night curfews, curbs in several districts to control the spread of the disease.The Union health ministry on Thursday expressed concerns towards the upward Covid trend in Maharashtra and said cases were increasing due to a fall in testing, tracing and a lack of adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Echoing the ministry’s remarks, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul labelled the situation in Maharashtra as worrisome. Referring to the complete one-week lockdown imposed in Nagpur from March 15-21, Paul said one should not take the virus for granted as it ‘can come up unexpectedly’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinates-nearly-255-000-on-friday-highest-single-day-jabs-so-far-101615628717410.html
13-03-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt only makes announcements, never fulfills them: BJP state chief||Jharkhand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) President Deepak Prakash on Saturday slammed Chief Minister Hemant Soren-led government saying that it only makes announcements but never fulfills them.His remarks came after the Jharkhand Cabinet on Friday approved an employment policy that requires 75 per cent of all private-sector jobs up to a salary of ₹30,000 per month to be reserved for people of the state."This type of announcement is an attempt to confuse the public once again. First, the Hemant Soren government brought employment policy to the Legislative Assembly and clarified its plans. During the previous BJP government, the people were given jobs. Around 65,000 contract workers have become unemployed since then. The Jharkhand government is cheating the youth by false promises," the BJP Rajya Sabha MP told ANI over the phone.Hitting out at the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-led government, he said the promise of employment to 5 lakh people annually has not been fulfilled."There is a big gap between the Jharkhand government's words and actions. This confuses the people. In his manifesto, Soren said that we will give employment to 5 lakh people annually and if they do not provide employment then they will give employment allowance. He further said he would resign if this was not fulfilled. In such a situation, it seems that the government of Jharkhand is the government of announcements," he said.Earlier, Haryana Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya has approved a bill that would provide 75 per cent reservation in the private sector jobs for the people of the state.The Haryana State Employment Of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, which was passed by the state assembly last year, will provide a quota for local people in private sector jobs that offer a monthly salary of less than ₹50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-only-makes-announcements-never-fulfills-them-bjp-state-chief-101615628649446.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fourth illicit liquor making unit unearthed in Amritsar in a fortnight||Barely a week after busting an illicit liquor manufacturing racket, the Amritsar rural police on Saturday unearthed another illegal production unit at Kotli Sakka village in Ajnala sub division in its biggest operation under the Red Rose campaign of the state government. This is the fourth such racket busted in Amritsar district in a fortnight. During a nine-hour search and cordon operation, the 150-member team, led by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya, confiscated 12 stills, 126-tonne of lahan (raw material used for making illicit liquor), 360 litres of illicit liquor, 1,830 kg of jaggery, 12 tarpaulins, 24 drums, 20 cans, 12 LPG cylinders, four motorcycles and two cars. The police rescued two bonded labourers, who had been forced to work at the unit, besides three accused, identified as Gurbir Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Balwinder Singh of Kotli Sakka village. A search is on for those involved in taking the supply of illicit liquor from the accused. Two of the accused, Bhagwant and Gursewak, already face 10 and five cases under the Excise Act, respectively. Nine more people allegedly involved in the racket have also been booked under the Excise Act at the Raja Sansi police station. The police invoked sections of the bonded labour Act against the three arrested accused. A Maruti Suzuki Swift and a Tata Indigo car were being used to supply the illicit liquor in Amritsar and its adjoining districts. Property of accused will be frozen: SSP Addressing a press conference, SSP Dahiya said, “We acted promptly on a tip-off and found that the accused had been running the business on a par with a liquor manufacturing distillery. Our investigation to ascertain the links of the accused is on.” The SSP said the police were identifying the property earned by the accused through the illicit business. “This property will be frozen,” he said. More recoveries in the offing Stating that it was the biggest operation so far under the Red Rose campaign of the state government, he said more recoveries are expected as they pursue the case. On March 11, the police had unearthed an illicit factory at Chappa Ram Singh village of Baba Bakala sub division, where 13 tonnes of lahan and two live stills were recovered. Five accused were arrested. On March 5, the police had recovered 58 tonnes of lahan, 4.61 lakh ML of illicit liquor, nine stills, 41 drums, six LPG cylinders, 22 kg of opium plants and 10 tarpaulins from Lakhuwal village in Ajnala. On March 1, an illicit liquor manufacturing unit was busted at Khiala Kalan in Ajnala. Nearly 110 tonnes of lahan and 1,780 litres of illicit liquor were recovered. Eight people, including three women, were arrested. Six stills, 62 drums of 200 litres each, six LPG cylinders etc were recovered by the excise department team with the help of the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fourth-illicit-liquor-making-unit-unearthed-in-amritsar-in-a-fortnight-101615627603021.html
13-03-2021||Dehradun||Fire at coach of Dehradun-Delhi Shatabdi Express, all passengers safe||A fire broke out in a coach of the Dehradun-Delhi Shatabdi Express on Saturday but all the passengers were safe, the Railways said.According to officials, coach C5 caught fire due to a short circuit."The affected coach has been detached... Guard has informed that all passengers are safe and fire brigade has been informed. Total 35 passengers in the coach were shifted and adjusted in other coaches. Train has departed for destination," the Railways said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/fire-breaks-out-in-shatabdi-express-in-uttarakhand-101615626407178.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Menstrual health in focus: A noble thought for female cops on duty||Female cops have been displaying immense courage and leading from the front, whenever the need arises. It is, hence, vital to empower them in discharging their duties. And one way to do so is to care about their menstrual hygiene. With this thought in mind, sanitary pad vending machines are being installed at various police stations in the Capital. In a first-of-its-kind initiative, Delhi Police, in a bid to break taboos around menstruation, installed sanitary pad dispensers at RK Puram and Connaught Place Police Stations, on International Women’s Day (March 8). “In our country, talking about periods and sanitary pads is still a taboo. But, this move will help female staff on duty and the public at large. Anyone can come in at any time to collect a pad from the police station. It’s priced at ₹5, which makes it economical and accessible,” says Rajesh Sharma, Station House Officer, RK Puram Police Station. New Delhi district police stations also have these dispensers now. “We’ve installed 15 sanitary pad dispensers in the female washrooms of police stations, units and offices of New Delhi district. We recently celebrated Women’s Day with great gusto, and honoured the contribution of women in the field. At the same time, we realised the problems that female officers face on duty face, during their periods. We have long working hours and hence, the need for such a facility was identified,” says Anjitha Chepyala, Additional DCP-II New Delhi District, who inaugurated the dispensing machine at Connaught Place Police Station.“Such initiatives should be replicated at other stations as well,” says Amit Goel, Additional DCP South West. “When people come to the police station and see a dispenser here, providing access to pads, they will surely realise menstrual health should be prioritised. This will also provide a comfortable environment to our women officers,” he adds.Women officers working at Delhi Police stations, where such machines have been installed, hail the move as a step towards equality at the workplace. “We have 30 female officers here. Kabhi bhi kisi ko bhi zarurat pad sakti hai; sometimes visitors also require pads. Now, we have a way to deal with such emergencies! It’s important that such dispensers are installed at every station, and myths and taboos around menstruation are removed. Jagrukta ki yeh ek achhi pehel hai,” says Manjusha, Inspector (Investigation) at RK Puram Police Station.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/menstrual-health-in-focus-a-noble-thought-for-female-cops-on-duty-101615624604850.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Journalist connected with NCP worker's murder, arrested in Hyderabad||A journalist, who was on the run for the last three months in connection with the murder of a woman NCP worker in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar, was arrested from a hotel in Hyderabad on Saturday, police officials said.Bal Bothe, who worked for a Marathidaily in Ahmednagar, was arrested in the morning. He is currently being brought to Ahmednagar, where he will be produced in a court, they said.NCP worker Rekha Jare (39), who headed Yashaswini Mahila Brigade, a woman's organisation, was killed at Jategaon Phata in Parner tehsil of Ahmednagar by two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons on November 30 last year when she was going from Pune to Ahmednagar in a car along with her mother, son and a friend.According to a senior police official, Bothe is accused of hatching a conspiracy to kill Jare as he feared that she would lodge a complaint against him over some issues.Also read: South Mumbai murder: Domestic help, his friend held"We arrested Bothe from Hyderabad on Saturday morning in connection with the murder," Ahmednagar Superintendent of Police Manoj Patil said."He was hiding in a hotel room in Hyderabad. The room was locked from outside just to show that there was nobody inside. However, our team broke open the door and apprehended Bothe," he said.According to Patil, six teams, comprising senior police officials, were on the lookout for Bothe, who had given slip to police three times.Apart from Bothe, the police also made four fresh arrests in the case. While three of them were held in Hyderabad, one person was arrested in Ahmednagar, he said.One of them is identified as Janardhan Akule, who is accused of harbouring Bothe in Hyderabad, Patil said, adding that Akule is known to have harboured several criminals in the past.With their arrest, police have so far held 10 persons in connection with the case, he said.Patil said that the operation (to nab Bothe and others) had been going on for the last five days. However, its preparation was on for the last one-and-a-half months after they got a tip-off."Our six teams of senior officials- of the rank of additional SP, deputy SP and police inspectors- had been camping in Hyderabad and were in search of Bothe," he said.The other accused arrested earlier in the case had told the investigators about Bothe's alleged involvement in the crime.Based on a complaint lodged by Jare's mother, a case had been filed under IPC section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) against unidentified persons at Supa police station in Ahmednagar, a police official said.In December last year, a court had denied pre- arrest bail to Bothe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/journalist-connected-with-ncp-worker-s-murder-arrested-in-hyderabad-101615620613260.html
13-03-2021||Bangalore||7,064 Karnataka villages don’t have a burial ground, says govt||Two days after returning from a pilgrimage to Tirupati, Lakshmikant Kandugal’s mother passed away. Since his village, Bankur in north Karnataka’s Kalaburagi district, did not have a burial ground, Kandugal donated his mother’s body to the district medical college.“I was a panchayat member and since 2011, I have been writing to various government authorities about the unavailability of a burial ground in my village. Two people in the village donated bodies of their family members as they couldn’t find land to bury them. So, I decided to do the same. I have pledged my body to the medical college as nothing seems to change anytime soon,” Kandugal said.According to the state revenue department, Bankur is among 7,064 villages in the state that do not have a burial ground. Unlike many states in the country, a majority from the Hindu community in Karnataka bury the dead, instead of cremating them. Among them are the Lingayats — the largest community in the state — and a large section of the Vokkaligas, another dominant caste in the state.According to C.S Dwarakanath, former chairman of the backward classes commission, burial has been a cultural practice in Karnataka for centuries. “In the Lingayat community, even before Basavanna (the founder of the Lingayat way of life), the communities that converted to Lingayat faith had been burying their dead,” he said.Though the lack of burial ground remains a problem across communities, it is the marginalised communities that feel the maximum brunt of it. According to an activist, there have been several instances of people burying their loved ones by the side of the road after facing discrimination at the hands of dominant communities.Dwarakanath said the lack of burial grounds, especially in a state where burying the dead is a common practice, was a matter of concern. “Those suffering the most are the ones from the backward classes. As the upper castes started to find it difficult to get land for burial, denial of land to Dalits increased...,” he said.K.A Obalesh, an RTI activist from Davangere district, said there were instances of people burying their dead by the roadside. “As you pass through Kadajji, one can find several graves along the roads. In these villages, Dalits were neither allowed to enter the burial ground nor did they own the land,” he added.According to R Mohanraj, state convenor of Dalit Sangharsha Samithi, two Dalits were murdered in a case of discrimination in Hoskote on Bengaluru’s outskirts. “The incident took place around six years ago in Yemandahalli village, where Dalits were not allowed to use the common burial ground... When a funeral procession passed through the burial ground of upper castes, violence erupted in the village and two people from the Dalit community were killed,” he said.Mohanraj said his organisation led protests in front of the district headquarters in Tumkur and Hassan, highlighting the demand for burial grounds. “However, Karnataka revenue secretary Mahendra Jain said the government has allocated funds in the budget to provide burial grounds. “We have asked senior officials in every district to convert government land into burial grounds. Strict instructions have been given to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/7064-karnataka-villages-don-t-have-a-burial-ground-says-govt-101615613489472.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases for 4 days during the week||Delhi registered 2,376 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 18 related deaths from March 6 to March 12, which have pushed the national capital’s tally to 642,870, the health department’s bulletin shows. More than 1,800 people recovered from the viral disease and 371,679 tests were conducted during the week, according to the bulletin. The case trajectory, which is the seven-day average of daily infections, is a little bit over 339 at present and has been on the rise for 18 continuous days, according to a report by Hindustan Times on March 12.Four days of this week, March 12, March 11, March 10 and March 6, saw the biggest spike in the number of daily Covid-19 cases. On March 12, 431 infections were added and were the highest since January 9 when 519 cases were seen. On March 11, 409 cases were recorded or the highest since January 3. The daily cases on March 10 at 370 had breached the 300-mark for the fourth time this month and have been the highest in one month and on March 6, 321 new cases were recorded - the highest since January 14.Also Read| India records 24,882 new Covid-19 infections, highest this yearThe daily cases in Delhi have been on the rise again since late February with experts and doctors attributing this sudden surge to people not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. However, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain pointed out that the positivity rate in the national capital was much lesser as compared to states such as Kerala and Maharashtra and added the government is on a ‘full vigil’ to combat the outbreak.As the caseload in Delhi is nearing the 643,000-mark, here is a look at the weekly trends:1. During the week, the highest cases in Delhi were reported on March 12 (431), while the lowest cases were on March 8 (239).2. The deaths during the week continued to be in single digits even though there was a rise in infections. The highest toll was on March 9 after 4 deaths were reported that day and only one person succumbed to the infection on March 6.3. The daily recoveries did not exceed the daily number of cases during the week. The highest recoveries were reported on March 12 (356) while just 260 people were on March 7.4. March 6 saw the lowest number of tests at 6,060 tests being conducted for Covid-19 during these 7 days. The highest number of tests were conducted on March 12 at 72,031, which led to the detection of 431 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-for-4-days-during-the-week-101615611118118.html
13-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM to withdraw all cases related violation of Covid-19 guidelines||The newly sworn-in chief minister of Uttarakhand Tirath Singh Rawat decided to withdraw all cases registered in connection with Covid-19 violations.Rawat made the decision during his first cabinet meeting on Friday.The 56-year-old BJP's Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal, on Wednesday, took oath as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat who had stepped down from the post on Tuesday.Trivendra Singh's resigned after BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam and former Chhattisgarh chief inister Dr Raman Singh, submitted a report to the BJP's central leadership, detailing the rebellion in the state unit of the party, as per sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-to-withdraw-all-cases-related-violation-of-covid-19-guidelines-101615603518636.html
13-03-2021||Lucknow||UP ATS arrest 2 Bangladesh nationals staying illegally in India||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Friday arrested two Bangladeshi nationals living illegally in the country and were engaged in anti-national activities.According to an official statement by ATS, arrested accused Tanveer and his father Omar Mohammad Usmani showed themselves as Indian citizens on the basis of forged and fraudulent documents."Received significant intelligence inputs that a person resident of Bangladesh was illegally staying in the country and has been engaged in antagonistic activities. It was proved that a person named Tanveer was living in Saharanpur along with other colleagues and is involved in illegal activities here," it said."It was also received information that Tanveer, along with his companions, is trying to flee India to Bangladesh. Acting on the above information, Tanveer was arrested by ATS Uttar Pradesh on March 12 along with his father Omar Mohammad Usmani from the Thana-Mandi area of Saharanpur district," it added.ATS said both the arrested accused are being brought to Lucknow where the ATS will register the case under relevant sections and take further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ats-arrest-2-bangladesh-nationals-staying-illegally-in-india-101615596301907.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Revenue deficit takes big jump in Haryana budget||An escalating revenue deficit coupled with an increasing debt liability mirrored the state of finances in the budget estimates for 2021-22 fiscal presented by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday in the assembly. Khattar’s second budget was to a large extent blemished by the pandemic situation where the borrowings for 2021-22 have been estimated at 38.41% of the consolidated fund and 30.80% of these being projected for repayment of debt and interest. With revenue receipts of about ₹76,135 crore falling abysmally short of the 2020-21 estimation of about ₹89,964 crore due to the pandemic and lockdowns, the revenue deficit for the next fiscal is estimated to be about ₹29,193 crore as compared to ₹20,856 crore in the current fiscal, a massive jump of ₹8,337 crore. As per the budget document, both the tax and non-tax revenue receipts have taken a hit. The chief minister expected to earn ₹60,580 crore from tax revenue and ₹29,383 from non-tax revenue when he presented his maiden budget last February. What he actually was able to garner was ₹52,479 from tax revenue and ₹23,655 crore from non-tax revenue, data showed. “Even the projected tax revenue ( ₹60,162 crore) and non-tax revenue receipts ( ₹27,571 crore) for 2021-22 fiscal do not convey the confidence of the government as these are lower than the 2020-21 estimates,’’ said a financial expert. In his over two-hour long address as the finance minister, Khattar took solace in the fact that his government has been able to successfully contain the debt liability by keeping it below 32.6 % to gross state domestic product (GSDP) ratio limit recommended by 15th Finance Commission for 2021-22. “The debt to gross state GSDP) ratio is at about 23% for 2020-21 revised estimates and the projected debt to GSDP ratio for the next fiscal is about 25% debt,’’ he told the assembly. The chief minister also said that the government did not utilise borrowing space of around ₹8,585 crore during the current fiscal by adopting fiscally prudent measures. “We managed to maintain our borrowings around the original provisions of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. As the central government has allowed that the unutilised borrowing space can be carried over, we have decided to utilise these proceeds as per requirement for the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) which will be anchored in a specially created reserve fund that will have the facility of rollover of allocations across years,’’ the CM said. However, the budget allocation for the health and family welfare department in times of coronavirus pandemic left lot to be desired. A comparison of the estimates presented by Khattar and his predecessor Capt Abhimanyu showed that budget allocation for health and family welfare department 2018-19 was ₹3,126 crore in 2018-19 which was increased to ₹4,201 crore (about 34% more) by Khattar in 2020-21 estimates. However, the increase in 2021-21 estimates is a mere 9.7%. Additional chief secretary, finance, TVSN Prasad during a post-budget presentation briefing said that the comparison should be made between the 2020-21 revised estimates and the 2021-22 budget estimates. “What matters is the actual number and not the estimate. Therefore, the increase would be more than 14% if we compare the actual spending (about ₹4,000 crore) 2020-21 as against the 2021-22 estimates,’’ Prasad said. The budget speech also added up a sum of ₹394 crore allocated to sports department to the health sector allocation to arrive at a swollen allocation of ₹7,731 crore for 2021-22 estimates for health and wellness. The ACS, finance, however, clarified that actual allocation for health, medical education, Ayush, ESIC and FDA was ₹7,337 crore. The 15th finance commission had recently pointed out that health expenditure is only 4.8% of Haryana’s total revenue expenditure. “The pandemic apart, availability of health infrastructure and healthcare professionals in Haryana is hardly enough to meet its regular needs,” the commission said. KEY HIGHLIGHTS POOR Under the Mukhyamantri Antyodya Parivar Utthan Abhiyan, a new scheme, poorest 1-lakh families will be identified initially. Education, skill development, wage employment, self-employment and job creation will be adopted and tailored to each family to ensure a minimum economic threshold of ₹1.8 lakh per annum. EDUCATION A sum of ₹700 crore allocated for promoting technology-based learning in all government schools including provision of digital tablets, digital classrooms etc. URBAN POPULATION A policy for performance-indexing of the municipal bodies to create a positive atmosphere of healthy competition among these bodies on the anvil. REAL ESTATE Plans to develop a global city near Manesar which will be the central business district of the National Capital Region. Panchkula and Hisar will be developed as smart and inclusive cities. In a nutshell (GFX) •Total outlay: ₹1,55,645 crore (Higher by 13% over 2020-21 fiscal) •Capital expenditure: Rs. 38,718 crore •Revenue Expenditure: Rs. 1,16,927 crore •Revenue deficit: 29,193 crore•Debt liability: ₹2,29,976 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/revenue-deficit-takes-big-jump-in-haryana-budget-101615583441428.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Private job quota law found no mention in Khattar’s budget speech||The BJP-JJP government’s recently enacted law providing for 75% of the new employment to local candidates in private sector jobs in Haryana did not find a mention in the budget speech of chief minister ML Khattar on Friday. Though officials said the private sector job quota law does not warrant a financial liability and it was not necessary to incorporate it in the budget speech, political observers are sensing a political meaning in the omission. “The RSS functionaries are hostile to this law. Even the BJP knows that it is a stillborn legislation which will be challenged and struck down by the courts. It seems the BJP-led state government is trying to keep it a low-profile matter,’’ said a political analyst. The quota law though was mentioned in the Governor’s address on March 5. “The budget speech is not only about finances but also the policy and vision of the state. The omission is striking,” said an official.It is well known that the BJP top brass, including chief minister ML Khattar, was not keen on enacting the private sector job quota law, a move piloted by Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), BJP’s alliance partner in the state. Khattar during a briefing on February 7 last year had sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting a law to provide 75% reservation in private sector jobs to Haryana youth. The draft Bill was also deliberated many times by the cabinet and vetted by the Law Secretary who had raised objections regarding the constitutional validity of the proposed law. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana, legal experts said, was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. In fact, two BJP central ministers in separate response to Parliament questions on private sector reservation had replied in the negative. In reply to a query on whether the government proposes to formulate any scheme to implement reservation in appointment in private companies, the then Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, CR Chaudhary had told the Lok Sabha in March 2018 that a coordination committee for affirmative action for scheduled castes and tribes in the private sector was set up in 2016 by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP). In accordance with the decisions of the committee, apex industry associations - Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), prepared a voluntary code of conduct (VCC) for member companies centered around education, employability, entrepreneurship and employment to achieve inclusion. Former Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, Vijay Sampla had in response to an un-starred question on whether the government intends to provide reservation in jobs to persons belonging to the SC/ST category in the private sector had told the Rajya Sabha in May 2016 that there is no such proposal. The governor also sat on the quota Bill for close to four months before assenting to it. A near similar ordinance approved by the cabinet in July last was however reserved by the governor for the consideration of the President. Though the ordinance was withdrawn by the cabinet in October last, the Union Labour and Employment Ministry which examined the ordinance had advised the state government against enacting such a law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-job-quota-law-found-no-mention-in-khattar-s-budget-speech-101615582300632.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces free education for all students in all govt schools||The classrooms of government schools in Haryana are set for ₹700-crore digital makeover even as the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government on Friday announced “free education” for all students upto Class 12 in government schools. “We will also provide books free of cost to students of Class 9 to 12, apart from not charging any fee. The concept of free education is already in place till middle school, now we have extended this up to Class-12 in government schools,” education minister Kanwar Pal told Hindustan Times. Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, allocated ₹192 crore for what he said is aimed at “ensuring quality education and opportunities” to students of disadvantaged groups. Special Education Zones (SEZs) will be created to improve the enrolment from these groups. A Gender Inclusion Fund (GIF) of ₹115 crore will also be created to provide higher financial assistance to girl students in these SEZs. Not just this, the education department received an outlay of ₹18,410 crore (2021-22) against the 2020-21 revised estimates of ₹15,629 crore--- an increase of 17.8%. The proposed outlay of ₹18,410 crore includes ₹9,014 crore for elementary education, ₹5,899 for secondary education, ₹2,793 crore for higher education and ₹705 crore for technical education. Under its ambitious plan to introduce technology-driven teaching practices across the government schools in the next four years, the state government also plans to upgrade classroom infrastructure through blended learning models to improve learning outcomes. And to promote technology-driven learning in all government schools, which will include provision of digital tablets to students, digital classrooms etc, chief minister Khattar, who presented the budget estimates, allocated ₹700 crore exclusively for digital-driven teaching initiative keeping in mind how the Covid-19 pandemic has altered the lives of children in profound ways especially due to the statewide closure of schools. “In this light, the state government aims to achieve a distinct place on the educational map of the nation by implementing most of the components of the National Education Policy (NEP) before 2025,” he told the Vidhan Sabha. Aarohi, Kasturba Gandhi and Mewat Model schools will be upgraded to the level of Model Sanskiti Schools, while the ongoing ‘Super-100 programme’, which provides coaching to meritorious students appearing for JEE/NEET exams, will be started in Hisar and Karnal as well. Backing his idea of having KG-PG classes in one campus, Khattar proposed to set up such systems in Kurukshetra University and Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak, this year and allocated ₹20 crore. “Such a system would be beneficial for students as they can access all levels of education in a single institution. This will curtail dropout rate and provide an ecosystem for holistic learning with focus on higher education and vocational training,” said the chief minister. The chief minister said the Haryana government has taken exemplary initiatives with the aim to enhance conceptual understanding of students from Classes 3-8 under the Saksham Haryana Programme. As a part of NEP, he said, Haryana will expand its efforts towards the Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Mission to provide early language and mathematical skills to students from classes 1 to 3, impacting 6 lakh students from 8,400 schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-announces-free-education-for-all-students-in-all-govt-schools-101615582000611.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Kanchan, the ‘YouTuber’||Long hair. Same-same dresses. And all three are dancing together this morning in a corner of this south Delhi public park.As if fairies have taken over a secret spot, thinking no one else was around.The young women laugh. “No, I want to be a YouTuber,” says one of them, clearly the group leader. But Kanchan Patwa corrects herself immediately. “I’m already a YouTuber... I have my own channel with lakhs of followers.”Kanchan currently has 219K subscribers on her YouTube channel. She is a dancer, and lands up daily in one of the very many Delhi destinations (Connaught Place, Dilli Haat, Lodhi Road, etc.), where she makes short videos of herself dancing to film songs, later uploading them on her YouTube channel.“My dream is to make my channel more successful, with millions of followers... it should become so wildly popular that [film] heroes and heroines should want to dance with me.”At 23, when everything might seem possible, Kanchan is hopeful. A commerce graduate, she doubles up as a tuition teacher to “paas-pados” (neighbourhood) kids “in all subjects” to fund her daily travels — she doesn’t want that burden to fall on her parents with whom she lives in north east Delhi’s Shastri Park. “ I also give dance classes in Bollywood free style to youngsters and ladies of the neighbourhood.”Kanchan’s parents are supportive of her endeavours, “but sometimes papa gets worried about who will marry me if I dance so much”. He runs a wedding cards shop in Chawri Bazaar.Every day, Kanchan leaves for shoots to scenic markets by 8am, so that “I can complete the shooting while the shops are still closed”. She often operates alone (and mostly dances barefoot) but today she is with her elder sister, Kirti, and a friend, Divya, who is in 10th standard. “My school is closed due to the coronavirus,” Divya says. She also lives in Shastri Park.It took the three women about two hours to get here from their home. “We first took an auto, then the Metro, and then we booked an Uber,” says Kanchan. Referring to their identical dresses, she says, “We got these from a footpath stall in Bhajanpura... the skirt was for ₹300.”Now Divya holds the phone — the shoots are always done through Kanchan’s (seen left in the pic above) mobile phone camera — and the other two hold hands and start to dance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-kanchan-the-youtuber-101615581624237.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Agri sector gets lion’s share in Haryana budget 2021-22||The agriculture sector grabbed the lion’s share in the Haryana budget that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar unveiled on Friday with a sharp 21% hike in farming outlay. Already on the back-foot due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party (BJP-JJP) coalition government has attempted to reach out to the disgruntled farming community through the 2021-22 budget proposals. While reiterating the resolve to achieve the national goal of doubling farmers’ income, Khattar said the government was “indebted to farmers” whose “toil and hard work has made Haryana the food bowl of the country.”“Agriculture is the mainstay of our economy and we are committed to doubling farmers’ income and ensuring their wellbeing,” Khattar said in a clear bid to reach out to peasants who have not been letting the ruling party leaders hold government functions in their villages. ‘Har Khet, Swasth Khet’ A special campaign christened “Har Khet Swasth Khet” will be started in the coming fiscal to focus on soil health and help farmers make cropping choices based on soil quality. At least 125 soil-testing laboratories will be established in schools, colleges, and technical universities in 2021-22. Developing additional 1,090 hectares of saline-affected area, 5,000 hectares of fresh water area in the next four years, setting up a centre of excellence at Garwa village in Bhiwani to develop saline-affected areas for shrimp culture, establishing 10 small fish feed mill plant units and a goat breeding centre at Loharu in Bhiwani are among the slew of schemes announced to improve the income of the farmers. “Against ₹5,052 crore outlay of 2020-21, we have increased the agriculture budget by 20.9% with ₹6,110 crore outlay for 2021-22,” Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, said in a media briefing. Of the ₹6,110 crore outlay, ₹2,998 crore has been proposed for agriculture and farmers’ welfare, ₹489 crore for horticulture, ₹1,225 for animal husbandry and dairying, Rs125 crore for fisheries and ₹1,274 crore for cooperation. The BJP-JJP coalition government has also proposed to spend ₹5,081 crore on the irrigation sector. Soil health and cropping choicesKhattar said the objective of “Har Khet Swasth Khet” is to provide an end-to-end solution to farming from soil health, crop choices, inputs, processing and marketing. The campaign for collection and testing of soil samples of each acre will be launched from April, 2021, covering the entire state in coming three to four years. At least 17 new static soil testing laboratories and 59 mini-soil testing laboratories are being established in mandis and government buildings to provide doorstep soil-testing services to farmers. Khattar said about 125 soil-testing laboratories will be set up in schools, colleges, technical universities and institutions during 2021-22. “This will benefit farmers on one hand and introduce a unique earn-while-you-learn opportunity to students, on the other,” Khattar said. The students of agriculture and horticulture universities will have mandatory linkage with field-level activities as part of their curriculum. Kisan Mitra Yojana According to Khattar, under the Kisan Mitra Yojana, at least 1, 000 farmers’ ATMs will be set up in the state in partnership with banks. The main objective of this move is to facilitate farmers through multiple services like cash withdrawal, cash deposit, balance enquiry, pin change, new pin generation, mini-statement, cheque book request, Aadhaar number updation, loan request, mobile number updation and registration of problems and feedback etc. Zero budget, organic and natural farming In yet another initiative to make agriculture viable and provide fresh farm produce to consumers, the government plans to promote zero budget farming and organic/natural farming. The target is to cover one lakh acre cropped area under this initiative in the next three years. Training will be provided to farmers in these techniques, while testing and certification laboratories will be established to promote marketing of farm produce grown with these techniques. Other initiatives Three bio safety level-II laboratories, with rapid and RT-PCR diagnostics of avian influenza and other poultry diseases, are to be set up in Hisar, Sonepat and Panchkula. Artificial insemination services to be expanded to goats for genetic up-gradation of breeds and to enhance the income of poor goat farmers. A goat breeding centre is to be established at Loharu, Bhiwani.  ₹50 crore allocated to strengthen Gaushalas. A new milk plant, with a packaging capacity of 3 lakh litre per day, is to be set up in southern Haryana to cover the National Capital RegionA new milk chilling plant will be set up at Sherla village of Loharu tehsil in Bhiwani. This plant will process milk to make and market sweet meals under the VITA-based brand name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/agri-sector-gets-lion-s-share-in-haryana-budget-202122-101615581401196.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get park for safe e-waste disposal||The Capital will soon get an e-waste management park for the safe and scientific disposal of electronic products such as appliances and e-vehicle batteries, according officials in the Delhi Lieutenant Governor’s office.“The Delhi chief secretary will head the drawing of the plan for this facility, after consulting the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) and the ministry of electronics and information technology,” a senior government official said on Friday.The official also said the proposal will also work on a system to incentivise citizens and agencies, to encourage the safe disposal of e-waste.In the absence of a protocol for its disposal and management, the Capital has been struggling to handle e-waste.A 2019 study conducted by environment NGO Toxics Link found at least 15 e-waste processing hot spots in the city that were operating without any health or environmental safeguards.Senior government officials said Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, along with K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor to government of India, on Thursday chaired a meeting with officials from the Delhi government, the three municipal corporations, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), and representatives from the above-mentioned union ministries, to discuss the need to working out a mechanism for the safe disposal of e-waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-park-for-safe-e-waste-disposal-101615580962165.html
13-03-2021||Other||Night curfew in Ludhiana: Rise in cancellations leaves hospitality industry jittery||Imposition of night curfew within two weeks of limits on gatherings at indoor and outdoor events has led to a rise in cancellations, greatly impacting the district’s hospitality industry.Owners of various hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces complained that within a day of the announcement of the night curfew, customers had already started calling to cancel or postpone bookings, hitting business by over 50%. The administration on Thursday had announced night curfew in the district from 11pm to 5am in view of the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases.“Clients visiting Ludhiana for corporate visits and those planning night events have started cancelling their bookings. Uncertainty over the extent of the night curfew is certainly going to cause huge losses to the hospitality sector,” said Manjit Singh Nagpal, who owns a hotel and a marriage palace.Instead of imposing a curfew, business owners said the administration should stress on enforcing safety protocols and bringing the violators to task. “Footfall at restaurants increases post 9pm. If we have to shut shop at 11pm, people will simply avoid dining out. Though the severity of the pandemic is understandable, there seems to be no end to the troubles of the hospitality sector that has been reeling under losses since the lockdown last year,” said Bhupinder Basant, owner of Basant Restaurants in Ludhiana.President of the Ludhiana Hotel and Restaurant Association, Amarvir Singh said, “The administration should understand the ramifications of the curfew on the sector. Not only will owners suffer huge losses, impact on business will translate into large-scale unemployment as well.”“Several customers wish to shift their bookings to day time, but it’s not entirely possible, as on several days, slots are booked for both morning and night hours,” said Amarjit Singh Sant, president, Marriage Palace Welfare Association.The hoteliers also rued that the administration had allowed factories to continue operations though they employed hundreds of labourers, while hotels, that followed all norms and guidelines issued by the government, were facing restrictions. Amarvir said they will take up the matter with the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-in-ludhiana-rise-in-cancellations-leaves-hospitality-industry-jittery-101615580380413.html
13-03-2021||Other||Encroachments near Buddha Nullah cleared: Occupants decry MC action||The municipal corporation (MC) on Friday razed dozens of illegal structures along the Buddha Nullah at Kundanpuri, New Kundanpuri, Upkar Nagar and adjoining areas, amid resistance from their occupants.Left without shelter, hundreds of labourers and their family members, who had been living in these buildings for decades, claimed the demolition took place without any notice. They were at work, while the MC razed the structures, damaging their household articles and belongings, they complained.However, assistant town planner (ATP) MS Bedi said, “Notices were served to the encroachers and illegal properties were also marked with red paint over the past few days. The drive commenced after conducting demarcation process and will continue in the coming days.”Suresh, a resident, said, “We were not even aware that these labour quarters had been established on encroached land. We have been living here for over a decade. There were over 50 quarters in the building in which we were residing and the owner used to collect ₹1,600-2,000 as rent against each quarter.”Another labourer, Prince said, “We were not aware of the drive. I was at work when someone told me about it. We have been paying rent to the building owner, who claims he was not aware of it either. MC should have given us some time to find another accommodation.”As per MC officials, over 70 encroachments were razed during the drive on Friday after issuing notices. The action came to pave way for a road at the site and beautification of the area, along with installation of chain-linked fences around the nullah to restrict residents from dumping waste. The three-metre-high and two-metre-wide fence is being installed under the Smart City Mission at a cost of ₹13.39 crore.Last year, MC had identified around 960 encroachments along the nullah that had reduced its width, resulting in overflow of wastewater during monsoon. The demarcation process was carried out by teams of different departments, including MC, revenue and drainage.‘We have registries of plots, pay taxes’ Some of the property owners said they have registries of their properties and had also been paying taxes to MC for years. “MC has also issued unique identification number for some of the properties and electricity metres have been installed by PSPCL,” they added.One such property owner, Charanjit Singh said, “I own a 200 square yards plot since the 1990s and have even shown the registry of the plot to MC. I have also won a case regarding ownership of the land in court. Yet, the MC officials have asked me to demolish the house by myself or they will. A 400 square yards property was divided into two parts and I purchased 200 yards out of it. Now, MC is claiming that the other portion is legal, but mine is not as per revenue records.”Another building owner, Harinder Singh said his 50 square yards building was razed even when he had registry of the plot. He added that he will move court against MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/encroachments-near-buddha-nullah-cleared-occupants-decry-mcaction-101615579780715.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Handwara narco-terrorism case: ₹91 lakh recovered from Samba village||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) recovered ₹91 lakh from an agricultural field in Ramgarh sector of Samba district, barely 5km from the Indo-Pak international border, on Friday. A police officer said, “The cash was recovered from a pit in an agricultural field in Gurwal village on the disclosure of one Ramesh Kumar, who had been recently arrested in a narco-terrorism case,” said a senior police officer. On March 1, the NIA had arrested four drug traffickers — Altaf Ahmed Shah of Dangherpora,Ganderbal; Showkat Ahmad Parray of Wangipora Sumbal, Bandipora; Mudasir Ahmad Dar of Shopian and Amin Allaie alias Hilal Mir of Sangam, Anantnag in the Handwara narco-terrorism case. The police had seized 21kg heroin and ₹1,35,89,850 from the drug traffickers. Kumar was also arrested in the same case. “Investigation revealed that Kumar had received the cash proceeds of drugs from narco-smugglers based in Kashmir valley for himself as well as for further channelisation to different terrorist entities. The investigation in the case continues,” the statement said.The case was initially registered on June 11, 2020 at the Handwara police station in Kupwara district. On June 11, while checking vehicles at Kairo Bridge, Handwara, police had checked a vehicle at a check post and during the search ₹20 lakh along with 2kg heroin was recovered from the car of one Abdul Momin Peer. A chargesheet was filed on December 5, 2020, against six accused in the NIA special court in Jammu. “Peer’s sustained interrogation had led the NIA to unearth the drug syndicate operating on the directions of handlers in Pakistan,” said the officer. Investigation revealed that the accused drug peddlers were involved in cross-border smuggling of heroin in huge quantities from Pakistan and were supplying the same in J&K and other parts of the country. They were also in regular communication with the operatives of proscribed terrorist organisations Lashkar-e-Taiba(LeT) and Hizbul-Mujahideen (HM), using encrypted chat platforms. The proceeds of sale were being used to finance the activities of proscribed terror outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul. (With inputs from Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/handwara-narco-terrorism-case-91-lakh-recovered-from-samba-village-101615579720315.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to bring big retail to Sector 17||In a bid to give a major fillip to Sector 17 and draw shoppers back to the city’s commercial heart, the Chandigarh administration is planning to bring “a big retail” to the sector. “The plan is to have an anchor store like the one exists in shopping malls. Such stores are major crowd pullers and enhance the footfall,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.Sector 17 in the past few years has lagged behind due to new shopping malls coming up within the city and its vicinity. “The introduction of an anchor store will definitely spur activity in the sector and help it recover some of the ground lost to the shopping malls,” said the official.Space for such an anchor store would be given in one of the existing buildings and the project would neither require new constructions nor any change in the architectural plans, the official added.As per the proposal, the ground floors of 17 and 30 bays buildings will be allotted to a commercial establishment, on competitive bidding basis, solely for the purpose of creating a prominent retail space. “Currently, offices of Haryana and Punjab governments are operating from these buildings. The administration has been trying to get these vacated as most of the offices earlier being run from here have either shifted to Panchkula or Mohali,” said the official.Bringing vibrancy to Bank SquareThe project is a part of the ‘Sector 17 Rejuvenation Plan’, which envisages a major revamp in the infrastructure, buildings’ facelifts and renovations in Sector 17.Particular emphasis is being laid on creating greater vibrancy in the northern plaza and near the bank square.“The area around the 17 and 30 bays building, which is in proximity to the bank square, present a forlorn picture after the office working hours. Earlier, there was plan to let out these buildings for office spaces. But, it was dropped as this would not attract increased visitors to the area, specifically after working hours. So, big retail has now been opted for,” the official said.In lines with this plan is to create an art gallery and museum in the Town Hall building (DC office) near the 17 and 30 bays building.“A new building will house all offices of the district administration. It will come up on the vacant two-acre land near Hotel Shivalikview, have six floors, excluding the ground floor, and parking for at least 600 cars in the basement. Plans are ready for the building,” the official said.Once new DC building comes up, the Town Hall building will be conserved and converted into an art gallery and museum. The administration will also soon start the beautification of the northern plaza as a part of the rejuvenation plan.The department has already initiated the process of restoring the facade of the government and private buildings in the sector. An urban park behind Neelam theatre is also coming up. “As of now, the football stadium and area around it covers nine acres. For this project, it will be increased to 12 acres. Work on part of it is already under process,” said the official. The construction of a 40mx40m city map in front of Neelam Theatre is in its mid-construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-to-bring-big-retail-to-sector-17-101615579360397.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC plans to discontinue afternoon water supply||The Chandigarh municipal corporation is planning to shut down the afternoon drinking water supply in the city. It expects to save more than ₹14 crore annually through this move.Currently, the MC supplies water in the city for 11 hours: five in the morning, two in the afternoon and four in the evening. According to the plan, supply will continue for 11 hours by increasing the duration by an hour each in the morning and evening.MC commissioner KK Yadav, who has initiated the proposal, said: “The demand for afternoon supply is not very high. We are spending around ₹14 crore on it. For the MC, it is much less expensive to increase the morning and evening supply by an hour each.”The civic body contends that after the morning supply, there is a break in supply till afternoon, which empties water pipes. To restart the supply and create water pressure, additional power input is needed. “Ultimately, electric pumps and other machinery have to be continuously used. Also, given their numbers, it is very difficult for MC workers to continuously work on it,” said Yadav.The MC is running a heavy deficit in the drinking water supply as the tariff remained stagnant between 2011 and 2020. In 2019-2020, it spent ₹215 crore on water supply, and earned only ₹87 crore. With the September 2020 water tariff hike, it expects to add ₹60 crore in receipts from the supply. However, it will have to forego it if the UT administration approves the General House’s latest resolution to go back to the old rates till the pandemic ends.“The proposal to discontinue afternoon supply will decrease the financial burden on the MC, which will ultimately make water supply cheaper for the residents,” said Yadav.After the proposal was brought before the MC General House on March 9, it was referred to the water supply and sewerage disposal committee.Councillor and committee member Shakti Prakash Devshali said: “A final decision will be taken after considering views of all resident welfare associations and the general public.”Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said: “Residents don’t mind if the afternoon supply is discontinued as long as the supply is increased in the morning and evening, and the MC rolls back the water tariff hike.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-plans-to-discontinue-afternoon-water-supply-101615579121428.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Nod to high-density plantation on 5,500 hectares in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir government has given its nod to setting up high-density plantations on 5,500 hectares after the administrative council, which met under the chairpersonship of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha in Jammu on Thursday, approved the implementation of high-density plantation scheme in the horticulture sector with the support of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. “This step will go a long way in enhancing the quality and quantity of horticulture produce and doubling farmers’ income,” the government spokesman said.The fruits identified for high-density plantation are apple, walnut, almond, cherry, litchi, and olive. The produce will be planted in suitable agro-climatic zones for six years from March, 2021.“The new high-density plantation scheme has provisions to provide 50% subsidy to orchardists for the same accompanied by a loan facility for raising 40% of the remaining capital. The scheme will also provide subsidies to growers on account of expenditure related to micro-irrigation, plant material, and anti-hail nets. Under the scheme, preference will be given to farmers with landholdings of less than 4 kanal,” a spokesperson said.“The high-density plantations are expected to make horticulture profitable through superior yields, higher yields per hectare, early harvest, and introduction of insect and pest- resistant varieties thereby saving the expenditure on disease and pest control,” the spokesperson said.NAFED will also install a high-tech laboratory for certification of horticulture produce as per international standards, virus-indexing laboratories, and will arrange for imports of specified qualities and species from identified countries.In the last two years, 5,000 kanals (625 acres) of high-density orchards have been established in the Valley. They are likely to start producing fruit within one or two years. Medium-density plantations that bear fruit after five years have been set up over 48,000 kanals ( 6,000 acres) across Kashmir, as per official data.Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat says, “We are way behind on our target to convert old orchards into high density or medium density ones. But once it is done the production will go up. Area-wise Kashmir is on the top but when it comes to production we are still far behind. Thus, we are encouraging growers to replace old orchards with new ones.”Of late, the J&K government has taken several steps to boost the sector by providing high-yielding plants to growers. “Around 2 lakh quality plants have been grown in public sector nurseries and distributed among the famers in Kashmir,” Bhat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nod-to-high-density-plantation-on-5-500-hectares-in-jk-101615579120368.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Weekend may be cooler after rain spell: IMD||The national capital on Friday received light rain, thunderstorms and strong winds, which helped pull back the rising temperature in the city. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said lower temperatures are likely to persist over the weekend, and Saturday morning may see light showers.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecast centre, said till 7pm Friday, the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, received around 6mm rain.“The entire city received light rain on Friday. We started receiving the first spell around 7.30am, and it lasted for around two hours. Some areas in Delhi also received rain in the evening,” Srivastava said.The Palam weather station received 2mm rain, Lodhi Road 4.1mm, Aya Nagar 2.1mm and the Ridge received 0.5mm of rain on Friday.Scientists said the rain was the result of a western disturbance passing over the north-west region.A western disturbance is an extratropical storm that originates in the Mediterranean, bringing with it rain and a drop in temperature. It is mostly associated with winter rain in India.Met officials also said Friday was mostly windy, which led to a drastic fall in daytime temperature. The maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory was 30.7 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s normal.This was down from 35.2 degrees Celsius, recorded on Thursday, which was the highest this winter so far.The minimum temperature on Friday was 17.9 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for the season.The strong winds also led to a marginal improvement in the pollution levels. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of the city was 218, in the “poor” category. On Thursday, the AQI was 242, also in the “poor” category.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said the improvement in air quality will continue till Sunday.“Expected rainfall is likely to contribute to AQI positively. The average AQI is likely to improve to the moderate category on Saturday. Moderate to poor AQI is forecasted for March 14 and March 15,” the Safar forecast read.Four struck by lightning in GurugramFour men were injured after lightning struck a tree under which they were taking shelter from the rain in Gurugram’s Sector 82. A video clip which went viral online, showed them falling to the ground moments after the lightning strike.The incident took in the residential township Vatika India Next and the four men were attached with its horticulture department.The injured, identified as Shiv Dutt (43), Lali (32), Anil Kumar (32) and Ram Prasad (38) were rushed to a hospital where Prasad was reported to be critical and the rest were stable and recovering.Krishan Kant, station house officer of Kherki Daula police station, said, “Ram Prasad is admitted in the intensive care unit and is in critical condition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-may-be-cooler-after-rain-spell-imd-101615578978928.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 135 cases, highest since November surge||As many as 135 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Friday, the highest since the city witnessed a surge post festive season in November. The total number of cases has reached 22,832, with four days recording more than 100 cases this month. Just 12 days into March, 1,062 cases have surfaced, up from 819 throughout February.In some respite, no death has been reported for the past two days, and the toll stands at 357. With 58 people being discharged in the past 24 hours, the number of recoveries has pushed up to 21,539 (94.3%) and the number of active cases has reached 936.Meanwhile, 2,617 people were inoculated during the day, including 1,638 senior citizens and 215 in the age group of 45-59 with underlying diseases.In view of surge in cases, the administration on Wednesday imposed fresh restrictions on social gatherings and decided to keep primary schools closed for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-135-cases-highest-since-november-surge-101615579000242.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Police inspector arrested in Chandigarh house grab case||Probing into the Sector-37 house grab case, the special investigation team (SIT) on Friday arrested Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh.Posted as the station house officer in Sector 39 at the time of the incident, he is accused of inaction. The SIT had summoned him to join the investigations, following which he was arrested. This is the fourth arrest in the case after journalist Sanjiv Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta and Satpal Dagar, brother of deputy superintendent of police Ram Gopal, were arrested last week. Meanwhile, the SIT after questioning the DSP has ruled out his involvement in the case. Police last week booked around 10 people, including slain bouncer Surjit Singh, for kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, the sole heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338-square-yard house and selling it to Manish Gupta’s brother for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. The FIR mentioned that inspector Rajdeep Singh had failed to take action on a complaint filed against Sanjeev Mahajan, Surjit Singh and Shekhar, who had forcibly occupied Mehta’s house.“No one whose involvement is found in the case will be spared,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Rajdeep was a part of the conspiracy and was aware of the house grab and treatment meted out to Mehta by the accused, said a senior police official privy to the investigations. He will be produced in court on Saturday. Meanwhile, Manish Gupta’s bail plea was dismissed on Friday. The SIT is also considering to bring Mahajan, Gupta and Dagar back for investigations on production warrants. They are presently in judicial custody.What the tenant allegedThe case was registered after probe into the complaint submitted by Mehta’s tenant Pradeep Ratan to the SSP’s office back in 2019. According to Ratan, he had approached the Sector-39 police station in 2017 as well, but its SHO, Rajdeep, took no action. According to his complaint, Mehta was not keeping well and bouncer Surjit along with Sanjeev Mahajan and Shekhar had occupied his house. He had also accused them of assaulting and throwing him out of the house.Ratan alleged that the trio had reached the police station and abused him in front of inspector Rajdeep. They allegedly also threatened him to stay away from the house. Ratan further alleged that a health certificate regarding Mehta’s mental health, which was attached with his complaint, was removed by the SHO, who kept it in his pocket. After some time, the complainant come to know that Mehta was missing from his house. According to the probe, Surjit had left Mehta at a stud farm in Bhuj, Gujarat, from where the victim was moved from one ashram to the other before being brought back by police recently.Was suspended in another caseInspector Rajdeep Singh was placed under suspension and sent to the police lines in October last year. Posted with the VIP security wing, he had allegedly submitted a fake medical certificate to avoid election duty in Haryana bypolls. A departmental inquiry was also ordered. He was later moved to the traffic wing. After his stint as the SHO in Sector 39, when the house grab took place, he had also served in the same position at the police station in Sector 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-inspector-arrested-in-chandigarh-house-grab-case-101615578820335.html
13-03-2021||Other||Man moves Bombay HC, seeks nod to end minor daughter’s 31-week pregnancy||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the dean of Sir JJ Hospital to set up a medical board and examine a Class 7 student who has petitioned HC for permission to terminate her 31-week pregnancy under provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition, was informed by advocate Ashley Cusher that the applicant was the father of the 13-year-old who was sexually assaulted by an acquaintance and got pregnant. Though the girl had a bloated stomach in the past few months, the parents had brushed it aside as flatulence. However, later they took their daughter to a hospital and discovered that it was a pregnancy at an advanced stage of 30 weeks.The petition stated that the family lives in a slum at Govandi, and the petitioner has three children. After the eldest of the three, who suffered from epilepsy, was cured by a man, the family trusted him, and he started frequenting their house. The petition alleged that the man started stalking the survivor. Seven-eight months ago, on one of the days, he found the minor alone and entered the home and raped her. He raped her on two occasions and threatened the minor against disclosing the act to her parents. After the pregnancy was detected, the father lodged a police complaint against the man. As the girl was a minor, she was sent to the child welfare committee at Mankhurd. Cusher submitted that the girl would not understand the implications of the pregnancy, and with every passing day she was undergoing irretrievable changes which will have a direct impact upon the foetus as well as on the survivor. He added that the continuation of pregnancy could pose severe trauma to the girl, and therefore, her father sought termination of the pregnancy under section 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-moves-bombay-hc-seeks-nod-to-end-minor-daughter-s-31-week-pregnancy-101615578760291.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||Terror, talks will not go together is guiding doctrine of govt: Chrungoo||Senior BJP and Kashmiri Pandit leader Ashwani Kumar Chrungoo on Friday said that while the ceasefire agreement at the level of director general of military operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan was a welcome development yet it needed to be reiterated that India’s current policy regarding Pakistan was guided by the doctrine that ‘terror and talks won’t go together’. Chrungoo was addressing a webinar held by the Centre for Peace & Progress, New Delhi on the topic ‘Improving Indo-Pak Relations.’Chrungoo said if peace has to be permanent , Pakistan has a greater responsibility to stop cross-border terrorism, insurgency and lending support to misadventures across the line of control and the international border. “While following the Pakistan media, it has been observed that the people in Pakistan preferred to have the India- made Covid vaccine than the one made by China. It is hoped that the policy of Pakistan regarding the ceasefire with India is not guided by the India-made vaccine demand in Pakistan and is pursued even after such a need of Pakistan is fulfilled by India. The people and the governments in the region shouldn’t be guided, in any way, by the western countries’ media and debate on Indo-Pak relations. The relations should be independent of the western media narrative on the relations”, Chrungoo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-talks-will-not-go-together-is-guiding-doctrine-of-govt-chrungoo-101615578700429.html
13-03-2021||Other||MPSC declares March 21 as next date for recruitment exam||Mumbai A day after facing flak from aspirants over postponing the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination for recruitment in government jobs, the commission on Friday announced March 21 as the next date for the exam. The announcement was made following chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackray’s promise that the fresh date will be declared on Friday.“Following instructions from the state relief and rehabilitation department, the commission had decided to postpone the exam. Now, the same examination will be held on March 21,” stated the order issued by MPSC on Friday.The exam was to be held on Sunday (March 14), which was postponed considering the spike in the Covid-19 cases. The decision had led to demonstrations by aspirants at Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Sangli, Amravati etc.On Wednesday, the state relief and rehabilitation department had issued a letter that stated, “It would be inappropriate to hold MPSC exams in the backdrop of restrictions imposed as precautionary measures to arrest the spread of coronavirus by local administrations in different districts and cities, hence exams should be deferred.”Taking a serious note of the demonstrations, CM on Thursday called a meeting to review the situation. He expressed regret over inconvenience to the aspirants and promised that the fresh dates will be declared by Friday. Taking a veiled dig at the Opposition, he also asked students to not get “provoked”.The exams, which had been scheduled for April 2020, had been delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, and were postponed four times since then, aspirants said. Recruitment for various posts in the state government is held through MPSC, and thousands of youth from all over the state appear for it every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mpsc-declares-march-21-as-next-date-for-recruitment-exam-101615578583486.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Nagpur high-speed corridor: NHSRCL starts aerial survey||The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has commenced an aerial survey for the construction of the high-speed railway corridor between Mumbai and Nagpur. The survey is being conducted to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for the railway corridor. The survey will provide ground data details in four months. “Ground survey is a crucial activity for any linear infrastructure project as the survey provides accurate details of areas around the alignment. This technique uses a combination of laser data, global positioning system (GPS), flight parameters and actual photographs to give accurate survey data,” said a senior NHRSCL official.The proposed 736km high-speed corridor will connect Mumbai with Nagpur, Wardha, Malegaon, Jalna, Aurangabad, Shirdi, Nashik, Igatpuri and Shahapur towns.NHSRCL has stated that the trains will be operated at a speed of 320km per hour. Passengers travelling by rail from Mumbai to Nagpur are likely to save up to 50% of their commuting time after the route is ready. At present, the shortest distance by train between Mumbai and Nagpur is 11.30 hours by Duronto Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbainagpur-high-speed-corridor-nhsrcl-starts-aerial-survey-101615578519696.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Couple held guilty of minor’s sexual assault move Bombay HC||The elderly couple who were convicted and sentenced on Thursday for sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl have moved the Bombay high court (HC), challenging the judgment of the special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The special court on Thursday sentenced the 87-year-old man and his 81-year-old wife to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of ₹1,000 each for sexually assaulting the child in 2013. The couple was also asked to pay compensation of ₹50,000 to the girl.The special judge, Rekha N Pandhare, while sentencing the couple, observed that the survivor was a minor and the accused were her grandparents’ age. The case against the couple was registered with VP Road police station in September 2013 for sexually abusing the girl who stayed in the same building as theirs in Girgaum.In her statement to the police in 2013, the girl said the couple, whom she addressed as dada (grandfather) and dadi (grandmother), stopped her while she was returning home and made her sit on a swing. She said the ‘dada’ slapped her, while the ‘dadi’ held her tight. She claimed dada then disrobed her and sexually assaulted her. The girl said when she tried to run away, the dada spat on her before letting her go home.The couple’s lawyer Dinesh Tiwari on Friday moved an appeal before the Bombay HC challenging their conviction and consequent prison term. In their appeal, the couple claimed that they were falsely implicated by the parents of the survivor out of previous enmity.The court has held the couple guilty based on the testimony of the survivor who was eight years old when deposed. The couple in their appeal claimed that the testimony given by the victim is not reliable. “The judge failed to appreciate that the survivor and her mother have given different versions of the alleged incident,” stated the appeal. They further claimed that the prosecution had failed to examine crucial independent witnesses in the case.Seven witnesses were examined during the trial that began in 2017 when the accused were out on bail. The court relied on the girl’s testimony recorded almost after four years after the complaint was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/couple-held-guilty-of-minor-s-sexual-assault-move-bombay-hc-101615578463243.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||No politics over patriotism, Kejriwal implores in House||Speaking in the state assembly on the last day of the budget session, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said there should be no politics over patriotism, which was the theme of the Delhi Budget released earlier this week.“I want to ask the BJP — if not in India, will our flag be unfurled in Pakistan? If not in Delhi, will the Indian flag be unfurled in Islamabad?” Kejriwal said in his speech in the Assembly, concluding discussions on the 2021-22 budget, which was passed by the House on Friday.The Delhi government in the Budget, presented on Tuesday, allocated ₹45 crore to set up national flags across 500 locations in the city.The budget session in the Assembly was adjourned on Friday, ahead of schedule, with speaker Ram Niwas Goel citing risks posed by the uptick in Covid-19 cases in the Capital over the past few days.Kejriwal also said, “I fail to understand why the BJP and the Congress are opposing the setting up of flags across Delhi. What makes them oppose this? This is a remarkable move, they should support it. There should be no politics when it comes to patriotism… Keeping politics aside, we have supported the Central government in every good decision that they have made until now. I remember, PM announced Swacch Bharat Abhiyaan in 2014, I went to a slum area with a broom. I remember going to India Gate with a yoga mat when the PM announced a Yoga initiative. This year we have planned a Yoga programme for Delhi.”“After I announced that we will provide free pilgrimage to the Ram temple in Ayodhya for the elders in Delhi under an existing government scheme, the BJP and the Congress have been criticising the decision. I do not understand why. Is it a crime to provide our elders with a free pilgrimage to a place of worship such as Ayodhya?” said Kejriwal.During the day’s proceedings, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia reiterated that the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) idea of patriotism stresses on “quality education, good governance and equality”.Speaking before Kejriwal, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, said, “Delhi’s development is patriotism for us. Good schools, good hospitals, good facilities for all, equality, cleanliness, generating jobs, endorsing artists, supporting the marginalised is patriotism for us. If we carry patriotism in one hand, we carry the Constitution in another. We are not like the BJP which carries so-called patriotism in one hand and a knife in the other. Your [the BJP’s] way of being patriotic is dangerous.“You talk about patriotism and you stopped protesting farmers from reaching Delhi. You put iron nails on roads and blocked their way. You have been calling farmers traitors. The same farmers’ sons are also serving the country at the borders. Shame on you,” he said.His comments led to a heated exchange between BJP and AAP legislators in the House, after which the eight BJP MLAs staged a walk-out. The AAP has 62 MLAs in the 70-member Assembly.Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “The government is talking about Singapore, travelled all the way to 2047 in the garb of presenting a vision. I am not sure who among us will be alive to see if per-capita income in Delhi touches Singapore’s per-capita by 2047… They have announced free Covid-19 vaccines at the centres in Delhi government hospitals. But how many people go to these hospitals? They are so bad. This reflects in the poor turnout at the vaccine centres in Delhi government hospitals. Bike ambulances in Delhi are yet not functional and the government does not address the issue in the upcoming budget”.His party colleague, Anil Bajpai, said, “It is good Kejriwal has adopted Ram Rajya, but he will have to go through an ‘Agni Pariksha’ (test of fire) to achieve it.”Delhi Congress vice president Mudit Agarwal said in a statement, “CM Kejriwal is again spreading lies by saying that Congress party has objections over people of Delhi going to Ram Mandir and over 500 Flags, I would like to remind CM Kejriwal that the policy of Pilgrim Visit was started during Sheila Ji’s (former chief minister Sheila Dikshit) regime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-politics-over-patriotism-kejriwal-implores-in-house-101615578101197.html
13-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt tables new ESZ proposal for Thane Flamingo Sanctuary||The state government wrote to the Union environment ministry on Wednesday, proposing to notify an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of 48 square kilometres (sq km) around the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS). The move will increase the area earmarked for protection by the forest department, which had initially proposed to include just 34.06 sq km within ESZ. An ESZ is a buffer area created around a wildlife sanctuary or national park to reduce developmental pressures.The forest department said it has also increased the maximum width of the originally proposed buffer area to a maximum of 3.98km, as compared to 3.5km earlier. At its southern-most point near Vashi bridge, the width of ESZ is 0km, while at its northernmost point at Thane-Kalwa bridge, the width is 2km. Spread across 1690.5 hectares (ha) across Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Kanjur and parts of Mandale village, TCFS is home to 12 true mangrove species, 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds including flamingos, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species, among other mammals such as jackals. In May 2018, the state had declared it a flamingo sanctuary. On May 16, 2019, HT had reported that the originally designated ESZ did not protect mangroves, mudflats and salt pans towards eastern portions of the sanctuary. About 1,400ha of mangrove forests towards Navi Mumbai side weren’t covered in the ambit of the original ESZ delineation because they were already declared as reserve forests under the Indian Forest Act. They are also covered under CRZ (coastal regulation zone). However, last February, the ministry recommended their inclusion in ESZ, which has now been sent for approval,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell. “The solution is to declare TCFS as a wildlife sanctuary under the Wildlife Act. An ESZ notification won’t offer much protection as seen in case of Sanjay Gandhi National Park where developmental activities are undertaken inches away,” said D Stalin, director, NGO Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-tables-new-esz-proposal-for-thane-flamingo-sanctuary-101615578220563.html
13-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP governor receives first jab, 88 more virus cases logged||Himachal governor Bandaru Dattatreya was administered the first dose of the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla on Friday. The governor asked the people of the state to take the vaccine and follow all health protocols, including wearing masks, social distancing and sanitisation to curb the spread of the virus. He also thanked the state government, Covid-19 warriors, and health workers to contribute to the fight against the virus. He also thanked doctors, nurses and health workers at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) Hospital after being inoculated. Meanwhile, Himachal recorded 88 new cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 59,527 while no fatality was reported.Of the new cases, 16 were reported in Sirmaur, 15 in Una, 14 in Shimla, 12 in Solan, 11 in Kangra, nine in Hamirpur, six in Bilaspur, five in Kullu. Active cases have climbed to 706 while recoveries reached 57,818 after 44 people recuperated.Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,558 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,304, and Kangra with 8,708 cases. Solan has 6,900 cases, Kullu 4,473, Sirmaur 3,691, Hamirpur 3,099, Una 3,147, Bilaspur 3,019, Chamba 2,983, Kinnaur 1,387, and Lahaul-Spiti has 1,258 cases. A total of 11,49,732 tests have been conducted so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-governor-receives-first-jab-88-more-virus-cases-logged-101615578100347.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 15K new Covid cases in a day, after 162 days||After a gap of 162 days, Maharashtra on Friday breached the 15,000-mark of new Covid infections in a day, recording 15,817 cases, pushing the count to 2,282,191. On October 1, the state had recorded 16,476 cases. The active cases have increased to 110,485 – 4.84% of the total cases. The toll reached 52,773, with 56 casualties. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,647 fresh cases, highest in four-and-a-half months, since 1,609 cases were reported on October 21. The total number of cases in the city stands at 340,290. There are 11,083 active cases in the city. Mumbai also reported four deaths on Friday due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 11,523. The case fatality rate in Mumbai is 3.3%, and the recovery rate is 93%. The overall growth rate of cases in the city is 0.35%, and the doubling rate has gone down to 194 days, from 205 days on Thursday. Of the 56 deaths, 32 occurred in the last 48 hours and eight in the last week. The rest 16 deaths are from the period before last week, health officials said. The rise in Covid-19 cases started from February 10, forcing the state to impose a complete lockdown or partial curbs in several districts and cities of the state. On Friday, a two-day lockdown was announced in Parbhani. It will be imposed from 12am on Friday midnight till Monday, 6am. It reported 80 cases on Friday and cumulative figures reached 9,194 cases. Dhule, too, has imposed a four-day janata curfew from March 14 to 17, during which, except essential services, all other establishments will remain closed. The local administration has also barred weekly markets till the end of the month. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday directed the local administration to improve contact tracing in areas where the number of cases is high. He ordered strict implementation of preventive measures for containment zones to arrest transmission and take action against all those found violating the rules. To review the spike, the chief secretary called a meeting with divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and chief executive officers of all districts and cities on Friday. “The preventive measures need to be implemented more effectively in districts where the positivity rate is high. Contact tracing should be increased along with daily testing numbers,” chief secretary said in the meet. “The local administration should immediately start implementation of preventive measures in containment zones. In urban areas, corporation and police officials should coordinate to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed by the people and ensure action against offenders. Fine people for not wearing masks. Also, ensure strict and regular monitoring of home isolated patients,” he directed. Kunte also asked them to vaccinate more people from areas with a high positivity rate. The state government will also try to provide more stock of vaccines, he said. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the cases will come down only when people start following Covid protocols seriously. “Unless people follow norms and avoid crowding, the situation won’t come under control,” he said. Dr Lahane said the spike in cases is limited to eight districts, including Mumbai, and thus it would not be appropriate to call the rise a “second wave”. “Maharashtra has 36 districts whereas the cases are rising only in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Jalgaon, Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola. We cannot call it “second wave” unless the rise is spread to more districts,” he clarified. With 9,410 cases, the combined tally of the eight cities and districts which comes to 59.49% of the total cases reported on Friday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray already indicated the need to bring in lockdown restrictions in some areas to arrest the spread. On Thursday, he also said the decision will be taken in the next two days. With 1,845 cases, Pune city recorded the highest number of cases across the state. The combined tally of the city and district went up to 2,423 in a day. Nagpur city reported 1,729 cases, second highest after Pune. The combined tally of the city and district comes to 2,067 cases. Maharashtra covered 2,434,966 beneficiaries through its vaccination drive after 80,705 people were inoculated on Thursday. Of them, 72,100 were given the first shot of vaccine and 8,605 were administered second shots who have completed a mandatory gap of 28 days. The figures also include 62,781 beneficiaries who are general public. Of them, 51,775 are citizens above 60 years of age and the remaining 11,006 are aged 45 years and above with comorbidities.Around 12 districts didn’t conduct vaccination drives owing to Mahashivratri following which the daily number of those immunized was much less than the previous day, the officials said.Starting from January 16, the state has covered the first shot of 804,099 healthcare workers (HCWs) and second shot of 309,222 HCWs. It has completed the first shot of 475,478 frontline workers (FLWs) and second shot of 30,695 FLWs. Similarly, It has also completed the first shot of 119,515 beneficiaries from 45 to 60 years with comorbidities and first shot of 695,957 of beneficiaries of 60 years and more till date, according to a release issued by the state health department on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-15k-new-covid-cases-in-a-day-after-162-days-101615578040295.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran death: ATS recreates crime scene at Thane creek||The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which is probing the death of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, 48, who was allegedly the owner of the car left near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s with loose explosives and was found dead in a creek on March 5, recreated the purported crime scene using a dummy of the same height and weight early Thursday morning. The team also quizzed Hiran’s elder brother Vinod for two hours on Friday. Later, Vinod and Hiran’s son Meet were taken to the ATS office in Wagle Estate in Thane where they were questioned from afternoon till the time of going to print. The team also called ambulance drivers who took Mansukh’s body from the creek to the hospital and saw a five-layer mask on his face. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a parallel probe into the death, also visited the crime scene on Thursday. Meanwhile, Sachin Vaze, the police officer who was transferred out of the crime branch over his alleged link to the Hiran death case based on Hiran’s wife Vimla’s statement, will join the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of Mumbai Police on the ground floor of the Mumbai Police headquarters. The unit handles citizens’ grievances, licences issued by Mumbai Police and other public-related services. Elaborating on the probe, a senior IPS officer said the team of around eight to 10 ATS officials that visited Reti Bunder first consulted with the locals on low and high tides. The team was also said to be accompanied by an officer from the India Meteorological Department to examine the weather conditions and flow of the creek on March 4 and 5. ATS officials feel Hiran’s body was hurled into the creek during low tide, said the officer. During the recreation, the dummy got stuck in the mud, the officer said, adding the ATS team had hired a fisherman’s boat and took the dummy around 30m inside the creek from where they again threw the dummy to see the direction from which the body could have come. After analysing the crime scene and speaking with fishermen, ATS officials feel the culprits might have killed Hiran somewhere else and dumped the body here. His last mobile location was Vasai and Virar, said the officer. Sajjad Nakkad, a Mumbra resident, who has been working for the ambulance service for two years, said, “I went to the ATS office with my employer, Abdulla. I was part of the team that got out Hiran’s body. We were shocked to see the five-layer mask on his face. Later, we took the body to Kalwa civic hospital. We are cooperating with the police.” A fisherman from the area said, “We often help the disaster management team to search bodies. I was there during the rescue of Hiran’s body. There were no injuries. We have told the police everything we know.” ATS officials are collecting from Hiran’s building and other structures in the vicinity the CCTV footage for a month, added the officer. The process of Vaze’s transfer started after leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised the issue in the state Assembly. He alleged that Vaze had used the same Scorpio found near Ambani’s house months before the incident, and sought Vaze’s arrest. Home minister Anil Deshmukh then announced the officer’s transfer in the legislative council on Wednesday. A day after the Scorpio was found parked on Carmichael Road, Deshmukh released a video statement stating that the Mumbai crime branch would investigate the case. Vaze, who was heading the crime intelligence unit, had taken the lead in the investigation. The Scorpio was traced to Hiran and he was called in for questioning by several agencies. He said he had registered a complaint that the SUV was stolen between the night of February 17 and February 18. He was found dead on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiran-death-ats-recreates-crime-scene-at-thane-creek-101615577920267.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||HC raps agencies over progress in Dabholkar and Pansare murder cases||The Bombay high court on Friday rapped the Maharashtra government and investigating agencies CBI and CID for dragging their feet on the probes into the murders of activists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare in 2013 and 2015, respectively.In the light of the fact that investigators in Karnataka managed to complete the investigations in the murders of rationalist MM Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh and trial has started in one of the cases, the court sought to know how much time the agencies needed. The court then directed the agencies to file a progress report in two weeks and posted the next hearing for March 30.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale, while hearing petitions filed by Smita Pansare and Mukta Dabholkar, kin of the slain activists, was informed by advocate Abhay Nevagi that the investigating agencies had not been able to nail the culprits or conclude investigations. The two women sought a court-monitored probe. The court was informed that while the CBI had filed three charge sheets in the Dabholkar case, the CID had made no progress in the Pansare case.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the CBI, assured the court that the agency would file a fresh progress report before the next hearing. Advocate Mankunwar Deshmukh also said a progress report would be filed.After hearing the submissions, the bench said it did not doubt the intentions of the agencies but “the incidents happened in 2013 and 2015... How long will it go on like this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-raps-agencies-over-progress-in-dabholkar-and-pansare-murder-cases-101615577412211.html
13-03-2021||Other||Row over proposer: Bombay HC lets candidate fight Parsi Punchayet trustee poll||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the Bombay Parsi Punchayet (BPP) to allow a candidate to participate in the elections for the trustee on Sunday. BPP had rejected the candidate’s form after it was informed by members of the community that one of her proposers had ceased to profess the Zoroastrian faith after she had submitted her form, and hence it should not be accepted. HC held that as the woman had complied with the procedure for filing her nomination, it was the panchayat’s duty and not the candidate’s to verify if her proposer was a Zoroastrian. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Vinay Joshi, while hearing the interim application in a suit filed by Dr Zuleika Homavazir, was informed by advocate Rajiv Singh that the plea was moved for urgent hearing as a single judge bench of HC had rejected the claims of his client. Singh informed the court that the single judge had failed to take note of the fact that BPP had not followed proper procedure while rejecting the nomination. According to Dr Homavazir’s application, she had filed her nomination form with the first proposer, and it was seconded by another proposer. She submitted that she had verified that both the names were present in the member and donor register before requesting them to propose her name as a candidate. However, after she filed her nomination form, rumours of the first proposer having renounced the Zoroastrian faith and embracing Christianity surfaced. BPP‘s chief executive officer (CEO) asked Dr Homavazir to verify the development, failing which her nomination would be cancelled, as the proposer had to be a practicing Parsi. As she could not get the requisite verification from first proposer, BPP’s CEO cancelled her nomination form. Singh informed the bench that even if it was assumed that the first proposer had renounced the faith, his name was not removed from the register, and the proposer was expected to confirm if the candidate was a Parsi and not the other way around. He also claimed that BPP’s CEO did not follow the proper procedure to verify if the proposer had renounced the faith by giving a 30-day notice to the renouncer, and hence, the rejection of Dr Homavazir’s nomination was invalid. After hearing the submissions, the court held that as there was no proof of the first proposer having renounced the faith, and as BPP’s CEO had not followed proper procedure, the rejection of Dr Homavazir’s nomination was invalid. HC directed the panchayat to accept her nomination form for the election and also gave her the liberty to inform the members of the community of her candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-proposer-bombay-hc-lets-candidate-fight-parsi-punchayet-trustee-poll-101615577440204.html
13-03-2021||Kolkata||Mamata out of hospital amid political slugfest||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was discharged from hospital on Friday, two days after she was injured at an event in Nandigram, as her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari filed his nomination as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from the seat, setting the stage for a prestige fight in the south Bengal constituency.Banerjee’s injury continued to dominate politics in the poll-bound state. The Trinamool Congress and BJP met the election commission separately, and two reports on the Wednesday incident — one by the state chief secretary and another by poll observers — were submitted to the poll watchdog.Also Read: Mamata injury draws new Bengal battle lineA senior police official said on condition of anonymity that the state government report suggested the chief minister was standing on the footboard of the vehicle and something made the door of the car close and injure the 66-year-old. The report didn’t specifically mention what made the door close, said the officer.Banerjee, who sustained bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, was allowed to go home at her insistence but will have to obey restrictions on movement, said doctors. Around 7.30pm, she was wheeled out of the hospital in a wheelchair and is unlikely to hit the campaign trail before Monday.“She would be able to move around with certain ‘non weight-bearing’ restrictions, which she has been explained. She has agreed to abide by all those restrictions,” said Monimoy Banerjee, director of the state-run SSKM Hospital.Earlier in the day, Adhikari, the incumbent legislator from Nandigram, filed his nomination for the March 1 poll but steered clear of commenting on Banerjee’s injury. He was flanked by two central ministers, Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan.“Only the BJP can return you your money by selling off the assets, which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized, once it comes to power. No one else will be able to give you the money back,” he told a rally, referring to ongoing probes in chit fund scams in the state.The TMC, however, hit back and said the BJP was making false promises. “Two central agencies have been investigating the cases since 2013-14. How can he say that if the BJP comes to power, it would return the money by selling off the assets seized by central agencies?” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh asked.The TMC held silent protests across the state and held rallies in support of Banerjee, who is seeking a third consecutive term in the eight-phase polls starting March 27. “The game is on. A wounded tigress is more aggressive,” said state minister Firhad Hakim.A five-member TMC delegation met election commission officials in Delhi for an hour and submitted a memorandum. “Injuries to Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram were not a result of an unfortunate incident but that of a conspiracy. The events leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy,” TMC MP Saugata Roy told reporters.Hours later, a BJP delegation met EC and demanded a probe. “The party also requested the election commission to make public the video of Banerjee’s rally in which she got injured,” said party general secretary Bhupender Yadav.On Wednesday, Banerjee alleged she was attacked by four-five men without any police presence at the spot, prompting EC to seek a report. “EC directed us to submit the report by 5pm. It has reached by 5pm. It is a confidential report, the details of which can’t be shared,” said Alapan Bandopadhyay, chief secretary of West Bengal.The report suggested that some people managed to get close to the chief minister but didn’t specify the exact sequence of events, said the police officer quoted above.“There were frequent changes in the chief minister’s plans as a result of which last-minute security arrangements had to be made. But it is not true that there were no police personnel at the spot,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.A section of eyewitnesses claim the CM was standing on the footboard when the vehicle’s door hit an iron pillar jutting out of the road, injuring the leader. This theory was rubbished by TMC leaders, who said there were no scratches or dents on the car.Two EC appointed observers – Ajay V Nayak and Vivek Dubey — went to Nandigram on Friday and spoke to senior officials. A poll panel official said the observers sent their reports to Delhi. A virtual meeting was likely to be held between EC officials in Delhi and the observers on Friday evening.In Kolkata, the six-member medical board that treated Banerjee wanted to keep her under observation for another 48 hours. “But due to her repeated requests she was released with appropriate advice and instructions,” said Monimoy Banerjee. Doctors said she was told about the dos and don’ts and the medical board would re-examine her after a week.The plaster on her left leg was removed in the morning to examine the injury. The medical board found satisfactory improvement. “The size of the hematoma has diminished considerably. The bony injury in her ankle has also shown marked sign of improvement. New plaster slab has been done,” Monimoy Banerjee added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-out-of-hospital-amid-political-slugfest-101615576089147.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||At Mumbai’s vaccination centres, long wait tires senior citizens||More than 50 days into the nationwide mass immunisation programme, several vaccination centres in the city are struggling to manage crowds and senior citizens are being made to wait for 90 to 120 minutes to get vaccinated. On Friday, HT visited five medium-sized vaccination centres — Shri Harilal Bhagwati Municipal Hospital in Borivli; Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli; the jumbo Covid centre in Dahisar; Maa Hospital in Chembur, and Mahim Maternity Home — and found little infrastructure in place to make long waits comfortable for beneficiaries. Abhay Chaturvedi, 67, a resident of Mira Road, and his wife, Meera, 64, came to the jumbo Covid centre in Dahisar and had to wait in a long queue before they were able to enter the vaccination room. There were two tents at the entrance that offered shade to those waiting, but no sitting arrangements. “There are so many elderly people coming for vaccination. Some have knee and back pain so can’t keep standing long. But there is no chair available at these centres. We couldn’t even find drinking water,” said Chaturvedi. Crowd management has been a challenge for many centres, especially since glitches in the centralised Co-WIN app has meant those who registered on the app had to wait along with those coming for walk-in appointments. Jayanti Lal Shah, 94, a resident of Borivli, reached Bhagwati Hospital with an appointment on the app but had to wait for 90 minutes with others before getting vaccinated on Friday. Jayantilal Babubhai Desai, 70, who had also registered on the app, said he had to wait for 85 minutes. He said, “When I registered on the app last week, I was only given the date of appointments. But there was no mention of timing. So, even after registration, if I have to wait for hours, exposing myself to probable infections, then why would people register on the app?” With Co-WIN app giving appointment dates for the next month, many are trying their luck with walk-in appointments. “I registered on Thursday and was given the date of April 4 for vaccination. But I didn’t want to wait so long so got vaccinated with the registered documents on Friday,” said Uday Desai, 70, who is a Borivli resident. However, some vaccination centres, like Maa Hospital, do not offer the option of walk-in appointments. When HT visited the hospital, several elderly people were asked to return because they had not registered on the app. Applicants can register on Co-WIN on the app or through the website or via the Arogya Setu app. For many, the process of registering has been difficult. Laxmi Narayan, 69, who was turned away from Maa Hospital on Friday because she hadn’t registered on Co-WIN, said, “We have been trying to log into Co-WIN but couldn’t generate the OTP. So, we thought of coming directly to the centre. Now, we have been asked to go to Rajawadi for vaccination where the walk-in facility is available,” said Narayan’s daughter Sangeeta. The long waits at the vaccination centres have raised concerns of contracting the infection while waiting to be vaccinated. Kandivli resident Bakulesh Desai, 34, said, “I have been coming to vaccination centres with my relatives to provide them assistance and the situation is horrible everywhere. So I have decided to not get my 73-year-old father to get vaccinated, as I don’t want him to be exposed to the virus in the crowd.” When Ujwala Deshmukh, 70, went to the Rosa Gardenia health centre in Thane to get vaccinated on Friday. Her daughter-in-law, Janhvi, said, “My only concern was that the testing centre was way too close to the vaccination centre as they are risking senior citizens by being so close to people who are suspected carriers.” The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) currently has the capacity to inoculate 25,350 people daily and is planning to increase its capacity to 100,000. “We have got the permission from the Central government to allow another 49 hospitals and nursing homes for vaccination. Along with that, private hospitals can run the vaccination 24x7 in their premises. We will soon also increase the vaccination units which will further ease the crowd,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. State advisor Dr Subhas Shalunke emphasised the need to accord more decision making power to the state government. “If Maharashtra is recording the highest number of Covid-19 cases, then there is need for a more vivid planning which is not feasible in a ‘Centre-controlling’ situation. The state government would be given more leeway which will make things faster,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-mumbai-s-vaccination-centres-long-wait-tire-senior-citizens-101615576000370.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||1 year of Covid: 6,099 civic staffers infected; 197 died in Mumbai||In one year since Covid-19 hit the city, more than 6,000 staff members of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) tested positive for Covid-19 and around 200 have lost their lives on frontline duty, according to BMC data.According to BMC officials, 6,099 civic employees were infected, of whom 5,066 have recovered and 197 have lost their lives. BMC staffers have been on frontline duty since March 11 last year when the first case of Covid-19 was reported in the city. However, screening of passengers at Mumbai Airport had started on January 18, 2020 followed by testing since February 3, 2020.Families of 54 of the 197 civic employees who have died have received a compensation of ₹50 lakh, according to BMC. For others, the compensation is in process. BMC officials said that maximum deaths were reported from solid waste management (SWM) department followed by health department. A civic official said, “SWM and health workers were on duty even during the strictest lockdown, collecting waste and treating those infected, and hence they have the majority of fatality.”The official added, “Since the past 45 days, the growth has slowed down and the number of deaths has remained same for nearly one month. Also, vaccination for frontline and healthcare workers started from January 16.”According to data from BMC, a total of 180,233 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the city, followed by 120,115 frontline workers. Overall, 513,686 have been vaccinated which includes 213,338 senior citizens and those aged above 45 year with comorbidities.Meanwhile, Mahendra Zankar, secretary of Municipal Kamgar Sangh, said, “We are aware that families of all those who lost their lives on frontline duty have not been compensated yet. Though the spread has slowed down now as vaccination has started, we request BMC to fasten the process of giving ₹50 lakh compensation to the families along with job to one member from each family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-year-of-covid-6-099-civic-staffers-infected-197-died-in-mumbai-101615575940194.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM announces a memorial at August Kranti Maidan||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray o Friday announced a memorial of Indian freedom struggle at August Kranti Maidan at Gowalia Tank Road in south Mumbai. Besides renovation of the ground, a befitting memorial that will revive glorious memories of freedom struggle will be erected at the ground, the CM said.Thackeray was speaking at the inauguration of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav (75 years of the freedom), organised to commemorate 75th anniversary of India’s freedom. He said the maidan was a battleground for Indian freedom in early 1940s and it should have a monument to remind the generations to come about the freedom struggle of yesteryears. He added that keeping the history of alive and handing over legacy to the next generations are the duty of the present generation.“People participated in the freedom struggle by keeping their caste, creed, religion aside; with only passion for the freedom of the country. Many of them sacrificed their lives for the country. Merely paying them tribute could not be sufficient, but creating an ideal nation they dreamt of should be our aim,” he said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC0 has chalked out a makeover plan for the historic ground. Thackeray has directed the civic body to add a memorial to it.Mahatma Gandhi had, on August 9, 1942, gave the call for Quit India movement from the historic ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-announces-a-memorial-at-august-kranti-maidan-101615575700331.html
13-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kangana Ranaut, her team booked for copyright violation||Khar police on Friday registered a first information report (FIR) against actor Kangana Ranaut, and her team members Rangoli Chandel, Akshat Ranaut and Kamal Kumar Jain for alleged criminal breach of trust, cheating and copyright violation.Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said, “I shall obtain copy of the entire proceedings from the court and then I shall give a detailed statement. At this juncture I can’t comment without perusing the plaint in detail.”Senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule of Khar police station said the four are booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Copyright Act on the basis of a complaint by Ashish Kaul, the writer of a book named Didda - The Warrior Queen of Kashmir. Kaul claimed that he had sent an e-mail containing the story of his book to Ranaut. He said that some parts of the stories were allegedly used by Ranaut in a tweet while announcing her second movie without his permission.The FIR is registered pursuant to an order issued by a metropolitan magistrate court at Bandra, directing the police to register a case of copyright violation against Ranaut and her team members, over the recently announced movie on the life Didda, a queen of Kashmir.Ranaut had recently announced that she would be staring in a movie based on the life and times of Didda. Kaul claimed that the story was his copyrighted work, based on his book. Kaul has claimed that he is the sole copyright owner of the unique story and the biopic of Queen Didda.He had moved a complaint before the magistrate court on February 6 seeking direction to the police to register a case against the actor, Chandel, Jain and Akshat Ranaut.After hearing his submission, the court passed an order on Tuesday, directing the police to register a case against Ranaut and her team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-kangana-ranaut-her-team-booked-for-copyright-violation-101615575640156.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Four held for highway robberies||Gurugram Police on Friday arrested four alleged members of a gang that robbed commuters travelling alone on the Delhi-Gururgam expressway. Police said they used to hold them at gunpoint and forced them to share their ATM pin to withdraw cash. Those who had no or little cash in the account were forced to call to their family to pay for their release, said police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the gang had been active for the last four months. He said they had committed at least six crimes this way and that the cases had been registered at Kherki Duala, Manesar and Dharuhera police stations. “The first case reported against them was from Sector 86, where they had robbed a businessman of his car and cash after intercepting his car,” he said. He said the suspects were arrested from Gururgam and Rewari. They were identified as Rohit Kumar, Vinod and Darbari from Rewari and Govind from Alwar in Rajasthan. Police said the vehicles the gang used in their crimes were stolen from Kherki Daula area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-for-highway-robberies-101615574320097.html
13-03-2021||Other||Four held for stealing gadgets worth ₹19 lakh||Police on Thursday arrested four alleged members of a gang that targeted trucks of an e-commerce company loaded with mobile phones and electronic gadgets. Police identified the suspects by their first names as Keshav, Kapil, Lokesh and Amit, all from Uttar Pradesh. They were arrested from Bilaspur and Panchgaon in Gurugram, said police.Amit and Kapil were truck drivers with the company, while Keshav and Lokesh were drivers with other companies.On March 7, the company’s supervisor lodged a complaint with Bilaspur police claiming that goods were stolen from a truck. In February, the truck was loaded from Farrukhnagar warehouse with 787 boxes and left for Lucknow via Bhiwandi. It returned on February 20. “Both drivers took leave for a few days on February 20. On February 22 we received an email from the company about missing items,” he said. The stolen items were worth around ₹19 lakh, he said.Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said that while loading the trucks at Farukhnagar, Amit took pictures of the items’ barcodes. “He shared them with his associates who got fake barcodes and seals made. En route, they opened the boxes, stole the gadgets and resealed the boxes. All this was done in the moving truck as it had a GPS system. They later escaped when the truck stopped as per schedule so that the crime was not suspected soon,” he said. The suspects had rented a house in Noida to store the stolen items. Police recovered some of the stolen items from there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-held-for-stealing-gadgets-worth-rs-19-lakh-101615574319523.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||City records 88 new Covid-19 cases — highest in two months||With 88 new cases of Covid-19 being reported in the past 24 hours, the city recorded its sharpest spike in the past two months. While the total caseload has reached 59,698, the number of active cases has reached 551 — up from 513 on Thursday. The district until December 2020 recorded more than 100 new infections a day. It declined to 88 new infections on January 8. But the number of active cases stood at 772. Due to the decline in daily new cases to roughly 30 every day, the active case count had declined to 372 by February 1. Earlier this week, on Tuesday, 74 cases were registered, thereby recording a two-month high. Of all the active cases on Friday, 506 mild or asymptomatic cases are under home-isolation, while one mild case is under observation at the government Covid care centre. Another 43 are ‘moderate’ cases, who are displaying either symptoms of pneumonia or require oxygen support at secondary health care facilities, while one patient is currently receiving tertiary care at a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The district also witnessed 50 recoveries on Friday. Gurugram’s chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said that the health department was expecting a surge in mid-March. Yadav said that cases were rising since many people had let their guards down and were not adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour. “The economy is open. As such, people are back to their normal routine and travelling as before. People need to stay vigilant and adopt measures such as social distancing and the regular use of masks,” said Yadav. Laying emphasis on testing, he said, “If people are travelling or mingling at crowded places or feel that they might have come in contact with a Covid-19 carrier, they should get tested at the earliest. They need to isolate and quarantine if they suspect themselves of having contracted the virus.” Yadav said that the health department had increased testing from 2,500 to 3,500 cases and will continue to take appropriate steps in accordance with the evolving situation. “We were expecting cases to rise in March. As the situation develops, we will take steps accordingly. We are conducting nearly 3,500 tests daily. If required, we will increase the testing further,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-records-88-new-covid-19-cases-highest-in-two-months-101615574260663.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||More than 1 lakh people vaccinated; mega vaccination drive on Monday||Over 1 lakh Gurugram residents have received the Covid-19 vaccine jab since the inoculation first started on January 16, officials from the health department said on Friday. As per the data released by the state government, 100,361 people in the district have received the vaccine dose until Friday. Out of those vaccinated, 41,648 are healthcare workers while 20,610 are front-line workers. On Friday, 577 people were vaccinated in the 45-60 age group whereas 4,099 people in the 60+ age category got the vaccine jab. Dr M P Singh, district immunisation officer, said that the department had vaccinated over a lakh people in the past three months and is aiming to cover an even greater portion of the population in the coming weeks. “We have inoculated one lakh people in the city as of today. Our goal is to expand the vaccination cover. In line with this goal, we will be holding a mega vaccination drive on Monday,” said Singh. Sharing details about Monday’s mega vaccination drive, he said that inoculation will take place at more than 100 session sites. These will include 37 government facilities and 52 private facilities. “While vaccination will be carried out at 89 locations across the district, there are multiple vaccine booths at some places. Overall, we will have nearly a hundred session sites,” said Singh. He said that the health department was coordinating with the panchayat department and the district administration to ensure that the maximum people can be vaccinated on Monday. “We are encouraging people to get vaccinated as soon as they can. Across the state, the target is to vaccinate over a lakh people on Monday,” said Singh. He said that the timings for vaccination had already been extended to cater to the growing demand. While 13 hospitals in the city vaccinated until 9pm on Friday, vaccination will take place round-the-clock starting from Monday. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “Half a million doses have been administered in the state till now, with more than a lakh in Gurugram alone. In other districts too, vaccination coverage has been gradually increasing. It is for this reason on March 15 we have planned to hold a mega vaccination drive to administer over one lakh doses in the entire state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/more-than-1-lakh-people-vaccinated-mega-vaccination-drive-on-monday-101615574259464.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Lightning strike kills 1, injures 3 in Gurugram residential township||One of the four men, who were injured when lightning struck a tree under which they were taking shelter from the rain in Gurugram’s sector 82, died late Friday. CCTV footage of the incident, which went viral, showed the four men falling to the ground moments after the lightning strike.The incident happened in the residential township Vatika India Next and the four men were attached with its horticulture department. All four of them were rushed to the hospital where the condition of Ram Prasad (38) was reported to be critical. He later succumbed to his injuries. The rest, Shiv Dutt (43), Lali (32), and Anil Kumar (32), were stable and recovering.Shakti Singh Chauhan, deputy general manager operations of Vatika India Next, said, “The horticulture team was working when it started raining suddenly at around 4.20 pm. Four of them rushed to take cover under a tree. Suddenly, a bolt of lightning struck them, and they fell unconscious. We received a call from a guard following which a quick response team (QRT) was sent to the park and they were taken to a private hospital in Manesar.”Chauhan said the CCTV footage was recovered from a resident’s villa which is part of the township. “The family members of the injured have been informed and a team is stationed in the hospital where they are undergoing treatment,” he said.The residents informed the police control room following which a team from Kherki Daula police station visited the township and recorded statements of the residents and management.Krishan Kant, station house officer of Kherki Daula police station, said that they have made a daily diary entry in the records and no case has been registered in the incident. “Ram Prasad is admitted in intensive care unit and is critical,” he said.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people find shelter indoors in case of lightning, call emergency services (it is safe to use mobile phones), move a victim to a safer location (be aware of continued lightning risk) and if the victim not breathing, administer cardiac compressions (CPR) till help arrives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lightning-strike-injures-4-in-gurugram-residential-township-101615574260048.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Man shot at by two snatchers in Sector 15||A 34-year-old businessman was shot at by two unidentified bike-borne men when he resisted their attempt to snatch his bag on Thursday evening in Sector 15, Part-2, said the police, adding that the bag contained ₹60,000 cash. The incident took place around 7pm, when the victim, Pankaj Gupta, a resident of Patel Nagar in Sector 15, was returning home from Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, where he works at a currency exchange company. As soon as he took a right turn from Jharsa Chowk, he saw two men on a motorcycle following him. Later they tried to intercept his scooter. Gupta said he initially thought that they were asking him for an address but then the pillion rider asked him to hand over the bag. “Before I could shout for help they tried to pull my bag. As a result, I lost control and fell on the road. The suspects tried to pull at the strings of the bag. When I resisted, they assaulted me. I shouted for help but no one came forward,” he said. Meanwhile, one of the snatchers allegedly took out his gun and threatened Gupta. But when he did not any pay heed to his threats, he allegedly pumped a bullet into his right arm.Ravi Kumar, one of the auto-rickshaw drivers who witnessed the incident, said after a few vehicles gathered at the spot, the suspects fled from the spot. “I had parked my auto-rickshaw on the other side of the road. Shopkeepers and passersby had stopped to help the victim but after the gunshot everyone got scared and left the spot,” he said. Gupta sustained a bullet on his right arm. He requested passersby to inform his father regarding the incident.Gupta alleged that although the police control room (PCR) van was stationed hardly 50 metres away from the spot, no one came forward for help. “The police team reached the spot after the suspects. They seemed to have a casual approach and did not even try to follow the suspects,” he said. The victim’s father, Ravinder Gupta (62), who works in a garment shop in Sadar market, reached the spot within 15 minutes and took his son to a private hospital. “My son will get operated on his right arm on Saturday and a rod will be fixed as his arm is fractured and cannot be cured through plaster,” he said, adding that his condition was stable. The area in Sector 15, where the incident took place, had reported similar incidents in the past. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act was registered at Civil Lines police station on Thursday night. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said prima facie, it appeared that the suspects were following Gupta from Delhi but did not get a chance to target him. “They tried to intercept his scooter, when he applied brakes at a speed-breaker near Sector 15. They asked him to hand over the bag several times and later shot at him. We are scanning CCTV footage to identify the suspects and crime teams are working on it,” he said. The police also rebutted the allegations made by the victim that the police had a casual attitude.“The police teams were active and within minutes had informed the crime units to reach the spot. A dog squad and forensic team were also called on the spot to collect samples and scan CCTV footage,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-shot-at-by-two-snatchers-in-sector-15-101615574201541.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||City experiences gusty winds and thundershowers||The city received light rain accompanied with strong winds and lightning on Friday. While light rain prevailed in the morning hours until 10 am, and later during the day in patches, the evening saw gusty winds and lightning with a prolonged spell of rain. The maximum temperature also came down by several degrees due to the rain.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that light rain had taken place across Delhi-NCR on account of a western disturbance. “By Saturday morning, the impact of the western disturbance should cease. No further rain is predicted for the region in the coming days,” said Srivastava. While the IMD has said that two fresh western disturbances were likely to affect the western Himalayan region and the adjoining plains of Northwest India, the plains will not be affected. While the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Friday, the IMD’s AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 19.5 degrees Celsius. The city’s maximum temperature stood at 30.4 degrees Celsius, down from 33.4 degrees Celsius the previous day. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 31 and 17 degrees Celsius respectively on Satuday. The city’s air quality continued in the ‘poor’ zone on Friday with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin recording a value of 263. On Thursday, the AQI was recorded at 268. The level of ultra-fine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 152.75 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Friday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 314.34 µg/m3 on Friday. The PM 2.5 concentration at Teri Gram monitor stood at 232.56 µg/m3. An improvement in the AQI is likely on Saturday account of Friday’s rain. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Saturday. Subsequently, air quality is expected to be in the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-experiences-gusty-winds-and-thundershowers-101615574200915.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Forest department stops tree pruning at DLF Phase 1||Forest guards stopped the pruning of a Peepal tree in DLF Phase-1 on Friday claiming it was illegal. But the local councillor said all rules were observed and that it was done to help the people.Forest range officer (Gurugram range) Karambir Malik said, “Our guards were patrolling at Arjun Marg in DLF Phase-1 when they saw a tree being pruned without permission from the forest department. They immediately stopped it.” The forest department registered a case against two persons under Section 4 of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Malik said a Peepal tree could only be cut under specific situations like if the tree was growing inside a house or posed a threat to life.The forest department’s complained named Sundar Bhatti, who works with the local councillor R S Rathee. “We had been getting complaints from people in the area that monkeys were spotted on the tree and that the animals posed a threat to people. As representatives of the public, we were only helping in solving their problem. We did not cut the tree, it was only being pruned,” he said.Councillor Rathee said, “None of the trees in the area had been pruned in the last four years. Senior citizen residents had been complaining that they were not getting enough sunlight. We were trimming the tree as per norms, but we stopped it when the forest officials asked us. We did not violate any rule.”In September 2020, the Gurugram Police registered a case against unidentified persons for allegedly chopping around 40 to 50 trees illegally, damaging a green belt and a drain in front of Block C of Mayfield Garden in Sector 50.Earlier, residents’ welfare associations have also been fined for illegal pruning of trees in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/forest-department-stops-tree-pruning-at-dlf-phase-1-101615574199389.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Haryana government proposes to set up two film cities||The Haryana government has planned to set up two film cities in the state — one at Gurugram and the other at Pinjore. This was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in his budget speech on Friday. The state government has been working on developing a film city for the last two years and, in 2018, it had come up with a film policy for Haryana to boost local production and provide latest facilities to filmmakers from across the country, who want to produce films in the state. “We plan to promote filmmaking across the state and facilities for the same would be created. We plan to develop two film cities, one at Pinjore and another at Gurugram, to give a boost to this industry,” said Khattar in his address. Earlier on January 15, the CM had announced the plan to develop a film city and said that project would be developed on the basis of a public-private partnership. Satish Kaushik, a Bollywood veteran, who is also the chairperson of Haryana Film Promotion Board, said that setting up film cities in Gurugram and Pinjore will give a boost to local artists and technicians. “The entertainment industry is expanding across the country. Local culture, traditions, language in Haryana can be utilised by the industry at both the local and national levels,” said Kaushik, adding that recent films shot in Haryana have won both critical acclaim and commercial success. Kaushik, who hails from Mahendragarh district in Haryana, further said that right incentives, subsidies and ensuring single-window clearances would ensure the success of the film policy and the two film cities.Earlier Khattar on January 15 had also announced that a state-level award will be given to artists in Haryana to encourage their work and to promote arts. In January 2020, the state government had changed the name of Haryana Film Cell to Haryana Film Promotion Board and the name of the High Powered Committee was designated as Governing Council. The decision to set up a new film city has been welcomed by the city-based businessmen and politicians, who said it was a timely decision and would promote both culture and artists and bring in business as well. “Several small films and advertisements were already being shot in Gurugram and setting up a film city is only a logical decision. It will not only promote local culture and art but also create job and business opportunities in the state,” said Rao Inderjit Singh, Gurguram MP. Realtors, meanwhile, said that government’s proposal to develop a film city was a boon for the region. “Creation of a film city will make a positive impact on Gurugram’s realty market and new employment opportunities will also be generated,” said Ashish Sarin, CEO, AlphaCorp.As per the film policy of 2018, films have been accorded the status of industry and granted benefits under the enterprise promotion policy of the state. It also made provisions for a single-window system, incentives for producing local films, promotion of film shoots in Haryana, provision for security to filmmakers, holding award functions, preventing piracy and several other measures to boost the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-government-proposes-to-set-up-two-film-cities-101615574140640.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||A year on, 27-year old recalls the stigma she faced on being Haryana’s ‘Patient Zero’||In a society that puts a lot of onus on being “numero uno (number one)”, the stigma of being “Patient Zero” and that too of a dreaded disease like Covid-19 was life-altering for a 27-year-old resident of Sector 9, Gurugram. A year ago, on March 13, she became the first known case of Covid-19 in the district as well as the state of Haryana. “In the early days of the pandemic, patients faced more stigma than they do now,” she says, while recalling her personal struggle with the pandemic. On Friday, a day when the Gurugram district reported nearly 60,000 Covid-19 cases, the 27-year-old looked spoke about how she coped -- with the shoddy surroundings of government hospitals, the constant nagging by people around her, and the stigma she had to face even months after being fully recovered“The stigma is now inversely proportional to the number of cases -- the more the cases, the lesser the stigma. Earlier, even a few months after recovery, I had to limit my evening walks as people who knew me looked at me differently. Although I used to wear a mask, I still felt that people were frightened of me. But, I don’t feel stigmatised now when I walk around.” Her diagnosis on March 13 marked the beginning of the pandemic in the district and the state. None of her family members tested positive but new cases from different parts of the city started emerging every day since March 13. On March 12 itself, when her sample was sent to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, the Haryana government declared an epidemic in the state and issued a set of guidelines, “The Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020”. Within a few days, gatherings were limited, malls shut, small businesses closed and normal life, as we knew it , came to a standstill. For the woman, it all started with a vacation that she took with her cousin to Malaysia and Indonesia on February 22. A few days after returning home on March 4, she noticed the onset of symptoms like fever and cold. Her samples were collected on March 12 and she was confirmed Covid-19 positive within 24 hours. “I still don’t know how and where I contracted the disease,” she says. “That night, the health team visited our home, asking me to get admitted to the Civil Hospital. Two policemen were also put on guard outside my house,” she recalls. The next morning, she along with her mother reached the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 to get admitted.“There was no hospital staff to take care of my needs in the Covid ward. I was totally on my own. It was particularly frightened when I saw rats in the ward. I called my mother and asked her to get me out of there,” she said. The next day, she was admitted to a private hospital. “My mother was the rock upon which I relied throughout the entire episode. She kept me mentally strong,” she says. The way events unfolded affected her family too. “Our contact details were leaked and circulated on every WhatsApp group. My parents and I got calls from unknown numbers to confirm the news. Even neighbours harassed us by constantly asking about our well-being,” she said. The news and social media feeds made her more apprehensive.“I took a break from social media and limited my interaction to a few people related to work,” she said, adding that it took her months to be active on social media again. “Over time, with increasing awareness about the disease, the anxiety went away. But I still see people ignoring the safety guidelines in public spaces and that makes me nervous,” she says.Now that the vaccination is well underway, she believes that life will get back to normal soon. But she is not yet eligible for the vaccination. “I will take it when it is available for people of my age. Nobody in my family has taken the vaccine yet. But until we achieve herd immunity, we will continue to wear masks,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/a-year-on-27-year-old-recalls-the-stigma-she-faced-on-being-haryana-s-patient-zero-101615574139565.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||CM announces slew of infra and industrial projects in and around Gurugram||Haryana chief minister, who also holds the finance portfolio, announced the setting up of a Global City in Manesar and townships near major expressways near Gurugram, while presenting the state budget in the Assembly on Friday.The Global City is a proposed special zone that will contain both residential and commercial spaces. The land for the project falls in sectors 36, 36B, 37 and 37B along the Dwarka expressway and is expected to become an important economic and financial hub on the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor.The CM, who delivered his second budget, said the project would accelerate the pace of development in the state along with other asset monetisation schemes.To provide drinking water to Mewat, the minister said it was decided to construct a feeder canal of 100 cusecs capacity from the Gurugram Water Supply Channel near Badli running along the KMP Expressway.The Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor, being built at a cost of ₹5,618 crore, will augment rail infrastructure and enhance rail connectivity to un-served regions of the state, he said. It would serve as a feeder line for the Dedicated Freight Corridor and would contribute to the industrial growth of Haryana, he added.Khattar said that industrial and commercial township over nearly 3,300 acres near Kharkhoda in Sonepat and a Industrial Model Township over 1400 acres in Sohna were being developed. “These townships will be in the vicinity of KMP Expressway connecting the Gurugram-Sohna-Alwar highway. An Integrated Multi Modal Logistics Hub is being developed in the PPP (public-private partnership) mode... (it’ll be) the largest logistics hub in north India over 886.78 acres at Nangal Chaudhary, Narnaul with an investment of ₹4,000 crore. It has the potential to reduce time to move goods from 14 days to 14 hours,” said Khattar.The minister announced that a company was developing a mega project to supply batteries for smartphones and electric vehicles at IMT, Sohna for which the for which the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation had alloted 178 acres. The company will invest around ₹7,083 crore over the next few and generate around 7,000 jobs, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cm-announces-slew-of-infra-and-industrial-projects-in-and-around-gurugram-101615574140085.html
13-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s battle against Covid-19 is a year old today||A year ago on March 13, around 8.45pm, district epidemiologist Dr Ram Prakash was on his way home to Delhi’s Najafgarh when he got a confidential call from an employee of the state health department, confirming the first case of Covid-19 in Gurugram, and also in Haryana -- that of a 27-year-old woman resident of Sector 9. Prakash immediately called the chief medical officer, returned to his office, and headed straight to Patient Zero’s home along with his team. Thus began the battle against a pandemic -- the World Health Organization had declared Covid-19 a pandemic on March 11, 2020 -- the likes of which the district had never seen before. Since then, 59, 698 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Gurugram and 359 people have died of the disease. Data shows that Gurugram, which experienced two severe waves of the infection until now, was among the worst-hit districts in Haryana. The district had to grapple with its own share of challenges — it had no prior exposure in handling a public health crisis of this magnitude; there were several delays in interdepartmental coordination; manpower and resources fell woefully short; and fear was spreading rapidly among the people in the absence of awareness about the disease. Still a workforce of just over 30,000 managed to best the dreaded infection -- from a peak of almost 1,000 cases a day in November , Gurugram managed to reduce the daily caseload to 16 (as on February 15). The test positivity rate, which had at one time climbed to 23% (last June) is currently 1.7%. To achieve this reduction, Gurugram stepped up testing; at one point conducting more than 3,000 tests daily. With several Fortune 500 companies having offices in the city, corporates, too, came to the aid of the district administration and cumulatively contributed nearly ₹30 crore for various Covid-related work.Interdepartmental coordination “Over 30,000 government officials and employees were part of an extensive exercise to curb transmission of infection in Gurugram. Coordination between various departments such as health, revenue, municipal corporation, agriculture, education and others was crucial,” said Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner. In June, during the peak period of infection, the administration allocated tasks among different departments to curb the infection -- if health department did the sample collection, MCG maintained the records on test reports. Based on the test results, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran(HSVP) employees worked on contact tracing, while co-ordinating with the health department, police and the district administration’s mobile wellness unit simultaneously. Panwar said, “Although Covid-19 comes under disaster management, there is only a flood control unit to handle a disaster. Covid -19 was new to everyone. Everything had to be done within short deadlines — from manufacturing masks and sanitisers to making personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for which we had to take permission from a government body in Coimbatore. Companies in the auto sector helped to manufacture these items.” Even for those involved in activities such as food and ration distribution, the challenges were similar. Mohit Sharma, chief warden, civil defence — he was recently felicitated with the Utkrisht Seva Medal by the Union ministry of home affairs for his contribution in handling the migrant labour crisis and ration distribution during the Covid-19 lockdown — felt that resource management could have been better. “Volunteers, small groups, residents’ welfare associations, which were involved in food and dry ration distribution, had scant idea how to handle a crisis like Covid-19,” Sharma said.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime branch, agreed that coordination problems existed. “Co-ordination between departments has always been difficult. The impact of the lack of coordination was felt throughout the course of the pandemic.”For better co-ordination, nodal officers, along with deputy commissioner and divisional commissioner, held meetings daily to discuss and clear all roadblocks. They came up with an internal application to access records related to Covid-19, from testing to contact tracing and identifying hot spot areas where containment needed to be strictly imposed. Making the most of resourcesIn the beginning, there were no arrangements or machinery to conduct large-scale testing or deliver timely results, recalled Dr Virender Yadav, who joined as Gurugram’s chief medical officer last June, when cases were at its peak in the district. “The reporting schedule, arrangements for hospital admission of severe patients and contact tracing were all in a disarray,” said Yadav, adding that department had only two RT-PCR testing machines at that time. “Handling a pandemic is challenging. It is once-in-a-lifetime kind of crisis, where it is difficult to predict how people will behave. The situations are dynamic and keep changing every now and then,” he said.The staff too lacked exposure to handle a pandemic. “After swine flu, none of us has experienced a major health crisis like Covid-19. Extensive training had to be given to the staff to handle the situation effectively. Even now, some of them are still hesitant about dealing with Covid cases,” Prakash said. Through a series of training sessions for health workers, installation of two RT-PCR machines at Civil Hospital to speed up testing, and by holding several testing camps daily, Gurugram made the most of the resources available at its disposal. The district also hired additional lab technicians to step up testing. Tackling fear ADC Panwar says fear in the initial months was so rife that relatives refused to perform the last rites of deceased Covid-19 patients. “Our people had to bury or burn the bodies. Families refused to collect the bodies and perform last rites,” he said. Those who directly dealt with positive persons and their families, like accredited social health activists (ASHAs), auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and lab technicians, were equally wary. “When people within the system are so wary, it becomes important to have leadership and motivational skills to keep your team going,” Yadav said. But creating awareness among the general population is still difficult, said ACP Sangwan. “People simply stopped wearing masks due to their lack of awareness. How many fines can the police issue? if people are not willing to take a contagious disease like Covid-19 seriously, even after a year, then there is little that police can do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-battle-against-covid-19-is-a-year-old-today-101615574080645.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Light rain washes away pollutants, gives respite from rising heat||The national capital on Friday received light rain, thunderstorms and strong winds, which helped pull back the rising temperature in the city. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said lower temperatures are likely to persist over the weekend, and Saturday morning may see light showers.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecast centre, said till 7pm Friday, the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, received around 6mm rain.“The entire city received light rain on Friday. We started receiving the first spell around 7.30am, and it lasted for around two hours. Some areas in Delhi also received rain in the evening,” Srivastava said. The Palam weather station received 2mm rain, Lodhi Road 4.1mm, Aya Nagar 2.1mm and the Ridge received 0.5mm of rain on Friday. Scientists said the rain was the result of a western disturbance passing over the north-west region. A western disturbance is an extratropical storm that originates in the Mediterranean, bringing with it rain and a drop in temperature. It is mostly associated with winter rain in India. Met officials also said Friday was mostly windy, which led to a drastic fall in daytime temperature. The maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory was 30.7 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s normal. This was down from 35.2 degrees Celsius, recorded on Thursday, which was the highest this winter so far. The minimum temperature on Friday was 17.9 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for the season. The strong winds also led to a marginal improvement in the pollution levels. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQi) of the city was 218, in the “poor” category. On Thursday, the AQI was 242, also in the “poor” category. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said the improvement in air quality will continue till Sunday. “Expected rainfall is likely to contribute to AQI positively. The average AQI is likely to improve to the moderate category on Saturday. Moderate to poor AQI is forecasted for March 14 and March 15,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-washes-away-pollutants-gives-respite-from-rising-heat-101615574081168.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 20-year-old gang-raped in moving SUV, three booked||Ghaziabad: A 20-year-old woman from Meerut was allegedly gang-raped by three men in a moving SUV on Thursday, the police have said. Officers said they have formed a team to investigate the case and that the suspects were allegedly known to the woman. On the basis of a complaint filed by the woman on Thursday night, an FIR was registered against the three suspects under sections 376D (gang rape) and 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Masuri police station, senior police officers said. According to police, the woman alleged that three men came to her house in Meerut and took her along in their Scorpio SUV to meet a prospective match for marriage.“The woman alleged that the three men told her to sit in the SUV around 10am on Thursday. She approached the Masuri police station around 11pm the same day and narrated the incident in which she alleged that the men drove around in their SUV with her inside and gang-raped and molested her. We immediately registered an FIR and formed a team to investigate the case. The woman has been sent for medical examination,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).All three suspects are around the 25-30 years age groud and are residents of Meerut, the police said. The woman alleged in her complaint that the incident took place in the car in Meerut. “The woman also told the police that the men dropped her near Masuri around 10pm and she later approached the police. She said that she had known the suspects for about a month when she met them at a friend’s wedding. She did not indicate use of any sedative during the incident and also said that her mobile phone was left behind in the car,” the SP said. Police said that the woman had married a man in Meerut about a year ago but soon the marriage ended in separation. According to the police, the woman in her complaint also alleged that the suspects had spoken to her mother a couple of times about getting her married once again. The woman also told police that on Thursday morning, her mother was not at home when the suspects had come to her house, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-20-year-old-gang-raped-in-moving-suv-three-booked-101615574079973.html
13-03-2021||Other||Sisodia orders probe in financial irregularities of 12 DU colleges||New DelhiDeputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday ordered a probe in the alleged irregularities in 12 Delhi University (DU) colleges which have not paid salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff for months. The probe by Sisodia — who is also the state education minister — was ordered on a day when the 12 DU colleges received their grant-in aid for the fourth quarter from the government and a day after teachers launched an indefinite university shut down to demand for their wages.Sisodia questioned why colleges had not paid salaries to the staff for months despite the release of grants for the third quarter. “The non-submission of utilisation certificates seems to indicate financial irregularities. It seems like an attempt to avoid scrutiny and accountability. The Directorate of Higher Education is hereby directed to set up an enquiry committee – which should include senior account functionaries – to look into how the third quarter grants and existing surplus funds have been spent by these colleges,” Sisodia said on Friday. This is not the first time the government has alleged financial irregularities in these colleges. Last year too, the government had alleged that a special audit sanctioned by them had revealed financial irregularities in these colleges indicating a “big fraud” and “ghost appointments”.The 12 fully state-funded colleges in DU have been at the loggerheads with the Delhi government since 2019 over the formation of governing bodies and the delay in the release of grants leading to pending salaries of staff. The 10-member governing bodies in these colleges have people nominated by both the university and the Delhi government and are responsible for functions like appointments.According to the government documents seen by HT, the government has released ₹82.79 crore under salaries sub-head and ₹9.50 crore under general sub-head as fourth installment of grant-in-aid by the government. Of the 12 colleges, the government has not released any fund under salary head for Bhagini Nivedita College and Maharishi Valmiki College of Applied Sciences. A government official said this was because the colleges had “unspent funds.” Despite repeated calls and messages, college principals did not comment on the matter.The present cycle of the crisis started earlier this week when Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), after receiving representations from teachers of these state-funded colleges, announced a university-wide indefinite shutdown beginning March 11.DUTA President Rajib Ray said they will hold a meeting on Saturday to decide on the further course of action. “Though the fourth quarter grant has been released, there are still issues which need to be discussed like de-affiliation and the inquiry ordered into the government-funded colleges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-orders-probe-in-financial-irregularities-of-12-du-colleges-101615574079407.html
13-03-2021||Other||FasTag from next week at Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Friday said FasTag service at the 165km Yamuna Expressway are likely to become functional next week while the operator – Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL) – will also install a crash median on the highway.Officials of the JIL said that on Friday, they signed an agreement with a private bank which would help them with the software installation for FasTag services, besides which the operator was also awarded a ₹108 crore contract the same day for the crash barriers. The barriers are to be installed on the divider of the 165-km expressway which has witnessed several accidents since it was opened in August, 2012 said officials.The move comes a fortnight after the Yeida filed an FIR against the management of JIL on February 24 over allegedly delaying the installation of the crash barrier, which officials say can reduce fatalities in accidents. The Uttar Pradesh government had swung into action in 2018 after the Supreme Court had pulled up the state in response to a public interest litigation that had demanded adequate safety measures on the expressway. Following directions from the state government for a safety audit, the Yeida had roped in the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi for a safety audit the same year, which had advocated the installation of crash barriers as one of the key measures for commuter safety.“The installation of crash barriers on the median of the expressway will be started next month as all tender formalities are in place. Also, the FasTag will be made functional on this Expressway so that commuters do not face congestion at toll plazas,” said Arun Vir Singh, the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Yeida. The crash barrier will be installed within a year from the day work begins at the ground.“On Friday we signed an agreement with a private bank that will take required measures to start charging toll via FasTag as soon as possible. The fast tag installation work will not be delayed now,” said Ashok Khera vice-president of JIL.Unlike National Highways in the country, the Yamuna Expressway is managed by a private operator – JIL – which had not been using FasTag to charge toll from commuters. Since the toll collection was manual, the commuters were facing inconvenience on the expressway.The IIT Delhi safety audit had said that if the crash barrier is installed at the median of the expressway, it can act as a cushion.“A vehicle met with an accident on the expressway colliding with the median will not cross over to the other side and hit other vehicles, extending the damage. The crash barrier will minimise the damage and stop the vehicle from crossing over to the other side,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fastag-from-next-week-at-yamuna-expressway-101615574020525.html
13-03-2021||Other||SIT quizzes four in MLA Jarkiholi harassment case||Bengaluru: The Special Task Force (SIT) of Bengaluru police formed to investigate the alleged sex tape scandal involving former state minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Friday questioned four individuals.The SIT was yet to share the details of the investigation. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant told HT that four people were called in for questioning, however, refused to elaborate further. An official in Bengaluru police, however, said that a person was detained from Sira in Tumkur district and three journalists from there different news channels were also questioned.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant on Friday morning announced the formation of a seven-member team, comprising of Joint Commissioner Sandeep Patil (Central Crime Branch), DCP Ravikumar (CCB), DCP Central MN Anuchet and ACP Dharmendra among others to assist Addl CP Mukherjee.Within hours of its formation, the SIT detained the four individuals for questioning.Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday announced the formation of the SIT led by additional commissioner of police Soumendu Mukherjee.BJP MLA Jarkiholi stepped down as Karnataka’s water resources minister on March 3 amid allegations of sexual harassment against him. The formation of the SIT came a day after Jarkiholi claimed that he was aware of the political conspiracy being hatched against him for around four months.On Thursday, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy questioned the decision to form the SIT. Speaking to the reporters in Bengaluru, he said, “I don’t know on what basis the order on constituting SIT has been issued… against whom will they conduct an investigation. No culprit has been booked or punished by these agencies in the past,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-quizzes-four-in-mla-jarkiholi-harassment-case-101615574021111.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Parents object to classroom teaching in Gautam Buddha University||Noida: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a section of parents has objected to the Gautam Buddha University’s (GBU’s) recent move asking its students to join the hostel and attend physical classes. The university has planned to resume classroom teaching from March 15 in a phased manner.Satyendra Bhati, whose son is a student of second semester BA-LLB programme, said that the parents have also written to the UP chief minister requesting him to allow online classes for the next three months till the Covid situation turns normal. “The university has been conducting online classes for the last one year, and online classes are doing well. The first semester exams were also held online. Now, we have got a notice that the students need to report to the university by March 15. The university will quarantine the students in the hostel for two weeks and from April first week, it will start the classroom teaching as per the notice,” said Bhati, a resident of Greater Noida.Bhati said that the second semester examination is scheduled in May. “We object to the university’s move because after the examination there will be a summer break. Why should students stay in a hostel just for one month when the situation is not conducive?” he said.Satyapal Singh, another parent, said that he is not confident enough to send his son for classroom teaching in GBU. “My son is a student of second semester LLB programme. I will not send him to the university till the situation turns normal. I feel that the university should allow students to complete next semester in online mode,” he said.University officials said that they have opened the campus in four phases after taking all safety measures. Prof Bhagwati Prakash Sharma, GBU vice-chancellor, said that the state government has issued guidelines to open academic institutions in a phased manner. “We have observed all safety measures and accordingly opened the campus for students,” he said.AK Singh, GBU spokesperson, said that the varsity first called the research scholars in February. “They were quarantined for two weeks and they are fine. We then called the last semester students, and then other existing students were called. They have also completed the quarantine period and are ready to join the classes from March 15. Now, the newly admitted students of the second semester are asked to join the classes,” he said.There are around 4,400 students in the GBU. “These students are required to produce a Covid-19 negative report before entry to the hostel. The university has a residential campus and outsiders’ entry is strictly regulated,” said Singh.The GBU spokesperson further said that the university is also organising mid-semester examination which carries 30% marks. “It will be good for the students to come to the campus for studies and exams. If any students do not want to come, their parents need to give an undertaking citing a valid reason. Those students can continue online studies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-parents-object-to-classroom-teaching-in-gautam-buddha-university-101615574019392.html
13-03-2021||Other||60-yr-old dies after fight with neighbour in Chandni Mahal, 4 arrested||New DelhiA 60-year-old man died after suffering internal injuries during a scuffle on Tuesday night with his neighbours in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area, police said on Friday. The police said that the fight started over the use of an elevator installed in the building. Four persons have been so far arrested in connection with the murder and have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh. Police identified the arrested persons as Mukhtar Hussain,61, and his brother Mumtaz Hussain,60, occupants of the ground floor, and Mohammad Saleem,60, and his son Mohammad Salman,30, living on the first floor. “The building has an elevator that was installed some years ago but was defunct. The victim family living on the fourth floor wanted to get the elevator repaired, but the occupants of the ground and first floors opposed the idea. This led to a quarrel between the two groups,” said DCP Singh. Police said that on Tuesday, at around 7.23 pm, the police control room received a call regarding a quarrel at a residential building in Haveli Azam Khan in Chandni Mahal. A police team reached the spot and learnt that the occupants of the fourth floor of the building, Mohammad Shakeel, 60, and his son Mohammad Asad, 23, were “manhandled and beaten up” by the occupants of the ground and first floors, the police said. According to the DCP, Mohammad Shakeel suffered injuries in his stomach during the fight and he himself went to a nearby government hospital on a cycle rickshaw with another man. In his statement, Shakeel, who works as a cook, alleged that he was punched in his stomach. “Shakeel’s condition deteriorated during the course of treatment and he died at the hospital. There were no visible injury marks on his body. His preliminary autopsy report showed that he had a rib fracture. The final report is awaited,” said DCP Singh, adding that a case had been registered and four neighbours who were involved in the quarrel were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60yrold-dies-after-fight-with-neighbour-in-chandni-mahal-4-arrested-101615574019975.html
13-03-2021||Other||BBMP plans Covid testing in crowded markets, malls||BengaluruAs the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases rise in the city, a meeting of senior officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) on Friday discussed the possibility of taking up Covid-19 testing in crowded places like markets, malls, schools, colleges and marriage halls.“Testing should be organised at crowded and market places,” according to a statement by the civic body, detailing the discussions taken up in a meeting held by the BBMP commissioner and other senior officials over the rising Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru. “Dr Giridhar Babu (co-chairman of BBMP’s Covid-19 task force) mentioned it would be helpful if BBMP issues orders regarding testing at malls, RWAs, schools/colleges, marriage halls etc,” the statement read.Officials deliberated that businesses in the city were functioning in full capacity and that there were a higher number of marriages and religious events taking place, making it more important to take effective measures to contain the spread of the virus.The BBMP also acknowledged that there were some lapses in contact tracing and data collection, which it needed to fix.“Special Commissioner (Health, BBMP) mentioned that over the past 10 days our contact tracing has dropped and directed all teams to increase the numbers to at least 15 contacts per positive case,” according to the BBMP statement.“It is noted that incomplete details are collected by testing teams, even though address, pin code and mobile number are mandatory, it is not followed diligently,” it added.Bengaluru has seen a sharp spike in cases in recent times and accounted 526 of the total 833 positives confirmed on Thursday. Five more people succumbed to Covid- 19, taking the death toll to 12,386 across Karnataka, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The meeting comes at a time when Bengaluru has witnessed a surge in cases over the last few days and is among the top 10 most impacted districts in the country, with 6,008 active cases out of the total 8,114 across the state, sparking fears of a possible second wave of infections.The BBMP on Friday identified another Covid-19 cluster in the Government Medical and Engineering College, where seven people tested positive out of the 158 who were screened for the virus.“All seven positive cases are traced, counselled and shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, Jayanagar,” the BBMP said. The civic body added that the index patient was moved to Victoria hospital on March 8. The BBMP has instructed others in the hostel to follow safety protocols and alert authorities if they develop any symptoms and also that there would be a mandatory repeat testing in seven days.Karnataka is aiming to increase its daily vaccination count to contain the problem. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday was vaccinated along with K.Sudhakar, the state’s health minister.A total of 1,270,782 persons have been vaccinated across Karnataka, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bbmp-plans-covid-testing-in-crowded-markets-malls-101615573960544.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Highest single-day Covid in over two months in Delhi||The trend of rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi continued on Friday as the city reported 431 new infections, the highest single-day rise in over two months, or since January 9, with experts warning that the Capital may be looking at the start of the fourth Covid wave.The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, in the Capital has now been rising for 18 straight days – this number has gone from 134 for the week ending on February 22 to 339 in the last week. This means that Delhi is now reporting, on average, 200 more cases every day than what it was less than three weeks ago. With 72,031 tests conducted, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive among total tested – stood at 0.60%, which was again the highest since January 9.To keep new infections in check, Delhi government officials said they are focussing on tracing as many as 30 contacts for every positive case recorded. “We are focussing on aggressive contact tracing. For every case, we are tracing a minimum of 30 contacts and keeping them under surveillance. We are trying to contain the infection before it has a chance to spread again,” said a senior district level official on condition of anonymity.Only half as many contacts were being traced on average in November beginning, when Delhi had witnessed its third surge in the number of infections. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had in November said, “If a person tests positive then his entire family and the people in contact have to be tested, thus more cases of Covid-19 were recorded. Earlier six-seven contacts of a positive person were traced, now this number has crossed 15.”The district official also added that in addition to contact tracing, focus was also on increasing the number of tests and vaccinations. “To control the spread, we are also testing more people to ensure we pick up as many cases as we can. This also helps in detecting asymptomatic cases among the floating population that travels between states. We already have protocols for testing international passengers,” the official said. The Centre on Thursday had said that Delhi-NCR was also becoming one of the regions of concern where Covid-19 was seeing an uptick. “There is spike in cases in Maharashtra and Kerala too. But there is a difference. The positivity rates in those states are high. In Delhi, the positivity rate has been lower than 1% for more than two months now. The government is prepared in all aspects of Covid-19 management, and we have maintained tests at scaled-up levels,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters outside the Delhi assembly on Friday. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control if the positivity rate remains below 5% for over two weeks. In Delhi, 202,970 people over the age of 60 or over the age of 45 with comorbidities have received one dose of a vaccine against Covid-19. There are 261,165 frontline workers and 171,120 healthcare workers who have got at least one shot, according to government data. This means, only 3.1% of Delhi’s population of 20 million has received at least one dose of the vaccine. And, only 0.5% of the population has received both doses completing their immunisation. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital said, “Our team did a modelling to see the impact of measures like masking and social distancing on the spread of Covid-19. What we saw is that even with vaccination, if we stop following these norms the number of cases could increase manifold. The recent serosurveillance study shows that over 50% of the people in Delhi have already been exposed to the infection and yet there is an increase in case. It will take a long time to develop that level of herd immunity through immunisation.” “We need to continue following the Covid-19 norms; there is Holi this month and celebrations should be curtailed to ensure we do not see a surge like after Diwali,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/highest-single-day-covid-in-over-two-months-in-delhi-101615573959385.html
13-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad health dept ropes in 20 more govt health-care centres for Covid vaccination||Ghaziabad: Facing an uphill task to achieve the target of inoculating over 93,000 beneficiaries against Covid-19 in March, the district health department on Friday increased the number of government vaccination centres from 25 to 45 in the district. Officials said that a total of about 10,900 beneficiaries will be vaccinated daily at the 45 government health-care centres.Ghaziabad at present is engaged in vaccination of senior citizens and people aged over 45 years having co-morbidities. Against the target of 93,480 for the current month, vaccination of only 20,887 people was completed in the district till March 11 with coverage of about 22.34%, the officials said. “We have added 20 more government health-care centres in order to increase our vaccination coverage. All the 45 government centres now will take up anything from 200 to 400 beneficiaries a day, and have been given a combined daily target of vaccinating 10,900 people. Besides, we also have 31 private hospitals engaged in paid vaccination. So, we intend to achieve our monthly target,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. He said that instructions were also received from the state officials to increase vaccination coverage. “The state health department officials have issued directions that the districts having population of more than 25 lakh should vaccinate more than 5,000 beneficiaries per day, while those with population below 25 lakh should take up vaccination of 3,000,” Gupta said. According to the officials, the district has been able to vaccinate an average of about 1,900 beneficiaries per day during the first 11 days of this month. Meanwhile, the district health department has also sent names of four more private hospitals to the state government and sought permission for them for start of vaccination. “The permission is yet to be received. Further, we may also open up our women hospital for six days a week in case vaccination process lags behind,” Gupta said. As per the directions of the state government, all the government health-care facilities engaged in Covid-19 vaccination should open three days a week on Monday, Friday and Saturday, while the district hospitals should operate six days a week for vaccination. The private hospitals were directed to operate for a minimum of four days in a week. Of the 45 government facilities, only the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital is open six days for taking up vaccination. According to the state control room figures, the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh has witnessed a minor increase since March 4. “The vaccination must be expedited considering the rise in Covid-19 cases. For this, they (the health department) must rope in more of private sector health-care facilities and even clinics which have proper infrastructure to handle emergencies. Otherwise, vaccination process will lag behind. Further, the matter will get complicated if more cases arrive and large portion of population remains devoid of vaccination,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-health-dept-ropes-in-20-more-govt-health-care-centres-for-covid-vaccination-101615573959925.html
13-03-2021||Other||Plays, music, dance: Deshbhakti event kicks off||The Delhi government on Friday kick-started a 75-week celebrations — to mark 75 years of India’s independence — with street plays, music and dance performances, and trivia on Delhi’s history as well as the freedom movement. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged off the celebrations in Connaught Place’s Central Park.Onlookers and passers-by were greeted by civil defence volunteers holding placards, banners lining Central Park, and LED displays screening the musical performances inside the park – which had restricted entry to only those with passes. Visitors also enjoyed street plays on the theme of deshbhakti by the artists who were doing a fellowship with the Delhi government.Also Read | ‘Deshbhakti’: AAP’s Budget sentimentSunita Varshney, 38, a marketing professional from Gurgaon, said she was pleasantly surprised to see Connaught Place “decorated” on a Friday. “The year has been tough for most of us. It is good to see the government organise such events to bring unity among us and increase our love for our country,” she said.The government chose March 12 to kick off the celebrations as Mahatma Gandhi had led the Dandi March – the famous civil disobedience movement of our freedom struggle – on this day in 1930.At Central Park, visitors were greeted with flex boards containing historical information and photos on the freedom struggle and history of Delhi. From revolutionaries of 1857 to important places of freedom struggle in Delhi, visitors to the park were found reading from all these posters on Friday evening.During the annual Delhi budget, the government had said that the 75 week-long programmes, organised by the tourism department, will highlight Delhi’s role in the freedom movement and its journey in the last 75 years.While inaugurating the event, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government has made comprehensive plans to celebrate the 75 years of Indian independence in the coming weeks. He also said that it was time to work on the vision of our freedom fighters of what a free India should look like and stated that people of all castes and religions should have access to equal opportunities.From a separate curriculum on “deshbhakti” for children to installing 500 flags across Delhi, the CM said that his government would work on instilling a sense of patriotism and nationalism among the citizens. “In every home, the message on the lives of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh and Baba Sahab Ambedkar, their struggles, sacrifices, vision, and teachings will be put across. 500 flags will be installed across Delhi..This will instil a sense of patriotism and nationalism in the people as they step out of their homes for schools and offices,” Kejriwal said, amid chants of Bharat Mata Ki Jai and Vande Mataram.The government also felicitated several eminent citizens from diverse field for their “exceptional contribution”, including beneficiaries of the Tirth Yatra scheme, artists, doctors, photojournalists, retired principals, activists and war veterans among others.“While events like these are welcome, instilling patriotism among citizens is a continuous process. The government should also invite more school children to attend these events and interact with us. Authorities may also inspire young children to join NCC ,” said Colonel Ashok Kumar Tara, 79, who was felicitated on Friday.Tara is a war veteran who was awarded with Vir Chakra and had rescued the family of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman from the custody of Pakistani forces during 1971 war.The Delhi government’s event coincided with Centre’s ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ which also began Friday to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/street-plays-music-and-dance-performances-trivia-mark-first-deshbhakti-event-at-central-park-101615573901162.html
13-03-2021||Bangalore||Bodies donated, buried by road as villages in Karnataka lack burial grounds||Two days after returning from a pilgrimage to Tirupati, Lakshmikant Kandugal’s mother passed away. Since his village, Bankur in north Karnataka’s Kalaburagi district, did not have a burial ground, Kandugal donated his mother’s body to the district medical college.“I was a panchayat member and since 2011, I have been writing to various government authorities about unavailability of burial ground in my village. Two people in our village donated bodies of their family members as they couldn’t find land to bury them. So, I decided to do the same. I have also pledged my body to the medical college as nothing seems to change anytime soon,” Kandugal said.According to the state revenue department, Bankur is among 7,069 villages in Karnataka that do not have a burial ground. Unlike many other states in the country, a majority from the Hindu community in Karnataka bury the dead, instead of cremating them. Among them are the Lingayats — the largest community in the state — and a large section of the Vokkaligas, another dominant caste in the state.According to C.S Dwarakanath, former chairman of the backward classes commission, burial has been a cultural practice in Karnataka for centuries. “In the Lingayat community, even before Basavanna (the founder of the Lingayat way of life), the communities that converted to Lingayat faith had been burying their dead,” he said.Though the lack of burial ground remains a problem across communities, it is the marginalised communities that feel maximum brunt of the problem. According to an activist, there have been several instances of people burying their loved ones by the side of the road after facing discrimination at the hands of dominant communities.Dwarakanath said the lack of burial grounds, especially in a state where burying the dead is a common practice, was a matter of concern. “Those suffering the most are the ones from the backward classes. As the upper castes started to find it difficult to get land for burial, denial of land to Dalits increased. In several places in north Karnataka and even on the outskirts of Bengaluru, funeral processions are not allowed inside the village and people have to circumvent the village,” he said.K.A Obalesh, an RTI activist from Davangere district, said there were instances of people burying their dead by the roadside. “As you pass through Kadajji, one can find several graves along the roads. In these villages, Dalits were neither allowed to enter the burial ground nor did they own any piece of land,” he added.According to R Mohanraj, state convenor of Dalit Sangharsha Samithi, two Dalits were murdered in a case of discrimination in Hoskote on Bengaluru’s outskirts. “The incident took place around six years ago in Yemandahalli village, where Dalits were not allowed to use the common burial ground. They were forced to bury bodies of their loved ones in private properties. When a funeral procession passed through the burial ground of upper castes, violence erupted in the village and two people from the Dalit community were killed,” he said.Mohanraj added that his organisation led protests in front of the district headquarters in Tumkur and Hassan districts, highlighting the demand for burial grounds. “The government has the fund land that can be set aside for this purpose. But over the years, several governments have only been making statements in the legislative Assembly without taking any meaningful step on the issue,” he said.However, Karnataka revenue secretary Mahendra Jain said the government has allocated funds in the budget to provide burial grounds. “We have asked senior officials in every district to convert government land into burial grounds. Strict instructions have been given to them,” he said.“In many villages, there is a shortage of government land. In such cases, we have given orders to district administrations to purchase private properties. But many villagers are not ready to part with their agricultural land or in some cases they don’t want a burial ground to set up on their properties. At a village in Kalaburagi, where several people donated bodies to the medical college, a government land was provided but the quality of the land was an issue and private land was not available,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7064-karnataka-villages-don-t-have-a-burial-ground-says-govt-101615573899392.html
13-03-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19 positivity rate climbs to 4.1% in Madhya Pradesh, highest in 2 months||Madhya Pradesh on Friday recorded 603 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, the highest in the past two months, said the health department bulletin. The positivity rate has increased to 4.1 per cent.The state has 4,335 active cases of Covid-19. The highest number of cases have been reported in Indore (203), followed by Bhopal (138).Also read: Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM ModiMeanwhile, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a meeting on Friday to review the preparation of the state government to contain the infection, said an official.The CM said if the condition deteriorates in Indore and Bhopal, the state government has to impose a night curfew from Monday.As of now, district administrations have been asked to follow the protocols and also hold a campaign to ensure the use of mask and social distancing is followed, said CM Chouhan in the review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-positivity-rate-climbs-to-4-1-in-madhya-pradesh-highest-in-2-months-101615573735070.html
13-03-2021||Other||Virus spike no bar: Visitors at India Gate throw precaution to the wind||Thousands gathered at the lawns of the India Gate in Central Delhi on Friday, flouting all social distancing and other Covid-19 preventive norms, after the temperature in the city dipped by a few degrees following a spell of rainfall.Many of the people who came out to India Gate on Friday, were seen not wearing masks, and camping on the lawns in close proximity and said the rain and improvement in temperature had prompted the outing.Delhi on Friday reported 431 new coronavirus infections, the highest single-day increase in cases in over two months, or since January 9. On Wednesday, 409 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the national capital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe capital received a spell of rain, accompanied by thunderstorm, which brought respite from the rising temperatures that have been recorded in the last two months.From 35.2 degrees Celsius recorded on Thursday — the highest in the season so far — the maximum temperatures fell to 30.7 degrees Celsius on Friday. Strong winds continued to blow throughout the evening hours.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi range), Eish Singhal said, “We are carrying out enforcement of social distancing at India Gate. We are also issuing challans and using public service announcements to prevent crowding.”On Friday, while the area around India Gate remained out-of-bounds for the general — it has been shut since the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced last year — the lawns leading to the monument packed up pretty quickly as the weather improved.Khushboo Rathi, who was seen at the India Gate with her family, said that she had brought her kids for an outing ahead of the weekend since the weather had become pleasant.“We had come just to spend some time here, get some ice cream for the kids. We are ensuring that we are all wearing our masks,” Rathi said.Rakesh Jha, another visitor who had come with his friends, said, “We all thought of spending some time together. There was a phase in Delhi when the daily Covid cases being reported was in the thousands. Now, we are seeing only a few hundred cases daily. No one knows how long the pandemic is expected to last; we will have to learn to live with it now.”Experts, however, cautioned that with the recent spike in number of cases, residents and authorities will have to ensure that guards are not lowered.“We have seen what has happened to the other countries, the moment restrictions were relaxed there — cases saw a steep spike. A pandemic never goes away overnight and to prevent it from claiming more lives, we need to adopt maximum precautions. For the last two months, we had started witnessing a drop in the number of consultation calls for coronavirus symptoms. But we are seeing that these calls have started rising again,” Dr Vikas Maurya, head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh.Dr Maurya also said that following social distancing norms was all the more essential now to ensure the effectiveness of the ongoing vaccination drive.“Currently, the vulnerable groups have started receiving their first doses of the vaccine shots. It is imperative that we take the utmost care during this time so that the cases do not start rising again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thousands-crowd-india-gate-lawns-flouting-covid-norms-101615573839961.html
13-03-2021||Other||12-year-old boy shot at during robbery in Delhi's Shalimar Bagh||Two bike-borne robbers shot and injured a 12-year-old, while snatching a mobile phone in north-west Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh in the early hours of Friday. The bullet went through the minor’s left arm and his condition is stable, the police said. No one has been arrested in the case so far.Police said that the incident took place when the two suspects tried snatching the mobile phone of a man who worked for the 12-year-old’s father, who is into the tent and catering business.The boy and his father were among the seven-eight people who had rushed to the man’s aid, after assuming that the pistol the suspects were holding was a toy gun, the police said.A case of robbery and use of firearms was registered and teams were formed to identify and nab the suspects. The police are also scanning CCTV footage of cameras installed on the route that the suspects took while fleeing.“We have some clues about the suspects. Our teams are working on the case and the duo will be caught soon,” said joint commissioner of police (northern range) SS Yadav.Mohammad Mubarak, the goods vehicle driver, said that around 2am, he along with 10-11 people had come to a godown in Gali Number-8 to unload some catering items that they had ferried from a farmhouse in Alipur. Mubarak’s tempo was parked near the main Shalimar Bagh underpass-Max Hospital road, where the items were being unloaded.“I was standing near my vehicle and had taken out my cellphone to call my family, when suddenly two men arrived on a bike, pointed a pistol at me and threatened to kill me if I raised the alarm. The pillion rider put a gun on my forehead and asked me to hand over my cellphone,” said Mubarak.According to the driver, his employer and his 12-year-old son, who were standing some distance behind him, saw the men trying to rob him and started rushing to his aid. The suspects were about to leave when Mubarak asked them to return his driving licence that he had kept in his phone’s flip cover.“The bikers found a ₹100 note in the flip cover while looking for the licence. Meanwhile, my employer, his son and some labourers had almost reached me. They were all screaming that the pistol was a toy gun. The robber panicked and fired once. The bullet hit the arm of my employer’s son,” said Mubarak, adding that the robbers then proceeded to speed away with his phone.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani, on the other hand, said that the robber fired once when the labourers threw stones at them, while charging at them.“The injured boy was admitted to a nearby hospital from where he was discharged after medical attention. The bullet pierced his arm. His condition is stable,” said DCP Rangnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12yrold-shot-at-during-robbery-in-shalimar-bagh-101615573839423.html
13-03-2021||Delhi||Vital to maintain integrity of Pracha’s data: Court to cops||A Delhi court on Friday sought to know from the Delhi Police as to how it would ensure that the attorney-client privilege is not breached while retrieving the “target data” from the computer of lawyer Mehmood Pracha, whose premises were searched twice in connection with the alleged tutoring of a witness by Pracha in a north-east Delhi riots case.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma said since the hard disk has other data stored on it, with respect to Pracha’s other clients, the retrieval of target data without interfering with the other data on the hard disk has to be “meticulously looked into” and “the evidence should be obtained without creating any evidential vulnerabilities”.“The search warrants were aimed to obtain the target data and the said data is in the hard disk where other information files, belonging to other clients of the applicant, is also available. In this scenario, the issue relating to retrieval of target data without interference with the other data stored in the hard disk has to be meticulously looked into and at the same time, obtaining target data without creating any evidential vulnerabilities for future purpose has to be considered because it is important for the investigating officer to maintain authenticity and integrity of the target data,” the judge said.The court’s observations came while hearing a plea by Pracha, seeking modifications to a March 2 order of the court, where the judge had given police permission to search Pracha’s premises in Nizamuddin East.The court will now further hear the matter on March 19, by which time the police have to satisfy the judge’s queries.Pracha, who is representing several accused and victims in the Delhi riots cases, had said the demand for the hard disk is illegal as all documents are already in the police’s possession from the earlier search conducted on December 25, 2020.On Friday, Pracha said he stands vindicated as the judge has accepted his contentions on attorney-client privilege and is looking to safeguard the data of his other clients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-wants-police-to-clarify-how-they-will-ensure-client-data-is-not-breached-on-pracha-s-hard-disk-101615573779373.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Over 3,200 new Covid cases reported in Pune, twice of Mumbai||Pune district reported 3,264 new Covid-19 cases, twice of Mumbai’s figure of 1,647, on Friday, according to the state health department. The figure took the progressive count of the district to over 4.33 lakh of which 4.02 lakh have recovered and 8,170 have been declared as dead. Currently, 21,788 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune continues to report the highest active cases in the state. Pune city reported 1,845 new cases which took the progressive count to 221,657 and with seven more deaths the death toll in the city went up to 4,612. Pune rural reported 578 new cases which took the progressive count to 103,021 and with zero deaths the death toll is 2,166. PCMC reported 841 new cases which took the progressive count to 108,559 and with no deaths on the day the death toll stood at 1,343. Also, 11,344 patients were discharged in the state on Friday which took the count to 21.17 lakh Covid patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 92.79%. Also, 15,817 new cases were reported in the state on Friday. Also, 56 Covid deaths were reported in the state. The death toll went up to 53,962 deaths. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.31%. Of 17,310,586 laboratory samples, 2,282,191 have been tested positive (13.18%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 542,693 people are in home quarantine and 4,884 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-3-200-new-covid-cases-reported-in-pune-twice-of-mumbai-101615561598850.html
13-03-2021||Pune||With polls on horizon, Pune city corporators want 40 new PMPML bus routes started||With the civic polls on the horizon, late 2021 or early 2022, corporators have begun to demand that the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), the city’s public transport body, start new bus routes in the city. As many as 40 new bus routes are on the demand list. On October 25, PMPML started its Atal (aligning transit on all lanes) bus service, based on the concept of a distance of five km being travelled at a five-minute frequency for a ticket of ₹5.Nine new Atal routes were started in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area.Rajendra Jagtap, managing director of PMPML, said, “Though corporators are demanding bus services in their areas, we have formed a committee that will conduct a survey and study the feasibility of routes. After that, we will make a decision.”He added, “After lockdown, PMPML rationalised routes and rerouted the non-profitable ones. We increased routes in the fringe areas like Shirur, Sus, Talegaon, Wagholi, Phursungi, Yawat, Chakan, Shikrapur, and Lavale. Besides that, we have the Atal bus routes.”Dattatray Zende, traffic manager of PMPML, said, “Corporators have been demanding new routes for the last two-three months. However, we cannot start a service merely on the demand of corporators. We calculate distance, demand of public, population, and road infrastructure. We need two months to conduct surveys and then, 15 days to start a new route.”Shankar Pawar, a PMPML director and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator said, “Corporator Manjusha Nagpure and Anil Dhawade started routes in their areas. We have appealed to corporators to file applications to start new bus routes in their areas.”Dilip Vede-Patil, the BJP corporator from Kothrud, said, “We had suggested two circular routes in Kothrud which began last week. These new routes will help us to connect people. Most of the routes are passing through societies and are getting a good response.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-polls-on-horizon-city-fathers-want-40-new-pmpml-bus-routes-started-101615558659900.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Pedestrian crossing proposed for Ganeshkhind road||While the ongoing work of the Metro on Ganeshkhind road is a step towards smooth traffic flow, the plan has overlooked pedestrian facility. Many residents of Khairewadi and in Bhosalenagar have expressed their inconvenience in crossing the roads. “There are hardly any pedestrian crossing on this road. There are only two places —Khairewadi (Central Mall) and SPPU Chowk — and both are in opposite direction of the 1.3 km long road,” said urban designer and architect Aditya Chawande. He along with NGO Parisar have proposed to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) a safe crossing for pedestrians on Ganeshkhind road at the road opening in front of Cosmos bank (near Range Hills corner). The complete barricading of the road by Maha-Metro has led to a longer detour length on the stretch of almost 1.3 km from SPPU chowk to Central Mall for pedestrians. Pedestrians are forced to risk their lives while crossing the 36m wide arterial road with speeding vehicles at Cosmos bank location. An opening is provided only for vehicles to take a U-turn for Senapati Bapat road and Range Hills road. The proposal was discussed and presented at the meeting of the Non-Motorised Transport (NMT) committee in February 2021. “PMC engineers agreed that the situation requires an intervention for Ganeshkhind road is an arterial road connecting Aundh, Baner, Balewadi, Hinjewadi and Pimpri- Chinchwad, and faces high traffic volume. The Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi Metro line work is also under progress along the stretch. The road has neighbourhoods like Bhosalenagar, Model Colony and institutional buildings like colleges, banks, malls, IT offices, restaurants, and commercial spaces. Naturally, the pedestrian footfall is high on this road, but the road lacks adequate safe crossings for pedestrians,” said Chawande. PMC engineer Dinkar Gojare and Chawande have been following up the proposal but it is delayed due to unavailability of PMC engineers. Chawande has proposed painted pedestrian crossing with stop lines and safe refuge space with fibre bollard and barricades, speed breakers at both the vehicle approach ends, signages and amber blinking traffic lights for night-time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pedestrian-crossing-proposed-for-ganeshkhind-road-101615476333665.html
13-03-2021||Pune||Maha sugar commissioner orders attachment of 13 mills for non-payment of farmers’ dues||Maharashtra sugar commissionerate has taken strict action against 13 sugar mills over their failure to pay fair and remunerative price (FRP) dues to farmers in the current season. The state sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued the revenue and recovery certificate (RRC) orders against these mills located in Solapur, Osmanabad, Beed, Sangli and Aurangabad districts. The RRC order directs attachment of properties of these mills.“The order was issued on March 10. These mills gave less payment to farmers. Post order, collectors of the districts where the mills are located have the authority to attach assets such as sugar mill, gazettes and sugar produce. The fund collected can be used to pay farmers’ dues,” said Gaikwad. An RRC order was issued against 78 sugar mills two years ago. Last year, the payment procedure was properly carried out and it is the first RRC order of the current season. The total dues of these 13 mills are ₹556.75 crore. Of the 13 mills, seven are in Solapur, two each in Osmanabad and Sangli, and one each in Aurangabad and Beed districts.According to the sugar commmissionerate officials, non-payment of farmers’ dues by sugar mills according to FRP within 14 days of procurement will attract action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-sugar-commissioner-orders-attachment-of-13-mills-for-non-payment-of-farmers-dues-101615465353353.html
13-03-2021||World||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken refers to Taiwan as 'country'||In a development that might irk China, United States Secretary of the state, Antony Blinken, has referred to Taiwan as "country", the term so far avoided by US officials.He made the remark during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on Wednesday on the Biden administration's foreign policy agenda.Blinken was responding to California Republican Representative Young Kim, who called on the US to include Taiwan in the upcoming Democracy Summit."I share your view that Taiwan is a strong democracy, a very strong technological power, and a country that can contribute to the world, not just to its own people. Covid is a very good example of that," Sputnik quoted Blinken as saying.The State Department used to have an unwritten policy to avoid using the word "country" when referring to the self-ruled island as part of the US commitment to Beijing's so-called "One China Policy", according to Sputnik.Beijing claims full sovereignty over Taiwan, a democracy of almost 24 million people located off the southeastern coast of mainland China, despite the fact that the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.Taipei, on the other hand, has countered the Chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the US, which has been repeatedly opposed by Beijing.In recent months, China has increased its military activities around Taiwan. According to China, it is responding to what it calls "collusion" between Taipei and Washington, Taiwan's main international backer and weapons supplier, according to CNN.In November, the US and Taiwan signed a blueprint for closer economic ties in Washington.Meanwhile, Chinese President Xi Jinping has already made his intentions clear about Taiwan as he has vowed to never allow the island to become independent and has refused to rule out the use of force if necessary.The previous US administration in January announced lifting restrictions governing official US contacts with the country.Former Foreign Secretary Michael Pompeo had said that executive branch agencies should consider all "contact guidelines" regarding relations with Taiwan previously issued by the Department of State under authorities delegated to the Secretary of State to be 'null and void'.In February, Senator Rick Scott reintroduced the Taiwan Invasion Prevention Act, sponsored by Congressman Guy Reschenthaler in the US House of Representatives, to protect Taiwan from Communist China's growing aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-secretary-of-state-antony-blinken-refers-to-taiwan-as-country-101615653863889.html
13-03-2021||World||Leader of Myanmar 'shadow' civilian government vows resistance to junta rule||The acting leader of Myanmar's parallel civilian government, appointed by ousted lawmakers in the wake of a Feb. 1 military coup, addressed the public for the first time on Saturday from hiding and vowed to pursue a "revolution" to overturn the junta.Mahn Win Khaing Than, who is on the run along with most senior officials from the ruling National League for Democracy Party, addressed the public via Facebook, saying, "This is the darkest moment of the nation and the moment that the dawn is close".Witnesses and local media Myanmar Now and BBC Burmese said at least 11 protesters were killed on Saturday in one of the bloodiest days since the coup in which Myanmar's army seized power and detained most of the civilian leadership including Aung San Suu Kyi.Mahn Win Khaing Than was appointed last week as acting vice-president by representatives of Myanmar's ousted lawmakers, the Committee for Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH), which is pushing for recognition as the rightful government.It has announced its intention to create a federal democracy and leaders have been meeting representatives of Myanmar's largest ethnic armed organizations, which already control vast swathes of territory across the country. Some have pledged their support."In order to form a federal democracy, which all ethnic brothers, who have been suffering various kinds of oppressions from the dictatorship for decades, really desired, this revolution is the chance we can put our efforts together," Mahn Win Khaing Than said.The junta, which could not be reached for comment on Saturday, has declared CRPH illegal and said anyone involved with it could be charged with treason, which carries the death penalty.The CRPH has declared the junta a "terrorist organisation".Mahn Win Khaing Than said the CRPH would "attempt to legislate the required laws so that the people have the right to defend themselves" and that public administration would be handled by "an interim people's administration team".A civil disobedience movement that started with government employees such as doctors and teachers has expanded into a general strike that has paralysed many sectors of the economy and taken a large portion of the workings of government out of the military's hands.(Writing by Poppy McPherson; Editing by Ros Russell)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/leader-of-myanmar-shadow-civilian-government-vows-resistance-to-junta-rule-101615653447965.html
13-03-2021||World||This US state may lift yoga ban in schools. Just don’t say ‘namaste’||A ban on yoga in public schools of US’ Alabama may soon be lifted after the state’s House of Representatives passed a bill on Thursday in a 73-25 vote. In 1993, the Alabama State Board of Education banned yoga after a push from right-wing groups over its Hindu roots. The bill, sponsored by Democratic Rep. Jeremy Gray, would authorise local boards of education to offer yoga to students in grades K-12.Yoga will be an elective activity where students will have the option of opt-out in favour of “alternative activities”, according to the bill. It provides exclusive discretion to local boards to determine the duration and frequency of periods of instruction in yoga. However, the ancient practice in public schools will be limited to poses and stretching techniques and all poses will be limited exclusively to sitting, standing, reclining, twisting, and balancing.Under the bill, all poses, exercises, and stretching techniques must have exclusively “English descriptive names”. “Chanting, mantras, mudras, use of mandalas, and namaste greetings shall be expressly prohibited,” a subsection of the legislation reads. The bill will now go to the Alabama Senate for its passage before the governor signs it into law.School personnel in Alabama are currently prohibited from using any techniques that involve the induction of hypnotic states, guided imagery, meditation or yoga. The state has banned meditation by calling it separate from “secular meditation” and defined it as an altered or dissociative state, of consciousness often synonymous with hypnosis.Gray said that he was introduced to yoga through football and has been practising it for seven years, reported the Associated Press. According to Gray, some House members said they “got a lot emails about it (yoga) being part of Hinduism.” “Some people’s minds you can never change. If you have to vote your district, I understand it,” Gray added.Since 2015, the world celebrates International Yoga Day on June 21 every year following its inception in the United Nations General Assembly in 2014. The draft resolution establishing the International Day of Yoga was proposed by India and endorsed by a record 175 member states.(With AP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/this-us-state-may-lift-yoga-ban-in-schools-just-don-t-say-namaste-101615652006099.html
13-03-2021||World||Norwegian health workers, who received AstraZeneca jabs, develop blood clots||Three health workers in Norway who recently received the AstraZeneca vaccine against COVID-19 are being treated in hospital for bleeding, blood clots and a low count of blood platelets, Norwegian health authorities said on Saturday.Norway halted on Thursday the rollout of that vaccine, following a similar move by Denmark. Iceland later followed suit."We do not know if the cases are linked to the vaccine," Sigurd Hortemo, a senior doctor at the Norwegian Medicines Agency told a news conference held jointly with the Norwegian Institute of Public Health.All three individuals were under the age of 50.The European medicine regulator EMA would investigate the three incidents, Hortemo added."They have very unusual symptoms: bleeding, blood clots and a low count of blood platelets," Steinar Madsen, Medical Director at the Norwegian Medicines Agency told broadcaster NRK."They are quite sick...We take this very seriously," he said, adding authorities had received notification of the cases on Saturday.AstraZeneca was not immediately available for comment.Before Denmark's and Norway's move, Austria stopped using a batch of AstraZeneca shots while investigating a death from coagulation disorders and an illness from a pulmonary embolism.Still, EMA on Thursday said the vaccine's benefits outweighed its risks and could continue to be administered.Europe is struggling to speed up a vaccine rollout after delivery delays from Pfizer and AstraZeneca, even as a spike in cases amid a more contagious virus variant has triggered fresh lockdowns in countries like Italy and France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/norwegian-health-workers-who-received-astrazeneca-jabs-develop-blood-clots-101615650997388.html
13-03-2021||World||'Covid-19 superspreader' Brazil shunned by 'nervous' neighbours in Latin America||For the rest of Latin America, Brazil has always been a nation apart -- a huge Portuguese-speaking powerhouse and trendsetter with sexy beaches and bewitching music. These days, it’s something else entirely: a Covid-spreading threat fast becoming a kind of regional leper colony.Leading the world in daily deaths and the source of a worrying Amazonian variant that’s more contagious and possibly deadlier, Brazil is a cause of deep anxiety for world health officials and its neighbors, who are barring their gates.Peru has closed flights to and from the country, Uruguay is sending extra doses of vaccines to its border towns and Chile now sends anyone arriving from Brazil to special quarantine hotels. Colombia has not only banned flights in and out of Brazil but also to its own city of Leticia on the border, stranding hundreds of tourists since the end of January.“It feels like a jail without bars,” said Gladys Cuellar, who with her husband Antonio owns Gava’s Amazonas, a fast food restaurant in Leticia.A town of 50,000, Leticia had a death toll last year almost three times higher than the national average. It lives off tourism and most of its food and supplies come from Brazil and Peru.“It’s a difficult decision to make,” said Julian Fernandez, director of epidemiology at Colombia’s health ministry, of the closure. While it’s virtually impossible to stop the Brazilian strain from spreading into the more populous interior of Colombia, “we are trying to reduce the volume and speed at which it enters, to give us time to advance vaccinations.”With 50 million inhabitants, Colombia has only administered some 600,000 doses. It’s paying special attention to its Amazon belt next to Brazil, offering shots to everyone over 18 in urban areas. In the rest of the country, other than health workers, only people over 80 are getting their first jab.Global health officials have been expressing deep alarm over the risk posed to the region by Brazil while 17 countries have banned entries from it.The first week of March marked the worst days of the pandemic yet in the country, with more than 420,000 new cases and 10,000 deaths. Home to less than 3% of the world’s population, it accounts for about 10% of Covid cases and deaths.Vaccinations are moving slowly. While some governors and mayors have imposed curfews and on rare occasions strict lockdowns, interstate travel remains fluid and international airports open. Even in places with tighter restrictions, enforcement is rare.Its president Jair Bolsonaro has long insisted that the virus is given too much attention, that masks and distancing are for “sissies,” and life must go on.“We’re very much concerned about Brazil,” said Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, head of the World Health Organization. “And about Brazil’s neighbors -- almost the whole of Latin America. That means if Brazil is not serious then it will continue to affect all the neighborhood there and beyond. So this is not just about Brazil.”Uruguay, which closed its international borders early in the pandemic, increased patrols along its 620-mile dryland border with Brazil last year. It sent extra doses from its first shipment of 192,000 Coronavac shots to those cities. The absence of a hard border separating its biggest frontier town Rivera from Brazilian sister city, Santana do Livramento, has driven new cases there to the country’s highest in the past week due to the flow of residents and day shoppers.“Today our main problem without a doubt is what is happening in Brazil,” Rivera Province deputy governor Jose Mazzoni said by telephone.Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said this month that 10 cases of the Brazilian strain have been detected and “we have to cut transmission channels.”Argentina is limiting flights from several countries, including Brazil.And while Chile hasn’t gone as far as Peru and Colombia, it is requiring all passengers who’ve been in Brazil in the last 14 days to go to a “residencia sanitaria” where they will have a Covid test. If positive, the person stays. If negative, they have to do 10 days of quarantine at home.In coming days, Colombia will carry out a “humanitarian flight” that will fly tourists stranded in Leticia back to Bogota.Meanwhile Gladys -- the restaurant owner in Leticia -- is looking forward to getting vaccinated.“We’re like Colombia’s lab mice,” she said. “We’ve been isolated and now we’ll get to see how things go with the Brazil strain.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-superspreader-brazil-shunned-by-nervous-neighbours-in-latin-america-101615648244002.html
13-03-2021||World||Austria, others seek discussion in EU on Covid-19 vaccine discussion||The leaders of Austria, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Slovenia and Latvia have written to the European Union calling for a discussion on COVID-19 vaccine distribution within the bloc after Austria complained it was uneven.Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said on Friday that vaccine doses were not being spread evenly among member states despite an agreement within the bloc to do so according to population. He blamed separate deals struck between the EU's vaccination steering board and drug companies.Kurz said on Twitter on Saturday that he and his four counterparts had called for discussions to find "a European solution" in a joint letter. The letter, to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel, was published by Austrian media."In recent days ... we have discovered that ... deliveries of vaccine doses by pharma companies to individual EU member states are not being implemented on an equal basis following the pro rata population key," the letter said."We therefore call on you, Charles, to hold a discussion on this important matter among leaders as soon as possible."Malta is on course to have three times more vaccine doses relative to its population by the end of June than Bulgaria, Kurz has said.The letter did not mention the steering group, which has long been known to be part of a mechanism by which member states share excess doses among themselves. The deputy head of the steering board is Austrian.Opposition parties have accused Kurz of trying to deflect blame for the slow pace of vaccinations away from himself. The Social Democrats said he was seeking "scapegoats for his failure".An EU official said Michel had received the letter and a leaders' summit was already planned for March 25 and 26."COVID coordination will again be addressed by the 27 members during that meeting," the official said, without specifying whether that included vaccine distribution.Michel's office declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-others-seek-discussion-in-eu-on-covid-19-vaccine-discussion-101615647668648.html
13-03-2021||World||UK to mark Covid-19 lockdown anniversary as National Day of Reflection||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday backed a charity-led initiative to declare March 23 as a National Day of Reflection, marking the one-year anniversary of the day he declared a national stay-at-home lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Johnson backed charity Marie Curie's plan for a minute's silence at 1200 GMT (1730 IST) in memory of all the lives lost to the pandemic, with people encouraged to light up their doorsteps in the night as prominent buildings and landmarks across the country are also illuminated."This has been an incredibly difficult year for our country. My thoughts are with all those who have lost loved ones, and who have not been able to pay tribute to them in the way they would have wanted,” the Prime Minister said.“As we continue to make progress against the virus, I want to thank people for the sacrifices they continue to make, and hope they can look forward to being reunited with loved ones as restrictions are cautiously eased," he said.Other senior politicians have also given their support to the event, with Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and Welsh First Minister Mark Drakeford planning to participate in the Day of Reflection.On March 23, 2020, the total number of recorded deaths linked to the deadly virus in the UK was at 335 – a total which has now hit 143,259.“There are still tough times ahead, as the death toll continues to rise. This annual day will give us all time to pause and think about this unprecedented loss we're facing, and support each other through grief in the years to come,” said a statement from the Marie Curie charity, which offers support for terminal illnesses.Alongside the minute's silence and doorstep vigil, the day will also see community-led activities take place, such as virtual assemblies, choirs, services and yellow ribbons being wrapped around trees.A series of free online talks organised by the Good Grief Festival will also take place, featuring experts, bereaved families and celebrities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-mark-covid-19-lockdown-anniversary-as-national-day-of-reflection-101615647123847.html
13-03-2021||World||Explained: How Cuomo investigation, possible impeachment could play out||Gov. Andrew Cuomo has urged New Yorkers to “wait for the facts."Patience, though, has grown thin. The state's two US senators, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the other 29 members of New York's congressional delegation have called for his resignation. While in the state legislature, more than 120 lawmakers have called on the Democrat to quit.Leaders in the state Assembly on Thursday announced an impeachment investigation, a first step toward potentially removing Cuomo from office.Cuomo has rebuffed calls to resign and staked his political future on the outcome of an independent investigation by Attorney General Letitia James, who is examining allegations that the governor sexually harassed or inappropriately touched several female aides.Here’s a look at the next steps on a possible road to impeachment:ATTORNEY GENERAL’S INVESTIGATIONJames, an independently elected Democrat, hired former Acting US Attorney Joon Kim and employment discrimination attorney Anne Clark to lead her inquiry into the governor's workplace conduct.The investigative team will have the power to subpoena documents and interview witnesses. Its findings will go in a public report.Cuomo has since said that he will “fully cooperate.”James lacks power to unilaterally remove Cuomo from office, but any findings corroborating the allegations could sway potential impeachment proceedings — or add pressure for Cuomo to leave voluntarily.Kim and Clark may choose to limit their scope to allegations that are already public, or broaden it to look for other women who might have complaints about Cuomo's behavior.James’ office sent a letter last week instructing the governor's office to preserve all evidence related to the harassment allegations. That could include documents and emails to and from Cuomo’s staff, calendar entries and communications involving the transfer of one of his accusers to another office.There is no deadline for completing the investigation and James hasn't said how long she expects it to take. A 2010 investigation that Cuomo oversaw as attorney general into his predecessor, Gov. David Paterson, lasted about five months.Andrew G. Celli Jr., who was chief of the civil rights bureau in the office of attorney general from 1999 to 2003, said that while James is a Democrat, her independence would allow her to to “do what she thinks is in the best interest of all the people, even if that means an adverse finding to the governor.”THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEEThe Assembly’s Judiciary Committee will also have power to subpoena documents and witness testimony. It could rely on work done by the attorney general's team of investigators, or gather its own evidence.The scope of its inquiry might go beyond Cuomo’s conduct with women. The governor is also under fire for his handling of the Covid-19 crisis in the state’s nursing homes.Many lawmakers have been outraged that the Cuomo administration declined, for months, to release the full number of nursing home patients killed by the virus.The governor's office said some of the data, related to deaths of nursing home patients who had been transferred to hospitals, was unreliable. But in a recorded conference call with lawmakers, Cuomo's top aide said the administration withheld the data in late summer because it was afraid the fatality numbers could be “used against us."The committee's work could result in the drafting of articles of impeachment against Cuomo, though that outcome is far from certain.One of the women who has reportedly accused Cuomo of groping her has not spoken publicly about what happened and it is unclear whether she would be willing to offer public testimony in an impeachment trial.THE IMPEACHMENT PROCESSNew York's process for impeaching and removing a governor from office has some parallels — and some important differences — to the process the US Congress uses for impeaching presidents.Like at the federal level, New York impeachments starts in lower house of the legislature — in this case, the Assembly. If a majority of members vote to impeach Cuomo, a trial on his removal from office would be held in what's known as the Impeachment Court.The court consists not only of members of the state Senate, but also judges of the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, who would also cast votes. There are seven appeals court judges and 63 senators, though not all would serve on the impeachment court.Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul (HOH-kull) and Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins are also members, but they are excluded when a governor is on trial. At least two-thirds of the jurors must vote to convict in order to remove Cuomo.Democrats control both chambers of the Legislature. Many have joined Republicans in calling for Cuomo's resignation or impeachment in recent days. Cuomo has appointed all seven members of the Court of Appeals.New York has only impeached a governor once, in 1913, when Gov. William Sulzer was bounced after 289 days in office in what he claimed was retribution for turning his back on the powerful Tammany Hall Democratic machine.Sulzer, accused of failing to report thousands of dollars in campaign contributions and commingling campaign funds with personal funds, blasted the court’s secret deliberations, complaining: “A horse thief in frontier days would have received a squarer deal."SIDELINING CUOMOIf Cuomo were impeached by the Assembly, state law might force him to step aside immediately — a dramatic difference from what happens when the US president is impeached.A section of the state's judicial code regarding impeachment states: “No officer shall exercise his office, after articles of impeachment against him shall have been delivered to the senate, until he is acquitted.”According to the state constitution, the lieutenant governor would then take over.“In case the governor is impeached, is absent from the state or is otherwise unable to discharge the powers and duties of the office of governor, the lieutenant-governor shall act as governor until the inability shall cease or until the term of the governor shall expire,” the constitution states.When Sulzer was impeached, Lt. Gov. Martin Glynn was appointed acting governor.If Cuomo were to be acquitted in an impeachment court, he would return to office. If the Impeachment Court were to remove him from office, Hochul would serve out the remainder of Cuomo's term — through the end of 2022. The court could also opt to disqualify him from holding office in the future, on top of removing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-cuomo-investigation-possible-impeachment-could-play-out-101615645257048.html
13-03-2021||World||‘Appalled’: Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, US lawmakers condemn hate against Asian Americans||Microsoft Corporation on Friday condemned the acts of hate against Asian Americans and Asian communities taking place all over the world. The technology giant released a statement from its official Twitter handle, saying it supports the Asian community globally and is committed to taking action against racial injustices. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella quote tweeted the statement, adding that he was appalled by the “ongoing acts of hate against the community” and stands with them against the injustice.I am appalled by the ongoing acts of hate against Asian Americans and the Asian community globally. Racism, hate and violence have no place in our society. I am united with the Asian and Asian American community in standing against this injustice. https://t.co/77z6gQqgBt“I am appalled by the ongoing acts of hate against Asian Americans and the Asian community globally. Racism, hate and violence have no place in our society. I am united with the Asian and Asian American community in standing against this injustice,” Nadella tweeted.This comes after the incidents of abuse against the Asian American community in the US that have been on a rise. In one of the studies on the rise of hate crimes the researchers argued that Donald Trump’s campaign rallies for the 2016 presidential elections not only served to heighten white identity but also increased the perceived threat facing White Americans. The study showed that Trump’s events were correlated with rise in domestic hate. The counties hosting Trump’s rallies saw a 226 per cent increase in hate-motivated crimes, according to the researchers.Also Read | PM Modi reiterates Sri Lanka's importance to India's Neighbourhood First policyMore than 3,000 incidents of abuse were reported between March and December 2020, as per Asian American advocacy groups, quite high when compared to 216 reported incidents in 2019, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) statistics.In one of the recent incidents of abuse against the Asian American community, three women passengers berated an Uber driver. A woman coughed on the driver as he asked her to wear a mask. The driver, who was identified as Subhakar Khadka in the video that went viral, was subjected to slurs, taunting and grabbing of his phone, after he picked up three women from the Bayview area in San Francisco and asked one of them to wear a mask as a Covid-19 precaution.According to a PTI report, several US lawmakers have come forward in support of the community and to fight the racial injustices meted out to them. Citing the significance of addressing the issue, senator Dianne Feinstein said that over the past few weeks, nominees for top three leadership positions at the Justice Department, as well as the director of the FBI, have appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee.“At each hearing, the topic of hate crimes came up, in large part due to steep increases in attacks against Asian Americans,” she said.Earlier this month, the department of justice (DoJ) held a listening session with several Asian American Pacific Islanders (AAPI) community groups as part of the measures against hate crimes.“No one in America should fear violence because of who they are, what they look like or what part of the world they or their families came from,” acting deputy attorney general John Carlin said. “The Department of Justice and our component agencies are committed to bringing all of our tools to bear in supporting AAPI communities as we address the horrific rise in hate and bias incidents occurring across the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/appalled-microsoft-ceo-satya-nadella-us-lawmakers-condemn-hate-against-asian-americans-101615644788458.html
13-03-2021||World||'Gross misconduct': Pakistani university expels students for 'hugging' on campus||A top Pakistani university has expelled two students for hugging and proposing on campus, after a video of the incident went viral on social media.A special disciplinary committee of the University of Lahore held a meeting on Friday and summoned the two students but they failed to appear.The committee then decided to expel the boy and the girl and banned them from entering any of the university's campuses.According to the University of Lahore, the two students were involved in gross misconduct and violation of university rules.“The students in question were summoned before the committee but failed to appear. Thus, in pursuance of Section 9 of the General Discipline and Code of Conduct on the Campus, the committee has decided to expel the two students for violating the varsity's rules and regulations and serious infraction of the code of conduct. Furthermore, as per Section 16, they are debarred from entering the premises of University of Lahore and all its sub-campuses," read a statement from the University of Lahore.The video of the proposal took Twitter by storm, it was one of the top trends on social media last Thursday when the incident took place.The viral footage shows the girl with her right knee bent on the ground, holding a bouquet of roses, proposing to the boy, who then takes the flowers and pulls the girl for a hug. Nearby students are seen cheering them along.As the footage went viral, the university took notice of it.Expulsion of the couple drew mixed reactions on the internet. A social media user posted the picture of Indian film legend Amitabh Bachchan from the movie "Mohabbatein" where he played a college principal who was against romance in college."Presenting to you, the Principal of the University of Lahore," read the caption with a photograph of Bachchan.Slain prime minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto’s daughter Bakhtawar Bhutto-Zardari termed the university action “ridiculous”.Former Test Cricketer Wasim Akram’s wife Shaniera Akram said in a tweet: “Apply all the rules you want but you can't expel love! It's in our hearts, it's the best part about being young and it what makes life worth living! You learn more about love than you can ever learn at an institution.”We just celebrated International women’s day and here we are with a top University expelling a young woman for having the confidence and empowerment to ask a man to marry her amongst the security of her peers. What kind of example are we setting here ? #CantExpelLove||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gross-misconduct-pakistani-university-expels-students-for-hugging-on-campus-101615640166996.html
13-03-2021||World||India’s role as world's pharmacy phenomenal, says UK Foreign Office minister||The role that India has played during the course of the coronavirus pandemic as the pharmacy of the world has been phenomenal, UK minister Lord Tariq Ahmad said as he prepared for a five-day, five-city tour of India starting on Monday.Lord Ahmad, the minister for South Asia in the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), highlighted the close collaboration between the two countries on ensuring supplies of Covid-19 vaccines, which benefits countries across the globe through the United Nations-led COVAX facility.“The role that India has played as the pharmacy of the world has been phenomenal,” said Lord Ahmad, during a pre-visit virtual interview on Friday.“Our relationship with India is not just one of bilateral importance, it's also about how these two countries are working together and there's no better illustration than the current Covid-19 pandemic which grips us. The strong collaboration we have seen between the UK and India in responding across the world, including through the COVAX facility which is helping the more vulnerable countries in the world,” he said.“Equally, we are looking forward to further cooperation with India in its tenure as a Security Council member. Environment and climate change, healthcare, technology – the relationship between the UK and India is an important one across all these sectors and more,” he added.Lord Ahmad’s visit kicks off with ministerial meetings in Delhi and then covers Chandigarh, Chennai and Hyderabad before he flies back to the UK following trade and investment talks in Mumbai.The minister said the tour would very much be “touching upon the important matters” of the planning for the visit of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, which is expected in the coming weeks to finalise the much-anticipated UK-India Enhanced Trade Partnership.Johnson’s visit to India is set to be followed up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the UK in June for the G7 Summit in Cornwall, where India is one of the guest countries invited by host-nation Britain.“My very intensive and full programme reflects the incredible diversity that is India, and all its fantastic and incredible states and reflects the wide nature of the relationship and the bilateral engagement we have with one of our close partners,” said the minister, whose father's roots trace back to Punjab and mother's to Rajasthan.The visit will also coincide with the release of the UK’s major foreign policy statement in the form of an Integrated Review next week, which is widely expected to confirm Britain’s decisive Indo-Pacific tilt in a post-Brexit era.“It can be taken as read in as much as government policy is concerned, there is a very strong belief and focus on the Indo-Pacific tilt and it’s right we do so. When you look at the countries within that part of the region, India is foremost in our minds,” Ahmad said.Though the visit comes against the backdrop of a UK parliamentary committee room debate on the issue of farmers’ protests against India’s agricultural reforms earlier this week, the minister ruled out the issue in any way overshadowing his itinerary because the British government's longstanding stance on the matter has been clear.“We've always been consistently clear on matters such as these protests, it's an internal matter,” he said.India had strongly reacted to the debate as “gross interference in the politics of another democratic country”, after which foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had even summoned British High Commissioner to the UK Alex Ellis, a meeting Lord Ahmad described as “very cordial”.“Our position as a government is that the protests have been taking place for several months now and India as a democracy has totally guaranteed and secured the right to protest, which we fully acknowledge… There have been occasions where people have sought to disrupt those protests and that should be dealt with in accordance with the rule of law,” he said.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops.The Indian government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the 'mandi' system. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have been held in order to try and resolve the deadlock.India has maintained that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-role-as-world-s-pharmacy-phenomenal-says-uk-foreign-office-minister-101615643930877.html
13-03-2021||World||Sri Lankan president Rajapaksa speaks to PM Modi ahead of crucial vote at UNHRC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Saturday discussed cooperation at multilateral forums, days ahead of an expected vote on Sri Lanka’s human rights record at the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC).Modi and Rajapaksa “reviewed topical developments and the ongoing cooperation between both countries in bilateral and multilateral forums”, the external affairs ministry said in a readout on the phone call between the two leaders. It didn’t give further details.The leaders “agreed to maintain regular contact between relevant officials, including in the context of the continuing Covid-19 challenges”. Modi also reiterated Sri Lanka’s importance to India's “Neighbourhood First” policy.The UNHRC is expected to vote on March 19 on a resolution critical of Sri Lanka’s failure to address human rights violations that occurred during the island nation’s war with Tamil Tiger rebels. India has not yet indicated whether it will back Sri Lanka in the crucial vote.The resolution was framed by a group of countries, including the UK and Germany, in response to a report released by the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights in January.The report said nearly 12 years after the armed conflict in Sri Lanka ended, impunity for grave human rights violations and abuses by all sides is more entrenched than ever, and the Rajapaksa government is “proactively obstructing” investigations and trials, and reversing limited progress that was made previously.The report called for enhanced monitoring and strong preventive action by the world community and warned that “Sri Lanka’s current trajectory sets the scene for the recurrence of the policies and practices that gave rise to grave human rights violations”.In a debate that followed the formal presentation of the report to the UNHRC last month, many countries were severely critical of Sri Lanka’s handling of the matter. Sri Lanka was defended only by a handful of nations, including Russia and China.Sri Lanka’s foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena, while speaking in the debate, called on countries to reject the resolution, which he said was a “pure political move”. Sri Lanka has also rejected the report.While participating in the two-day debate, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, Indra Mani Pandey, noted that the high commissioner’s report had raised “important concerns”.Pandey also highlighted India’s concerns regarding the aspirations of Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority – an issue with considerable resonance in Tamil Nadu, especially ahead of the state elections.“The assessment of the high commissioner regarding developments nearly 12 years from the end of the conflict raises important concerns. The Sri Lankan government has articulated its position on these issues as well. In evaluation of both of these, we should be guided by a commitment to find a lasting and effective solution for this issue,” Pandey said.India’s position in the matter is based on support for Sri Lanka’s unity and territorial integrity, and an abiding commitment to the Tamil minority’s aspirations for equality, justice, peace and dignity, he said.“These are not either-or choices. We believe that respecting the rights of the Tamil community, including through meaningful devolution, contributes directly to the unity and integrity of Sri Lanka. Therefore, we advocate that delivering on the legitimate aspirations of the Tamil community is in the best interests of Sri Lanka,” Pandey said.These developments also come at a time when India and Japan are upset with Sri Lanka for reneging on a 2019 tripartite agreement for developing the East Container Terminal at Colombo port. The Sri Lankan government scrapped the deal last month following pressure from labour unions that were opposed to the project.Sri Lanka has instead offered to develop the West Container Terminal with investors from India and Japan. In response, the Indian government has said it sees no role for itself in this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lankan-president-rajapaksa-speaks-to-pm-modi-ahead-of-crucial-vote-at-unhrc-101615641649689.html
13-03-2021||World||China non-compliant with joint declaration on Hong Kong: UK||The United Kingdom on Saturday said it considers China to be in a "state of ongoing non-compliance" with the Sino-British joint declaration after Beijing approved sweeping changes for tighter control over Hong Kong.In a statement, British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab condemned the Chinese decision to impose "radical changes to restrict participation in Hong Kong's electoral system."China on Thursday voted to pass legislation on Hong Kong's electoral system. The legislation was passed with only one abstention and 2,895 delegates voting in favour. The Congress regularly unanimously or overwhelmingly rubber stamps plans proposed by the party.The plan will allow the ruling Communist Party to appoint more of Hong Kong's lawmakers, reducing the share elected by the public.Raab alleged that it is part of a pattern designed by China to "harass and stifle all voices critical of China's policies" and is the third breach of the Joint Declaration in less than nine months."The Chinese authorities' continued action means I must now report that the UK considers Beijing to be in a state of ongoing non-compliance with the Joint Declaration - a demonstration of the growing gulf between Beijing's promises and its actions," he said."The UK will continue to stand up for the people of Hong Kong. China must act in accordance with its legal obligations and respect fundamental rights and freedoms in Hong Kong," it added.The Sino-British Joint Declaration is a treaty signed between the United Kingdom and China in 1985 on Hong Kong under Chinese sovereignty.The two governments agreed China would reassume control of Hong Kong, which was occupied by Britain after the Opium War in 1840, from July 1, 1997.It states that China's basic policies regarding Hong Kong "will remain unchanged for 50 years" and includes the promise that the city would retain a high degree of autonomy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-non-compliant-with-joint-declaration-on-hong-kong-uk-101615641652996.html
13-03-2021||World||Hong Kong orders compulsory coronavirus testing after gym cluster||Some law firms and banks in Hong Kong face compulsory testing for coronavirus as most of the 47 news cases recorded on Saturday were linked to a gym used by the financial and expatriate community.The city's government said 35 of the new cases were related to the outbreak at Ursus Fitness, a gym in the city's Sai Ying Pun district. The health department told a briefing that so far 99 cases have been confirmed as related to the centre, which is popular with expatriate lawyers, bankers and hedge fund executives.The government published a compulsory testing notice on Friday covering 80 residential premises and workplaces, many in central financial and business district.Many of the 29 workplaces affected are leading law firms and financial institutions, including Shearman & Sterling, Allen & Overy, Herbert Smith Freehills, HSBC, Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas and BNY Mellon.The compulsory testing notice is published on premises where one or more cases were found, requiring people who have stayed in those location for more than two hours in the past two weeks to undergo a nucleic acid test."The fourth wave was never over, (because) the case number haven't been down to zero; now I'm worried it may rebound quickly," Dr Chuang Shuk-kwan, of the city's health department, told a briefing.Saturday’s confirmed infections were down from 60 on Friday. Before the gym outbreak, daily cases in Hong Kong had fallen to low double digit and single digit levels.Gym users are now required to wear masks during their workout while fitness centre staff must get a coronavirus test every 14 days, the government said on Friday.Hong Kong has recorded around 11,200 total coronavirus cases, far lower than other developed cities. The city of 7.5 million people launched its vaccination programme in February, with 162,100 people receiving their first shot so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-orders-compulsory-coronavirus-testing-after-gym-cluster-101615641243922.html
13-03-2021||World||Rajapaksa siblings firmly united; will take Sri Lanka forward: Gotabaya||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has praised his brothers, saying that all three of them are firmly united and anyone trying to drive a wedge between them will not succeed.In a comment made by the president at a political gathering on Friday, Gotabaya Rajapaksa praised the maturity of his elder brother Mahinda, the prime minister, and the younger brother Basil, the key presidential adviser."Mahinda Rajapaksa is currently one of the greatest leaders not only here but also in Asia. His political experience, maturity and knowledge cannot be matched by anyone," he said during the programme."His mature leadership is a great relief to me in taking the country forward," he was quoted as saying by an official statement released on Saturday.Gotabaya Rajapaksa,71, praised Basil as the man who created the Rajapaksa political party, the Sri Lanka People's Party (SLPP) and the force behind the political environment for them to return to power after the defeat of Mahinda Rajapaksa in 2015.In the recent months some of the ruling coalition seniors were mooting the idea that Gotabaya Rajapaksa be allowed to take over the reins of the ruling SLPP from Mahinda Rajapaksa.This move has met with stiff resistance from the senior Rajapaksa loyalists who have demanded disciplinary action against those who sought Mahinda's replacement as the party leader.The President's comments are a reference to such moves, "if anyone is trying to create problems between us (among the Rajapaksa brothers) let me tell them that they won't succeed. We are no such family".Gotabaya, who is four years younger to Mahinda, 75, regained the full powers of the presidency when he was elected president in November 2019.He abolished the 19th Amendment to the Constitution that made the prime minister's position more powerful.He said both Mahinda and Basil, senior to him in politics, had never interfered in matters of governance.This is not the only time the powerful Rajapaksa brothers have been running the country.The Rajapaksa family -- including Basil Rajapaksa, 69, has dominated Sri Lankan politics for two decades.The two brothers -- Rajapaksa and Gotabaya -- led a decisive campaign that helped end the island nation's three decade long civil war against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rajapaksa-siblings-firmly-united-will-take-sri-lanka-forward-gotabaya-101615636475726.html
13-03-2021||World||Arbitrary detentions by Chinese govt instills fear among foreigners: Report||The detention of a handful of foreigners in recent years have instilled a deep fear in some people against visiting China as relations between Beijing and the West worsened.More than a dozen academics, NGO workers and media professional, who used to visit China regularly, told CNN that they are unwilling to travel to the country once the pandemic restrictions are lifted, over fears for their personal safety.Several people fear they might be targeted due to a diplomatic spat between their government and Beijing.According to CNN, many cited the detention of two Canadians in China in December 2018 as a turning point in their thinking.Michael Kovrig, an NGO worker and former diplomat, and Michael Spavor, who organised trips to North Korea, including for NBA player Dennis Rodman, were detained just after Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou was arrested in Vancouver on charges filed in the United States.Their detentions have been characterised as a bargaining chip to help leverage Meng's release, an accusation Beijing denies.Last August, Chinese-Australian TV anchor Cheng Lei was also detained amid worsening ties between Beijing and Canberra. Cheng's detention was all the more surprising given she worked for the state media channel, CGTN.All three are facing charges of spying.Gordon Matthews, a professor of anthropology living in Hong Kong, says some of his colleagues at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who have devoted their lives to China are exploring pursuing new lines of academic inquiry to avoid visiting the mainland.William Nee, an American who works for NGO China Human Rights Defenders, falls into the category of foreigners unwilling to travel to China, and says he knows many others, with "a lower risk profile" than the two detained Canadians, who have made the same judgment."It's not really a question only of, 'What are the things I have been doing that may have contributed to my getting detained?' It's also a question of, 'What is my nationality? What have the politicians from my country have been saying?'" said Nee."If they're willing to arbitrarily detain someone who was a very moderate, thoughtful academic, or a think tank type of person," he added, "then it's difficult to see how anyone can feel safe."China said the "so-called increased risk in the arbitrary detention of foreigners in China" was "completely inconsistent with the facts.""China has always protected the safety and legitimate rights and interests of foreigners in China in accordance with the law," stated the Chinese foreign ministry in a statement in response to CNN's inquiry. "On the Internet and social media, many foreigners share their experiences of working and living in China, saying that China is one of the safest countries they have ever lived in, and it is safe even when walking alone at night."The statement added that, in fact, Meng Wanzhou's experience in Canada was a "typical case of arbitrary detention, and we hope she can return to China as soon as possible."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/arbitrary-detentions-by-chinese-govt-instills-fear-among-foreigners-report-101615639313560.html
13-03-2021||World||Ethiopia rejects US allegations of ethnic cleansing in Tigray||Ethiopia on Saturday rejected US allegations there has been ethnic cleansing in Tigray, pushing back against the latest criticism of its military operation in its northern region by the new administration in Washington.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday he wanted to see Eritrean forces and those from the Amhara region replaced in Tigray by security forces that will respect human rights and not "commit acts of ethnic cleansing.""(The accusation) is a completely unfounded and spurious verdict against the Ethiopian government," the ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ethiopia-rejects-u-s-allegations-of-ethnic-cleansing-in-tigray-101615639028011.html
13-03-2021||World||China aims to vaccinate 70-80 per cent of population by mid-2022||China is aiming to vaccinate 70-80% of its population by the end of this year or mid-2022, the head of the country's Center for Disease Control said Saturday.With four approved vaccines, China will vaccinate 900 million to 1 billion people, Gao Fu, the CDC head, said in an interview with Chinese state media broadcaster CGTN. “We hope that China can take the lead in achieving herd immunity in the world,” he said.Herd immunity occurs when enough of the population has immunity, either from vaccination or past infection, to stop the uncontrolled spread of an infectious disease like Covid-19.China had administered 52.5 million vaccine doses through the end of February. It has been slower in its vaccination campaign than many other countries, including the U.S., government health experts have acknowledged. China has committed roughly 10 times more doses abroad than it has distributed at home.Although emergency vaccinations have been underway in China since at least last summer, the country has been slow to announce whether it had any plans to achieve herd immunity.China has approved four domestically made vaccines: two from state-owned Sinopharm, one from Sinovac, and another from CanSino. None of the four vaccines have publicly released their final stage trial data.China currently has 17 Covid-19 vaccine candidates for clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-aims-to-vaccinate-70-80-per-cent-of-population-by-mid2022-101615632336606.html
13-03-2021||World||FedEx sued in New York over background checks of job applicants||FedEx Corp. was sued by a job applicant who says the company violated New York City law when it checked his criminal history before deciding whether to offer him a job. Henry Franklin, who admits to an unspecified criminal record, said he applied online for a job as a FedEx package handler in November and that as part of the application, he consented to a background check.After the company sent him a copy of the results, he never heard from it again, he said in the lawsuit.Franklin’s lawyers claim FedEx’s actions violated New York’s Fair Chance Act, a six-year-old civil rights law intended to protect people with criminal records from undue job discrimination. Under the act, companies are prohibited from considering or inquiring about the criminal history of applicants until after they extend conditional job offers.Once offers are made, companies can ask about criminal histories, but even if they find something, they are prohibited from revoking offers unless the it has a “direct relationship” to the job or involves public safety.“The Fair Chance Act was enacted to protect individuals with criminal convictions against irrational discrimination in employment and thus facilitate their reentry into society,” Franlin’s lawyers said in the lawsuit. “Defendants’ policy of discriminating against individuals with conviction histories frustrates these public policy objectives.”The company said it’s reviewing the allegations and will defend the lawsuit.“FedEx Ground is committed to complying with all laws that apply to our operations in New York,” the company said in a statement.Franklin is asking the court to allow him to represent a class of job applicants with criminal records who were turned down by FedEx in New York.The suit is similar to one settled last year by Macy’s Inc. for $1.8 million. In that case, the retailer was accused of using overly broad criminal background checks to screen out qualified minority job seekers based on race. The case is Franklin v. FedEx Ground Package System, Inc., 21-cv-02204, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fedex-sued-in-new-york-over-background-checks-of-job-applicants-101615624006400.html
13-03-2021||World||Amazon removed book by conservative author on ‘transgender moment’. Here’s why||E-commerce giant Amazon Inc. has said that it will not sell books that frame gender or sexual identities as mental illness. Amazon's statement came after conservative groups criticised the company for removing a book titled ‘When Harry became Sally: Responding to the Transgender Moment’ from its platform.The book, authored by conservative Ryan T. Anderson, a teaching fellow at the University of Dallas, was published in 2018 and was available on Amazon for a long time before the company last month decided to remove it from its online stores, e-book and audiobook platforms.What is the book about?According to the publisher, Encounter Books, Anderson’s work provides “answers to questions arising from our transgender moment.” The publisher, on its website, further states that the book “exposes the contrast between the media’s sunny depiction of gender fluidity and the often sad reality of living with gender dysphoria.” The book claims to give voice to those who “tried to ‘transition’ by changing their bodies, and found themselves no better off.”In a letter to Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos, Republican senators Marco Rubio, Mike Lee, Mike Braun and Josh Hawley had asked the company “to clarify the intentions and extent” of their actions after the book was removed from its platforms. Calling it a “political censorship” activity, the four Senate Republicans accused Amazon of wielding its “outsized market share to silence an important voice merely for the crime of violating woke groupthink.”“In its decision to remove Mr. Anderson’s book from its platforms, Amazon has openly signaled to conservative Americans that their views are not welcome on its platforms,” the letter read, which was followed by a set of questions.Amazon’s defenceResponding to the letter, Amazon said that it reserves the right to not sell certain content and, like other retailers, they also make decisions about what selection they choose to offer. “As to your specific question about When Harry Became Sally, we have chosen not to sell books that frame LGBTQ+ identity as a mental illness,” Brian Huseman, Amazon’s vice president for public policy, replied in a letter to the senators.Amazon said that the company regularly reviews its “content guidelines for books” and its approach to curate the online bookstore. The American retail giant acknowledged that its policy did change between 2018 and the present. The retail giant said that it had notified the book’s distributor in advance regarding the removal “for violating our content guidelines.”Equality ActLast month, the US House of Representatives passed legislation that would provide LGBTQ+ Americans legal protection from discrimination. The Equality Act, backed by US President Joe Biden, amends the 1964 Civil Rights Act to include sexual orientation and gender identity as protected classes in addition to race, religion, sex and national origin. Biden had promised to prioritise the enactment of LGBTQ+ rights legislation within 100 days of taking the office. However, the landmark bill is yet to be passed by the evenly-split Senate and, so far, no Senate Republicans have said they will vote for the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-removed-book-by-conservative-author-on-transgender-moment-here-s-why-101615637004509.html
13-03-2021||World||An-26 aircraft crashes while landing at Kazakhstan's Almaty airport, 4 dead||An An-26 military aircraft flying from the Kazakh capital, Nur-Sultan, crashed while landing in Almaty on Saturday, killing four of six people on board, the Central Asian nation's emergencies ministry said.Russia's Interfax news agency said citing a source that the plane belonged to Kazakhstan's border guard service, part of the National Security Committee."According to preliminary data, four people have been killed, two people have been hospitalised... with injuries," the emergencies ministry said in a statement.Photographs from the site showed the plane turned over and on fire. Videos posted online also showed plumes of smoke rising from the crash site and visible from a nearby highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/an26-aircraft-crashes-while-landing-at-kazakhstan-s-almaty-airport-101615638261807.html
13-03-2021||World||London policeman in court after woman's murder provokes outrage||A London police officer appeared in court on Saturday for the first time after being charged with murder in a case that has caused widespread concern in Britain about women's safety.Wayne Couzens, 48, is charged with the kidnap and murder of 33-year-old Sarah Everard, who disappeared on the night of March 3 while walking home in south London after visiting a friend.Everard's remains were found on Wednesday in woodland around 50 miles away in southeast England.Her killing has brought an outpouring of personal accounts from women of their own experiences and fears of walking streets alone at night, and calls for action to tackle this.Couzens, wearing a grey tracksuit, spoke only to confirm his identity at London's Westminster Magistrates' Court and remains in custody.His lawyer did not enter a plea to the charges before a fuller court hearing scheduled for Tuesday. Couzens joined London's Metropolitan Police in 2018 and guarded foreign embassies before his arrest.Campaigners had planned a vigil to commemorate Everard to take place on Saturday evening near where she disappeared.However, organisers cancelled the vigil on Saturday morning after police warned them that they could risk arrest for breaching Covid restrictions on outdoor social gatherings."In light of the lack of constructive engagement from the Metropolitan Police, we do not feel that we can in good faith allow tonight's event to go ahead," organisers from the group Reclaim These Streets said in a statement.Members of the public laid flowers on Saturday morning at the bandstand in Clapham Common in southwest London, near where the vigil had been planned to take place."We take no joy in this event being cancelled, but it is the right thing to do given the real and present threat of Covid-19," Metropolitan Police Commander Catherine Roper said.Under current Covid rules, people in England are usually only allowed to meet outdoors with one person outside their household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/london-policeman-in-court-after-woman-s-murder-provokes-outrage-101615637414046.html
13-03-2021||World||Five EU nations seek talks on vaccine distribution||The leaders of Austria, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Bulgaria are calling for talks among European Union leaders about the distribution of vaccines within the 27-nation bloc.Austrian media reported Saturday that the five leaders wrote a joint letter to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel. That came after Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz complained on Friday that, even though the EU had agreed on distribution of the vaccines on a per-capita basis, some countries were receiving considerably more than others.The letter asserted that “if this system were to carry on, it would continue creating and exacerbating huge disparities among Member States by this summer.”Officials elsewhere have noted that countries have wanted differing amounts of various vaccines and have not always taken up their full allocation.Austria's health ministry — which is run by Kurz's junior coalition partner — was among those rejecting Kurz's criticism. Oe1 radio reported that its general secretary, Ines Stilling, said negotiations on distributing the vaccines had been “balanced and transparent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/five-eu-nations-seek-talks-on-vaccine-distribution-101615635994681.html
13-03-2021||World||Joe Biden speech draws more broadcast viewers than Donald Trump's 1st TV address||US President Joe Biden's prime-time address on the fight against Covid-19 attracted more broadcast television viewers on Thursday than former President Donald Trump's first speech to the nation, according to preliminary ratings data.Roughly 18.2 million people watched Biden's speech on US broadcast networks ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox, Hollywood publications Deadline and The Wrap reported on Friday. The speech was delivered just hours after Biden signed a $1.9 trillion stimulus bill into law, and came on his 50th day in office.Trump's first televised address to the country occurred in August 2017 -- seven months after he took office -- when he spoke about the war in Afghanistan. That event attracted 17.7 million viewers on the four broadcast networks.Updated figures that include cable TV viewership were expected to be released later on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-speech-draws-more-broadcast-viewers-than-donald-trump-s-1st-tv-address-101615635514038.html
13-03-2021||World||Germany: Experts warn against easing of lockdown as Covid-19 cases jump||German health experts warned on Saturday against any further easing of coronavirus lockdown measures as the number of cases jumped again due to the spread of the more infectious variant first detected in Britain."We can only have more relaxation if there are stable or falling case numbers," Karl Lauterbach, health expert for the Social Democrats, told the Augsburger Allgemeine newspaper, adding this was unlikely anytime soon.The number of Covid-19 cases have been rising again for the last few weeks as some restrictions have been lifted.Frustration about the ongoing lockdown and the slow pace of vaccinations has been hurting support for Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives, further dented by a face mask procurement scandal involving lawmakers from her party.Merkel's Christian Democrats have seen support slip in the states of Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate where elections on Sunday will be a crucial gauge of popular feeling before a September federal election.Protesters are due to gather in Berlin on Saturday to demonstrate against the lockdown.On Saturday, the number of Covid-19 cases rose by 12,674 and the death toll was up 239, with the number of cases per 100,000 over seven days jumping to 76.1 from 72.4.Germany's death toll from the virus stands at 73,301, with a reported 2,558,455 infections.Merkel and state leaders agreed a phased easing of curbs earlier this month along with an "emergency brake" to let authorities reimpose restrictions if case numbers spike above 100 per 100,000 on three consecutive days.Leaders are due to meet again on March 22 to discuss whether any further relaxation of the rules is possible.However, the head of Germany's public health agency warned on Friday that the country is at the start of a third wave of the pandemic.Stefan Pilsinger, a doctor and member of parliament for the sister party of Merkel's ruling Christian Democrats, predicted that the spread of the British variant could cause a jump in cases like that seen around Christmas."The previous lockdown measures were already insufficient to contain the more dangerous British Covid-19 variant," he told the newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-experts-warn-against-easing-of-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-jump-101615634582799.html
13-03-2021||World||Kuwait's MeToo moment: Women denounce harassment, violence||Abrar Zenkawi was cruising toward the beach in Kuwait City when she saw a man waving and smiling in her rearview mirror.Elsewhere, this may have been a benign highway flirtation. But in Kuwait, it’s a haunting routine that often turns dangerous. The man pulled up beside her, inched closer and finally drove into her. Zenkawi's car, carrying her toddler nieces, sister and friend, flipped six times.“It’s considered normal here. Men always drive way too close to scare girls, chase them to their homes, follow them to work, just for fun,” said Zenkawi, 34, who spent months in the hospital with a shattered spine. “They don’t think about the consequences.”But that may be changing as women are increasingly challenging Kuwait’s deeply patriarchal society. In recent weeks, a growing number of women have broken taboos to speak out about the scourge of harassment and violence that plagues the Gulf nation’s streets, highways and malls, in an echo of the global #MeToo movement.An Instagram page has led to an outpouring of testimony from women fed up with being intimidated or attacked in a country where the criminal code doesn’t define sexual harassment and lays out few repercussions for men who kill female relatives for actions they consider immoral. A wide variety of news and talk shows have taken up the subject of harassment for the first time. And one journalist used a hidden camera to document how women are treated in the streets.The spark may have come from fashion blogger Ascia al-Faraj, who vented in January on Snapchat to her millions of followers after being hounded by a man in a speeding car. In such episodes, men often try to “bump” a woman's car, but many serious accidents result, as in Zenkawi’s case.“It's terrifying, all the time you're feeling so unsafe in your own skin,” al-Faraj told The Associated Press. “The responsibility is always on us. … We must have had our music too loud or our windows down.”Shayma Shamo, a 27-year-old doctor, sought to seize the momentum of al-Faraj's viral video, creating an Instagram page called “Lan Asket,” Arabic for “I will not be silent.”Shamo's rage had been building for weeks. In December, a female employee of Kuwait’s Parliament was stabbed to death by her 17-year-old brother, reportedly because he didn’t want her working as a security guard. It was the third such case — described as “honor killings” — to make headlines in as many months. The National Assembly, all-male despite a record number of female candidates in the recent election, offered none of the customary condolences.“The silence was deafening,” Shamo said. “I thought, OK, that could happen to me, and anyone could get away with it.”Kuwait, unlike other oil-rich Persian Gulf sheikhdoms, has a legislature with genuine power and some tolerance for political dissent. But restrictions to slow the the spread of the coronavirus prevented Shamo from staging a protest and forced her to take her grievances online, as women in the region’s more repressive countries have done recently.The Lan Asket account thrust sexual harassment, long shrouded in shame, into the limelight.From there, the conversation moved to traditional media. A well-known female journalist at state-linked al-Qabas newspaper went out at night with a hidden camera and captured motorbike riders recklessly trying to catch her attention, men yelling sexual slurs on the street and strangers pulling the hair of female passersby — offering proof to millions in Kuwait of the harassment women were describing.“It seems rudimentary, but we’ve never had these discussions before,” said Najeeba Hayat, who helped organize the Lan Asket campaign, which is also training bus drivers to report harassment, organizing an ad campaign to raise awareness and creating an app that allows women to anonymously report abuse to police. “Every single girl has kept this in her chest for so long.”As the movement gained steam, lawmakers scrambled to respond. Seven politicians, from conservative Islamists to stalwart liberals, submitted amendments to the penal code last month that would define and punish sexual harassment, including one that called for a $10,000 fine and one-year prison sentence.“The Kuwaiti penal code doesn’t cover harassment, there are just some laws that cover immorality that are so vague that women can’t go and report to the local police,” said Abdulaziz al-Saqabi, a conservative who was among those who drafted amendments.But women's rights activists, whose input the lawmakers did not solicit, are skeptical that the proposals will result in significant change, especially with the nation in the midst of a financial crisis and with Parliament now suspended because of a political standoff.The frustration is familiar for activist Nour al-Mukhled. For years, she and other women have struggled to abolish a law that classifies the killing of adulterous women by their fathers, brothers or husbands as a misdemeanor and sets the maximum penalty at three years in prison. Such leniency remains common across the Gulf, although the United Arab Emirates criminalized “honor killings” last fall.Kuwait also has statues that let kidnappers evade punishment by marrying their victims and empower men to “discipline” their female relatives with assault.“In Kuwait, there can be no legal change without cultural change, and this is still culturally acceptable,” al-Mukhled said. Only in August did Parliament pass a law that opened shelters for victims of domestic abuse.But progress is happening outside of official circles, activists say. In recent weeks, a growing number of female collectives have sprung up, in homes and on Zoom — a mirror to the custom of the “diwanyia," gentlemen’s clubs that often vault men to top jobs. Women also have turned to Clubhouse, the buzzy app that lets people gather in audio chat rooms, to hold discussions of sexual assault and harassment.The horizon for equality may be far off, but campaigners say their ambitions are modest in the short term.“Right now, attempted murder is considered ‘flirting,’” said Hayat, one of the organizers of the Lan Asket campaign. “We just want to be treated like human beings, not as aliens and not as prey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kuwaits-metoo-moment-women-denounce-harassment-violence-101615618430026.html
13-03-2021||World||Another South Korean state housing official found dead amid property scandal||A second senior official from Korea Land and Housing Corp (LH) was found dead in Paju, north of South Korean capital Seoul, in an apparent suicide amid a growing insider property speculation scandal, an officer from the Paju Police Station said.Yonhap news agency had reported the death earlier on Saturday, and had said the LH official did not appear to be a subject of a probe into the accusations of insider speculation by dozens of employees of the state housing corporation.This is the second death of an LH official since the South Korean government this week declared war on property crime.The other official was found dead on Friday, also of an apparent suicide. He had left a letter saying he was sorry for doing "undesirable things" when he headed LH's office in the province of North Jeolla, Yonhap had reported.According to an initial investigation into the scandal, at least 20 LH employees are suspected of trying to use classified knowledge to buy undeveloped land before new development projects were slated to begin in the areas, South Korean Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said on Thursday.Criticising the sluggish progress of the current probe, the main opposition People Party has demanded an investigation led by prosecutors to ensure a speedy and thorough process.The scandal has sparked outrage in South Korea as property prices in and around Seoul have soared, making affordable housing hard to find.South Korea's Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, Byeon Chang-heum, has offered to resign over the scandal. Though he has not been implicated personally, Byeon was head of LH from April 2019 until December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/another-south-korean-state-housing-official-found-dead-amid-property-scandal-101615615601012.html
13-03-2021||World||Google explains to judge its data scraping from court’s website||A judge known as a sharp critic of how tech companies treat consumer privacy was “disturbed” to learn from Google last month that even the search bar on the public website for her court is feeding user information to the company.Now comes an explanation from Google after US District Judge Lucy Koh demanded one: The Alphabet Inc. unit relies on its code embedded in the public web page that helps it serve up advertising targeted at visitors. The information collected on those visitors is also used to “maintain and improve Google services,” according to the company.Koh’s questions arose in the context of a lawsuit alleging that Google deceives users about the personal information it collects when they use Chrome’s “Incognito” mode, or “private browsing” in other browsers. Late Friday, Koh ruled over Google’s objections that the suit can move forward, although she didn’t specifically address data collected from the court website.While close observers of Big Tech might not be surprised to learn that even a taxpayer-funded court website is not beyond Google’s commercial orbit, there’s nothing on the home page indicating that its search bar is powered by the company. A search for “my case” offers up four advertisements before showing content from the court’s website, all without any indication Google’s invisible hand is pulling the strings.In response to Koh’s questions about what Google does behind the scenes on the court’s website, the company said it protects user information according to the terms of service for its programmable search engine that were agreed to by court administrators.But lawyers for the Google users who are suing the company said its responses to the judge raise more questions than they answer. They claim Google failed to provide any details about the information it’s collecting from the court, how its embedded code works, and what it’s doing with user data.The “intentionally vague” explanation provided by Google undermines its own defense in the lawsuit -- that users were aware of and agreed to its data collection, the plaintiffs said in a court filing.“It defies reason for Google to expect users to identify and understand scripts and technologies used by Google to collect their private browsing information when even Google’s own attorneys, armed with sophisticated developer tools and unlimited resources, are unable to accurately do so,” according to the filing.The case is Brown v. Google, 20-cv-03664, US District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-explains-to-judge-its-data-scraping-from-court-s-website-101615633354178.html
13-03-2021||World||Everybody is going to end up paying for Texas' climate crisis||Fallout from last month’s deadly deep freeze in Texas has quietly spread to people living hundreds of miles away. Minnesota utilities have warned that monthly heating bills could spike by $400, after the crisis jacked up natural gas prices across the country. Xcel Energy’s Colorado customers could face a $7.50 per month surcharge for the next two years.This is a subtle demonstration of the way Americans already share the collective financial burden of climate change, even if we don’t realize it. The national bill for global warming is here, and it’s rising.Perhaps it’s easier to see this dynamic playing out beyond February’s Texas cold snap. That disaster left dozens dead, stranded millions in dark homes, and sent a shockwave of higher gas prices across the nation. But since there remains scientific uncertainty over the role of global warming, let’s examine two other calamities for which the climate link is clearer: wildfires and tropical storms.The federal government spent about $2.3 billion fighting fires last year, roughly 10 times what it spent in 1985, an increase tied to the hotter, drier conditions of global warming has created in the western U.S. That money comes from taxes. So, too, does funding for the National Flood Insurance Program, which has piled up $20.5 billion in debt after a record-setting hurricane season across the Southeast and Gulf Coast. The program now pays about $1 million in interest per day, according to a recent federal report, and won’t be able to repay its existing debts in the next decade as warmer oceans bring more flooding.“There’s just no question that we’re paying the costs of climate change today—this isn’t something that’s going to happen to polar bears in 2050,” said Michael Wara, director of the climate and energy program at Stanford University. “And in certain parts of the country, those costs are becoming more apparent than others.”The costs may be more obvious in whichever state is suffering the latest fire or flood. But all Americans shoulder some of the financial burden. Many climate costs have become socialized, spread out among taxpayers throughout the country, even as some Americans still insist global warming is a hoax. That socialization wasn’t the result of a deliberate, comprehensive federal policy on climate. It just happened that way, as programs created decades ago to deal with weather-related disasters became more and more essential.“It’s a bit of a roulette how much these disasters cost year after year, but Congress always steps in,” said Tamara Grbusic, a senior associate on climate finance at the RMI think tank in Colorado.US lawmakers over the past two decades have failed to enact a more cohesive approach to these costs. The government could impose a carbon tax, which would prod businesses to cut their emissions while creating a pool of money to help communities prepare for climate-related disasters. “A carbon tax is a prudent choice because we are already paying the climate disaster tax,” Grbusic said. “It’s just that most of us aren’t aware of it.”Blaming any single storm or blaze on a warming world is always difficult, even if the trends are clear. In the 1980s the US suffered an average of 2.9 weather or climate disasters per year, at a cost of $17.8 billion, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. By the 2000s the averages had grown to 6.2 disasters and $51.9 billion in spending per year. The 2010s brought averages up to 11.9 events and $81.1 billion, with NOAA dubbing it “a landmark decade of US billion dollar climate and weather disasters.’’ (All cost estimates are in 2020 dollars.)While federal spending is spread out nationwide, residents of individual states may face their own climate costs. In California, for example, many wildfire-prevention efforts are now funded through utility bills. That socialization of costs came as a result of two decades that saw an increasing number of fires triggered by fallen power lines. The state has been warming up and drying out, leading Governor Gavin Newsom last year to label wildfires “a climate damn emergency.”PG&E Corp., the state’s largest utility, tumbled into bankruptcy after its equipment sparked fires that killed more than 100 people and destroyed thousands of homes. The utility emerged from Chapter 11 last year, having settled claims for $25.5 billion that will be covered by the company’s shareholders. California’s three big investor-owned utilities could spend an estimated total of $40 billion on wildfire prevention over the next decade, according to a recent state report.To pay for that work, the average California utility customer will see an additional charge on their bill this year that is estimated to be in the range of $96 to $144 a year, according to the state report. By 2030 those charges will likely rise by another $30.Handling those costs through utility rates presents a small part of a big climate problem: inequality. Rates tend to be more regressive than taxes, with a larger impact on low-income households than wealthier families. “We’re not thinking systematically on this,” Wara said.Considering the costs Americans already incur responding to climate-related disasters, spending more to prevent them or reduce their impact may seem a hard sell for politicians. Roy Wright, chief executive officer of the Insurance Institute for Business and Home Safety, says such investments can “absolutely save money,” just as pre-emptively strengthening a roof can help a home survive a major storm.“They don’t eliminate the storm, they don’t eliminate the wildfire,” said Wright, who used to serve as the chief executive of the National Flood Insurance Program. “But they can narrow the impact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/everybody-is-going-to-end-up-paying-for-texas-climate-crisis-101615634341780.html
13-03-2021||World||Satya Nadella appalled by hate, racial discrimination against Asians, Asian Americans||Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and several US lawmakers have said that they are appalled by the ongoing acts of hate against Asian Americans and condemned hate, racial discrimination and violence in all forms.More than 3,000 incidents of abuse against Asian Americans were reported between March and December 2020, according to Asian American advocacy groups. There were only 216 reported cases in 2019, according to FBI statistics.“I am appalled by the ongoing acts of hate against Asian Americans and the Asian community globally. Racism, hate and violence have no place in our society. I am united with the Asian and Asian American community in standing against this injustice,” Nadella said in a tweet, a day after US President Joe Biden said that the 'vicious' hate crimes against Asian Americans in the country amidst the pandemic was 'un-American' and it must stop.Denouncing 'violent' attacks on the Asian Americans, Biden in his first prime-time address to the nation since assuming office in January, said that members of the community were harassed, blamed and scapegoated.In a statement, Microsoft said that it condemns hate, racial discrimination, and violence in all forms.Meanwhile, prominent lawmakers have joined hands to introduce a legislation to address the rise of hate crimes and violence against Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities during the Covid-19 pandemic.Congressman Donald M. Payne, expressed concern over an increase in racist attacks against Asian Americans during the Covid-19 global pandemic.“I want to condemn the abuse and assault that has happened to Asian Americans during his pandemic in the strongest words possible,” Payne said.“Hate and violence have no place in America at all. These attacks must stop because they are cowardly attempts to scapegoat and blame Americans for a pandemic that started thousands of miles away. Thankfully, we have a president who supports diversity and will protect all Americans in his language and his actions. It is time for us to come together as a country and that includes all Americans,” he said.Senator Dianne Feinstein said that over the past few weeks, nominees for the top three leadership positions at the Justice Department have appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee, as has the director of the FBI.“At each hearing the topic of hate crimes came up, in large part due to steep increases in attacks against Asian Americans,” she said.“The increase appears to be based on a fabricated connection between the Asian-American community and the COVID pandemic, a conspiracy theory with no basis in fact that is pure racism. We must rebut the conspiracy theory itself and also directly confront the rise in hate crimes,” Feinstein said.Senator Alex Padilla, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, joined Senator Mazie Hirono and Congressmen Grace Meng in introducing legislation to address the rise of hate crimes and violence against AAPI communities during the Covid-19 pandemic.“I am disturbed by the recent increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in California and across the country,” Padilla said.“It is clear that this uptick in violence against Asian Americans is the direct result of the racist rhetoric used by political leaders with regard to the pandemic and we must take action to address it. The COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act will direct law enforcement to better collaborate across jurisdictions and expedite the response to COVID-19 related hate crimes, and will work to mitigate racially discriminatory language used to describe the pandemic,” he said.The Covid-19 Hate Crimes Act would direct the US Attorney General to designate an official whose sole responsibility will be to expedite review of Covid-19 hate crimes from federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. The legislation also directs the Attorney General to issue guidance to state and local law enforcement agencies on appropriate public education campaigns and the collection of data on Covid-19 hate crimes.The ongoing anti-Asian hate crimes and incidents, especially against our elderly Asian Americans, is absolutely horrific, said Congresswoman Meng. “Since the beginning of the pandemic there have been nearly 3,000 reported incidents of physical, verbal, and online attacks against Asian Americans,” she said.Acting US Attorney Tessa M Gorman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald M. Voiret said that currently federal prosecutors and the FBI are reviewing two cases involving assaults on Asian-American neighbours that have been charged by the King County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office.“These crimes, and other acts of hate and bias, have no place in our community. I urge members of our community to report hate-based crimes to either local or federal law enforcement and to contact our office’s civil rights line with information about discrimination in areas like housing, employment, education, or public accommodations,” Gorman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/satya-nadella-appalled-by-hate-racial-discrimination-against-asians-asian-americans-101615633682391.html
13-03-2021||World||Russia detains 150 people, leading opposition politicians among those held||Russian police detained around 150 people at a meeting of independent and opposition politicians in Moscow on Saturday, accusing them of links to an "undesirable organisation", a monitoring group and a TV station said.The detentions come amid a crackdown on anti-Kremlin sentiment, following the arrest and imprisonment of opposition politician Alexei Navalny who returned to Russia in January after recovering from a nerve agent poisoning in Siberia.The forum, scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, was a gathering of municipal deputies from all over the country, Andrei Pivovarov, the event's organiser and executive director of Open Russia, a British-based group founded by exiled former oil tycoon and Kremlin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky, told radio station Echo Moskvy.As the forum got underway, police entered the building and began detaining attendees and taking them to police vans waiting outside, video footage from TV Rain and Russian news agencies showed.OVD-Info, which monitors the detention of political protesters and activists, published a list of more than 150 people it said had been detained."The police came to the forum of municipal deputies in Moscow. There are 150 people here from all over the country. Everyone is being detained. I mean, everyone," opposition politician Ilea Yasmin wrote on Twitter.Vladimir Kara-Murza, vice-president of the Free Russia Foundation, a Washington-based non-profit organisation, shared a picture from the inside of a police van after he was detained.The police said all participants were being detained because of the "activities of an undesirable organisation", TV Rain reported.Open Russia is one of more than 30 groups that Moscow has labelled as undesirable and banned under a law adopted in 2015.Rights advocates say the laws on "undesirable" organisations and "foreign agents" can be used to pressure and target civil society members. Russia denies that and says the laws are needed to protect its national security from outside meddling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-detains-150-people-leading-opposition-politicians-among-those-held-101615633633366.html
13-03-2021||World||China streamlines visas for own vaccine recipients in Hong Kong||China's foreign ministry office in Hong Kong said that it will simplify mainland China visa applications for foreigners in the city who have been inoculated with Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines.The simplified process, effective from Monday, resumes pre-pandemic application requirements, and will be available only to applicants and their family members inoculated with Chinese-produced vaccines who have obtained a vaccination certificate, the office of China's foreign commissioner in Hong Kong said in a statement dated Friday.It said it made the move "in view of resuming people-to-people exchanges between China and other countries in an orderly manner." It did not say why the simplified procedures were not extended to those receiving other Covid-19 vaccines.Foreign travellers who have been vaccinated with non-Chinese vaccines will continue to be required to present negative nucleic acid tests and a health and travel declaration form, the statement said.It was not immediately clear if the simplified procedures will be available to foreigners applying for visas outside of Hong Kong.China has been engaged in vaccine diplomacy to boost its standing in Asia and around the world, including offering Chinese-made vaccine doses to participants at this year's Tokyo Olympics and the Beijing 2022 games.But its efforts have hit snags, with commitments to distribution in Africa resulting in few shots in arms, and politicians in Europe warning against their use before approval by the bloc's drugs regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-streamlines-visas-for-own-vaccine-recipients-in-hong-kong-101615633131082.html
13-03-2021||World||Uyghurs write to UK Parliament against human rights atrocities by China||Campaign For Uyghurs (CFU), a US-based rights group on Friday (local time) wrote a letter to the United Kingdom (UK) Parliament calling attention to the most horrific human rights atrocities committed by China against the Uyghur people.The CFU said that they were encouraged by a discussion on the Indian farmers' protest in the UK Parliament and added that theirs was a much more serious issue."Please open the doors, allow us to speak. Meaningful action is long overdue. If the UK fails to address this genocide with meaningful action, they will likewise fail their own conscience and the vow of "never again", Rahima Mahmut, human rights activist wrote in the letter on the behalf of CFU."I was so impressed to see the moral tone of the conversation surrounding the farmer protests in India. We hope to see this momentum carried for in bold condemnation of the atrocities against the Uyghur people, carried out by the brutal Chinese Communist regime," she added.Giving details of Chinese atrocities on Uyghurs, she wrote, "My own sister, a retired medical doctor, was abducted by the Chinese regime as retaliation for my advocacy work against the herding of millions of people into concentration camps."Further, Mahmut wrote, "If the regime can target family members of foreign citizens in this manner, what does this say about the treatment of Uyghurs in the camps? As brave victims have come forward to testify to horrific mental, physical, and sexual abuse, it becomes apparent that we can no longer continue to turn a blind eye."She further stated that as Uyghurs are facing active genocide, CFU would like to have the support and be granted a day in court by the UK Parliament in order to testify."People are dying while the UK drags its feet in stopping it. As the United States and Canadian and Dutch Parliament have confirmed, there can be no further denying the truth," she said.China has been condemned globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims and sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and forcing members of the community to undergo some form of re-education or indoctrination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uyghurs-write-to-uk-parliament-against-human-rights-atrocities-by-china-101615631309390.html
13-03-2021||World||Hong Kong high court releases 3 more activists on bail in cases involving 47||Hong Kong's High Court on Saturday released on bail three more activists but remanded two in custody in a widely monitored case involving the most sweeping use yet of the city's national security law.The High Court was ruling on an appeal by prosecutors against a lower court's decision to grant bail to the five activists.Tat Cheng, Michael Pang and Ricky Or were granted bail, while Jeremy Tam and Kwok Ka-ki were denied bail by High Court judge Esther Toh.Some family members of those denied bail cried after hearing the verdict, including Tam's wife. But Kwok's wife remained defiant, holding up a sign outside the court that read:"Dear Hongkongers. You'll never walk alone! Add oil!"An appeal against granting bail to four others will be heard on Monday.The charges on conspiracy to commit subversion against 47 opposition figures are being closely watched by foreign diplomats and rights groups.They have raised concerns over the vanishing space for dissent in the former British colony, which has taken a swift authoritarian turn since the imposition of the law in June 2020.Since the 47 were charged around two weeks ago, the court has heard a series of requests for bail. Although most were rejected, the court approved some applications, prompting immediate appeals from prosecutors.Eight have been granted bail so far, including Saturday's three, as prosecutors' appeals were either rejected or withdrawn.The bail conditions for the three on Saturday included not threatening national security, participating in any elections except to vote, or contacting foreign officials, as well as surrendering all travel documents, observing a curfew and reporting to police regularly.The 47 are accused of organising and participating in an unofficial, non-binding primary poll in July 2020 that authorities said was part of a "vicious plot" to "overthrow" the government.The vote was aimed at selecting the strongest opposition candidates for a legislative council election that the government later postponed, citing the coronavirus.Hong Kong laws restrict media coverage of bail hearings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-high-court-releases-3-more-activists-on-bail-in-cases-involving-47-101615630576984.html
13-03-2021||World||Russia accuses US of using IT to engage in unfair competition||Russia on Saturday accused the United States of using IT opportunities to engage in unfair competition and of social media platforms arbitrarily and indiscriminately censoring content.Russia this week said it was slowing down the speed of Twitter in retaliation for what it described as a failure to remove banned content. It threatened to block the US platform outright, a move which escalating a row between Moscow and US social media firms.Twitter currently labels some Russian media "state-affiliated media", a move decried by Moscow. President Vladimir Putin signed laws in December handing Russia new powers to restrict US social media giants."[The platforms] do not, in principle, have unified standards for managing themselves. This is a semantic and technological stalemate," Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Facebook on Saturday."Digital content is arbitrarily and indiscriminately censored by certain moderators without the decision of a court or a relevant, competent authority."Twitter on Tuesday said it was deeply concerned by increased attempts to block and throttle online public conversation and that it was worried about the impact on free speech of the Russian action to slow down its service."Washington's goal is obvious - to use IT opportunities for unfair competition in all spheres," Zakharova said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-accuses-us-of-using-it-to-engage-in-unfair-competition-101615629245632.html
13-03-2021||World||Australia records first local Covid-19 case in 2 weeks||Australia on Saturday recorded first local Covid-19 case in more than two weeks after a doctor tested positive for the coronavirus, triggering restrictions in area hospitals.Queensland state Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the unnamed doctor last week treated two patients who had recently returned to Australia and had tested positive for the UK variant."We know this doctor, who assessed these two Covid-positive patients was at the hospital at the time. Now, she developed symptoms," Palaszczuk told reporters in the state capital, Brisbane. It was Australia's first local infection since Feb 24.The doctor, whose name was not released, treated patients, forcing authorities into urgent contact-tracing, Palaszczuk said. The authorities have yet to determine how many people the doctor treated.As officials seek to determine the size of the outbreak, Palaszczuk said, all hospitals in the state capital will be closed to visitors.Australia has reported just over 29,000 coronavirus infections and 909 Covid-19 deaths, far fewer than many developed countries, helped by international border closures, lockdowns and strict social-distancing rules.In neighbouring New Zealand, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday the country will reopen its borders for the first time to allow residents of Niue, a small Pacific country, to enter.They will not have to quarantine on their arrival from March 24, Arden said."Niue has no reported cases of Covid-19 and its stringent border controls mean we can be confident it is safe to commence quarantine-free travel to New Zealand from Niue," Ardern said in an emailed statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-records-first-local-covid-19-case-in-2-weeks-101615612773804.html
13-03-2021||World||Spanish police seize homemade narco-submarine being built on southern coast||Spanish police announced Friday that they seized a homemade narco-submarine able to carry up to 2 metric tons (2.2 tons) of cargo.Police came across the 9-meter-long (30-feet-long) craft last month while it was being built in Málaga, on southern Spain’s Costa del Sol, during a broader international drug operation involving five other countries and the European Union crime agency Europol.The 3-meter-wide (10-feet-wide) semisubmersible craft is made of fiberglass and plywood panels attached to a structural frame, has three portholes on one side and is painted light blue. It has two 200-horsepower engines operated from the inside.Rafael Perez, head of the Spanish police, said the vessel had never sailed.“We think it was going to go into the high seas to meet a mother ship (to) take on board the drugs,” probably cocaine, before returning to Spain, Perez told reporters.“It is like an iceberg,” he said of the vessel’s structure. “In practice, nearly all of it goes under water apart from the top, which is the only part of it that would be seen from another ship or a helicopter.”Similar drug-smuggling vessels have in the past been discovered in the Atlantic Ocean, especially off Central and South America. They sit low in the water to escape detection and rarely are able to fully submerge.The wider police operation against the alleged international smuggling ring netted hundreds of kilos of cocaine, hashish and marijuana in various places in Spain, with 52 people arrested.Spanish police said in a statement that police in Colombia, the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Portugal also were involved in the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spanish-police-seize-homemade-narco-submarine-being-built-on-southern-coast-101615628701976.html
13-03-2021||World||Sri Lanka to ban burqa, shut many Islamic schools, minister says||Sri Lanka will ban the wearing of the burqa and shut more than a thousand Islamic schools, a government minister said on Saturday, the latest actions affecting the country's minority Muslim population.Minister for public security Sarath Weerasekera told a news conference he had signed a paper on Friday for cabinet approval to ban the full face covering worn by some Muslim women on "national security" grounds."In our early days Muslim women and girls never wore the burqa," he said. "It is a sign of religious extremism that came about recently. We are definitely going to ban it."The wearing of the burqa in the majority-Buddhist nation was temporarily banned in 2019 after the bombing of churches and hotels by Islamic militants that killed more than 250.Later that year, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, best known for crushing a decades-long insurgency in the north of the country as defence secretary, was elected president after promising a crackdown on extremism.Rajapaksa is accused of widespread rights abuses during the war, charges he denies.Weerasekera said the government plans to ban more than a thousand madrassa Islamic schools that he said were flouting national education policy."Nobody can open a school and teach whatever you want to the children," he said.The government's moves on burqas and schools follow an order last year mandating the cremation of COVID-19 victims - against the wishes of Muslims, who bury their dead.This ban was lifted earlier this year after criticism from the United States and international rights groups.(Reporting by Waruna Karunatilake in Colombo; Writing by Alasdair Pal; Editing by William Mallard)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-to-ban-burqa-shut-many-islamic-schools-minister-says-101615628995517.html
13-03-2021||World||Queen Elizabeth makes first appearance since Harry and Meghan interview||Britain's Queen Elizabeth has made her first appearance since a tell-all interview by grandson Prince Harry and his wife Meghan rocked the monarchy, but made no reference to the crisis it had caused her family.During the Oprah Winfrey interview, Meghan said a member of the royal family had made a racist comment and Harry criticised his relatives for how they dealt with press treatment of his wife, with the fallout dominating the British media since it aired last Sunday.On Thursday, Harry's elder brother Prince William told reporters "we're very much not a racist family", the day after the 94-year-old monarch herself issued a statement on behalf of the royals in which she said they were saddened by how challenging the couple had found the last few years.The Sun newspaper, citing an unnamed source, said Harry's father, heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles, had wanted to issue a point by point rebuttal, but the royal family had decided not to get involved in a 'tit for tat' battle.In a video call with scientists and schoolchildren to mark British Science Week, the queen did not refer to the interview at all, the royals' usual approach to what they have said was a private, family matter.Instead she discussed the latest updates from NASA's Mars Perseverance mission, as well as the discovery of a rare meteorite which landed in Gloucestershire, western England last month, the first to be recovered in the United Kingdom for 30 years."I’m glad it didn't hit anyone," the queen quipped during the "virtual showcase", which took place on Wednesday although details were only released by Buckingham Palace on Friday.When told by space scientist and broadcaster Maggie Aderin-Pocock that she had been inspired to follow her career by the exploits of Russian Yuri Gagarin, the first human in space in 1961, Elizabeth, who has reigned for 69 years, recounted that she had met him shortly afterwards at Buckingham Palace.Asked what he was like, she replied: "Russian, he didn't speak English. He was fascinating and I suppose being the first one, it was particularly fascinating."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-makes-first-appearance-since-harry-and-meghan-interview-101615628865792.html
13-03-2021||World||Covid-19: US health officials warn of false positive test results||US health officials are warning health professionals about the risk of false positive results with a widely used laboratory test for Covid-19 and flu.The Food and Drug Administration issued the alert to Friday for health facilities using Roche’s cobas test for coronavirus and seasonal flu. The agency warned that problems with the test’s processing tubes could result in false diagnosis in people who are not actually infected.Roche’s testing system is widely used to screen large batches of patient samples in hospitals and laboratories.The FDA recommends health workers test samples multiple times to help assure accuracy. If the test delivers conflicting results it may indicate a problem and use should be discontinued, the agency says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-us-health-officials-warn-of-false-positive-test-results-101615623637350.html
13-03-2021||World||Biden admin to reconsider objections to H-1B visas during Trump regime||The Biden administration has said it is willing to reconsider the objections or adverse decisions to foreign workers on visas like H-1B, the most sought after among Indian IT professionals, due to the three policy memos by the previous Trump regime which now have been rescinded.The move is expected to come to the rescue of a large number of Indian IT professionals who were having a tough time during the previous Trump administration due to various policies and memorandums on non-immigrant work visas, in particular the H-1B.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on Friday announced "it may reopen and/or reconsider adverse decisions" on Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker, made based on three rescinded policy memos.The USCIS said it will generally use its discretion to accept a motion to reopen filed more than 30 days after the decision, if filed before the end of the validity period requested on the petition or labour condition application, whichever is earlier, and the decision was based on one or more policies in the three rescinded H-1B memoranda.On June 17, 2020, the USCIS issued Policy Memorandum 602-0114, which officially rescinded two prior policy memoranda. First titled "Determining Employer-Employee Relationship for Adjudication of H-1B Petitions, Including Third-Party Site Placements," that was issued on January 8, 2010; and second "Contracts and Itineraries Requirements for H-1B Petitions Involving Third-Party Worksites," issued on February 22, 2018.On February 3, 2021, USCIS issued Policy Memorandum 602-0142.1, which officially rescinded PM-602-0142, "Rescission of the December 22, 2000 'Guidance memo on H1B computer related positions'," issued on March 31, 2017. Both Policy Memorandum 602-0114 and Policy Memorandum 602-0142.1 state that they apply to "any pending or new (H-1B Petitions), including motions on and appeals of revocations and denials of H-1B classification."The USCIS said a petitioner may request that it reopen and/or reconsider adverse decisions based on the three rescinded policy memos by properly filing Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, accompanied by the appropriate fee.In addition, the USCIS has the discretionary authority to accept and consider untimely motions under certain circumstances as explained in the form instructions and permitted by regulation."Petitioners who received an adverse decision on an H-1B petition based on the now-rescinded policy memoranda should consider whether there is time remaining in the validity period requested on the previously filed H-1B petition and the relevant labour condition application," the USCIS said.The USCIS will generally process motions based on filing order, and consistent with current policy guidance, the federal agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-admin-to-reconsider-objections-to-h-1b-visas-during-trump-regime-101615625795112.html
13-03-2021||World||Chinese 'polar bear hotel' opens to full bookings, criticism||A hotel that bills itself as the world's first "polar bear hotel" has opened in China's far northeastern Heilongjiang province, drawing both guests and criticism for its central feature: live polar bears.The Polar Bear Hotel, part of the Harbin Polarland theme park in Heilongjiang's capital and largest city, Harbin, opened its doors on Friday with the promise of round-the-clock polar bear viewing from all 21 guest rooms."Whether you're eating, playing or sleeping, polar bears will keep you company," Harbin Polarland's official WeChat account said in a post dated Thursday.Photos and videos from Chinese state media showed people watching two polar bears in an indoor enclosure featuring artificial ice and small pools of water.Yang Liu, a spokeswoman for Harbin Polarland, told Reuters that the indoor area is only part of the bears' total enclosure, and that they are let outdoors when temperature and air quality permit.She said interest in staying at the hotel, where rooms range from 1,888 to 2,288 yuan ($290.10 to $351.56) per night was "very high", adding that it is fully booked through a trial period.Conservationists criticised the hotel."Polar bears belong in the Arctic, not in zoos or glass boxes in aquariums – and certainly not in hotels," Jason Baker, senior vice president at animal rights group PETA told Reuters on Saturday. "Polar bears are active for up to 18 hours a day in nature, roaming home ranges that can span thousands of miles, where they enjoy a real life."In 2016, a shopping mall in the southern city of Guangzhou attracted global condemnation after videos emerged of a polar bear, Pizza, lying on her side in a glass-walled enclosure.Harbin Polarland, established in late 2005, calls itself the world's first polar performing arts amusement park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-polar-bear-hotel-opens-to-full-bookings-criticism-101615625978310.html
13-03-2021||World||4 demonstrators killed as anti-coup protests intensify in Myanmar||Security forces in Myanmar on Saturday again met protests against last month's military takeover with lethal force, killing at least four people by shooting live ammunition at demonstrators.Three deaths were reported in Mandalay, the country's second-biggest city, and one in Pyay, a town in south-central Myanmar. There were multiple reports on social media of the deaths, along with photos of dead and wounded people in both locations.The independent UN human rights expert for Myanmar, Tom Andrews, said Thursday that “credible reports” indicated security forces in the Southeast Asian nation had so far killed at least 70 people, and cited growing evidence of crimes against humanity since the military ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi.Reports on social media also said three people were shot dead Friday night in Yangon, Myanmar's largest city, where residents for the past week have been defying an 8 p.m. curfew to come out on the streets.Two deaths by gunfire were reported in Yangon's Thaketa township, where a protest being held outside a police station was dispersed. A crowd had gathered there to demand the release of three young men who were seized from their home earlier Friday night. Photos said to be of the bodies of two dead protesters were posted online. The other reported fatality Friday night was of a 19-year-old man shot in Hlaing township.The nighttime protests may reflect a more aggressive approach to self-defense that has been advocated by some protesters. Police had been aggressively patrolling residential neighborhoods at night, firing into the air and setting off stun grenades in an effort at intimidation. They have also been carrying out targeted raids, taking people from their homes with minimal resistance. In at least two known cases, the detainees died in custody within hours of being taken away.Another possible indication of heightened resistance emerged Saturday with photos posted online of a railway bridge said to have been damaged by an explosive charge.The bridge was described in multiple accounts as being on the rail line from Mandalay to Myitkyina, the capital of the northern state of Kachin. The photos show damage to part of a concrete support.No one took responsibility for the action, but it could serve a two-fold purpose.It could be seen as support for the nationwide strike of state railway workers, who are part of the civil disobedience movement against the coup.At the same time, it could be aimed as disrupting the ability of the junta to reinforce its troops in Kachin, a state whose residents have long been at odds with the central government. The Kachin ethnic minority fields its own well-trained and equipped guerrilla force, and there has been outrage in Myitkyina at security forces' killing of anti-coup protesters there.The prospect of sabotage has been openly discussed by some protesters, who warn that they could blow up a pipeline supplying natural gas to China. They see China as being the junta's main supporter, even though Beijing has been mildly critical of the coup in its public comments.In Washington on Friday, the Biden administration announced it is offering temporary legal residency to people from Myanmar, citing the military's takeover and ongoing deadly force against civilians.Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said the designation of temporary protected status for people from Myanmar would last for 18 months. The offer of temporary legal residency applies to people already in the United States. Mayorkas said in a statement that worsening conditions in Myanmar would make it difficult for those people to safely return home.The Feb. 1 coup reversed years of slow progress toward democracy in Myanmar, which for five decades had languished under strict military rule that led to international isolation and sanctions.Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party led a return to civilian rule with a landslide election victory in 2015, and an even greater margin of votes last year. It would have been installed for a second five-year term last month, but instead Suu Kyi and President Win Myint and other members of the government were placed in military detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-demonstrators-killed-as-anti-coup-protests-intensify-in-myanmar-101615625809213.html
13-03-2021||World||Joe Biden boosts US vaccine stockpile as world waits||President Joe Biden has directed his administration to order another 100 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine, growing a likely US surplus of doses later this year while much of the rest of the world struggles with deep shortages.Even before Wednesday's order, the US was to have enough approved vaccine delivered by mid-May to cover every adult and enough for 400 million people total by the end of July. Enough doses to cover 200 million more people are on order should vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax receive approval from the Food and Drug Administration. The new J&J doses, which would cover another 100 million people, are expected to be delivered in the latter half of the year.White House aides said Biden's first priority is ensuring that Americans are vaccinated before considering distributing doses elsewhere.“We want to be oversupplied and overprepared,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday, saying Biden wanted contingencies in the event of any unforeseen issues with the existing production timeline.“We still don't know which vaccine will be most effective on kids,” she added. “We still don't know the impact of variants or the need for booster shots. And these doses can be used for booster shots as well as needed. Obviously that's still being studied by the FDA but again we want to be over-prepared as I noted earlier.”Biden's announcement comes as the White House has rebuffed requests from US allies, including Mexico, Canada and the European Union, for vaccine doses produced in the United States, where months of production runs have produced vaccine solely for use in the country.Meanwhile, Russia and China, whose leaders don't face voters in free and fair elections, have used their domestically produced shots for strategic leverage.China has pledged roughly half a billion doses of its vaccines to more than 45 countries, according to a country-by-country tally by The Associated Press. Four of China's many vaccine makers are claiming they will be able to produce at least 2.6 billion doses this year.Russia has sent millions of doses of its Sputnik V vaccine to countries around the world, even as it vaccinates its own population. Analysts say a goal of this vaccine diplomacy is to bolster Russia's image as a scientific, technological and benevolent power, especially as other countries encounter shortages of Covid-19 vaccines because richer nations are scooping up the Western-made versions.Israel, which has vaccinated more than half of its population with Pfizer vaccines produced in Europe, has also attempted to use vaccine diplomacy to reward allies.Biden did move to have the US contribute financially to the United Nations and World Health Organisation-backed COVAX alliance, which will help share vaccine with more than 90 countries with lower and middle-income nations, but it has yet to commit to sharing any doses.Biden's purchasing strategy has come under criticism from nongovernmental organisations who have encouraged the White House to develop clear plans and thresholds for sharing vaccine with the world.“The only way to defeat this virus for good is to defeat it everywhere - and that requires an immediate plan for sharing excess vaccine doses globally,” said Sarah Swinehart, senior director for communications at The ONE Campaign.Asked about the surplus Wednesday, Biden told reporters that “if we have a surplus, we're going to share it with the rest of the world.”"This is not something that can be stopped by a fence no matter how high you build a fence or a wall. So we're not going to be ultimately safe until the world is safe,” acknowledged Biden. “So, we're going to start off making sure Americans are taken care of first, but we're then going to try to help the rest of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-boosts-us-vaccine-stockpile-as-world-waits-101615623881772.html
13-03-2021||World||Former Jamaat-e-Islami leader, Rasheed Hajjul Akbar, arrested in Sri Lanka||A 60-year-old former leader of Islamic organisation Jamaat-e-Islami has been arrested in Sri Lanka for allegedly promoting extremism in the country, police announced on Saturday.Rasheed Hajjul Akbar, who headed the Jamaat-e-Islami organisation for 24 years until last September 2019, was arrested by the Terrorism Investigation Division (TID) from Dematagoda area on Friday, Police Spokesman DIG Ajith Rohana said.He was publishing articles in a magazine published by the Jamaat-e-Islami organisation to promote Wahhabism and Jihadist ideology in Sri Lanka, the police spokesman said.The arrest came as an investigation panel on the 2019 Easter Sunday bombings had called for banning Wahaabism in the island nation as it inspires Muslim religious extremism.On April 21, 2019, nine suicide bombers belonging to the local Islamist extremist group National Thawheed Jamaat (NTJ) carried out a series of blasts that tore through three churches and as many luxury hotels in Sri Lanka, killing 270 people, including 11 Indians, and injuring over 500 on the Easter Sunday.Also read: CJM court holds 21 jamaat members guilty under Epidemic, Foreigner ActsThe blasts targeted St Anthony's Church in Colombo, St Sebastian's Church in the western coastal town of Negombo, and a church in the eastern town of Batticaloa when the Easter Sunday mass was in progress.Early this week, Public Security Minister Sarath Weerasekera told Parliament that around 676 people had been arrested over the 2019 attack and 66 more are being held under detention.The panel report had also called for the banning of the majority Buddhist extremist outfit Bodu Bala Sena (BBS) which the report contended had encouraged Muslim extremism.The panel's finding that former president Maithripala Sirisena and the then police top brass be criminally tried for failure to heed to prior intelligence warnings and failure to take preventive action has caused a political storm.Sirisena is the chair of the ruling coalition and his party SLFP has outrightly rejected the findings. The Catholic Church, under whose pressure Sirisena appointed the probe panel which found him guilty, wants the proceedings to go ahead as prescribed by the panel.The panel recommended that findings be referred to the Attorney General for criminal action.The head of the Catholic Church, Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith has warned that they would press for an international investigation if no satisfactory results would be coming from local action.Since the report came out most have found fault with it, saying the probe had not brought to light the masterminds behind the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-jamaat-e-islami-leader-rasheed-hajjul-akbar-arrested-in-sri-lanka-101615620591322.html
13-03-2021||World||Duty to support Muslims, says Ardern marking 2 yrs of Christchurch mosque attack||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern told an emotional memorial service marking two years since the Christchurch mosque attacks that the country had "a duty" to support its Muslim community.Hundreds of people turned out for the service, held amid tight security, to remember the 51 people killed and dozens wounded when a heavily armed gunman opened fire in two mosques on March 15, 2019.Temel Atacocugu, who was shot nine times in the face, arms and legs, wept as he recalled waiting to be treated with the father of three-year-old Mucaad Ibrahim when they learned the toddler had died."Suddenly, my pain seemed insignificant," he said.Ardern, who was widely praised for the compassion shown to survivors and the families of the victims of the shooting and her swift move to tighten firearms control in New Zealand, said words "despite their healing power" would never change what happened."Men, women and children ... were taken in an act of terror. Words will not remove the fear that descended over the Muslim community," she said, adding the legacy should be "a more inclusive nation, one that stands proud of our diversity and embraces it and, if called to, defends it staunchly."Atacocugu said it was a miracle he was still alive.Also read: Royal interview unlikely to affect New Zealand"I have since had seven major surgeries and there are more to come. I will carry lots of shrapnels in my body for the rest of my life. Every time I have an X-ray it lights up like a Christmas tree."Kiran Munir, whose husband Shaheed Haroon Mahmood was killed in the attack, told the service that the best revenge was to "not be like the enemy. We are learning to rise up again with dignity and move forward as best we can."The gunman, self-proclaimed white supremacist Brenton Tarrant, was arrested minutes after the attacks on the Al Noor mosque and Linwood Islamic Centre.He pleaded guilty to 51 charges of murder, 40 of attempted murder and one of terrorism, and was sentenced last year to life imprisonment without parole, the first time a whole life term has been handed down in New Zealand.Last week, police arrested a 27-year-old man in Christchurch and charged him with threatening to kill following online threats to the same two mosques.During the memorial service, armed police were stationed outside the venue and a sniffer dog checked the bags of people entering the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/duty-to-support-muslims-says-ardern-marking-2-yrs-of-christchurch-mosque-attack-101615614150310.html
13-03-2021||World||Despite hacks, Biden admin not planning to step up government surveillance||The Biden administration is not planning to step up government surveillance of the US internet even as state-backed foreign hackers and cybercriminals increasingly use it to evade detection, a senior administration official said Friday.The official said the administration, mindful of the privacy and civil liberties implications that could arise, is not currently seeking additional authority to monitor US-based networks. Instead, the administration will focus on tighter partnerships and improved information-sharing with the private-sector companies that already have broad visibility into the domestic internet, said the official, who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity.The comment was an acknowledgement of the fraught political debate surrounding domestic government surveillance - nearly eight years after former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden triggered a scandal with leaked agency documents - and a recognition of the challenges in balancing the growing cyber defense imperative against privacy concerns that come with stepped-up monitoring.Foreign state hackers are increasingly using US-based virtual private networks, or VPNs, to evade detection by US intelligence agencies, who are legally constrained from monitoring domestic infrastructure.Also read: Biden played 'sheriff' on 2009 aid, now salesman on Covid lawIn the crucial second stage of the SolarWinds hacking campaign, for instance, the suspected Russian intelligence operatives used US-based VPNs to siphon off data through backdoors in victims' networks, establishing an account that made it seem like they were in the US.That hack detected in December compromised at least nine federal agencies, and exposed “significant gaps in modernization and in technology of cybersecurity across the federal government,” the official said. Dozens of private-sector companies were also hit, the telecommunications and software sector most heavily.The US is also addressing a separate, far more widespread and indiscriminate hack that cyber sleuths blame on China and which became a global crisis last week.It has exposed tens of thousands of servers running Microsoft's Exchange email program to intrusion. Though Microsoft has patched the vulnerability, affected server owners had only a “short window” to get vulnerable servers fixed, the official said. Criminal and state-backed hackers seeking to exploit the underlying flaw are apt to cause more havoc, the administration says.The official said President Joe Biden has been briefed on the incident, and private-sector cybersecurity sleuths were brought in to confer with White House officials on a response.When it comes to the pursuit of new surveillance or monitoring authorities, the official described the administration's posture as “not yet, not now." The official said the administration is committed at the moment to improving the flow of information with cloud providers and private companies who have good visibility into U.S. networks but aren't bound by the same government constraints.Predictions from the cybersecurity community were proving correct, meanwhile, that ransomware attacks leveraging compromised Exchange servers would be inevitable given the scope of the hack.Microsoft said it has detected a new family of ransomware, dubbed DearCry, exploiting the compromises. Ransomware expert Brett Callow of the cybersecurity firm Emsisoft said the website ID Ransomware had so far received six submissions of the malware - from victims in the United States, Australia, Austria, Canada and Denmark.Microsoft said in a tweet that it was blocking the ransomware, but, said Callow, “That'll not necessary stop attacks.” Antivirus products detect and block a lot of known ransomware - but hackers often disable those products prior to deployment, he said.The global ransomware scourge - primarily the work of Russian-speaking and North Korean cybercriminals - has cost businesses, local governments, health care providers and even K-12 school districts tens of billions of dollars in the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/despite-hacks-biden-admin-not-planning-to-step-up-government-surveillance-101615614163676.html
13-03-2021||World||Despite hacks, United States not seeking widened domestic surveillance||The Biden administration is not planning to step up government surveillance of the US internet even as state-backed foreign hackers and cybercriminals increasingly use it to evade detection, a senior administration official said Friday.The official said the administration, mindful of the privacy and civil liberties implications that could arise, is not currently seeking additional authority to monitor US-based networks. Instead, the administration will focus on tighter partnerships and improved information-sharing with the private-sector companies that already have broad visibility into the domestic internet, said the official, who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity.The comment was an acknowledgement of the fraught political debate surrounding domestic government surveillance — nearly eight years after former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden triggered a scandal with leaked agency documents — and a recognition of the challenges in balancing the growing cyber defense imperative against privacy concerns that come with stepped-up monitoring.Foreign state hackers are increasingly using US-based virtual private networks, or VPNs, to evade detection by US intelligence agencies, who are legally constrained from monitoring domestic infrastructure.In the crucial second stage of the SolarWinds hacking campaign, for instance, the suspected Russian intelligence operatives used US-based VPNs to siphon off data through backdoors in victims’ networks, establishing an account that made it seem like they were in the US. That hack detected in December compromised at least nine federal agencies, and exposed “significant gaps in modernization and in technology of cybersecurity across the federal government,” the official said. Dozens of private-sector companies were also hit, the telecommunications and software sector most heavily.The US is also addressing a separate, far more widespread and indiscriminate hack that cyber sleuths blame on China and which became a global crisis last week.It has exposed tens of thousands of servers running Microsoft’s Exchange email program to intrusion. Though Microsoft has patched the vulnerability, affected server owners had only a “short window” to get vulnerable servers fixed, the official said. Criminal and state-backed hackers seeking to exploit the underlying flaw are apt to cause more havoc, the administration says.The official said President Joe Biden has been briefed on the incident, and private-sector cybersecurity sleuths were brought in to confer with White House officials on a response.When it comes to the pursuit of new surveillance or monitoring authorities, the official described the administration’s posture as “not yet, not now." The official said the administration is committed at the moment to improving the flow of information with cloud providers and private companies who have good visibility into US networks but aren't bound by the same government constraints.Predictions from the cybersecurity community were proving correct, meanwhile, that ransomware attacks leveraging compromised Exchange servers would be inevitable given the scope of the hack.Microsoft said it has detected a new family of ransomware, dubbed DearCry, exploiting the compromises. Ransomware expert Brett Callow of the cybersecurity firm Emsisoft said the website ID Ransomware had so far received six submissions of the malware — from victims in the United States, Australia, Austria, Canada and Denmark.Microsoft said in a tweet that it was blocking the ransomware, but, said Callow, “That’ll not necessary stop attacks.” Antivirus products detect and block a lot of known ransomware — but hackers often disable those products prior to deployment, he said.The global ransomware scourge — primarily the work of Russian-speaking and North Korean cybercriminals — has cost businesses, local governments, health care providers and even K-12 school districts tens of billions of dollars in the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/despite-hacks-united-states-not-seeking-widened-domestic-surveillance-101615615076098.html
13-03-2021||World||Biden played 'sheriff' on 2009 aid, now salesman on Covid law||In 2009, then-Vice President Joe Biden was "Sheriff Joe,” the enforcer making sure federal dollars from a massive economic aid package were getting to the right places and quickly.This time, President Biden's role is different: He's lead salesman for the $1.9 trillion Covid-19 aid package, eager to score political points as Americans begin to reap benefits from the massive government relief effort.Biden signed the bill into law Thursday and then extolled it in a prime-time address to the nation that night. On Friday, he celebrated the package again, this time with Democratic lawmakers in his first Rose Garden event as president.Biden said Friday that he would draw on his experiences in 2009, saying he worked four to five hours daily for six months to ensure that the stimulus succeeded. That same type of focus will be needed for coronavirus relief."The devil is in the details," the president said. “It's one thing to pass the American Rescue Plan. It's going to be another thing to implement it. It's going to require fastidious oversight to make sure there's no waste or fraud and the law does what it's designed to do. And I mean it. We have to get this right.”The White House has plotted an ambitious campaign to showcase the law's contents while looking to build momentum for future, more difficult parts of the president's sweeping agenda. Biden will travel to the battleground states of Pennsylvania and Georgia next week to talk it up and other top administration officials will fan out around the country to do likewise.West Wing aides say there is a determination to avoid the mistakes of more than a decade earlier, when President Barack Obama's administration didn't do enough to promote its own economic recovery plan. But Biden gets a measure of credit for the successful implementation of the plan itself, according to veterans of the Obama administration.Biden wound up with oversight of the government's mammoth $787 billion stimulus plan after he wrote Obama a memo about how it should be run, and he savored his role as the program's top cop. He said he had not “yet” looked at his vice president, Kamala Harris, to play the same role on Covid-19 aid.Back then, Biden held weekly conference calls with mayors, governors and others to press for wise use of the money. He estimated that he spoke with over 160 mayors and every governor but one — Alaska Republican Sarah Palin, who was the vice presidential nominee in the 2008 election.Biden also called regular Cabinet meetings to keep the Washington end of the program on track. At one 2009 Cabinet meeting, Biden pressed federal officials to give him a quick heads-up when projects fell behind schedule, saying, “You've gotta give me more ammo so I can pick up the phone and be the sheriff.”Biden used his role as “Sheriff Joe” to cut red tape and “get the stimulus itself into the economy,” said Robert Gibbs, who was Obama's press secretary at the time. He predicted that Biden would be equally relentless in selling the relief package this time.“I would be surprised if two days passed in the next four years when you don't hear discussion about the legislation," Gibbs said. “This is so important that it is literally something you say during the last rally of your reelection campaign.”Biden is expected to appoint someone to oversee implementation of the Covid-19 relief plan. And while Biden himself will not be as in-the-weeds this time, aides still expect to get plenty of questions from him about exactly where and when the money is moving.“He will play a different role: He is also the commander-in-chief and overseeing an economic recovery, overcoming the pandemic and addressing a range of crises,” said White House press secretary Jen Psaki. “But in his soul, he is a details guy and he will want to roll up his sleeves and call the local mayor, governor, school district to make sure the money gets out the door.”There are challenges that lie ahead for Biden, although White House aides point to polling that shows the package is popular with Republican voters even though not a single GOP lawmaker voted for it. No Republicans attended the Rose Garden victory lap.Biden's White House has embraced the strategy of under-promising and then over-delivering, allowing it to frequently beat target dates and goals on, for instance, vaccine distribution.But in his speech Thursday night, Biden laid out an ambitious timeline for all adult Americans to be eligible for the vaccine by May 1 and dangled the prospects of life getting closer to normal by July 4. And while he attached caveats about a possible virus surge, Biden's new timeline generated pressure to meet the bold headlines it produced.Republicans, who are trying to label the Covid-19 relief bill as partisan, believe that they will be able to mount a far more effective pushback to the Biden administration when the president moves into more polarising parts of his agenda such as immigration, climate change and voting rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-played-sheriff-on-2009-aid-now-salesman-on-covid-law-101615620180194.html
13-03-2021||World||Philippines detects first case of Brazil Covid-19 variant||The Philippines has detected its first case of the highly contagious coronavirus variant first identified in Brazil, the health ministry said on Saturday.A Filipino returning from Brazil tested positive for the P.1 variant after 752 samples were sequenced at the genome centre, the ministry said in a statement.It reported 59 new infections of the B.1.1.7 variant first detected in Britain, and 32 cases of the B.1.351 variant discovered in South Africa. This brings cases for those variants to 177 and 90, respectively."Correct and consistent adherence to the minimum public health standards will prevent the transmission of these variants," the ministry said.The Philippines, which has the second-highest Covid-19 cases and deaths in Southeast Asia, is battling a renewed surge as it ramps up a vaccination drive that started on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-detects-first-case-of-brazil-covid-19-variant-101615614252863.html
13-03-2021||World||UN urges Somalia to organise elections without delay||The UN Security Council urged Somalia's government on Friday to organize elections “without delay” in a resolution that stressed the pressing threat to the country's security from al-Shabab and armed opposition groups.The resolution, which was adopted unanimously, authorized the African Union to maintain its nearly 20,000-strong force in Somalia until the end of the year with a mandate to reduce the threat from the extremist groups to enable “a stable, federal, sovereign and united Somalia.”The UN 's most powerful body said its objective is to transfer security to Somali authorities, with the aim of Somalia taking the lead in 2021, and achieving full responsibility by the end of 2023.It emphasizes the importance of building the capacity of Somali forces and institutions so they are able to manage current and future threats, and authorizes the AU force, known as AMISOM, to support the transfer of its security responsibilities to the government.The resolution's adoption came amid growing pressure on Somalia's President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed after scheduled elections on February 8 failed to take place because of the lack of agreement on how the vote should be carried out. Two regional states have said they would not take part without a deal.Critics accuse Mohamed, who is seeking a second four-year term, of delaying the election to extend his current mandate. The president has blamed unnamed foreign interventions.The Security Council expressed concern at the delays in finalising arrangements for elections this year. It urged the federal government and regional states “to organize free, fair, credible and inclusive elections” in line with a September 17, 2020, agreement.Three decades of chaos, from warlords to al-Qaida affiliate al-Shabab to the emergence of an Islamic State-linked group, have ripped apart the country that only in the past few years has begun to find its footing.The Security Council welcomed “progress achieved so far” but also stressed the immediate threat from al-Shabab and other extremist groups. It condemned their attacks in Somalia and beyond “in the strongest possible terms.”Council members welcomed the government's commitment to conduct joint operations with AMISOM “in order to become the primary security provide in Somalia.”But they said “Somalia is not yet in a position to take full responsibility for its own security and that degrading al-Shabab and armed opposition groups and building and sustaining peace will therefore require continued regional and international collaboration and support.”While the British-drafted resolution was adopted unanimously, the council's three African members -- Niger, Tunisia and Kenya -- and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines objected to the way negotiations were conducted, saying they weren't properly consulted.Niger's UN Ambassador Abdou Abarry said “the African Union must play a leadership role in determining the future of its mission to Somalia throughout the transition.”“It is our sincere hope that the implementation of this resolution will be marked by meaningful participation, cooperation and collaboration between the council, the AU and other partners in the common endeavour to stabilise Somalia by systematically degrading terrorist groups to allow peace and security to the people of Somalia,” Abarry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-urges-somalia-to-organise-elections-without-delay-101615615043816.html
13-03-2021||World||5 Chinese companies, including Huawei, pose threat to US national security: FCC||The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on Friday designated five Chinese companies as posing a threat to national security under a 2019 law aimed at protecting US communications networks.The FCC said the companies included Huawei Technologies Co, ZTE Corp, Hytera Communications Corp, Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co and Zhejiang Dahua Technology Co.A 2019 law requires the FCC to identify companies producing telecommunications equipment and services "that have been found to pose an unacceptable risk to U.S. national security."Acting FCC Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel said in a statement: "This list provides meaningful guidance that will ensure that as next-generation networks are built across the country, they do not repeat the mistakes of the past or use equipment or services that will pose a threat to U.S. national security or the security and safety of Americans."The 2019 law used criteria from a defense authorization bill that previously identified the five Chinese companies. In August 2020, the U.S. government issued regulations barring agencies from buying goods or services from any of the five Chinese companies.In 2019, the United States placed Huawei, Hikvision and other firms on its economic blacklist.Last year, the FCC designated Huawei and ZTE as a national security threat to communications networks - a declaration barring U.S. firms from tapping an $8.3 billion government fund to purchase equipment from the companies.In February, Huawei challenged the declaration in a petition filed with the Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Huawei declined to comment on Friday on the new FCC designation.Hikvision said late on Friday it strongly opposed the FCC decision "and is weighing all options on how to best address this unsubstantiated designation. Hikvision does not belong on a list for next-generation networks."The other three companies did not comment or could not be reached for comment.The FCC in December finalized rules requiring carriers with ZTE or Huawei equipment to "rip and replace" that equipment. It created a reimbursement program for that effort, and U.S. lawmakers in December approved $1.9 billion to fund the program.(Reporting by David Shepardson; editing by Jonathan Oatis, Howard Goller, Daniel Wallis and William Mallard)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-chinese-companies-including-huawei-pose-threat-to-us-national-security-fcc-101615612742884.html
13-03-2021||World||US: Democrats find fresh support for Biden's politics in small-city America||Mary McGaw grew up in a Republican home on the rural prairie of south central Minnesota. But as she moved from her tiny town of Amboy to the nearest city of Mankato to study nursing, her politics migrated too.McGaw was moved by the plight of the underinsured and became concerned about the viability of safety programs. She cast her vote for Democrat Joe Biden in November, and nearly three months later, she is pleased with how hard the new president is fighting for his priorities.“He's trying to get something done, even though there's pushback from all sides," said the 37-year-old registered nurse, who now works at a Mankato branch of the Mayo Clinic.McGaw’s transformation is driving Democrats' hopes as they charge into what the party considers its new frontier: small-city America.As Democrats continue to lose votes in small towns, they've seen clear gains in regional hubs that dot stretches of rural America. Biden carried roughly 60 counties President Donald Trump won in 2016, many were places anchored by a mid-sized or small city that is trending Democratic. They include places like Grand Rapids, Michigan; Wilmington, North Carolina; Dayton, Ohio and Mankato's Blue Earth County.Their similarities are striking: Most include universities or, like Mankato, large medical centres that draw educated and racially diverse newcomers. Their economies are better than average. And in 2020, their voters showed a bipartisan streak — voting for Biden for president and Republicans down-ballot in large numbers.“These voters are in line with Biden's personal brand," said Robert Griffin, research director for the Democracy Fund Voter Study Group, a bipartisan demographic and public opinion team. "He’s pegged as a moderate Democrat, rightly. But he's also making sure there’s room for moderation in the party.”Biden won Blue Earth County by 4.5 percentage points, about the same percentage Democrat Hillary Clinton lost it by in 2016. In November, voters in the area dumped 30-year Democratic Rep. Collin Peterson, arguably the most conservative Democrat in Congress, but reelected two Democratic state lawmakers.Interviews with voters around Mankato help make sense of this partisan zigzagging. While there remains robust support for Trump, voters stress that action carries more weight than ideological purity. Even devout Democratic activists who wish the new $1.9 trillion coronavirus aid package — Biden's chief legislative accomplishment so far — contained more aren't frustrated.“Sure, I wish it had contained the $15 minimum wage," said Jim Hepworth, the area's Democratic chairman. “But we can have that fight another day."Blue Earth County has long swung back and forth in presidential elections. But the demographic trends are steady in Democrats' favour.The expansion of the Mayo Clinic to Mankato from nearby Rochester in 1996 increased the supply of medical professionals from around the country and the world. Since 2010, health care jobs have increased in the county by roughly 70%. About 40% of Mankato residents have college degrees— a key indicator of Democratic voting — compared with 33% nationwide.Racial diversity has accelerated — another boost for Democrats. Minnesota State University, Mankato, has drawn more international students to its expanded health care programs. And manufacturing and food-processing plants on the city's outskirts have attracted immigrants from North Africa and Latin America.The transition has not been without tension, but the area has come a long way since Abdi Sabrie, a Somali-American member of the Mankato School Board, arrived in 2009.Then, his two daughters were the only students of North African descent in their elementary school. Today, 28% of Mankato's enrollment are students of colour.The changes are welcome, but Sabrie gets frustrated.“Sometimes I want Democrats to use their control to the max, regardless of the other side,” he said. “But this diversity shows me we can bring back the politics of collaboration.”Annual household income in Blue Earth rose by roughly $20,000 over the past decade to nearly $60,000 in February, still below the state average of $71,300. Blue Earth housing, too, has jumped from an average home price of roughly $140,000 to $226,000. Buoyed by health care, unemployment was 3.2% in January, up slightly from 2.6% a year ago. The state's was 4.5% in January.Signs of changes are easy to find.A decade ago, hijabs were forbidden for Mayo employees. Today, the coloured head coverings worn by some Muslim women are common on campus. The nation's racial reckoning has played out in a debate over whether to rename Sibley Park, whose namesake is a general who ordered the hangings of 38 Dakota warriors in 1862, the largest mass execution in U.S. history.From near that solemn spot along the Minnesota River, Mankato grew east to its wooded bluffs. Along the river, brick hulls of grain exchanges still stand but now so does Karshe, an East African tea shop, and the arty Fillin’ Station coffee house, among used bookstores, spas and brewpubs.Midway up the slope, Mayo's campus sits among the tidy, middle-class homes that made the difference for Biden. In that precinct, Biden netted 500 more votes than Clinton did in 2016, a third of his winning margin in the county.Fetching her children from school, McGaw says she and her husband, a Spanish-language medical interpreter, felt Biden was more task-oriented and less “about himself" than Trump. She voted straight-ticket but groused Peterson had become too conservative for the district.McGay said her family has lived modestly during the COVID-19 pandemic. They qualify for $2,800 in household aid and another $2,800 in child tax credits. McCaw sees others are needier.“We’ve been doing OK," she said. “I was never nervous about my job security. In fact, I was always asked to work more. Do we need the money? Honestly, we can do without it."McCaw isn't necessarily typical. Nationally, 53% of Democrats say they have experienced at least one form of income loss during the pandemic, slightly more than the 43% of Republicans, according to a March poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.A few blocks away, retired office administrator Jaci Lageson said she was pleased with Biden's compromise with Senate moderates who wanted to lower the income threshold for those receiving the checks.“It gets money in the pockets of people who need it to survive," said Lageson, a 67-year-old former Republican who has voted Democratic over the past 20 years. Lageson’s 73-year-old husband, Larry, a devoted Trump supporter, called Biden a pawn of Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.The number of counties Biden flipped in November is well short of the 206 Trump flipped from Barack Obama in 2016 — proof partisanship has hardened across the U.S. But the Democratic trend in these smaller, well-educated pockets looks sustainable, researcher Griffin said.“It's not surprising to have higher-education areas shifting back to the Democrats, given that educational polarization has increased,” he said.Though Mankato remains among the smaller cities in this class, it has grown by 35% since 2000 to about 44,000.The growth has turned this sleepy rural college island into a microcosm of Democratic America, mixed with pragmatic sensibility reflected in Elizabeth Van Slyke, "a progressive willing to compromise.”“I’m not so dead set in my ways,” the 57-year-old marketing executive said. “Some progress in the right direction is better than no progress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-democrats-find-fresh-support-for-biden-s-politics-in-small-city-america-101615613245825.html
13-03-2021||World||New Zealand marks 2 years since Christchurch mosque killings||New Zealand on Saturday marked the second anniversary of one of its most traumatic days, when 51 worshippers were killed at two Christchurch mosques by a white supremacist gunman.Several hundred people gathered at the Christchurch Arena for the remembrance service, which was also livestreamed. A similar service planned for last year was canceled at short notice due to the sudden spread of the coronavirus.Kiran Munir, whose husband Haroon Mahmood was killed in the attacks, told the crowd she had lost the love of her life and her soulmate. She said her husband was a loving father of their two children. He'd just finished a doctoral degree and was looking forward to his graduation ceremony when she last saw his smiling face.“Little did I know that the next time I would see him the body and soul would not be together," she said. “Little did I know that the darkest day in New Zealand’s history had dawned. That day my heart broke into a thousand pieces, just like the hearts of the 50 other families.”Temel Atacocugu, who survived being shot nine times during the attack on the Al Noor mosque, said the slaughter was caused by racism and ignorance.“They were attacks on all of humanity,” he said.He said the survivors would never be able to erase the pain in their hearts and would never be the same.“However, the future is in our hands,” he said. “We will go on and we will be positive together.”In the March 15, 2019, attacks, Australian Brenton Tarrant killed 44 people at the Al Noor mosque during Friday prayers before driving to the Linwood mosque, where he killed seven more.Last year Tarrant, 30, pleaded guilty to 51 counts of murder, 40 counts of attempted murder and one count of terrorism, He was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.After the attacks, New Zealand quickly passed new laws banning the deadliest types of semiautomatic weapons.During the service, the names of each of the 51 people who were killed were read out. The efforts of first responders, including police and medics, were also acknowledged.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern told the crowd that when preparing her speech, she had been at a loss for what to say because words would never change what happened.“But while words cannot perform miracles, they do have the power to heal,” she said.The Muslim community had experienced hatred and racism even before the attacks, she said, and words should be used for change.“There will be an unquestionable legacy from March 15,” Ardern said. “Much of it will be heartbreaking. But it is never too early or too late for the legacy to be a more inclusive nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-marks-2-years-since-christchurch-mosque-killings-101615610086792.html
13-03-2021||World||Call for more protests in Myanmar as US and allies vow to restore democracy||Activists called for more anti-coup protests in Myanmar on Saturday, the death anniversary of a student whose killing in 1988 sparked widespread protests against the government and led to the emergence of Aung San Suu Kyi as a democracy icon.The calls came as the leaders of the United States, India, Australia and Japan vowed to work together to restore democracy in a country where violence has escalated as authorities crack down harshly on protests and civil disobedience.Posters spread on social media on Saturday calling on people to come out on the streets to protest against the junta and to mark the death anniversary of Phone Maw, who was shot and killed by security forces in 1988 inside what was then known as the Rangoon Institute of Technology campus.His shooting and that of another student who died a few weeks later sparked widespread protests against the military government known as the 8-8-88 campaign, because they peaked in August that year. An estimated 3,000 people were killed when the army crushed the uprising.Suu Kyi was caught up in the movement, and kept under house arrest for nearly two decades. She was released in 2008 as the military began democratic reforms and her National League for Democracy won elections in 2015 and again in November last year.On Feb. 1 this year, the generals overthrew her government and detained Suu Kyi and many of her cabinet colleagues, claiming fraud in the November elections.More than 70 people have been killed in the Southeast Asian nation in widespread protests since then, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) advocacy group said.On Friday, a day after 12 people were killed in one of the bloodiest days since the coup, former colonial power Britain warned its citizens in Myanmar to leave, saying "political tension and unrest are widespread since the military takeover and levels of violence are rising".The coup in Myanmar, where the military has close ties to China, is a major early test for new US President Joe Biden.His administration flagged a virtual meeting with the Indian, Japanese and Australian leaders on Friday, the first official summit of a group known as the Quad, as part of a push to demonstrate a renewed U.S. commitment to regional security."As long-standing supporters of Myanmar and its people, we emphasise the urgent need to restore democracy and the priority of strengthening democratic resilience," the four leaders said in a statement released by the White House.A spokesman for the junta did not answer phone calls from Reuters seeking comment.SOUTH KOREA SNAPS DEFENCE TIESUN human rights investigator Thomas Andrews on Friday dismissed as "absurd" comments by a senior Myanmar official that authorities were exercising "utmost restraint".Addressing the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, he called for a united approach to "strip away the junta's sense of impunity".South Korea said on Friday it would suspend defence exchanges and reconsider development aid to Myanmar because of the violence.The Kremlin said Russia, which has close ties to Myanmar’s military, was concerned over the mounting violence and was "analysing" whether to suspend military-technical cooperation."We evaluate the situation as alarming, and we are concerned about the information about the growing number of civilian casualties coming from there," Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted by the TASS news agency as saying.Earlier this week, the UN Security Council dropped language from a statement that condemned the army takeover as a coup and threatened possible further action due to opposition by China, Russia, India and Vietnam.Poland's foreign ministry said a Polish journalist was arrested this week in Myanmar, the second foreign reporter to be detained. A Japanese journalist was briefly held while covering a protest.Riot police and armed soldiers entered the general hospital in Hakha, in the western Chin state, forcing all 30 patients to leave and evicting staff from on-site housing, said local activist Salai Lian.Soldiers have been occupying hospitals and universities across Myanmar as they try to quash a civil disobedience movement that started with government employees such as doctors and teachers but has expanded into a general strike that has paralysed many sectors of the economy.On Friday evening, large crowds gathered for evening vigils. In Yangon, the commercial capital, they lit candles in the shape of a three-finger salute, the symbol of the movement, while saffron-robed monks gathered outside a pagoda in the northern Sagaing region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/call-for-more-protests-in-myanmar-as-us-and-allies-vow-to-restore-democracy-101615613707062.html
13-03-2021||World||Car bomb kills at least 8, injures 47 in Afghanistan's Herat province||A powerful car bomb killed at least eight people and injured 47 in Afghanistan's western Herat province, officials said Saturday.The death toll in the explosion late Friday that also destroyed 14 houses is expected to rise because several of the injured were critical, said Rafiq Sherzai, a spokesman for the provincial hospital.One among the dead and 11 of the injured were Afghan Security Forces personnel while the remainder were civilians, including women and children, said Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian.No one has claimed responsibility.Within hours of the attack, the UN Security Council at a press briefing in New York condemned an “alarming” increase in attacks in Afghanistan targeting civilians even as the Taliban and the Afghan government hold on-again-off-again talks in Qatar.“These heinous attacks have targeted civil servants, the judiciary, the media, health care and humanitarian workers, including women in prominent positions, those who protect and promote human rights, and ethnic and religious minorities,” the council said.The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for many of the targeted killings while the Taliban and the government have blamed each other for trying to sabotage efforts to reach a peace agreement.The slow pace of talks and the increasing violence has prompted the United States to cobble together a peace proposal, which was delivered last weekend. Both sides are expected to review and revise the eight-page plan ahead of a far-reaching meeting the US has proposed to be held in Turkey within weeks, when Washington hopes to see an agreement.The US meanwhile is reviewing a peace deal the Trump administration signed with the Taliban, which calls for the final withdrawal of the remaining 2,500 U.S. troops from Afghanistan by May 1.The growing consensus is for a delay but in a sternly worded letter to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani last weekend pressing for progress on making peace with the Taliban, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said all options, including the withdrawal, are still on the table.The proposed peace deal offered by the US calls for an interim “peace government" to shepherd a post-war Afghanistan to elections and constitutional reforms. It also calls for the protection of equal rights for women and minorities.The UN Security Council also called for “full, equal and meaningful participation of women,” and a quick move toward a reduction in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/car-bomb-kills-at-least-8-injures-47-in-afghanistan-s-herat-province-101615612472031.html
13-03-2021||World||At least two killed in Myanmar as Quad nations vow to restore democracy||At least two people were killed in police firing in Myanmar overnight, domestic media reported, as activists called for more anti-coup protests on the death anniversary of a student whose killing in 1988 sparked an uprising against the government.Saturday's calls for protests came as the leaders of the United States, India, Australia and Japan vowed to work together to restore democracy in Myanmar where violence has escalated as authorities crack down on protests and civil disobedience.Domestic media reported two protesters were killed in police firing in the Tharketa district of Myanmar's commercial capital Yangon overnight. DVB News said police opened fire on a crowd that gathered outside the Tharketa police station demanding the release of people arrested.Posters spread on social media calling on people to come out on the streets to protest against the junta and to mark the death anniversary of Phone Maw, who was shot and killed by security forces in 1988 inside what was then known as the Rangoon Institute of Technology campus.His shooting and that of another student who died a few weeks later sparked widespread protests against the military government known as the 8-8-88 campaign, because they peaked in August that year. An estimated 3,000 people were killed when the army crushed the uprising.Aung San Suu Kyi emerged as a democracy icon during the movement and was kept under house arrest for nearly two decades. She was released in 2008 as the military began democratic reforms and her National League for Democracy won elections in 2015 and again in November last year.On February 1 this year, the generals overthrew her government and detained Suu Kyi and many of her cabinet colleagues, claiming fraud in the November elections.More than 70 people have been killed in the Southeast Asian nation in widespread protests since then, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) advocacy group said.The coup in Myanmar, where the military has close ties to China, is a major early test for new US President Joe Biden.His administration flagged a virtual meeting with the Indian, Japanese and Australian leaders on Friday, the first official summit of a group known as the Quad, as part of a push to demonstrate a renewed US commitment to regional security."As long-standing supporters of Myanmar and its people, we emphasise the urgent need to restore democracy and the priority of strengthening democratic resilience," the four leaders said in a statement released by the White House.A spokesman for the junta did not answer phone calls from Reuters seeking comment.SOUTH KOREA SNAPS DEFENCE TIESUN human rights investigator Thomas Andrews on Friday dismissed as "absurd" comments by a senior Myanmar official that authorities were exercising "utmost restraint".Addressing the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, he called for a united approach to "strip away the junta's sense of impunity".Former colonial power Britain warned its citizens in Myanmar to leave on Friday, saying "political tension and unrest are widespread since the military takeover and levels of violence are rising".South Korea said it would suspend defence exchanges and reconsider development aid to Myanmar because of the violence.The Kremlin said Russia, which has close ties to Myanmar’s military, was concerned over the mounting violence and was "analysing" whether to suspend military-technical cooperation."We evaluate the situation as alarming, and we are concerned about the information about the growing number of civilian casualties coming from there," Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted by the TASS news agency as saying.Earlier this week, the UN Security Council dropped language from a statement that condemned the army takeover as a coup due to opposition by China, Russia, India and Vietnam.Poland's foreign ministry said a Polish journalist was arrested this week in Myanmar, the second foreign reporter to be detained. A Japanese journalist was briefly held while covering a protest.Riot police and armed soldiers entered the general hospital in Hakha, in the western Chin state, forcing all 30 patients to leave and evicting staff from on-site housing, said local activist Salai Lian.Soldiers have been occupying hospitals and universities across Myanmar as they try to quash a civil disobedience movement that started with government employees such as doctors and teachers but has expanded into a general strike that has paralysed many sectors of the economy.On Friday evening, large crowds gathered for evening vigils. In Yangon, the commercial capital, they lit candles in the shape of a three-finger salute, the symbol of the movement, while saffron-robed monks gathered outside a pagoda in the northern Sagaing region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-two-killed-in-myanmar-as-quad-nations-vow-to-restore-democracy-101615612898355.html
13-03-2021||World||Fencing outside US Capitol 'ghastly', too militarized, say lawmakers||Nobody, it seems, wants to keep the security fence around the US Capitol anymore — except the police who fought off the horrific attack on January 6.Lawmakers call the razor-topped fencing “ghastly,” too militarized and, with the armed National Guard troops still stationed at the Capitol since a pro-Trump mob laid siege, not at all representative of the world’s leading icon of democracy.“All you have to do is to see the fencing around the Capitol to be shocked,” Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton, D-DC, said in an interview Friday.How to protect lawmakers, while keeping the bucolic Capitol grounds open to visitors has emerged as one of the more daunting, wrenching questions from deadly riot. Not since the terror attacks of September 11, 2001, has security been so elevated, and the next steps so uncertain, for the Capitol complex.Five people died after the mob stormed the building trying to stop Congress from certifying President Joe Biden’s election over Republican Donald Trump. The former president was impeached by the House for inciting the insurrection, and acquitted by the Senate.The US Capitol Police has asked for the fencing and the National Guard to remain, for now.Police officers are working grueling round-the-clock overtime shifts after being overrun that day, engaging at times in hand-to-hand combat with rioters outfitted in combat gear and armed with bats, poles and other weaponry. One woman was shot and killed by police and an officer died later, among scores of police injured in what officials have said appeared to be a planned and coordinated assault.With warnings of another attack in early March by pro-Trump militants and threats on lawmakers that have nearly doubled since the start of 2021, the police, the Pentagon and lawmakers themselves are wrestling with how best to secure what has been a sprawling campus mostly open to visiting tourists and neighborhood dog walkers alike."The attack on the US Capitol on January 6th forever changed how we look at the 'People’s House,'” acting Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said in written testimony before Congress in February.She said that even before the 9/11 attacks, security experts, including former chiefs of police, argued that more needed to be done to protect the Capitol complex. "The Capitol’s security infrastructure must change,” Pittman testified.While some lawmakers say privately they appreciate the heightened security, taking down the protective perimeter and easing the National Guard’s presence is the one issue that appears to be uniting both Democrats and Republicans in the toxic political environment on Capitol Hill since the deadly riot.One option that has emerged is for a mobile, retractable barrier that could be put up as needed.“What we have now, that’s just unacceptable to me,” Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic majority whip, told reporters. “It’s just ghastly, it’s an embarrassment. If there’s a better way to protect us, I want to see it. I want to work to get it.”Lawmakers described their unease at arriving for work each day in what can feel like a war zone. The absence of tourists snapping photos of the Capitol dome or constituents meeting with representatives is an emotional loss on top of Covid-19 restrictions, they said. The security perimeter extends far beyond the Capitol itself through neighboring parks and office buildings.The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, compared it to a combat zone in Afghanistan."I think we are way overreacting," he said at a press conference.As of Friday there were about 4,300 Guard troops in the city. This week, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin formally approved the Capitol Police request to extend the deployment of nearly 2,300 Guard members for about two more months.The pushback from Capitol Hill was immediate and bipartisan.Top Republican senators on the Senate Armed Services, Homeland Security, Intelligence and other committees downplayed the potential threats to the Capitol, especially weighed against the drain on National Guard troops serving far from their homes."Our National Guard troops, who serve with great honor and distinction, are not law enforcement officers, and we will not abide the continued militarization of Capitol complex security,” wrote Sens. James Inhofe of Oklahoma, Rob Portman of Ohio, Marco Rubio of Florida and others."We are deeply troubled by the current level of security around the United States Capitol,” wrote the House Armed Services Committee's Democratic Chairman Adam Smith of Washington and Rep, Mike Rogers of Alabama, the top Republican in a joint statement.They said while there is no doubt “some level” of support from the National Guard should remain in the region to respond to threats, "the present security posture is not warranted at this time.”Still, other lawmakers say privately they are comfortable keeping security high, for now, as the country tries to ease back to a sense of normalcy after the devastating attack on the seat of government.A sweeping security review conducted in the aftermath of the riot by a task force led by retired Army Lt. Gen. Russel Honoré recommended eventually replacing the barrier with mobile fencing and “an integrated, retractable fencing system” that could be deployed as needed.Coupled with the hiring of 350 additional officers, the report also recommends establishing a permanent “quick response force” within the Capitol Police but also at the National Guard in DC for emergencies. There was a marked delay in sending the Guard to the Capitol on January 6.A supplemental spending request for security is expected to be considered by Congress in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fencing-outside-us-capitol-ghastly-too-militarized-say-lawmakers-101615612371597.html
13-03-2021||World||Increase in US crude oil prices makes oil, gas firms best performing areas||Investors betting on US energy shares have enjoyed a blistering rally, as the sector leads a move into value and economically sensitive stocks that has gripped the equity market. How much further that run continues could hinge on the success of the economic recovery, supply dynamics in oil markets and whether companies can stay disciplined on spending.The near doubling in the price of crude has helped make shares of oil and gas companies - for years a losing bet - one of the best performing areas of the market, with outsized gains in the stocks of companies such as oil major Exxon Mobil Corp and Diamondback Energy Inc, which have surged 89% and 231%, respectively, since early November.With a gain of over 80% in that time, the S&P 500 energy sector is back to levels last seen in February 2020, when the stock market began its plunge as the Covid-19 outbreak took its toll on the economy.“Shares are being bid up because there are expectations for greater demand," said Michael Arone, chief investment strategist for State Street Global Advisors. "We need to see the follow-through."The outlook for energy shares is at the centre of a number of market themes, including how long the economic "reopening" trade can last, whether energy and other value stocks can continue outperforming tech and growth shares and if the market is primed for a potential rise in inflation.Also read: US crude oil production slips for 3rd session before inventories: EIAWith the benchmark S&P 500 nearing the 4,000 level for the first time, the health of the economy, the pace of inflation and a recent rise in bond yields are expected to be hot topics when the US Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday and Wednesday.Ample crude supply that weighed on global oil prices and concerns over a push toward “green energy” were among the factors pulling down energy stocks for most of the past decade. Oil prices plummeted in the coronavirus-fuelled downturn amid global travel restrictions and shutdowns but roared higher in recent months, buoyed by breakthroughs in vaccines against Covid-19.Recent data has shown signs of an economic recovery continuing to gain momentum. The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits dropped to a four-month low last week, while US consumer sentiment improved in early March to its strongest in a year.Prices for US crude are up 35% year-to-date.Investors are watching supply dynamics as another catalyst for crude prices and energy stocks.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies last year cut output substantially as demand collapsed due to the pandemic. The group earlier this month agreed to extend most output cuts into April.Any efforts by President Joe Biden's administration to regulate US drilling could support prices by keeping supply in check, investors said.“There is more likely to be an aggressive regulatory regime, which would rein in supply, which would be a positive for commodity prices," said Burns McKinney, portfolio manager at NFJ Investment Group.Investors said they want to see whether companies are spending on new drilling, which could oversupply the market and eventually weigh on prices, or pay down debt and bolster dividends.Five international oil majors cut their capital spending by about 20% on average last year to $80 billion and are expected in aggregate to generally maintain that spending level in 2021, according to Jason Gabelman, senior energy equity research analyst at Cowen.Energy companies “need to maintain their discipline, they need to stick to capital budgets that are constrained and not drill as much and give investors confidence that this is not going to be a short-lived cycle," said Christian Ledoux, director of investment research at CAPTRUST.Setbacks in fighting the virus could undercut the reopening trade and energy shares along with it. Such a scenario risks playing out in Europe, where a more contagious variant of the coronavirus has pushed Italy and France to impose fresh lockdowns.Another factor is how quickly travel might rebound to pre-pandemic levels.“You may see reopening and people driving more and spending more on commerce, but ... if people are traveling less globally, that is going to result in oil demand not fully recovering to where it was," Gabelman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/increase-in-us-crude-oil-prices-makes-oil-gas-firms-best-performing-areas-101615603466150.html
13-03-2021||World||US judge removes China's Xiaomi from Trump-era blacklist||A US judge on Friday ordered Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi temporarily removed from a government blacklist barring American investment in the company.Six days before Donald Trump left office last year, his administration cemented its trade war legacy against Beijing with a series of announcements targeting Chinese firms including Xiaomi, state oil giant CNOOC, and social media darling TikTok.Xiaomi was one of nine firms classified by the Pentagon as "Communist Chinese military companies."But US District Judge Rudolph Contreras in Washington ruled Friday the Departments of Defense and Treasury "have not made the case that the national security interests at stake here are compelling."He issued a preliminary injunction removing Xiaomi from the blacklist and suspending the ban on US investors buying the company's securities.In an appeal filed in January against its blacklisting, Xiaomi -- which overtook Apple last year to become the world's third-largest smartphone manufacturer -- said Washington's moves were "incorrect" and had "deprived the company of legal due process."Contreras's decision came the same day US regulators listed Huawei and ZTE among Chinese telecom gear firms deemed a threat to national security, signalling that a hoped-for softening of relations is not on the cards.Huawei chief and founder Ren Zhengfei last month called for a reset with the United States under President Joe Biden, after the firm was battered by sanctions imposed by Trump's administration.The telecoms giant has been at the center of the Sino-American rivalry in recent years, against a backdrop of a trade and technology war between the superpowers.Washington claims Huawei has close ties to China's military and that Beijing could use its equipment for espionage -- accusations the company denies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-judge-removes-china-s-xiaomi-from-trump-era-blacklist-101615611543771.html
13-03-2021||World||Spanish regions halt AstraZeneca shots over blood clot concerns||Four Spanish regions have stopped administering doses from a batch of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who had been vaccinated, although the central government plans to keep using the shot.Austria earlier stopped using the batch of AstraZeneca shots while it investigated a death from clotting and a case of pulmonary embolism.Several Nordic countries suspended use of the AstraZeneca vaccine on Thursday and Spain's central Castille and Leon region decided on Friday to also stop using it as a precaution.Officials in Andalusia, Asturias and the Canary Islands said they would not use shots from the suspect batch but would continue giving jabs from other deliveries.None of the regions has detected any severe adverse effects.A police union said most of the doses from the batch in question went to police officers and asked the Health Ministry to monitor them closely.Health Minister Carolina Darias said authorities had only detected light side effects such as headaches, dizziness and intestinal troubles, while the frequency of blood clots among vaccinated people was no higher than among the general population.In a statement on Thursday, AstraZeneca said it had found no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis in safety data of more than 10 million records.The World Health Organization is looking into the issue but said there was no reason not to use the drug, while Europe's EMA medicines regulator backed it and said the benefits outweigh the risks.Darias said Spain would continue to administer the AstraZeneca vaccine until it received further guidance from the EMA.Her ministry has administered some 5.2 million doses of coronavirus vaccine, around 15% of which were made by AstraZeneca.Since taming a third wave that peaked in late January, Spain's infection rate has fallen to its lowest since August but the rate of decline is slowing.The government reported 5,348 new cases on Friday, bringing the total to nearly 3.2 million. Deaths increased by 173 to 72,258.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spanish-regions-halt-astrazeneca-shots-over-blood-clot-concerns-101615610990957.html
13-03-2021||World||Covid: Judge allows Texas' Austin city to defy state order to lift mask mandate||US Judge Lora Livingston has allowed the Texas city of Austin to defy Governor Greg Abbott's order that terminated the statewide mask mandate, Mayor Steve Adler said in a statement."Austin's mask rules will remain in effect for the next two weeks," Adler said on Friday. "We return to court on March 26. No matter what happens then, we will continue to be guided by doctors and data. Masking works."Earlier on Friday, Judge Livingston did not approve Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton's request for a temporary restraining order on Austin's mask mandate. The judge scheduled a second court hearing on March 26 to further address the matter because the city of Austin did not have adequate time to prepare for the legal challenge.Paxton filed a lawsuit against the city of Austin after Mayor Adler and Travis County Judge Andy Brown refused to comply with Abbott's executive order to lift the mask mandate by Wednesday afternoon.Abbott's executive order also allowed all businesses in Texas to operate at 100 percent without any coronavirus-related health measures. However, the governor's order includes a provision that would require public-health measures to be reinstated if the number of Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations in Texas counties reach dangerous levels that threaten hospital space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-judge-allows-texas-austin-city-to-defy-state-order-to-lift-mask-mandate-101615610887073.html
13-03-2021||World||Brazil surpasses India in confirmed Covid-19 cases, death toll over 275,000||Brazil comes now second in terms of the number of the confirmed coronavirus cases while the death toll from Covvid-19 in the country has surpassed 275,000 people, the national Ministry of Health said.Over the past 24 hours, the Latin American country has registered 85,663 new Covid-19 cases, with the total number has reached 11,363,389. India, which previously came second, has recorded 11,308,846 coronavirus cases. The United States is the worst-hit nation with more than 29.32 million Covid-19 patients.Within the same period of time, the death toll from the coronavirus in Brazil has increased by 2,216 to 275,105 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-surpasses-india-in-confirmed-covid-19-cases-death-toll-over-275000-101615610572354.html
13-03-2021||World||G7 expresses 'grave concerns' over electoral changes in Hong Kong||Foreign ministers in the G7 group of nations including the United States have expressed grave concerns at what they said was China's decision to fundamentally erode democratic elements of the electoral system in Hong Kong.The G7 released a statement that was tweeted by British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, saying the recent decision to change Hong Kong's electoral system indicated that authorities in China were determined to eliminate dissenting voices and opinions in Hong Kong."We also call on China and the Hong Kong authorities to restore confidence in Hong Kong's political institutions and end the unwarranted oppression of those who promote democratic values and the defence of rights and freedoms," it said.China's parliament approved on Thursday a draft decision to change Hong Kong's electoral system, further reducing democratic representation in the city's institutions and introducing a mechanism to vet politicians' loyalty to Beijing.The measures are part of Beijing's efforts to consolidate its increasingly authoritarian grip over the Asian financial hub following the imposition of a national security law in June 2020, which critics see as a tool to crush dissent.The European Commission and the High Representative noted in an annual report on Friday that there has been an "alarming political deterioration in Hong Kong", citing the imposition of the national security law, the arrest of dozens of pro-democracy activists in January, and Beijing's move this week to overhaul the city's politics."China is consciously dismantling the 'One Country, Two Systems' principle in violation of its international commitments and the Hong Kong Basic Law," EU High Representative/Vice-President Josep Borrell said.Separately, Australia and New Zealand said they are deeply concerned, urging Hong Kong and China to allow "genuine avenues" for the city's people to participate in their governance, and to protect the role of the Legislative Council.In Hong Kong, the government said in a statement late on Friday it strongly opposed the EU's remarks and that the report's questioning of China's willingness to uphold the "one country, two systems" principle was a "groundless accusation".The Hong Kong government said stability had been restored to society since the implementation of the national security law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/g7-expresses-grave-concerns-over-electoral-changes-in-hong-kong-101615610131702.html
13-03-2021||World||'Old age is not for sissies': 89-year-old gets Covid-19 vaccine, hopes to return to dancing||Eighty-nine-year-old New Yorker Bob Holzman received his Covid-19 vaccine as soon as he could, hoping it would allow him to get back to his favorite activity - dancing.Over the last 75 years, Holzman has danced his way around the city's events to the rhythms of swing, fox-trot, samba, and salsa.And until last year, he had never missed a Lincoln Center's Midsummer Night Swing opening and had been a fixture at city dance parties.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here When the pandemic struck in March of 2020, Holzman found himself stuck at home. He occupied himself reading electronic books on loan from the New York Public Library and playing scrabble online with friends.But now he is looking forward to getting back to normality."It was a joke from, I think, probably Betty Davis, she says, 'Old age is not for sissies,'" said Holzman, sitting on a wooden chair in the shadow of a large umbrella spread in Bryant Park."I consider myself lucky and fortunate that I'm still able to dance and jump around and take my shopping cart and do everything else."Across the United States, Covid-19 vaccinations have changed seniors' daily lives in ways large and small a year after the pandemic drove many in the high-risk group into forced isolation.Older Americans are again visiting family members, eating at their favorite restaurants, and shopping in stores without fear of death or hospitalization."I have no doubt ... that I'll be able to do whatever I did before," Holzman said. "And I'll do it with a sense of gratitude that, you know, I was able to get through it."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/old-age-is-not-for-sissies-89-year-old-gets-covid-19-vaccine-hopes-to-return-to-dancing-101615607505185.html
13-03-2021||World||WHO insists AstraZeneca Covid vaccine safe as jab faces new setbacks||The World Health Organization said Friday there was no reason to stop using AstraZeneca's Covid-19 jab after several countries suspended rollout over blood clot fears, while the hard-hit United States exceeded 100 million doses of vaccine administered to its people.The WHO, which said its vaccines advisory committee was examining the safety data coming in, stressed that no causal link has been established between the AstraZeneca vaccine and clotting."Yes, we should continue using the AstraZeneca vaccine," WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris added, stressing that any concerns over safety must be investigated.UK-based AstraZeneca insisted its jab was safe, adding there is "no evidence" of higher blood clot risks.New lockdown in ItalyDespite hopes that vaccines will pave the way to a return to normality, hard-hit Italy announced tough new restrictions in much of the country, with Prime Minister Mario Draghi warning the country faced "a new wave" of infections.One year after it became the first European country to face a major outbreak, Italy is again struggling with the rapid spread of Covid-19, this time fuelled by new, more contagious variants.Schools, restaurants, shops and museums were ordered to close across most regions of Italy, including Rome and Milan from next week.Greek authorities spoke of a "serious epidemiological situation" and warned of a third wave as infections mount in Athens and other major towns.Health experts there warned that restriction measures in place, including school closures in major conurbations, would be extended again.Disneyland Paris, one of Europe's biggest tourist attractions, said it will not be able to reopen as planned on April 2 as infections remain stubbornly high in France.- Another possible side effect - The shadow cast over the AstraZeneca jab is adding to the European Union's problems distributing vaccines.Denmark, Norway and Iceland paused use of the drugmaker's shot as a precaution after isolated reports of recipients developing blood clots.Italy and Austria have banned the use of jabs from separate batches of AstraZeneca, and Thailand and Bulgaria said this week they would delay rollout.In Spain at least five regions said they had suspended use of AstraZeneca vaccines from the suspect batch banned by Austria as a precautionary measure.But several other countries, including Australia, said they would continue their rollouts as they had found no reason to alter course. Canada also said there was no evidence the jab causes adverse reactions.In a fresh hit, the EU's drug regulator said severe allergies should be added to the possible side effects of the AstraZeneca vaccine after some likely links were found in Britain.'Secret contracts'Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz suggested some European countries may have signed "secret contracts" with vaccine companies to receive more doses than they were entitled to based on EU rules.EU members have agreed that vaccines should be distributed among countries based on population size, but Kurz said that after comparing the total procurement figures of member states, it became clear that "deliveries do not follow the per capita quota system".Despite setbacks elsewhere, US President Joe Biden offered hope to his country, which has battled the largest outbreak in the world.He vowed a return to some kind of normality by July 4, marking the national holiday as his target for "independence" from the virus.After a shaky start, the US has ramped up its vaccination programme, following the advice of scientists who say jabs are the only way out of a pandemic that has killed 2.6 million people around the world.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said 100 million vaccine doses have been administered in the US, around 30 percent of the world's total of shots in arms so far.There was also encouraging news as the WHO approved Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine, paving the way for an additional 500 million doses to enter the Covax global vaccine-sharing scheme."Every new, safe and effective tool against Covid-19 is another step closer to controlling the pandemic," said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.The news comes after the single-dose jab won approval from the European Union on Thursday.It has also received the green light from regulators in the United States, Canada, South Africa and France -- which on Friday topped 90,000 coronavirus fatalities.Meanwhile it was announced that India will manufacture at least one billion more Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of next year in a joint initiative with the United States, Japan and Australia.Following the nations' first four-way summit, Biden's national security advisor, Jake Sullivan, said the so-called Quad had made a "massive joint commitment" to vaccines."The Quad committed to delivering up to one billion doses to ASEAN, the Indo-Pacific and beyond by the end of 2022," Sullivan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-insists-astrazeneca-covid-vaccine-safe-as-jab-faces-new-setbacks-101615605396909.html
13-03-2021||World||US resumes aid to Yemen to fight famine||The United States announced a resumption of aid to Yemen's rebel-held north on Friday to fight a looming famine as the country's nearly six-year-old war grinds on UN officials warned that a blockade of fuel deliveries to a main port was heightening the world's worst humanitarian crisis.The aid concern came as President Joe Biden's envoy to Yemen expressed frustration at the country's Houthi rebels, saying they were focusing on fighting to capture more territory while an international and regional diplomatic push was underway to end the conflict."Tragically, and somewhat confusingly for me, it appears that the Houthis are prioritizing a military campaign" to seize central Marib province, envoy Tim Lenderking said. He spoke in an online event sponsored by the Atlantic Council think tank, after his more than two-week trip in the region to push for a cease-fire and ultimately a peace deal.The developments deepen the challenges for the Biden administration as it goes out on a limb to try to end the Yemen war through diplomacy, reversing previous US administrations' support for an inconclusive Saudi-led military offensive that tried to roll back the Iran-allied Houthi rebels. The rebels have shown no sign of relenting despite Biden's diplomatic overtures, adding to tensions between the US and its strategic partner Saudi Arabia.Lenderking said the Houthis have had a cease-fire proposal before them for a "number of days" and urged them to respond positively.Also read: UN urges Houthis to give African migrants access to Yemeni capitalHe gave no details, including whether the proposal was new or an updated version of a nationwide cease-fire plan that UN special envoy Martin Griffiths announced last year.Fighting and massive displacement of people, crippling fuel shortages and rising food prices have 50,000 Yemenis already caught up in famine and 5 million more a step away from it, the United Nations says. It projects 400,000 Yemeni children under 5 are at risk of dying this year from malnutrition.The war began when the Houthi rebels seized the capital, Sanaa, and much of the north in 2014. Saudi Arabia has led an unsuccessful air campaign since 2015 to try to dislodge the rebels, while rival Iran has consolidated its support for the Houthis.Biden has reversed Obama and Trump administration policy in the conflict by pulling US support for the Saudi-led offensive. Biden's six-week-old administration is reviving US diplomatic efforts to end the conflict.Friday's announcement on renewed US humanitarian support for the north comes about a year after the Trump administration stopped some aid on the grounds that Houthis were diverting the foreign assistance for themselves. The Trump administration move affected about USD 50 million in aid, out of more than USD 1.5 billion in humanitarian assistance the US has provided Yemen since 2019, the US Agency for International Development said.The Biden administration as of Friday will "cautiously resume" support to humanitarian groups working in Yemen's north, said Sarah Charles, a senior official for humanitarian assistance at the US AID.The resumed US humanitarian support would come with new measures and monitoring to try to make sure the Houthis aren't interfering with the aid, Charles said, speaking at the same virtual forum as Lenderking. The US could suspend support for some programs again if warranted, she said.The Biden administration last month also lifted the Trump administration's designation of the Houthis as a terrorist organization, saying the prohibitions that went along with the designation interfered with critical aid delivery to civilians in rebel areas.Critics said the move sent the wrong signal, especially at a time when the Houthis have stepped up cross-border drone and missile attacks into Saudi Arabia and are fighting to seize control of oil-rich Marib province from Yemen's internationally recognized government. Saudi-led warplanes have countered the Houthi advance in Marib, which is sheltering about a million Yemenis who have fled Houthi offensives elsewhere in the country.Lenderking and UN World Food Program executive director David Beasley, speaking separately to reporters about his own talks with the Houthis, US officials and other players in the conflict also pointed to interruptions in fuel deliveries to Yemen. They warned that the disruption is depriving aid convoys, homes, hospitals and businesses of needed fuel.Beasley earlier described a visit this week to a child-malnutrition ward in a Sanaa hospital, where he saw children wasting away. Many, he said, were on the brink of death from entirely preventable and treatable causes, and they were the lucky ones who were receiving medical care.The Houthis have demanded Saudis lift a port blockade of rebel areas and cease their military campaign in the country.At UN headquarters in New York on Friday, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters that no commercial fuel imports at all made it through the rebel-held main Hodeida port last month, for the first time since the Saudi-led offensive began.The fuel shortage was driving up prices of food and other critical goods, Dujarric said. Beasley, the World Food Program chief, said the fuel shortages threatened to undermine what remains of Yemen's private sector and swell the numbers of Yemenis needing aid.“I expressed to not just the United States but other major players around the world that this fuel blockade is going to create havoc and we need to work through this immediately,” Beasley said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-resumes-aid-to-yemen-to-fight-famine-101615599996230.html
13-03-2021||World||United States starts sending first stimulus payments under Covid-relief package||The US government is sending the first $1,400 stimulus payments under President Joe Biden’s pandemic-relief package out on Friday, with some people receiving them as soon as this weekend -- a stream of income that economists anticipate will juice the country’s recovery in coming months.“The first batch of payments will be sent by direct deposit, which some recipients will start receiving as early as this weekend, and with more receiving this coming week,” the Internal Revenue Service said in a statement Friday. “Additional batches of payments will be sent in the coming weeks by direct deposit and through the mail as a check or debit card. The vast majority of these payments will be by direct deposit.”A Treasury official told reporters the department didn’t yet have an estimate for how many payments would be sent in the first round on Friday.Some payments may appear as pending or as provisional payments in bank accounts before the official payment date of March 17, according to the IRS. Starting on Monday, recipients will be able to check the status of their money on the IRS’s “Get My Payment” online portal, a Treasury official told reporters.Biden signed the $1.9 trillion stimulus legislation into law on Thursday, a package that includes more than $410 billion of direct payments for most Americans. The payments mark the third direct cash infusion in less than a year.The IRS has not yet released a date for when Social Security and other federal beneficiaries will receive their payments, which will be sent the same way as their regular benefits. A payment date for this group will be announced shortly, the agency said.Payments in the form of checks or debit cards will take longer than electronic transfers. Those mailed payments will start arriving before the end of the month, an IRS official told reporters. The government also does not yet have a breakdown of how many people will receive an electronic transfer, versus the money in the mail.For those whose tax returns have already been filed and processed, the IRS will use income data for 2020 to determine eligibility and size of payments. For people who have yet to file, the IRS will review 2019 tax data to determine the payments. The IRS will review 2020 returns as they come in to see if people are owed more, and automatically deliver supplemental payments without taxpayers needing to take further action, the agency official said.IRS and Treasury officials said they’ve also taken steps to ensure payments don’t go to temporary bank accounts that have since been closed. Some individuals who used H&R Block and Intuit’s TurboTax to prepare their returns complained that previous stimulus payments went to accounts set up by the preparer that were no longer active.The IRS and Treasury worked with financial institutions to address the issue, and developed a way to quickly re-route payments sent to incorrect or closed bank accounts back to the government -- allowing them to be reissued.The IRS and Treasury officials said they’ve also put some controls in place to ensure payments aren’t sent to people who shouldn’t receive them, such as deceased individuals. But the government doesn’t have up-to-the-minute information on households, so there will still be some margin of error, they said.The law states that the payments cannot be offset to pay various past-due federal debts or back taxes, the IRS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-starts-sending-first-stimulus-payments-under-covid-relief-package-101615602296992.html
13-03-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccines for all over-40s in UK by Easter: Report||People over 40 in the UK will be offered their first coronavirus vaccination by Easter on April 4 as a boost in supplies will allow rapid expansion of the inoculation programme, the Telegraph reported on Friday, citing a senior government source.Vaccine stocks are expected to more than double, allowing the National Health Service (NHS) to offer a million doses a day in coming weeks, the newspaper said.People over the age of 50 are expected to receive an invitation for a vaccine dose over the next week, around three weeks ahead of the government's target, according to the report.A spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Social Care said that the claim that over-40s would be offered vaccine shots by Easter is "incorrect," when contacted by Reuters. "We have set out our timelines for the vaccination programme and there is no change to this.""We intend to offer a first dose to all over-50s by mid-April and all adults by the end of July," the spokeswoman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccines-for-all-over-40s-in-uk-by-easter-report-101615601914799.html
13-03-2021||World||Governors laud Prez Joe Biden's Covid vaccine timeline, but need supply of doses||SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — Governors largely cheered President Joe Biden's declaration that all adults should be eligible for coronavirus vaccinations by May 1, but the goal will require a shift for states that have been methodical in how they roll out the shots.The top health official in California said the nation's most populous state will need to work harder in the coming weeks to ensure the most vulnerable people get vaccines before they have to compete with the general public. Oregon planned to make essential workers and younger adults with disabilities eligible by May 1, not the broader population, and said Friday it wouldn't change that timeline without firmer supply commitments.Alaska, meanwhile, is already allowing all adults to sign up for a shot. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said before Biden spoke Thursday night that wide eligibility could come by next month, while Colorado Gov. Jared Polis announced Friday that it would happen by mid-April. In Virginia, state vaccine coordinator Dr. Danny Avula said the state could hit Biden’s goal earlier.Governors in Wisconsin, Louisiana, North Carolina, Kansas and Vermont said they're ready to open the floodgates on May 1.But several governors cautioned it must come with a dramatic increase in vaccine supply.“In order for widespread and comprehensive vaccination to work, the federal government will need to come through with increased doses and infrastructure," Washington Gov. Jay Inslee said in a statement.Jeffrey Zients, the White House's coronavirus coordinator, told reporters Friday that May 1 is an “absolute deadline" and that the nation will have enough supply between the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines to give shots to all adults by the end of that month. Now, an average of 2.2 million doses are being administered per day.As long as supply ramps up, the goal seems reasonable, said Jennifer Nuzzo, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security and an epidemiology professor. But she warned it could create challenges around equity and set unrealistic expectations among Americans that they will immediately be vaccinated come May.Some states may not have the infrastructure to quickly ramp up doses for such a broad pool.“It could be a delay for people to actually get a vaccine because of the operational constraints," she said.Supply was a sticking point in Oregon. Health officials say they won’t change a plan to allow the general public to be vaccinated starting July 1 until they're sure more doses are coming.“Until we get more clarity, we need to keep our current timelines in place. We can’t disappoint people who eagerly want a vaccine,” said Pat Allen, director of the Oregon Health Authority. “Right now, no one in the federal government has given us hard numbers on what we can expect and when.”California's health secretary, Dr. Mark Ghaly, said the state must focus on ensuring those most at risk of serious illness get shots before broad eligibility. People with disabilities and certain health conditions join the list Monday, and California doesn't plan to add any other groups before May 1.“If I want to see us do anything over the next six to seven weeks before May 1, (it’s) to make sure we get into the communities that have been hardest hit,” he said Friday.The state says it has the capacity to vaccinate 3 million per week but is getting about half that number of doses. By April 30, the state has set a goal of being able to give 4 million doses weekly.Tim Jin, a 46-year-old Orange County resident with cerebral palsy, said he understands Biden’s desire to get the country back to normal. But opening up vaccinations to all adults in May will crowd out people with disabilities, who are just becoming eligible for the vaccine in California, he said.“The first thing that I thought about was how much harder it’s going to be for people with disabilities to get the vaccine because they are pretty much eliminating the priority list for us,” Jin said.Kiran Savage-Sangwan, executive director of the California Pan-Ethnic Health Network and a member of the state’s vaccine advisory committee, said Biden’s plan should not undercut California’s equity goals as long as the state maintains its commitments, such as sending more doses to underserved areas.California is dedicating at least 40% of its doses to people in roughly 400 low-income ZIP codes.“Having more vaccine is absolutely what we want and what we need, and if we still don’t have enough to meet the demand, then we still need to prioritize,” she said.Elsewhere, governors met Biden's goal with enthusiasm.West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice said the state “will absolutely step up” to hit the goal. About 13% of residents are fully vaccinated, according to state data, among the highest rates in the country.Now, all West Virginia residents 50 and over are eligible for the vaccine. The state’s coronavirus czar, Dr. Clay Marsh, said officials may be able to expand eligibility to everyone earlier than May.“But we want to maintain our commitment to discipline and to make sure that we’re immunizing the people most likely to be hospitalized or to die first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/governors-laud-prez-joe-biden-s-covid-vaccine-timeline-but-need-supply-of-doses-101615601516478.html
13-03-2021||World||UN calls for women to have 'meaningful' role in Afghanistan's peace process||The UN Security Council called Friday for the "full, equal and meaningful participation of women" in Afghanistan's peace process, without mentioning recent US efforts to end the conflict there."The members of the Security Council recognized that a sustainable peace can be achieved only through a comprehensive and inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned peace process that aims at a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire," the council said in a statement.The council "condemned in the strongest terms the alarming number of attacks deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan."Without naming any particular group, the council said its members "also expressed their deep concerns about the threat posed by terrorism to Afghanistan and the region.""The members of the Security Council strongly encouraged parties to the negotiations to pursue confidence-building measures, including reductions in violence, and to continue to engage in good faith," it said.Washington recently submitted a draft peace agreement to the authorities in Kabul and to the Taliban, including the creation of a "new inclusive government," according to a letter from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken that was revealed by Afghan media.In that plan, the United States proposed holding an inter-Afghan meeting in Turkey and organizing, under the aegis of the United Nations, an international ministerial gathering that would bring together the United States, Russia, China, India, Pakistan and Iran to forge "a unitary approach" on the future of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-calls-for-women-to-have-meaningful-role-in-afghanistan-s-peace-process-101615601360429.html
13-03-2021||World||Lula da Silva makes his political comeback when Jair Bolsonaro least expects it||There were whispers when Brazilian leftist Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva made his political comeback this week that President Jair Bolsonaro was licking his chops, seeing an easy foil for his re-election bid.But it only took two days for the far-right leader to start looking worried at the prospect of a heavyweight showdown years in the making: Bolsonaro vs. Lula in 2022.The first sign of concern in the president's camp was an extremely rare sighting: Bolsonaro, who has regularly flouted expert advice on Covid-19, dutifully wearing a face mask Wednesday.Speaking at an official ceremony, he defended his handling of the pandemic, which has claimed 273,000 lives in hard-hit Brazil.Also read: Brazil hospitals 'pushed to limit' as Covid-19 death toll soars"This is a government of seriousness and responsibility," Bolsonaro said, signing a bill to accelerate vaccine purchases -- the same vaccines he had vowed not to take himself and joked could "turn you into an alligator."The about-face came hours after Lula tore into Bolsonaro's record on the pandemic."Brazil has no government," he said, attacking Bolsonaro's "imbecile" handling of Covid-19 in a speech marking his return to politics.Lula, the alternately revered and reviled leftist who led Brazil through an economic boom from 2003 to 2010, regained the right to run for office Monday when a Supreme Court judge annulled his corruption convictions on procedural grounds, sending them to another court.That put the charismatic steelworker-turned-president back in the political game for the first time since 2018, when he was jailed for taking bribes from companies seeking juicy contracts with state oil giant Petrobras.He spent 18 months in prison and was barred from the 2018 presidential election, in which he had been the front-runner -- and which Bolsonaro ultimately won, riding a wave of outrage with Lula and his Workers' Party (PT).Lula, who claims he is innocent, wasted no time making what looked very much like a stump speech -- though he stopped short of formally announcing his candidacy for October 2022.A key question now for Latin America's most-populous country and largest economy is how its president will play the new political gameboard.- Battle of extremes? -On the one hand, Lula's return to politics looks like fuel to the fire for Bolsonaro, the divisive polemicist dubbed the "Tropical Trump.""Bolsonaro is a politician forged in the flames of confrontation. He has to have an enemy. He was dreaming of Lula's return to the ring," said political scientist Marcio Coimbra of the Mackenzie School in Brasilia.Many Brazilians are fearing a campaign of polarizing extremes, at a time when the deeply divided country is already suffering from the pandemic and its economic fallout.Bolsonaro, 65, let fly some of his trademark invective Thursday, calling Lula, 75, a "convict" and "piece of decaying meat" in a live Facebook video.But if his first reactions are any indication, Lula's return could force Bolsonaro to move toward the center.More than halfway into his term, Bolsonaro's hardline, polarizing style has given him few concrete achievements to boast.And like Trump, his political role model, he will no longer be able to run as the outsider arriving to drain the swamp."Bolsonaro isn't a novelty any more," said law professor Michael Mohallem of the Getulio Vargas Foundation.If the race goes to a Bolsonaro-Lula runoff, voters in the middle -- many of whom dislike both -- would likely lean Lula if the elections were today, he said."Bolsonaro is the one who looks like a radical," he told AFP.Lula, who presented himself as a market-friendly, Covid-concerned moderate in Wednesday's speech, "looks like a mature, relatively reasonable politician by comparison," Mohallem said.Bolsonaro's future handling of the pandemic could be a weathervane.Sensitive to complaints from the business sector about the economic cost of Brazil's badly delayed immunization campaign, he looks poised to abandon his anti-vaccine rhetoric.His senator son, Flavio, sought to rally Bolsonaro supporters on social media this week to republish a picture of the president with the caption, "the vaccine is our weapon.""You don't win votes by being against the vaccine," said Mohallem."It might be easier for (Bolsonaro) to look like a flip-flopper than to pay the political price of that."- Desperate for 'middle way' -The latest twist has left some Brazilians longing for a third option -- and less-polarized politics.Newspaper Estado de Sao Paulo called in an editorial for political, business and civil society leaders to settle on a candidate that "can speak to voters who are tired of both Lula's corruption and Bolsonaro's craziness."But with more than a half-dozen lesser-known candidates jockeying for the centrist vote, for now Brazil 2022 is looking like a clash of the titans.Barring a new surprise from the judiciary, of course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lula-da-silva-makes-his-political-comeback-when-jair-bolsonaro-least-expects-it-101615599964145.html
13-03-2021||World||Top democrats call on New York Guv Andrew Cuomo to resign as allegations mount||As allegations of sexual harassment mount, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo confronted a stunning series of defections Friday that left the high-profile Democrat fighting for his political survival, angry and alone.Several state lawmakers had called for his resignation earlier in the week, but by day's end, the three-term governor had lost the support of almost the entire 29-member New York congressional delegation and a majority of Democrats in the state legislature. None of the desertions hurt more than those of New York’s two US senators, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand.“Due to the multiple, credible sexual harassment and misconduct allegations, it is clear that Governor Cuomo has lost the confidence of his governing partners and the people of New York,” the Democratic senators wrote in a joint statement. “Governor Cuomo should resign.”The escalating political crisis jeopardizes Cuomo’s 2022 reelection in an overwhelmingly Democratic state, and threatens to cast a cloud over President Joe Biden’s early days in office. Republicans have seized on the scandal to try to distract from Biden’s success tackling the coronavirus pandemic and challenge his party’s well-established advantage with female voters.Biden, a longtime ally of Cuomo and his father, former New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, has avoided directly addressing the controversy, although it’s becoming increasingly difficult.White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday declined to say whether Biden believes Cuomo should resign. She said every woman who has come forth “deserves to have her voice heard, should be treated with respect and should be able to tell her story.”The senators' statement, which cited the pandemic as a reason for needing “sure and steady leadership,” came shortly after Schumer stood alongside Biden at a Rose Garden ceremony celebrating the passage of the Democrat-backed $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill.A defiant Cuomo earlier in the day insisted he would not step down and condemned his Democratic detractors as “reckless and dangerous."“I did not do what has been alleged. Period,” he said, before evoking a favorite grievance of former President Donald Trump. “People know the difference between playing politics, bowing to cancel culture and the truth.”Never before has the brash, 63-year-old Democratic governor been more politically isolated.Some in Cuomo's party had already turned against him for his administration's move to keep secret how many nursing home residents died of Covid-19 for months, and the latest wave of defections signaled a possible tipping point.Cuomo's coalition of critics expanded geographically and politically Friday, now covering virtually every region in the state and the political power centers of New York City and Washington. Among them are New York City progressive U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez; the leader of the House Democratic campaign arm, U.S. Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney; Buffalo-based US Rep. Brian Higgins; and a group of Long Island-based state lawmakers who had been Cuomo loyalists.“The victims of sexual assault concern me more than politics or other narrow considerations, and I believe Governor Cuomo must step aside," Maloney said.Ocasio-Cortez said she believes the women who accused Cuomo of wrongdoing.“After two accounts of sexual assault, four accounts of harassment, the Attorney General’s investigation finding the Governor’s admin hid nursing home data from the legislature and public, we agree with the 55 members of the New York State legislature that the Governor must resign,” she tweeted.Cuomo on Friday insisted that he never touched anyone inappropriately, and said again that he’s sorry if he ever made anyone uncomfortable. He declined to answer a direct question about whether he's had a consensual romantic relationship with any of the accusers.“I have not had a sexual relationship that was inappropriate, period," he said.The state Assembly greenlit an impeachment investigation Thursday as lawmakers investigate whether there are grounds for Cuomo's forcible removal from office. The state attorney general is also leading a probe into his workplace conduct.The firestorm around the governor grew after the Times Union of Albany reported Wednesday that an unidentified aide told a supervisor Cuomo reached under her shirt and fondled her at his official residence late last year.The woman hasn’t filed a criminal complaint, but a lawyer for the governor said Thursday that the state reported the allegation to Albany police after the woman declined to do so herself.Additionally, Cuomo is facing multiple allegations of sexually suggestive remarks and behavior toward women, including female aides. One aide said he asked her if she would ever have sex with an older man. And another aide said the governor once kissed her without consent, and said governor’s aides publicly smeared her after she accused him of sexual harassment.Rarely in the modern era has a leading elected official survived such a political backlash from his own party, but there is precedent.Former South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford, a Republican, refused to resign in 2009 after a scandal involving an extramarital affair. He would go on to serve in Congress. And in 2019, Virginia's Democratic Gov. Ralph Northam resisted sweeping calls for his resignation after a blackface photo in an old yearbook emerged. Northam is still in office.Cuomo vowed Friday that he’d still be able to govern despite the growing list of elected officials who say they’ve lost faith in his ability to govern.He didn’t address the reality of an increasingly untenable position: Cuomo is seeking a fourth term next year, managing the state's pandemic response and negotiating a state budget with lawmakers who’ve lost confidence in his leadership.The defections of virtually the entire congressional delegation raised the prospect of further erosion in state legislature support.Showing no signs of bowing to the pressure, Cuomo raised new questions about the motives of the accusers.“I won’t speculate about people’s possible motives,” he said Friday. "But I can tell you as a former attorney general who has gone through this situation many times, there are often many motivations for making an allegation. And that is why you need to know the facts before you make a decision.”“Serious allegations should be weighed seriously, right?" he added. "That’s why they are called serious.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-democrats-call-on-new-york-guv-andrew-cuomo-to-resign-as-allegations-mount-101615600781817.html
13-03-2021||World||Tesla investor sues Elon Musk over his 'erratic tweets'||Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk has been sued by a shareholder who accused him of violating his 2018 settlement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission over his Twitter use.According to a complaint unsealed late Thursday in Delaware Chancery Court, which also names the electric car company's board as defendants, Musk's "erratic" tweets and the failure of Tesla directors to ensure he complied with the SEC settlement have exposed shareholders to billions of dollars of losses.The complaint highlighted several Musk posts on social media platform Twitter, including his assessment last May 1 that Tesla's stock price was "too high," prompting a more than $13 billion tumble in Tesla's market value.Chase Gharrity, the plaintiff, said Musk's actions and the directors' inaction have caused "substantial financial harm," and that they should pay damages to Palo Alto, California-based Tesla for breaching their fiduciary duties.The lawsuit was filed even though Tesla's share price has soared nearly fivefold since Musk's "too high" tweet, giving Tesla a valuation well above $600 billion, and the SEC has not publicly accused Musk of recent violations."It could pressure the SEC into taking some sort of recourse," said Charles Elson, a University of Delaware professor and corporate governance specialist.Tesla did not immediately respond on Friday to requests for comment. Gharrity's lawyers, Musk's lawyers in the SEC case, and the SEC did not immediately respond to similar requests.The SEC settlement followed Musk's August 2018 tweet that he had "funding secured" to possibly take Tesla private in a $72 billion transaction. In reality, Musk was not close.Musk and Tesla each paid $20 million in civil fines, and Tesla lawyers agreed to vet some of Musk's tweets in advance.The settlement was later amended to clarify when pre-approvals were required, prompted by a unvetted tweet by Musk about Tesla's vehicle production forecast.Last April, a San Francisco federal judge said Tesla and Musk must face a lawsuit claiming Musk's going-private tweet defrauded shareholders. That case remains pending.The case is Gharrity v Musk et al, Delaware Chancery Court, No. 2021-0199.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tesla-investor-sues-elon-musk-over-his-erratic-tweets-101615600463530.html
13-03-2021||World||Texas guv clashes with lieutenant guv over blackout overcharges||Texas Governor Greg Abbott rebuffed the state’s second-ranking official, who has called for reversing billions of dollars in power overcharges stemming from last month’s historic winter storm.Abbott said he doesn’t have the authority to comply with Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick’s demand that $16 billion in excessive electricity costs be retroactively erased. This is the first time the leading Republicans in state government have publicly clashed over the pricing issue.In a letter released late Friday, Abbott also voiced support for embattled Public Utility Commissioner Arthur D’Andrea, who was publicly excoriated by Patrick and lawmakers this week over his refusal to reverse the charges. D’Andrea infuriated some lawmakers on Thursday when he said the grid manager’s decision to keep power prices elevated at the maximum-allowed $9,000-per-megawatt-hour rate was justified, and that altering them at this stage would do more harm than good.“It is clear to me there is a difference of opinion of whether there was a billing error or there was a deliberate decision to take action to save the lives of Texans in their homes,” Abbott said in his letter. “You asked that I ‘intervene to ensure the right thing is done.’ The Governor does not have independent authority to accomplish the goals you seek.”The dispute underscores just how contentious Texas’ power-market crisis has become. Lawmakers, regulators and companies are all at odds over how to settle a $3 billion financial shortfall stemming from sky-high electricity prices during the energy crisis that left millions in the dark for days.In the meantime, two companies have filed for bankruptcy and more than a dozen others face default. If the state’s grid operator isn’t able to cover the debt, it will be spread out to all market participants and, eventually, to consumers.The widening rift between two of the Texas GOP’s most-ambitious politicians sets the stage for a contest between state house leaders who are sympathetic to the governor’s stance and a senate overwhelmingly in favor of Patrick’s approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-guv-clashes-with-lieutenant-guv-over-blackout-overcharges-101615599966891.html
13-03-2021||World||UNSC calls for immediate end to alarming attacks on civilians||The United Nations Security Council has condemned the alarming number of attacks deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan and called for an immediate end to these attacks and stressed for the urgent need to bring the perpetrators to justice.In a statement released, the council said that these heinous attacks have targeted civil servants, the judiciary, the media, health-care and humanitarian workers, including women in prominent positions, those who protect and promote human rights, and ethnic and religious minorities."The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims, and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured," the Security Council said in a statement issued on Friday by Council President Linda Thomas-Greenfield (United States).The members of the Security Council expressed their deep concern regarding the increase of these targeted attacks in the months following the start of the Afghanistan peace negotiations on 12 September 2020."The members of the Security Council recognized that a sustainable peace can be achieved only through a comprehensive and inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned peace process that aims at a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire, as well as an inclusive political settlement to end the conflict in Afghanistan," the statement read.They stressed the need for full, equal and meaningful participation of women in this regard. The members of the Security Council strongly encouraged parties to the negotiations to pursue confidence-building measures, including reductions in violence, and to continue to engage in good faith."The members of the Security Council called for an immediate end to these targeted attacks and stressed the urgent and imperative need to bring the perpetrators to justice. The members of the Security Council recalled that all parties must respect their obligations under international humanitarian law in all circumstances, including those related to the protection of civilians."Last February, the Taliban and the Afghan government reached a landmark US-brokered agreement, paving the way for peace talks, which began in the Qatari capital of Doha on September 12.The intra-Afghan talks have so far failed to put an end to the confrontation on the ground. On the contrary, Afghanistan has witnessed a spate of bomb attacks and clashes in recent months, with the military continuing to regularly conduct operations against Taliban operatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unsc-calls-for-immediate-end-to-alarming-attacks-on-civilians-101615595018339.html
13-03-2021||World||US offers temporary legal residency to people from Myanmar||The Biden administration offered temporary legal residency Friday to people from Myanmar, where military leaders have overthrown the country's elected government and are using deadly force against protesters.Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said the temporary protected status would last for 18 months. The designation applies to people from that country already living in the United States.Myanmar's military seized power February 1, hours before the seating of a new parliament following election results that were seen as a rebuff to the country's generals. The coup upended internationally backed efforts to restore democracy and end decades of junta rule. Security forces have killed dozens of protesters since the coup.Mayorkas said in a statement that the takeover has worsened humanitarian conditions, disrupted aid and medical flights into the country and brought on an economic crisis, making it difficult for Myanmar nationals and longtime residents to return to the country safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-offers-temporary-legal-residency-to-people-from-myanmar-101615594739480.html
13-03-2021||World||George Floyd killing: Minneapolis agrees to pay $27 million amidst ex-cop's trial||The city of Minneapolis on Friday agreed to pay USD 27 million to settle a civil lawsuit from George Floyd's family over the Black man's death in police custody, as jury selection continued in a former officer's murder trial.Council members met privately to discuss the settlement, then returned to public session for a unanimous vote in support of the massive payout. It easily surpassed the USD 20 million the city approved two years ago to the family of a white woman killed by a police officer.Floyd family attorney Ben Crump called it the largest pretrial settlement ever for a civil rights claim, and thanked city leaders for "showing you care about George Floyd.""It's going to be a long journey to justice. This is just one step on the journey to justice," Crump said. "This makes a statement that George Floyd deserved better than what we witnessed on May 25, 2020, that George Floyd's life mattered, and that by extension, Black lives matter.""Even though my brother is not here, he's here with me in my heart," Philonise Floyd said. "If I could get him back, I would give all this back."L Chris Stewart, another attorney who worked with the family, said the size of the settlement "changes evaluations and civil rights for a Black person when they die.""And what happens is that trickles down to decisions in the communities across this country. When there is a city council or a mayor deciding, 'Oh, should we get rid of no-knock warrants, should we get rid of chokeholds, do we want to change these policies?' They have 27 million reasons now why they should. And that will make decisions happen. That will make accountability happen."The settlement includes USD 500,000 for the south Minneapolis neighborhood that includes the 38th and Chicago intersection that has been blocked by barricades since his death, with a massive metal sculpture and murals in his honor. The city didn't immediately say how that money would be spent.Floyd was declared dead on May 25 after Derek Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against his neck for about nine minutes. Floyd's death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond and led to a national reckoning on racial justice.City Council President Lisa Bender choked up as she addressed a news conference about the settlement, saying she knew "no amount of money" could bring Floyd back."I just want you to know how deeply we are with you," she said to Floyd's family members.Floyd's family filed the federal civil rights lawsuit in July against the city, Chauvin and three other fired officers charged in his death. It alleged the officers violated Floyd's rights when they restrained him, and that the city allowed a culture of excessive force, racism and impunity to flourish in its police force.In 2019, Minneapolis agreed to pay USD 20 million to the family of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, an unarmed woman who was shot by an officer after she called 911 to report hearing a possible crime happening behind her home, to settle her family's civil rights lawsuit. Damond was white.It wasn't immediately clear how the settlement might affect the trial or the jury now being seated to hear it. Crump said the settlement is a way "to help shape what justice looks like" rather than waiting for a result from a legal system that many Blacks distrust."The one thing we know as Black people ... is there is no guarantee that a police officer will be convicted for killing a Black person unjustly in our country," Crump said. "That's what history has taught us."Stewart said the civil case "doesn't have anything to do with" the trial."Justice doesn't really wait,” he said. “It happens when it happens and it happened today."Ted Sampsell-Jones, a criminal law expert at the Mitchell Hamline School of Law, said it's additional pretrial publicity that is "bad for the defense" and could lead some jurors to think guilt has already been decided."However, this ultimately should not affect the criminal case,” Sampsell-Jones said."There has already been a ton of pretrial publicity -- some of it bad for the prosecution, some of it bad for the defense. All we can do is hope that the jurors will follow Judge Cahill's instructions and decide the case based solely on the evidence presented at trial."Crump and others at the news conference called for any protests during Chauvin's trial to be peaceful. Minneapolis is on edge for potential violence if Chauvin is acquitted, with concrete barriers, fencing and barbed wire encircling the courthouse and the National Guard already mobilized.Meanwhile, another potential juror was dismissed Friday after she acknowledged having a negative view of the defendant.The woman, a recent college graduate, said she had seen bystander video of Floyd's arrest and closely read news coverage of the case. In response to a jury pool questionnaire, she said she had a "somewhat negative" view of Chauvin and that she thought he held his knee to Floyd's neck for too long."I could only watch part of the video, and from what I saw as a human, I, that did not give me a good impression," she said. She said she did not watch the bystander video in its entirety because "I just couldn't watch it anymore."The woman repeatedly said she could put aside her opinions and decide the case on the facts, but Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson nonetheless used one of his 15 challenges to dismiss her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-killing-minneapolis-agrees-to-pay-27-million-amidst-ex-cop-s-trial-101615593835838.html
13-03-2021||World||Biden vows normal I-Day for US amid global spikes||US President Joe Biden on Thursday offered his nation a glimpse of an almost normal Independence Day on July 4, outlining in a speech how the United States can defeat the coronavirus if people stay united on prevention measures and get vaccinated.The US president’s words of encouragement came even as several countries around the world decided to bring in curbs to control a fresh resurgence of the coronavirus. Italy, Japan, South Korea, Serbia and several other nations could see restrictions being brought back to stop the spread of new variants of the Covid-19 virus.“This fight is far from over,” Biden, meanwhile, said in his first televised prime-time address as US president, marking 12 months since the outbreak was declared a pandemic.Delivering an emotional tribute to the more than 530,000 Americans who have died from Covid-19 over the last 12 months, Biden said, “While it was different for everyone, we all lost something: a collective suffering, a collective sacrifice.”But he raised hope that the country hardest hit by the pandemic could overcome the virus if Americans work together and follow health experts’ guidelines on wearing masks and getting vaccinated. “Just as we are emerging from a dark winter into a hopeful spring and summer is not the time to not stick with the rules,” he said.“If we do this together, by July the 4, there’s a good chance you, your families and friends will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighbourhood and have a cookout or a barbecue and celebrate Independence Day,” he said.The White House said $1,400 direct payments for most Americans funded by the American Rescue Plan will start showing up in bank accounts this weekend. Biden signed the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan in the Oval Office on Thursday.Meanwhile, Italy is expected to announce the closure of schools, restaurants and shops across most of the country to counter what experts warned was a third wave of Covid-19.PM Mario Draghi’s cabinet agreed on new curbs as Italy on Thursday recorded nearly 26,000 cases and 373 deaths.Serbia said it will close down all non-essential shops, bars and restaurants this weekend as the Balkan country faces a surge. Serbia has recorded over 4,000 new cases daily in the past week.Japan’s transportation ministry will tighten border controls and limit the number of entrants to up to 2,000 per day to guard against more contagious variants of the coronavirus. Japan has confirmed 345 cases of the more contagious new variants.South Korea is extending its current measures on social distancing for another two weeks as it struggles to slow infections in Seoul and around. South Korea has been seeing 300 to 400 new cases a day since mid-January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-vows-normal-i-day-for-us-amid-global-spikes-101615584743398.html
13-03-2021||India||J’khand nod to 75% quota for locals in pvt jobs||RANCHI: The Jharkhand cabinet has approved an employment policy that mandates a 75% reservation in private sector jobs up to a monthly salary of ₹30,000 for local residents, people familiar with the matter said. A minister who was part of the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren said on condition of anonymity that as of now jobs will be reserved for the locals in the industrial units only. “As of now it[the policy] will be implemented in the industrial units. In due course, other sectors could also follow,” said the minister. The minister, however, refused to share the policy’s blueprint saying it will be made public at an opportune time. People familiar withe the matter said the chief minister is likely to make a formal announcement over the decision in the coming week during the ongoing budget session of Jharkhand assembly. Reserving jobs in the private sector for the state’s local residents was a poll promise for the state’s ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) in the run-up to the 2019 assembly polls. The decision comes days after Haryana implemented its policy reserving 75% jobs in the private sector up to a ₹50, 000 a month salary for local candidates.Opposition BJP said while they welcomed any decision that was for the benefit of the state’s youngsters, they were apprehensive over whether the ruling party would be able to effectively implement the decision. “We have serious doubts that these schemes would help the beneficiaries. It is likely to meet the same fate as the agricultural loan waiver announcement which has hardly benefitted the needy as yet,” said Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. BJP government in Haryana has recently come up with a similar decision reserving 75% jobs in private sector for the locals. However, the salary cap in the northern state has been kept higher. President of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce & Industries (FJCCI), Praveen Jain Chhabra said in-principle they were not against such a reservation policy but the government should simultaneously help in developing skilled labour force within the state. “We would like the government to push for setting up skill development centres and help the industry in recruiting workforce locally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkhand-nod-to-75-quota-for-locals-in-pvt-jobs-101615660183923.html
13-03-2021||India||Odisha to promote all students from Classes 1 to 8 for 2nd consecutive year||For the second consecutive year, the Odisha government is planning to promote all students from Classes 1 to 8 to the next higher classes this year in view of the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and its resurgence of the infection in some states.School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said his department has given a proposal to promote the students of Classes 1 to 8 as no offline classes could be held.“Last year though students had attended classes there was no scope to hold examinations so we had promoted all of them. But this year any scope for students to attend classes is yet to happen. In my opinion with the resurgence of the pandemic in some other states in the country, there is hardly any chance of Classes I-VIII students coming to schools to physically attend classes. So like last year, discussions are underway on what can be done. However, the CM will take a final decision on this,” he said.Students of classes 9 and 11, however have to appear for exams as they are attending offline classes.On March 13 last year, the Odisha government had announced closure of schools and other educational institutions after the World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus outbreak. Later, the school and mass education department postponed the examinations of all the classes starting from Class 1 to 9 and Class 11 as a preventive measure to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.The minister said there is no plan to start the academic session in April due to the heatwave and the academic session will start from June as usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-promote-all-students-from-classes-1-to-8-for-2nd-consecutive-year-101615659022005.html
13-03-2021||India||2 mn vaccinated in a day, tally reaches 28.2mn: Govt||New Delhi The Union health ministry said on Saturday that India administered record 2.05 million coronavirus vaccine doses a day earlier, taking the total number of shots given so far in the country to 28.2 million.Experts, however, say that the vaccination drive needs to be ramped up quickly to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 and to control the current surge of infections being reported from certain states. “Although it is heartening to see an increase in pace, it is sort of an under-accomplishment to go at this rate as India has the capacity to cover 7 to 10 million per day,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.India began the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the world’s largest such exercise, on January 16. “India recorded a significant milestone in its countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive... More than 20 lakh (20,53,537) vaccine doses were given on Day-56 of the vaccination drive (12th March, 2021) through 30,561 sessions. This is the highest single day vaccine administration so far,” said the Union health ministry.Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani has currently approved two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – in the fight against Covid-19. Covaxin is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian council of Medical’s research and the other vaccine is developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and is locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.First doses have been administered to 1,639,663 health care and frontline workers, and 413,874 health care and frontline workers have received the second dose of vaccines so far, according to government data.Since the vaccination was opened in the second phase on on March 1, 7,291,716 individuals above 60 years of age and 1,254,468 between 45 and 59 years with specified comorbidities have been vaccinated in the country. Eight states constituted 74% of the 2,053,537 doses administered in last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said. Uttar Pradesh topped the list with at least 330,000 vaccine doses.“Covering 10 million people a day will ensure that we will cover the entire vulnerable population within a month. This will prevent any sort of second wave in India. Given the proactive and strong leadership shown by India so far in tackling Covid-19, the ambitious goal to cover them within 30 days will take us ahead of the virus. This ambition is a necessity, not for any records,” Dr Babu said.India’s caseload stood at 202,022 on Saturday, according to government data. The current caseload is 1.78% of the total positive cases. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh reported 87.72% of the new cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra accounts for 63.57% of India’s total active cases.“Central teams have been rushed to various states that are reporting a surge in cases, and states have been advised to revert to the earlier strategy of test, trace, and treat to curb the chain of transmission. But most important is for people to understand that we must observe Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. It is imperative to wear a mask, observe physical distancing and maintain hygiene as there is still a large section of the population that is susceptible,” said Dr Vinod Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.The Union health ministry’s national Covid-19 task force will meet next week to review adverse events following immunisation to check for any reported cases of blood clots or similar side effects in individuals post-vaccination. The ministry held a preliminary meeting with state nodal officers on Saturday for the second consecutive day to collect adverse events data from across the country.“This raw data will be presented to the national adverse committee for close scrutiny,” said a senior government official directly involved with Covid-19 management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-mn-vaccinated-in-a-day-tally-reaches-28-2mn-govt-101615659826758.html
13-03-2021||India||Ambani threat case: NIA records statement of Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze||New Delhi A special cell team of Delhi police on Saturday interrogated Tehsin Akhtar, the last known chief of the now dormant homegrown terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), after two smartphones were recovered from his barrack in Tihar’s jail number 8, one of which reportedly sent out a message that claimed responsibility for the explosives found in the SUV outside Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25.The police on Friday sought a city court’s permission to question Akhtar – a 30-year-old civil engineer from Darbangha, Bihar, and a known close associate of arrested IM co-founder Yasin Bhatkal – who is known to authorities as being both tech-savvy and an expert in making bombs.“Special cell officers are interrogating Tehsin Akhtar. We had handed them the phones on Thursday [March 11] night. They came in the afternoon [of March 13] and are still inside,” a prison officer who spoke on the condition of anonymity said late Saturday night.A Telegram channel was created by “jaishulhind” [Jaish-ul-Hind] on February 26 and a message claiming responsibility for parking the vehicle outside Antilia, where Ambani lives with his family, was posted from that channel. A message seeking payment in bitcoin, a cryptocurrency, was also sent out on this channel, which reportedly had 10 members. The identity of the members is not immediately known as the maker of the channel closed the group the following day. The National Investigation Authority (NIA) is investigating the explosives found outside Ambani’s house after the Union home ministry took suo motu notice of the case.During the course of its investigation, the agency discovered the Telegram message and traced it to Tihar jail. The Delhi police’s special cell was informed that two phones – an Oppo and a Vivo; both smartphones – were active inside the prison. At 8pm on March 11, Tihar prison authorities conducted a raid inside jail number 8 and found both phones. Police are investigating whether Akhtar was involved in making the Telegram channel, as he is not the only one lodged inside the high risk cell of jail number 8. A second police officer said that Akhtar shares the cell with at least four other prisoners who have also been arrested on terror charges. The four men were arrested for being operatives of IM and Al Qaeda’s Indian sub-continent module.Akhtar was the “operational chief” of IM when he was arrested in 2014 from Naxalbari in West Bengal, police said. He is reported to be in touch with other IM co-founders, Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal, who are believed to be hiding in Pakistan. He is implicated in a number of blasts, including one that took place during Narendra Modi’s rally in 2013 in Patna, as well as the 2011 Mumbai blasts at Zaveri Bazari and Opera House. While most of the leaders behind IM are either convicted or behind bars, little is known about Jaish-ul-Hind. “[Akhtar] seems to have a role in recovery of mobile phones from Tihar but one thing is for sure that there is no terror outfit named Jaish-ul-Hind on the ground. It’s most likely that somebody has played mischief or old Indian Mujahideen (IM) members are trying to be in limelight by claiming to be somebody else. We are investigating Tehsin Akhtar and other angles. We do not want to rule out anything yet,” said a Delhi Police officer, requesting anonymity. A top counter-terrorism expert who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the so-called Jaish-ul-Hind had made similar claim after the low intensity explosion outside the Israel embassy on January 29, but the Internet Protocol address used for that message was traced to Turkey. The NIA too is looking into the role of Tehsin Akhtar, also known as Monu, because of his capability as a master-strategist, officials said. Akhtar had become the prime motivator and ideologue with the capacity to develop new modules for the now-banned outfit. He had also emerged as the vital link between the IM and other radical extremist groups emerging out of the umbrella of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) after the arrest of Yasin Bhatkal in 2013.Mumbai cop questioned by NIAThe NIA on Saturday recorded the statement of Mumbai Police Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze in relation to its probe.Vaze, an assistant police inspector with the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai crime branch till last week, was the lead investigator in the explosives case before it was transferred to the Anti Terrorism Squad, and later the NIA.Vaze’s statement was recorded to understand the sequence of events as he was initially heading the investigation in Scorpio case as well his connection with Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the vehicle.“We are talking to several Mumbai police officers including all the Investigating Officers (IOs) who handled the probe initially. It’s part of the process,” a senior NIA officer said.Vaze is also under the scanner of the ATS for his involvement in the suspicious death of Mansukh Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane-based businessman linked to the Scorpio carrying explosives found parked outside Ambani’s house.He was transferred out of the crime branch last week after leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded his arrest in connection with Hiran’s death, after Hiran’s wife Vimla told the ATS that she suspected Vaze had a hand in her husband’s death.Vaze, who filed for anticipatory bail on Friday, was denied interim protection by the Thane District and Sessions Court on Saturday which stated that “custodial interrogation is necessary” was necessary in the investigation.The court posted the anticipatory bail hearing to March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-threat-case-nia-records-statement-of-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-101615659823908.html
13-03-2021||India||'Test for govt job recruitment likely to be held in Sept': Union minister||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said the Common Eligibility Test (CET) for government jobs recruitment is likely to be held around September this year.He said the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) for conducting the CET has been constituted with the approval of the Union Cabinet.“As a major boon for the youth, particularly the government job aspirants, a Common Eligibility Test (CET) will be conducted across the country from this year to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to central government jobs,” said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel.The first such test is likely to be held in the later part of 2021, probably around September or so, he told PTI here.Singh said the "path-breaking transformational reform" carried out by the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) was possible because of the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his deep concern for the youth.The NRA, he said, will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group B and C (non-technical) posts.The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in far-flung areas, the minister said.One of the important objectives of this historic reform, said Singh, is to provide a level playing field to every candidate so that none of the job aspirant is at a disadvantage and has an equal opportunity, regardless of his or her background or socio-economic status.This will also be beneficial for women and Divyang candidates as well as those who find it financially unaffordable to appear for multiple tests by travelling to different centres, he said.Singh also pointed out that the NRA will be an independent, autonomous organisation responsible for shortlisting candidates for certain categories for which recruitment is carried through Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS).However, the existing central recruiting agencies like SSC, RRBs and IBPS would continue to conduct specific recruitment as per their requirements and the CET will only be the test for preliminary screening of candidates for the jobs, he clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-for-govt-job-recruitment-likely-to-be-held-in-sept-union-minister-101615658744683.html
13-03-2021||India||Can’t afford defeat in war against Covid-19: Vardhan asks citizens to exercise caution||Union minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday asked citizens to not let their guard down and put the success achieved by the nation against the Covid-19 pandemic at stake. The health minister asked people to adhere to the same rules which they had followed last year to keep Covid-19 at bay.“We are far ahead in several parameters when compared to other countries in our fight against Covid-19. We achieved a lot of success and we cannot lose it. In order to retain this, people have to maintain the same level of awareness as they did since last year,” the health minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India has recorded 11,333,728 Covid-19 cases so far with 158,446 deaths but the nation boasts a recovery rate of 96.82%, according to data from the health ministry. The US, which is the worst-affected nation so far, has recorded 29,113,651 cases and 529,301 deaths, according to the latest data from the US Centers for Disease Control. Brazil is also among the worst-affected nations with more than 11,368,316 Covid-19 cases and 275,276 deaths.India has vaccinated 28,218,457 people against Covid-19. The nation ranks second in terms of vaccination but has achieved this milestone in less than 60 days.Vardhan’s message to citizens to consistently follow Covid-19 preventative measures comes at a time when several states have reported a rise in the number of daily Covid-19 cases, creating concerns over an impending second wave of Covid-19. Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have been warned by the Centre as they have recently recorded a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. These states and Union Territories are also contributing maximum to the rise in daily caseload recorded across the country.Vardhan inaugurated various facilities at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Bhopal and said that the government is aiming to expand the number of medical institutes across the nation so that citizens can avail high-quality health care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-afford-defeat-in-war-against-covid-19-vardhan-warns-citizens-101615658276608.html
13-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu assembly polls 2021: Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami confident of ‘sweeping majority’||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday expressed confidence that the people would give a good verdict for his party, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), in the upcoming assembly polls in the state. “Is Stalin an astrologer to say that DMK will win 200 seats in the elections? People will vote and their verdict is final. We expect that they will give us a good verdict,” news agency ANI quoted Palaniswami as saying.The chief minister’s remarks came after ADMK’s arch-rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) released its election manifesto earlier in the day and also its candidate list, on Friday, for the Tamil Nadu elections. Also, DMK chief MK Stalin said that his party would win in all the seats where they are contesting.Also read | DMK poll manifesto promises to abolish NEET, slash fuel prices in Tamil NaduTalking about electoral alliances, Palaniswami said that the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) party breaking its ties with the ADMK would not be a loss. “Puthiya Tamilagam party is not with us, they left us long back. DMDK's exit from the alliance is no loss to us. Bad-mouthing after quitting is not right,” Palaniswami said, as reported by ANI. He also expressed confidence that his party would win the elections with a “sweeping majority”.The ADMK is contesting the elections in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), the Tamil Maanila Congress and other regional parties.Earlier in the day, the CM also criticised the DMK for dynasty politics, after MK Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi Stalin was fielded as a candidate from the Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni constituency in Chennai. He said, “People must prove that one who works for them deserve higher posts like CM and put an end to the dynasty politics of DMK. If they come to power, it would be the family that will become a power centre."Watch | ‘AIADMK has become Modi’s slave’: Asaduddin Owaisi ahead of Tamil Nadu pollsAssembly elections in Tamil Nadu have been scheduled for April 6, 2021, and the votes will be counted on May 2, 2021, as announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-2021-chief-minister-edappadi-palaniswami-confident-of-sweeping-majority-101615655562563.html
13-03-2021||India||Forest fire in Similipal National Park completely contained, says Odisha govt||The Odisha government on Saturday claimed that the forest fire in several jungles including the one in Similipal National Park in Mayurbhanj district is completely contained.The chief of the Forest Fire Task Force Dr Sandeep Tripathy said proactive steps taken by the state government to check and control forest fire in the state has led to total control in the forest fire situation in Odisha."The Similipal forest fire is now completely contained. As per the latest National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC), Hyderabad report, the forest fire activities in Similipal are totally reduced, he said.Tripathy said Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun has indicated 341 forest fire alert in the state on Saturday with only 4 fire alerts fire in Similipal as against 701 forest fire alerts on Friday and the forest fire situation in the state is contained.He said District Collectors along with SPs, Sub- Collectors, Tahsildars are continuously associated in assisting the Forest Department field officials in fire mitigation, who are on 24X7 alert to check and douse forest fire in the field. The patrolling, including night patrolling has been up-scaled and being monitored 24X7 on the Odisha Forest Management System(OFMS) of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) office.These satellite-based forest fire alert points received from FSI, Dehradun generated using satellite data are being made available in real time through auto-generated sms to the concerned field level up to beat guard apart from WhatsApp and email, he informed.This apart, Tripathy said the state government has directed the DFOs to engage local community members in fire dousing on payments basis, wherever needed apart from providing incentives and reward to local or VSS members for their active role in control of fire.Eight ODRAF teams with 25 members along with Fire Officials are being actively engaged in dousing forest fire along with forest staff.The Central team after their Similipal visit is now at Kuldiha WL sanctuary. State's field officials are moving along with them to the fire affected areas, Tripathy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-fire-in-similipal-national-park-completely-contained-says-odisha-govt-101615654406805.html
13-03-2021||India||Centre refutes reports of train fare hike for night passengers, says it was only a suggestion||The Centre on Saturday refuted reports, which claimed a fare hike is in the offing for railway passengers who travel at night and thereby sleep in the train. In its clarification, issued through the fact check division of the Press Information Bureau, it said that the claims are false. It was only a suggestion given to the Railway Board. The ministry has not taken any decision in this regard.कुछ मीडिया रिपोर्ट्स में दावा किया जा रहा है कि जो यात्री ट्रेन में नींद लेकर सफर करना चाहें, रेलवे उनसे 10% अधिक किराया वसूल सकता है।#PIBFactCheck: यह दावा #भ्रामक है। यह केवल #Railwayboard को दिया गया एक सुझाव था। @RailMinIndia ने ऐसी कोई घोषणा नहीं की है। pic.twitter.com/M4UFasUo6VSince March 22, 2020, the railways stopped regular train services owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. In a staggered manner since then, it has been resuming operations but regular services still remain suspended. According to a statement issued by the railways ministry in February, the railways has operationalised almost 65 per cent of the mail/express trains and over 90 per cent of suburban services as compared to the pre-lockdown numbers.As the services that have been resumed after the national lockdown are all special services, there have been changes in the fare structure. Slightly higher fares have been introduced at small distance trains to discourage passengers from travelling amid the pandemic. "Covid is still around and in fact worsening in some States. Visitors from many States are being subjected to screening in other areas and discouraged to travel. A little higher price is be seen as Proactive measure of Railways to prevent crowding in trains and stop Covid from spreading," railways said in February."Railways has taken special care about those travelling by lowest fare in trains so that even in Covid times they bear the least burden. In all the trains that are being run, besides other classes, the trains have a large number of 2S class coaches which have the lowest fare in the reserved category," it said earlier.With a similar aim to prevent crowding at platforms, the railways has increased the platform ticket prices from ₹10 to ₹30. But this is a temporary measure, the ministry said.However, a 10 per cent increase in fares of night travellers was only a suggestion and no decision has been taken on it, it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-refutes-reports-of-train-fare-hike-for-night-passengers-says-it-was-only-a-suggestion-101615654763529.html
13-03-2021||India||More than 2.91 crore Covid-19 vaccines doses administered till day 57||India on Saturday crossed the landmark of administering over 2.91 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, as per the provisional report of the Union health ministry. On day 57 of the world's largest vaccination drive, 974,090 vaccine doses were administered out of which 805,014 beneficiaries received their first dose and 169,076 healthcare workers and frontline workers received their second dose of the shot.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Since the beginning of the vaccination drive on January 16, more than seven million healthcare workers have got their first jab, more than four million of health care workers have got the second dose.The vaccination for senior citizens and people with co-morbidities in India began on March 1 and since then more than 7.8 million people above the age of 60 and over 1.3 million people aged between 45-59 years have received their first doses.BSP chief Mayawati on Saturday also joined the list as she got her first jab of the Covid-19 vaccination and appealed to the Centre and state government to provide free vaccines to the poor.Also Read | Fliers without masks, not heeding Covid-19 protocols could be deboarded: CentreA day before, India recorded a significant milestone as for the first time administering more than two million Covid-19 vaccine doses in a single day. Out of these two million doses, Uttar Pradesh administered 3.3 lakh doses, which was the highest.The country has been witnessing a spike in the daily coronavirus cases since February. The active Covid-19 caseload has increased to over 2 lakh as India registered more than 24,000 fresh cases on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-2-91-crore-covid-19-vaccines-doses-administered-till-day-57-101615650378516.html
13-03-2021||India||200 terrorists active inside J&K, 250 waiting in launch pads across LoC: DGP||Around 200 terrorists are active in Jammu and Kashmir while intelligence inputs suggest that another 250 are waiting in launch pads across the border, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said on Saturday.In a clear reference to Pakistan, Singh said security forces are alive to the threat and on alert to scuttle the nefarious designs of the neighbouring country to disturb peace in the union territory.The DGP also said all necessary security arrangements would be made to ensure that the Amarnath Yatra in south Kashmir Himalayas, scheduled to commence on June 28, is peaceful.Talking to reporters before inaugurating the inter zone sports meet at the police headquarters here, Singh said there are around 200 terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir.“I am hopeful that the number will drop further this year like the previous year when the figure dropped to a large extent,” he said.On the number of terrorists present in launching pads across the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB), the police chief said as per intelligence inputs, the number is between 200 to 250 which is almost the same as previous years.“We are keeping an eye on them as well,” he said.Responding to a question about the preparations for the Amarnath Yatra, he said, “All arrangements with regard to the pilgrimage will be done like previous years including large scale deployment (of security personnel) at different levels.”“This year too, our efforts are on and every necessary arrangement will be put in place for the safety and security of the pilgrims,” he added.Without naming Pakistan, he said the agencies of the neighbouring country are involved in terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir for the last over 30 years to disturb peace and harm the lives and property of the people.“We have been foiling their nefarious designs for a long time and will continue to do so,” he said when asked about the recovery of ₹91 lakh by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from a field in Samba district following a disclosure by one of the five people arrested in connection with Handwara narco-terrorism case.The DGP said police has unearthed a number of narco-terrorism cases in 2020 and 2021 and every one of them is being investigated to unveil the conspiracy and bring the culprits to book.“Some of the cases which had a widened scale of nexus between terrorists and narco traders were transferred to the NIA. They too are probing these cases with full capability,” he said.Singh said besides narcotics, weapons including ready-to-use Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), smuggled from across the border, are being seized before they could land in the hands of terrorists and used against civilians and security forces.“A few incidents do take place here and there but after investigation the accused are being identified and stern action is being taken against them,” he said, assuring appropriate action against terrorists involved in the grenade attack in Sopore which left two policemen injured.The police chief said a befitting response was given to every terror act.Asked about the recent recovery of sticky bombs, he said such types of explosives are a threat because they have magnets and can be stuck on any metallic surface.“This is a conspiracy to target civilian and security forces vehicles. We have seized such bombs and if some of these have managed to reach terrorists, we will recover them too,” he said while referring to the recovery of a 7 kg IED in Jammu on February 14 and busting of a terror module in Awantipora area of south Kashmir which was planning to carry out a Pulwama-type attack.“The fidayeen (suicide bomber) was prepared to blow himself but timely action prevented the attack…I want to assure that any activity, whether going on the ground or underground, is being watched and neutralised. We are having a strict watch on them,” the police chief said.On the Inter zone sports meet-2021, the DGP said all six zones of the force are taking part in the tournament.“About 1000 police personnel, covering all wings of police, are taking part in 30 sports activities during the tournament. I am hopeful that the policemen who are performing their duties satisfactorily on every front will display sportsmanship spirit during the tournament,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-terrorists-active-inside-j-k-250-waiting-in-launch-pads-across-loc-dgp-101615650948576.html
13-03-2021||India||Detention arbitrary, eligible for compensation, says UN panel on Safoora Zargar||A UN expert panel has concluded that student activist Safoora Zargar, arrested for her alleged role in the northeast Delhi violence last year, should be provided compensation and other reparations by the government as she was arbitrarily detained.The findings of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights, were formally released in Geneva late on Friday.WGAD said Zargar’s detention was arbitrary as it went against both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.“The Working Group considers that, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, the appropriate remedy would be to accord Ms Zargar an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law,” WGAD said in its report.The group asked the Indian government to take steps to “remedy the situation of Ms Zargar without delay and bring it into conformity with the relevant international norms”, including those of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Covenant.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the development.Zargar, an MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia, was granted bail by the Delhi High Court in June last year. She had sought bail on the grounds that she was pregnant and had severe medical complications.She was arrested in April 2020 for allegedly conspiring with others to instigate and start the violence in northeast Delhi. At least 53 people died and 400 others were injured in the violence in February 2020. Zargar said she was only part of protests and denied the allegations made by police.In its report, WGAD concluded that Zargar “was deprived of her liberty on discriminatory grounds, owing to her status as a human rights defender, and on the basis of her political or other opinion regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act”. WGAD urged the government to “ensure a full and independent investigation of the circumstances surrounding the arbitrary deprivation of liberty” of Zargar and to take “appropriate measures against those responsible for the violation of her rights”.WGAD further said it considers that Zargar was “targeted for discrimination on the basis of her status as a human rights defender and in violation of her right to equality before the law and equal protection of the law under article 26 of the Covenant”. The group also considers that Zargar’s “political views and beliefs regarding the Government’s policies and actions are at the heart of the present case”.The group also referred Zargar’s case to the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, the Special Rapporteur on promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, and the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, for appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detention-arbitrary-eligible-for-compensation-says-un-panel-on-safoora-zargar-101615650950870.html
13-03-2021||India||Amid concerns over Covishield, India studies post-vaccination adverse events||Amid concerns over dangerous side-effects of the Oxford's Covid-19 vaccine, India is evaluating all serious adverse events post-vaccination to determine the causality aspects of Covishield and Covaxin, an expert associated with the process said Saturday.His comments came in the backdrop of some European countries suspending the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Covishield over fears that it may be causing dangerous blood clots in some people.India has reported 234 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs), including 71 deaths, for both the vaccines till Friday, said Dr N K Arora, an advisor to the national AEFI committee.Manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the Oxford vaccine is one of the two vaccines being used in India currently, the other being Covaxin made by domestic company Bharat Biotech.“Till Friday, 234 AEFI's (adverse events following immunisation) (for both the vaccines) including 71 deaths have been reported. The district and state level initial investigations have found no causal relationship vaccine and these events,” Arora, an advisor to the national AEFI committee, told PTI."The national AEFI is reviewing these cases again for a final causality assessment," he said."No specific vaccine is being looked at. We are carrying out a detailed evaluation of all the serious adverse events including deaths and hospitalisations following vaccination to determine the causality aspect for the both vaccines-- Covishield and Covaxin. If any cause of concern emerges, it will be conveyed," Dr Arora said.The WHO had on Friday said there was no reason to stop using the vaccine as several countries suspended the use amid concerns of blood clotting. The WHO’s global advisory committee on vaccine safety is presently reviewing the reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-concerns-over-covishield-india-studies-post-vaccination-adverse-events-101615649986605.html
13-03-2021||India||'My autonomy was violated': Disha Ravi's statement after 28 days of arrest||28 days after she was arrested on charges of sedition, Bengaluru-based 23-year-old climate change activist Disha Ravi released a statement on Saturday. Talking about her arrest, trial and judicial custody, Ravi said that even when she was produced before the court, she was unaware if she would get any legal assistance.“As I stood in that courtroom, desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that I would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available so when the judge asked me if I have anything to say, I decided to speak my mind. Before I knew it, I was sent to 5 days in police custody,” she wrote in a statement published on her social media accounts on Saturday evening.She further added that in the entire ordeal her autonomy was violated. “My autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty - not in the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs. I sat there, unaware of the many abstractions made of me in order to satiate their idea of me,” she wrote.In jail, she realised how talking about climate change had become a crime but also learnt that her grandparents, who were farmers, birthed climate activist in her. "At the end of the five days I was shifted to Judicial Custody for 3 days, I wondered when it became a crime to think the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as much mine as theirs," she wrote.Also read: ‘Going to Nandigram…’ -BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says ‘BJP has robbed the country'Before ending her statement, she made case for those who didn’t get the support she received. “The immense outpour of love from the people gave me strength. I am grateful for everyone who stood by me. The past few days have been beyond painful, yet I know that I am one of the privileged. I was lucky enough to have excellent pro bono legal assistance but what of all those who do not?” read her statement.On February 23, a Delhi court had granted bail to Ravi, days after the Delhi Police arrested her for allegedly editing a social media document, or a toolkit, about the ongoing farmer protest against the three central laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-autonomy-was-violated-disha-ravi-s-statement-after-28-days-of-arrest-101615649612291.html
13-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases cross 200 in Telangana after a gap of 50 days, borders on alert||After a gap of more than 50 days, the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in Telangana went up by more than 200 again, even as the state government stepped up surveillance in the districts bordering Maharashtra and Karnataka, which have been witnessing a spurt in the viral cases.According to a bulletin issued by the state medical and health department on Saturday morning, Telangana recorded as many as 216 positive cases of Covid-19 by Friday night. This was a sudden increase of 35 cases compared to the previous day.The last time when Telangana recorded more than 200 cases was on January 21, when the figure was 214. Since then, the number of cases has been less than 200, though the figure was fluctuating between 110 to 180. On one of these days, the number of cases even went dropped below 100.“However, in the last four or five days, there has been a steady rise in Covid-19 infections in the state, following a steep rise in cases in the neighbouring states, particularly Maharashtra. So, we have alerted all the districts bordering these states to take necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the virus into Telangana,” state health minister Eatala Rajender said.He instructed the authorities to ramp up Covid-19 tests to 50,000 per day and also gave a call to the people of Telangana to defer their travel to neighbouring states unless it was very essential.On Friday, as many as 34,482 tests were conducted, which revealed 216 infections and two deaths. Till date, the state has recorded a cumulative number of 1,652 deaths and 3,00,933 positive cases. Till now, there were 1,918 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as 2,97,363 have recovered with a recovery rate of 98.81 per cent.The health minister said though the vaccination drive in the state has been going on in full swing, there should not be any complacency among the people. “The pandemic is far from over yet. We should continue to follow the stipulated guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. Please avoid large gatherings and continue vaccinating priority groups so as to prevent the outbreak of new wave of infections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-cross-200-in-telangana-after-a-gap-of-50-days-borders-on-alert-101615649217618.html
13-03-2021||India||Covid-19: This woman-run Hyderabad firm will supply vaccines to Quad countries||One of the key takeaways of the first Quad leaders' summit on March 12 was the formation of the Quad Vaccine Initiative, which will be a vaccine supply chain to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines for India, the United States, Japan and Australia. Hyderabad's Biological E. Limited has been chosen for this role of producing a billion doses of covid-19 vaccines, while the United States International Development Finance Corporation will provide financial assistance to Biological E.Here is all you need to know about this Hyderabad-based company.> Biological E is the world's largest producer of Tetanus vaccine and a leading supplier of snake antivenom in India.> Biological E is a women-run business which is another reason why USDFC has chosen this company to partner with. This advances its gender equality initiative.> The company commenced its operations in 1953 and became India's first private company to enter the vaccine business in 1962.> Its website says it was established during the 'Swadeshi Movement' of India. At that time, it was known as Biological Products Pvt Ltd. Its founder was Dr DVK Raju. Mahima Datla, the managing director of the company, is the third generation of the family to run this business.> In 2019, it commenced its commercial operations in the US.> Biological E is working on four Covid-19 vaccines. It tied up with Johnson and Johnson, pharmaceutical company Dynavax Technologies Corporation, Houston-based Baylor College of Medicine and Ohio University for vaccine developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-biological-e-this-women-run-hyderabad-firm-will-supply-vaccines-to-quad-countries-101615650167138.html
13-03-2021||India||Fuel prices protest: Women panel seeks explanation from Congress' Hooda on tractor episode||Haryana State Women Commission has sought an explanation from Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda for riding a tractor that was pulled by his party's women legislators to protest the rise in fuel prices earlier this week.Commission chairperson (officiating) Preeti Bhardwaj shot off a letter to Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, citing news reports.Hooda on Monday rode a tractor pulled by party legislators on the way to the state Assembly here to protest the rise in fuel prices. Monday happened to be International Women's Day and on the occasion, women MLAs from across parties had presided over the day's proceedings in the Haryana Assembly.Hooda along with some party legislators sat on the tractor while some other Congress MLAs pulled the tractor with ropes.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had expressed his anguish over the incident and said in the Assembly, "This treatment to women MLAs was worse than bonded labour."As known to the whole world, the day is celebrated as International Women's Day and the instance shocked the entire nation, Bhardwaj wrote in the letter.Seeking a “strict written explanation” from Hooda within three days (by Sunday), Bhardwaj wrote why strict penal action under relevant provisions of law may not be taken against him.In the communication, she wrote, "What is important to understand here is the fact that this act was committed with the ulterior motive and intention to harm, disrespect and strip the dignity of women on Women's Day itself.""You have committed an act of gendered political violence with the motive to watershed the relevance of all events planned for March 8 Women's Day. Sadly, you chose women to commit this undignified and disrespectful act that has hanged the heads of one and all, irrespective of gender or party or any affiliations, in shame…You chose to challenge our existence—as women,” she wrote.Bhardwaj alleged that Hooda chose to challenge women MLAs of Haryana “by attempting to strip them of their joy and pride as presiding officers" in the Haryana Assembly.You chose to challenge the head of the government–chief minister of Haryana--who was overwhelmed while making a point regarding in context of this incident next day before whole strength of the Legislative Assembly, she said.She further added, “You chose to challenge and you managed to play with the emotional connect that each person has with women in their lives – as grandmother, as mother, as daughter, as wife, as niece, as colleague, as party worker, as neighbour and a Goddess, too.”One of the MLAs who had pulled the tractor , Shakuntala Khatak, had on Thursday asserted that she never considered herself less than men and accused the BJP of "playing dirty politics" over the matter."This is our internal matter. When I am not complaining, why do they have a problem? He (Hooda) is my leader, he is like my father. If I have to push a truck, I will do that too," Khatak had told reporters here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-protest-women-panel-seeks-explanation-from-congress-hooda-on-tractor-episode-101615648232008.html
13-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sri Lanka's Rajapaksa speaks with PM Modi ahead of crucial UNHRC vote and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sri Lankan president Rajapaksa speaks to PM Modi ahead of crucial vote at UNHRCPrime Minister Narendra Modi and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Saturday discussed cooperation at multilateral forums, days ahead of an expected vote on Sri Lanka’s human rights record at the UNHRC. Read more'India's statements don't match with what they do on the field': Virender Sehwag after England win 1st T20IFormer India opener Virender Sehwag said Team India’s pre-match statements do not match with what they do when they step on to the field. Sehwag’s comments came after India suffered an eight-wicket loss to England in the first T20I in Ahmedabad. Read moreDivyanka Tripathi got ‘indecent proposals’ from men in the industry, says she faced character assassinationTelevision actor Divyanka Tripathi revealed that she has been on the receiving end of ‘indecent proposals’ from men in the industry. She said that she has never given in and knows how to turn them down ‘while being kind’. Read moreBringing projectors out of dark rooms into living rooms: Optoma's Vijay Sharma tells us howIt's been more than a year since we stepped into movie halls to watch something. Laptops, tablets and TVs have replaced movie screens for us and it looks like that's how things are going to go for at least a while longer. Read morePriyanka Chopra Jonas sizzles in all red Balenciaga for Nick Jonas' SpacemanPriyanka Chopra Jonas is always in the news, if its not her interview with Oprah or promotions for her many ventures, then its for her many on point fashion forward looks. Read moreDancers show off amazing moves, leave people in awe. Watch incredible video“Incredible,” “amazing,” and “breathtaking” are probably some among the many words of appreciation you will use for this dance video. The clip shows a man and a woman showing off some cool and power-packed moves. Read moreFire engulfs train bogey in Uttarakhand; passengers evacuatedA massive fire broke out aboard the Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express on March 13. The incident occurred near Kansrao in Uttarakhand. The fire was reportedly caused by a short circuit in compartment C4. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sri-lanka-s-rajapaksa-speaks-with-pm-modi-ahead-of-crucial-unhrc-vote-and-all-the-latest-news-101615648612633.html
13-03-2021||India||Bihar has 1,19,000 doctors for 12 crore population: State health minister||Bihar Health Minister Mangal Pandey told the Assembly that the state "almost" fulfils the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended doctor-population ratio as it has 1,19,000 doctors for a population of 12 crore.Pandey said that "the state has 12 crore population and to meet the WHO norms, the state should have 1.20 lakh doctors in the state to fulfil the criteria. But there are 1.19 lakh doctors in the state at present."Earlier the leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav during the debate on the Health Department's budget raised the issue of WHO norms for providing health services in the state.As per WHO norms, there should be one doctor for every 1,000 people.The minister, who was giving a reply to the House debate on the budgetary demand of ₹13,264.86 crore of his department for 2021-22 fiscal, also gave the break-up vis-- vis the number of doctors registered in the state in different streams.There are 40,200 allopathic doctors, 33,922 ayush doctors, 34,257 homeopathic doctors, 5,203 unani doctors and 6,130 dentists, he said.He said there is a shortage of 1,000 doctors in the state if one follows WHO norms, adding that the government is taking steps and measures to improve health services and facilities by opening 11 new medical colleges, 23 general nursing and midwifery (GNM) schools, 54 nursing schools at sub-divisional level besides appointing doctors in the state.Of the 11 new medical colleges, the work on seven colleges is currently underway, he said and added that Patna Medical College and Hospital is being redeveloped to make it the country's first and the world's second largest hospital at a cost of ₹5,540.07 crore. The foundation stone for the hospital, which will have 5,462 beds, was laid by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on February 8 this year and will be completed in next five years.He said that 29,000 health staff including doctors have been appointed in the past three years, including 4,000 doctors appointed between July-September 2020. The minister said the department has sent requisition for recruitment of doctors to the Bihar Technical Service Commission.The Health department has sent requisition to the Commission for recruitment of 3,260 Ayush doctors in the state, Pandey said, adding that a special drive will be launched to fill up the vacant posts in health department.Pandey said that Bihar Universities of Health Services will be set up for facilitating medical education in the state.He said 13 district hospitals - Bhagalpur, Begusarai, Gaya, Gopalganj, Madhepura, Muzaffarpur, Munger, Nalanda, Patna, Rohtas, Samastipur, Siwan and Saran - will be developed as "model" hospitals in the next fiscal.The government has decided to construct a building at AIIMS, Patna for accommodation of attendants who come along with patients for treatment, the minister said.With a view to providing ambulance facilities within 20 minutes in urban and 35 minutes in rural areas respectively, the department will make arrangements for 1,000 new ambulances for the purpose, he said.The minister said measures taken by the state government led to efficient and effective control of Coronavirus in the state. He said that at a time when many states are witnessing an upsurge in cases up to 10,000, Bihar has 350 active cases with 99.29 per cent recovery rate."It's a matter of pride that the state has performed well in tackling Covid-19," the minister said, adding that inoculation drive is underway in the state and 13.50 lakh people have been inoculated in the state so far.The health department's budgetary demand for 2021-22 was passed by voice vote amid a walkout by the entire opposition after being unsatisfied with the minister's reply.The House rejected the "cut motion" moved by Congress member Vijay Shankar Dubey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-has-1-19-000-doctors-for-12-crore-population-state-health-minister-101615647895778.html
13-03-2021||India||'Let the truth win': Zomato delivery man denies assaulting woman in Bengaluru||The Zomato food delivery executive, who is accused of assaulting a woman customer, has rejected the allegations levelled against him, saying "let the truth win".Recently, a Bengaluru woman named Hitesha Chandranee accused a Zomato delivery executive of assaulting her which left her nose bleeding."She refused to pay after accepting the order as I was late for the delivery and asked it for free," Kamaraj, the accused, told ANI."She started hitting me with slippers and at some point in time while safeguarding myself, my left hand touched her right hand and the ring which she worn hit her nose and it started bleeding."I don't want to make it more complicated, let the truth win. If not, I will fight it legally. I have a mother with co-morbid conditions, my father died 15 years back, I am the only breadwinner for my family. I am working in Zomato for the past 26 months with 4.7 ratings. As of now, the company has blocked my ID until this case completes and assured of taking it back once the matter resolves," he added.Chandranee on Tuesday narrated the incident on one of her social media handles, where she can be seen with a bloody injury on her nose.In the video posted on Instagram, Chandranee said that Kamaraj hit her while she was speaking to a Zomato customer care executive regarding the late order.Hours after Chandranee posted the video, Kamaraj was arrested by the Bengaluru police. However, he was granted conditional bail on Thursday.Zomato soon responded to the incident through social media, apologising for the same and informed that Kamaraj had been delisted from the platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-the-truth-win-zomato-delivery-man-denies-assaulting-woman-in-bengaluru-101615646432011.html
13-03-2021||India||Fliers without masks, not heeding Covid-19 protocols could be deboarded: Centre||The government on Saturday directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes.Those found flouting rules may be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.“The Airport Director/Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the Airport premises. In case, any passenger is not following “COVID-19 Protocol”, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law,” the DGCA said in an order issued on Saturday.“On board the Aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing of mask properly even after repeated warnings, he/she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure. In case, any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear mask or violates the “COVID-19 Protocol for passengers” even after repeated warnings, during the course of the flight, such passenger may be treated as “Unruly Passenger” as defined in para 3.1 of Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) Section 3 Series M Part VI (dated 8th September, 2017) and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airline,” it added.This came days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing their mask properly and to be put on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”. The judge had taken note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and passed directions to the DGCA.At present, India has allowed domestic flights to function at 80% of their capacity while international flights are being operated through travel bubble arrangements with 27 countries. “Transport Bubbles” or “Air Bridges” are temporary arrangements between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger services when regular international flights are suspended as a result of the pandemic. They are reciprocal in nature, meaning airlines from both countries enjoy similar benefits.“It has been noticed that some travellers undertaking air journey do not adhere to “COVID-19 Protocols”, which essentially involves wearing of mask properly i.e. not below the nose, during all times of the journey from entering the Airport for departure to exiting the Airport after arrival. It has also been noted that some passengers after entering the Airport do not wear mask properly and also do not maintain social distance while being in the airport premises. Similarly, some passengers have been noticed not wearing their masks properly while on-board the aircraft,” the DGCA said.“Passengers shall wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel. The mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances. CISF or other Police personnel deployed at the entrance of the Airport shall ensure that no one is allowed to enter the Airport without wearing a mask. CASO and other supervising officers must ensure this personally. The adherence to above directions shall be ensured by all concerned with immediate effect. Strict action shall be taken in case of any violation,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fliers-without-masks-not-heeding-covid-19-protocols-could-be-deboarded-centre-101615644756312.html
13-03-2021||India||Karnataka temporarily stops bus service to Maharashtra over border row||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Saturday temporarily suspended its operations to Kolhapur in Maharashtra which has a substantial Kannada population in view of the ongoing border row between the two states, officials said. A few Maharashtra leaders have been demanding the merger of the regions dominated by Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka, especially Belagavi, which the pro-Kannada organisations have been opposing. According to a senior officer in the North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation, a vehicle belonging to Maharashtra was blackened in Belagavi which aggravated the tension between the regions. "The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation officials had asked us if there was tension in Kolhapur and asked us not to run any buses. They too did not run any bus," the officer added. Meanwhile in Mumbai, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut alleged that Marathi people residing in Karnataka's Belgaum were being victimised, and said an all-party delegation from Maharashtra should visit the city in the neighbouring state to resolve the ongoing stand-off. He told reporters that in the last eight days there have been instances of attack on Shiv Sena leaders and the party's office in Belgaum by pro-Kannada outfits. "Belgaum is part of India and the Maharashtra- Karnataka dispute is a language dispute. It shouldn't be stretched too far and this is the responsibility of the Karnataka government too," he said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had been raising the issue of merger of Belagavi and other Marathi- dominated regions with Maharashtra time and again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-temporarily-stops-bus-service-to-maharashtra-over-border-row-101615644008304.html
13-03-2021||India||Sanjay Raut calls for all-party visit to Belgaum after 'attack on Marathi people'||Amid the ongoing border row between Maharashtra and Karnataka, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday alleged that Marathi people residing in Karnataka's Belgaum were being attacked and said that an all-party delegation from Maharashtra should visit the region.Raut also attacked the BJP-led central government, saying that the Centre has turned a blind eye towards the problem and is only concerned about poll-bound West Bengal."The BJP and Centre are concerned about violence in West Bengal and that their people are being attacked. No one is talking about the attack on Marathi people for the last eight days. I appeal to the Chief Minister, Deputy CM to go to Belgaum with an all-party delegation to support our people," said Raut."The Maharashtra and Karnataka dispute is a language dispute. It shouldn't be stretched too far," he added.His remarks came a day after Karnataka Rakshana Vedike activists in Belgaum also known as Belgavi, had blackened and removed signages and hoardings written in Marathi language.The border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka began after the States Reorganization Act of 1956 made Belgaum and 10 talukas of Bombay State (formerly part of erstwhile Bombay Presidency) a part of then Mysore state.The issue of the disputed border area has been pending in the Supreme Court for several years.Belagavi, Karwar, and Nipani are part of Karnataka and have Marathi-speaking people. Right from the beginning, Maharashtra has asserted its claim over these districts while the Karnataka government has opposed the assertion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-calls-for-all-party-visit-to-belgaum-after-attack-on-marathi-people-101615642366092.html
13-03-2021||India||Decision to install charging point at every 3 km paving way for Delhi as EV capital: Transport minister Gahlot||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Saturday the AAP government's decision install a charging point at every three kilometers will pave the way for making Delhi the "electric vehicle" capital.He said the Delhi government has taken a lead across India in creating charging infrastructure for a smooth transition to electric vehicles."The move to have a charging station at every three kilometres will build confidence among people to go for EVs and pave the way for making Delhi the EV capital of India," a statement quoted the minister as saying.The government has already floated a tender to build 100 public charging stations with 500 charging points at prominent locations. These will be operational by December, he said.All buildings such as malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, office spaces, hotels, restaurants, hospitals will soon have to set aside at least 5 per cent of their total parking capacity for EVs along with suitable slow EV chargers. This will also add an estimated 10,000 chargers in Delhi by December, the minister said."Also, we are in advance talks with several EV fleet operators to open up their captive charging stations for public use. This will add another 750 charging points at least for public use in Delhi by June," Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-to-install-charging-point-at-every-3-km-paving-way-for-delhi-as-ev-capital-transport-minister-gahlot-101615641677148.html
13-03-2021||India||With 1,709 cases in 24 hours, Mumbai sees highest Covid-19 surge this year||Continuing the steady surge of daily infections, Mumbai on Saturday recorded 1,709 Covid-19 cases, which is the highest this year. Maharashtra reported 15,602 fresh cases and 88 deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the second consecutive day that the state is reporting over 15,000 cases. On Friday, 15,817 infections were reported.All districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, is seeing an unprecedented surge of fresh infections since February. The last time the state witnessed these many daily infections was in September-October when the pandemic was at its peak in the state. The surge comes on the day India registered 24,882 new infections across the states, which is also the highest single-day spike this year.India’s active Covid-19 caseload over 2 lakh; 7 states contributing most casesIn the last 24 hours, 7,467 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Maharashtra which is less than half of the number of new infections, and thus contributing a huge chunk to the number of active Covid-19 cases.While several districts of Maharashtra have imposed restrictions on the movement of people, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is yet to enforce any restriction, apart from general Covid-19 guidelines. On Saturday, Aurangabad district administration decided to impose weekend lockdowns until further orders. From March 15, a strict lockdown will be there in Nagpur. However, people are still crowding especially before a place is scheduled to go under lockdown, as people are flocking to markets to hoard essentials, though essential services will be allowed during lockdown.In Munbai city, apartments and highrises are the hotspots, while slums have reported comparatively fewer number of infections in the last two months. In districts, general disobeyance to social distancing rules, reopening of establishments, pandemic fatigue have been identified as factors contributing to the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-709-cases-in-24-hours-mumbai-sees-highest-covid-19-surge-this-year-101615642603539.html
13-03-2021||India||Thane court rejects Sachin Vaze’s bail plea, posts next hearing for March 19||The interim bail application of assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was rejected by a Thane court which indicated another later date for investigation officers to present their findings. Vaze had applied for anticipatory bail in the Thane court although he didn't appear for the hearing. The court has given March 19 as the next date of hearing.A lawyer from the Thane court said, “The interim application was initially rejected by the sessions court on Friday after arguments of both parties. On the next date the investigation officer will have to provide further details in the case to support the argument. Later, the applicant can approach the high court if his application gets rejected here.”Vaze’s lawyer and the Public prosecutor refused to speak on the matter.API Sachin Vaze's name cropped up in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter.On February 25, an SUV with loose sticks of gelatin was found parked outside Mukesh Ambani’s house. It was traced to an auto parts businessman based in Thane, but on March 5, his body washed up ashore in a creek on the outskirts of Mumbai.The deceased’s widow Vimla Hiran mentioned in her statement given to the police that she had doubts regarding Sachin Vaze’s role in the matter. Vimla told the investigators that the vehicle belonged to a certain Dr Peter Newton who was known to her deceased husband. The Scorpio, however, was in possession of the Hirans for the past three years. Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021. It has been alleged that Vaze was also forcing Hiran to take the blame and surrender to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-court-rejects-sachin-vaze-s-bail-plea-posts-next-hearing-for-march-19-101615641085734.html
13-03-2021||India||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya launches Covid Raksha 2.0 in Bengaluru||Bharatiya Janata Party MP Tejasvi Surya on Saturday launched a new version of the Covid Raksha helpline for the residents of Bengaluru South. The helpline is accessible on 080 6191 4960, to assist citizens during the union government's vaccination drive."We in Bengaluru South are ensuring maximum people get vaccinated. With Covid Raksha 2.0, we are helping senior citizens book an appointment on the COWIN portal or Arogya Sethu app, providing post-vaccine counselling with the help of expert doctors and also informing senior citizens about the vaccination centers located closest to their homes," Surya said."It is notable that the Narendra Modi government has vaccinated more than 50 lakh senior citizens in just a few days of launching the world's largest vaccine drive," the BJP MP said.Surya, the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, has also set up helpdesks in government facilities, manned by volunteers and party functionaries, to assist senior citizens. Registration booths for vaccination appointments will also soon be set up near parks and hospitals for the benefit of senior citizens.Covid Raksha was initially launched as a solution to help manage the Covid-19 pandemic operations. In its earlier avatar functional during the lockdown and restart phases of the pandemic, more than 200 volunteers were active on the helpline, connecting citizens with over 100 doctors for effecting Covid-19 treatment.During the successful drive of Covid Raksha 1.0, the office of the MP answered around 10,700 calls, solved 3,465 sessions on WhatsApp, helped with 582 Hospital transfers, and resolved around 96 emergency cases. Additionally, the initial version of the Covid Raksha platform completed triaging of symptoms for 1,698 citizens over teleconsultation.The country started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses are being administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-launches-covid-raksha-2-0-in-bengaluru-101615640075722.html
13-03-2021||India||C'garh ranks first in country in terms of providing employment under MGNREGA||Chhattisgarh has ranked first in the country in terms of providing employment under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act).As per an official release from the state government, in the current financial year 2020-21, employment of 16,06,84,000 man-days has been created so far, against the target of creating 15 crore man-days of employment, as sanctioned by the central government.The statement said that this year, a new record of providing employment for the highest number of man-days under MGNREGA has been set in the state, adding that more than 107% of the given target for providing employment under MGNREGA has been achieved this year so far, with more than two weeks left for the completion of the financial year.It further stated that West Bengal holds the second rank with 105%, Assam and Bihar jointly hold the third rank with the achievement of 104-104% of the given target and Odisha holds the fourth rank with 103% completion.In the current financial year, wages of over ₹2617 crores have been paid to MGNREGA workers from April 2020 to February 2021, the statement further informed.The statement further said that the Bilaspur district is at the forefront in the state in terms of employment generation against the given target for the current financial year that is more than 131% of the given target.As per the statement, the percentage of the target achieved in other districts of Chhattisgarh is 125% in Gorella-Pendra-Marwahi, 119% in Kanker, 118% in Surguja, 117% in Janjgir-Champa, 115-115% in Durg and Jashpur, 110% in Raigarh, 109% in Balod, Dantewada and 108% in Koriya, 107-107% in Bemetara, Kondagaon and Raipur, 106% in Mahasamund, 105-105% in Balodabazar-Bhatapara and Korba, 104-104% in Kabirdham, Bijapur and Mungeli, 102% in Gariaband, Dhamtari and Sukma.The statement further informed that the target has been achieved 100% in Balrampur-Ramanujganj, 98-98% in Rajnandgaon and Bastar, 96% in Surajpur and 95% in Narayanpur district.The central government had sanctioned the target of providing employment of 13.50 crore man-days in the budget of the year 2020-21, the statement said.It also informed that at the beginning of the financial year, construction works were started on a large scale with the objective to provide employment in rural areas and to strengthen the rural economy during the lockdown, as a result, 66% of the target was achieved in the first three months of the year.In view of this progress, the state government had requested the Centre to increase the given target under MNREGA from 13.5 crore man-days to 15 crore man-days in the current fiscal year, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-ranks-first-in-country-in-terms-of-providing-employment-under-mgnrega-101615639870292.html
13-03-2021||India||Delhi reports 419 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths in last 24 hours||Delhi on Saturday reported 419 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, logging over 400 new daily infections for the third consecutive day. Saturday's cases are down by 12 from Friday when 431 positive cases were reported.In the last 24 hours, Delhi reported 302 recoveries and three deaths from Covid-19, as per the health bulletin. The positivity rate of coronavirus cases in the city stands at 0.56 per cent.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The national Capital started reporting daily coronavirus cases above 400 from Thursday when it had registered 409 cases in a single day. The last time Delhi reported cases above 400 was on January 3, when it had reported 424 coronavirus infections in 24 hours.A total number of 74,326 tests were conducted in the national capital in the last 24 hours. The containment zones in Delhi have risen by 30 in the past 24 hours. On Friday. Delhi had 488 containment zones and as of Saturday, the number of containment zones in the city is 518.India on Saturday registered another spike in the number of coronavirus cases as it logged 24,882 new cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh have been reported to be the major contributors to the active caseload of the country. The active case tally has now risen to 1.78 per cent of the total positive cases as the active caseload of the country has gone over 2 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-419-new-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101615638533662.html
13-03-2021||India||Centre should uphold Places of Worship Act: CPI-M||The CPI(M) on Saturday questioned the need to examine the validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, saying the Centre should uphold the provisions of the legislation in its response to the Supreme Court.The remarks came a day after the top court sought the Centre's response to a plea against certain provisions of the 1991 law, which prohibits the filing of a lawsuit to reclaim a place of worship or seek a change in its character from what prevailed on August 15, 1947.The PIL assumes significance amid demands by some Hindu groups to reclaim religious places at Mathura and Kashi."It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court has opened the way for a re-examination of the Places of Worship (Special Provision) Act, 1991," the Left party said in a statement.The Act mandates that the character of all religious places of worship should be maintained as it was on August 15, 1947, and no suit or proceedings shall lie in a court of law with respect to the character of places of worship, the CPI(M) said."This effectively barred courts from entertaining cases which raise disputes over places of worship that existed as of August 15, 1947," it said. "The law further provided that such cases already pending in courts would stand abated."The petition alleges that the 1991-law creates an "arbitrary and irrational retrospective cut-off date" of August 15, 1947, for maintaining the character of the places of worship or pilgrimage against encroachment done by "fundamentalist-barbaric invaders and law-breakers".The CPI(M) said the Act granted an exception for the Babri Masjid/Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya, which was then under dispute.While invoking this exemption, the Supreme Court, in the 2019 Ayodhya verdict, reaffirmed that similar such cases cannot be entertained with respect to other sites in view of this Act.The CPI(M) politburo reaffirms that the grounds on which this law was enacted "need not be re-examined," it said. "The Central Government must respond to the Supreme Court seeking its views in a firm affirmation of the Places of Worship Act, 1991."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-uphold-places-of-worship-act-cpim-101615639935863.html
13-03-2021||India||India's draft e-commerce policy calls for equal treatment of sellers||India will require e-commerce firms to treat sellers equally on their platforms and ensure transparency, according to a draft policy seen by Reuters on Saturday that follows criticism against business practices of big online companies.India has been deliberating a new e-commerce policy for months amid complaints from brick-and-mortar retailers who allege online giants like Amazon and Walmart's Flipkart flout federal regulations. The companies have denied the allegations.A Reuters special report last month revealed that Amazon has for years given preferential treatment to a small group of sellers on its India platform and used them to circumvent the country's foreign investment rules.The latest draft of the policy document says operators should be impartial in their dealings with sellers."E-commerce operators must ensure equal treatment of all sellers/vendors registered on their platforms and not adopt algorithms which result in prioritizing select vendors/sellers," it says.A spokesman for the commerce ministry declined to comment.The policy will apply to Amazon and Flipkart - two top e-commerce players in India - as well as domestic players like Reliance Industries, which has plans to expand its JioMart online platform. All three firms did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Separately, India is also considering changes to foreign investment rules that could prompt players including Amazon to restructure their ties with some major sellers, Reuters reported in January.Government officials are set to hold talks next week with industry executives on such rules, according to people with direct knowledge.On Saturday, top government officials from various departments, including the commerce ministry, met to discuss the e-commerce policy. The timeline of publication and whether it will be subject to further changes were not immediately clear.Indian traders have also complained about steep discounts offered by online companies which smaller retailers have not been able to match. Amazon and Flipkart have said they comply with all laws.E-commerce firms must "bring out clear and transparent policies" on online discounts, the draft document says.The Reuters special report last month - based on internal Amazon documents dated between 2012 and 2019 - showed the company helped a small number of sellers prosper on its India platform, giving them discounted fees and helping one cut special deals with big tech manufacturers.Amazon has said it "does not give preferential treatment to any seller on its marketplace," and that it "treats all sellers in a fair, transparent, and non-discriminatory manner."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-draft-e-commerce-policy-calls-for-equal-treatment-of-sellers-101615638753191.html
13-03-2021||India||Air quality commission shuts down after ordinance lapses||The central government's Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas has been shut down within five months of its constitution after the ordinance issued to constitute it lapsed.Ordinances must be approved by Parliament within six weeks of the Parliament convening or they cease to operate. They will also cease to operate in case resolutions disapproving the Ordinance are passed by both the Houses.Environment secretary RP Gupta said in a statement on Saturday, “Since the ordinance was not introduced in Parliament within six weeks of its convention, it has lapsed and consequently, the commission also stands shut. The ordinance never became an Act. Any ordinance has to be introduced within six weeks of the convening of Parliament. It did not happen, so the ordinance has lapsed and hence, the commission is dissolved.”The Union environment ministry had published, “The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance” on October 28, to implement a consolidated approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi NCR and adjoining areas.Also read: Permanent shelters come up at Delhi border as farm leaders warn they won’t budgeWhile doing so, it dissolved all ad-hoc committees and bodies created under court orders including the SC mandated environment pollution control authority (EPCA) which had been tasked with overseeing air pollution control in NCR since 1998. It had also brought in a completely new, centralised regime of pollution control where an appeal against any order or direction of the Commission can be made only in the National Green Tribunal. No civil court will have the jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings against the decisions of the Commission.The Commission was a statutory authority that could coordinate air pollution control with the governments of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and was to have 18 fulltime members appointed by the Central government with a wide range of powers to issue directions, entertain complaints; regulate and prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution, lay down parameters and standards, restrict industry, activities, processes, direct closure or prohibit any polluting activity in Delhi NCR and adjoining areas.Legal and environmental experts said shutting down of the Commission shows the Centre was not serious about tackling air pollution in NCR.“An ordinance is always a stop-gap arrangement till the Parliament convenes. Even the forest conservation act was brought in through an ordinance and then passed in the Parliament. During last winter when stubble burning had peaked, the Centre seemed to have rushed to issue the ordinance but they were definitely not serious about air pollution or functions of the ordinance. The ordinance has to be presented in the form of a bill and then it becomes an act when it is passed in Parliament or the ordinance lapses after six weeks. No bill was presented. The government can issue a fresh ordinance if they want the Commission to function. The Commission did not have an office, they did not respond to complaints. I doubt how serious the government was about the Commission,” said Ritwick Dutta, an environmental lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-commission-shuts-down-after-ordinance-lapses-101615638859023.html
13-03-2021||India||State election commissioners have to be independent persons: Supreme Court||State election commissioners have to be "independent persons" not occupying a post under the Centre or state governments, the Supreme Court has ruled, terming the Goa government's move to give its law secretary the additional charge of the SEC a "mockery" of constitutional mandate.In a significant verdict, the top court also directed if there were any such persons holding the post of SEC in any other state, "such persons must be asked forthwith to step down from such office and the State Government concerned be bound to fulfil the constitutional mandate of Article 243K by appointing only independent persons to this high constitutional office".A three-judge bench, headed by Justice R F Nariman, issued the direction to all states and Union territories while taking recourse of its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution that empowers it to pass any order in the interest of justice.The directions were issued to ensure that the constitutional mandate of an independent State Election Commission to conduct elections is "strictly followed in the future", said the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy.The observations and directions were given in the 96-page judgement, penned by Justice Nariman, on a batch of pleas relating to the urban local body polls in Goa.The judgment, uploaded on the apex court's website on Saturday, has upheld the Bombay High Court's verdict of setting aside an order of the municipal administrator on February 4 on granting quota to women and OBC candidates in local urban body polls in five municipal councils in the state.The bench directed the Goa SEC to issue the notification for the urban body polls within 10 days from Friday and complete the poll process by April 30.Justice Nariman extensively dealt with the constitutional scheme pertaining to elections and the SECs."It is also made clear that henceforth, all State Election Commissioners appointed under Article 243K in the length and breadth of India have to be independent persons who cannot be persons who are occupying a post or office under the Central or any State Government," it held."The most disturbing feature of these cases is the subversion of the constitutional mandate contained in Article 243K of the Constitution of India."The State Election Commissioner has to be a person who is independent of the State Government as he is an important constitutional functionary who is to oversee the entire election process in the state qua panchayats and municipalities," Justice Nariman, who wrote the judgement for the bench, said.The importance given to the independence of a SEC is explicit from the provision for his removal from his office which equal to a judge of the high court."Giving an additional charge of such an important and independent constitutional office to an officer who is directly under the control of the State Government is, in our view, a mockery of the constitutional mandate," the verdict said.It declared that the additional charge given to a law secretary flouted the constitutional mandate and asked the Goa government to "remedy this position by appointing an independent person to be the State Election Commissioner at the earliest".Petitions were filed in the Bombay High Court relating to the elections to 11 municipal councils where terms had expired on November 4 last year and the SEC had fixed polls in April, 2021.The law secretary, who was given additional charge of the SEC on November 3, had postponed the polls due to the pandemic.Pleas were filed in the high court against a change in the Goa Municipalities Act, by which the time frame for issuance of a notification for reservation of wards was stated as being "at least seven days" before the notification for schedule of dates and events of the elections.The high court set aside the "impugned order issued by the Director and ex-officio Additional Secretary, Municipal Administrator/ Urban Development, Goa".The court had also directed the Goa municipal administrator to issue fresh notification for polls after ensuring "reservation for women of not less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved for direct elections to the Municipal Councils".The top court upheld the high court's judgement and said under the Constitution, "no election to any municipality can be called in question except by an election petition presented to a Tribunal as is provided by or under any law made by the Legislature of a State".This would mean that from the date of notification of the election till the date of the declaration of result, a judicial hands-off is mandated by the non-obstante clause "debarring the writ court under Articles 226 and 227 from interfering once the election process has begun until it is over".The constitutional bar operates only during this period. It is therefore a matter of discretion exercisable by a writ court as to whether an interference is called for when the notification for elections is yet to be announced, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-election-commissioners-have-to-be-independent-persons-supreme-court-101615636826691.html
13-03-2021||India||Sustained economic growth is key to India’s future': NITI Aayog CEO||India’s hard and soft power is truly represented by its sustained economic growth. This is the key to India’s future. Economies of both east and southeast Asia have transformed themselves within one generation, said Amitabh Kant, chief executive officer (CEO), NITI Aayog.Kant was delivering a keynote address at the inaugural event of the Militaria 2021 held at Hotel Narain Niwas Palace in Jaipur on Saturday.“India has witnessed a substantial transformation over 30 years since 1991 with an average growth of 6.5 per cent per annum. Going ahead, investment levels and sustained economic growth is critical for security reasons. What the country has done as a fallout of the Covid pandemic is ushering in radical reforms across a range of sectors. The private sector needs to be brought in at the heart of India’s economic growth,” said Kant.He added that pushing India towards a high growth trajectory is a key challenge. Global Economic Growth is expected to rebound about 5.5 per cent after (-)3.5 per cent in 2020 which has been the worst since post-World War.Also read: India’s active Covid-19 caseload over 2 lakh; 7 states contributing most casesKant further said that Covid-19 will likely reverse the trend of poverty alleviation. Global debt is at unprecedented levels. Global debt which was about 300 per cent is now at about 370 per cent. Global trade decline is estimated at 7 per cent in 2020. China is the only major economy in the world to see positive GDP growth in 2020. Its share in global GDP will rise even further. In the last two decades, China has gained tremendous market power in many key sectors like steel, aluminium and pharmaceuticals.Earlier, ex-home secretary, Government of India, R Mehrishi said, "Most conferences and TV channel discussions, when they talk about India’s internal and external security, fail to talk about the need for India’s economic growth and examining how strong the country’s economy is. In the face of the recent China confrontation, we used three elements —armed forces, trade measures and diplomacy to face the challenge posed to us.”He added that all these elements require the backing of a strong economy. In these days of technology, one has to be better and smarter equipped, and the technical competency will depend on the budget one has. India spends a little over 2 per cent on its defence that translates into ₹5 Lakh crores. Whereas China spends 1.3 per cent of its GDP which translates into ₹15 Lakh crores.“At a time when the enemy is often not seen, the only way to really compete with a country like China would be to have as much or more equipment than they have,” said Mehrishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sustained-economic-growth-is-key-to-india-s-future-niti-aayog-ceo-101615636871713.html
13-03-2021||India||Permanent shelters come up at Delhi border as farm leaders warn they won’t budge||The Kisan Social Army, a group backing the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, has constructed permanent shelters at the Tikri border in Delhi as union leaders said protests will continue at the borders of the national capital for the rest of the NDA government's tenure."These houses are strong and permanent just like the will of the farmers. So far, 25 houses have been built," Anil Malik of Kisan Social Army was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Saturday. Close to 1,000-2,000 similar houses will be built in the coming days, Malik told ANI.One of the key farm leaders, Narendra Tikait, said on Thursday farmers are ready to stay put on Delhi’s borders to protest against three agricultural laws for the remaining three and half years of the Modi government's second term and the stir cannot be "culled" any which way the Centre tries. "This government has a misconception, probably because it never faced such kind of protest, but we have seen agitations and been part of those for 35 years. This government only has an experience of facing smaller protests and of getting those culled through various tactics," he told PTI.Farmers, hailing from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28 last year, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their crops. The Centre has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to MSP and the mandi systems.The government, which held 11 rounds of formal talks with protesting unions before the negotiations completely broke down, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmers. It has emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity even as the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. The remarks from the MEA came as a push back after several foreign leaders extended support to the farmers’ protest or questioned the government’s handling of the snowballing demonstrations.The MEA has maintained most of the remarks on the internal matter of the country didn’t reflect India’s democratic ethos or the government’s outreach to the farmers."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken," the MEA said in a statement last month after comments by celebrities, including pop icon Rihanna, on the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permanent-shelters-come-up-at-delhi-border-as-farm-leaders-warn-they-won-t-budge-101615612963960.html
13-03-2021||India||IndianOil helps bolster country's Covid-19 vaccination drive||Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IndianOil) has leveraged its expertise and reach to bolster India's Covid-19 vaccination program by supplementing the available Cold Chain Equipment (CCE) infrastructure in Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Manipur and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for the storage and transportation of vaccine, said the oil and gas company on Saturday.According to a statement released by IOCL, IndianOil is procuring cold chain equipment (CCE) like an ice-line refrigerator (ILR), deep freezer (DF), walk-in-cooler (WIC), walk-in-freezer (WIF), and refrigerated truck (RT), for handing over to the respective state governments.The statement also said that IndianOil management has left no stone unturned to inspire the company's stakeholders to get vaccinated at the earliest.Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman, IndianOil and Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra, Director (HR), IndianOil, were amongst the first few to get the indigenous vaccines to allay apprehensions amongst the stakeholders, said the statement.Speaking about IndianOil's focus on employee welfare, Vaidya said, "An inspired, agile and resilient team of employees enabled IndianOil to fuel the economy and to keep the kitchen fires burning, even during the most difficult phases of the pandemic. We are committed to ensuring their welfare at all times".Mohapatra, on his part, said, "We are also ensuring that the vaccination needs of our retired employees are also taken care of. Care is one of the core values that continue to drive us. As a responsible corporate citizen, IndianOil will do everything it can to contribute to the success of India's vaccination drive".The statement further informed that during the countrywide lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, team IndianOil ensured the smooth supply of petroleum products, including delivering on an average of 25 lakh cylinders every day to its customers' doorsteps.The company, in its statement, further mentioned that it also extended medical insurance coverage and ex-gratia payment in case of death for its over 3,23,000 frontline soldiers.The committee met continuously without a single break for 200 days to ensure internal and external stakeholders' safety and well-being and presently, the empowered committee continues to meet on alternate days, informed the statement.The IOCL, in its statement, also said that quick policy decisions enabled it to accommodate work-from-home routine for its employees wherever possible.In another unique empathy-driven move, IndianOil's HR officials proactively reached out to its 30,000 employees and over 20,000 ex-employees to check on their well-being and extend a helping hand wherever needed, said the statement.According to the statement, IndianOil is also contributing to the resurgent economy and is well on track to achieve its capital expenditure target of ₹26,000 crore in the current fiscal.Since the easing of the lockdown from April 20 last year, IndianOil has commenced work on around 2,800 projects worth about ₹two trillion across the country, the statement added.The country started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses are being administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indianoil-helps-bolster-country-s-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101615636591755.html
13-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases are on the rise in MP, Indore and Bhopal areas of concern: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been on the rise in the state and the cities of Indore and Bhopal are areas of concern for the government. “Corona cases are rising in the state. Hike in cases in Indore and Bhopal is a matter of concern,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chouhan had expressed similar concerns about Indore and Bhopal on Friday too, telling reporters during a press briefing that strict measures will have to be taken to flatten the curve. He also said both cities will most likely be put under strict night curfew from either Sunday or Monday. "Look at the rise in infection cases...Tough measures will be taken to flatten the curve. Night curfew might be clamped in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday," Chouhan said.In early March, Indore accounted for 37 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases in the state. The city was a Covid-19 hotspot during the peak of the pandemic last year and accounted for nearly 50 per cent of all cases reported in Madhya Pradesh in May of 2020.The chief minister also raised the issue of people coming in from Maharashtra, which is witnessing a high number of daily Covid-19 cases and said that arrivals from Maharashtra by air, road, and rail should be thermally scanned. He reiterated his point on Saturday by stating that “truck movement will continue from Maharashtra, but people will undergo temperature check.”The administration has been asked to hold awareness programs on social distancing, mask usage, and other Covid-19 preventative norms in cities recording more than 10 cases a day. “Awareness programs are being carried out for cities reporting over 10 cases,” said the chief minister on Saturday.Madhya Pradesh recorded 603 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the state-wide tally to 267,176. The cities of Bhopal and Indore reported the highest number of cases at 203 and 138 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-are-on-the-rise-in-mp-indore-and-bhopal-areas-of-concern-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101615635416798.html
13-03-2021||India||'In our hands': BMC reaches out to Mumbaikars to prevent Covid-19 spread||As Mumbai continues to witness an uptick in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the BirhanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) reached out to its citizens on Saturday. The richest civic body of the country pointed out that the same date on two different months saw a difference of 1,269 Covid-19 cases. The metropolitan, which the BMC said, started the year on a healthier note by reporting 239 Covid-19 cases on January 11, reported 1,508 daily infections on March 11.The civic body urged the citizens to take note of the rising graph of Covid-19 cases in the city and help in preventing the spread of the virus. The BMC said, “It is in our hands to decide which way the graph goes. Let’s not allow the virus to get better of Mumbai. We can’t do this without you, Mumbai.”2021 Started On A Healthier Note11 Jan: 239 COVID casesBut Then11 Feb: 624 COVID casesAnd In No Time11 Mar: 1508 COVID casesIt is in our hands to decide which way the graph goes.Let’s not allow the virus get the better of Mumbai.We can’t do this without you, Mumbai! pic.twitter.com/B0zn6IEXFoEarlier this month, BMC warned citizens of following Covid-19 norms during wedding celebrations or authorities would be forced to 'gatecrash' it.Mumbai reported 239 Covid-19 cases on January 11 and exactly a month later, the city reported 624 Covid-19 cases, an increase by more than 300 cases in a month. Then on March 11, it registered 1,508 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, indicating a jump of more than 1200 cases in two months and more than 800 cases in one month i.e. from February to March, as per the BMC.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The trend shows an upsurge in the number of coronavirus cases and the rise in the pace of its spread between February and March. From January to February the cases rose by over 300 while from February to March the number of cases reported in a day rose by over 800. On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,647 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the tally to 340, 290 Covid-19 cases to date. The active caseload of the city is 12,487.Restrictions have been imposed in various districts of Maharashtra like Nagpur, Thane, Pune and Amravati. BMC mayor Kishori Pednekar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray have been continuously urging citizens to practise Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and warned that strict restrictions would have to be implemented otherwise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-our-hands-bmc-reaches-out-to-mumbaikars-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-101615630029249.html
13-03-2021||India||India’s active Covid-19 caseload over 2 lakh; 7 states contributing most cases||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases surpassed 11.33 million on Saturday with seven states contributing to 87.72% of the daily new infections, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. The nation’s active caseload has surpassed 200,000-mark, for the first time since January 19, with 24,882 infections reported in the last 24 hours.India’s active cases account for 1.78% of the total positive cases, the health ministry said. Maharashtra accounts for 63.57% of India’s total active cases, it also said. The toll from the viral disease has also gone up in recent days. As many as 140 deaths between Friday and Saturday and five states account for 81.43% of the new fatalities. Maharashtra witnessed the maximum casualties (56) followed by Punjab with 34 daily deaths and Kerala, which reported 14 deaths.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThese seven states are contributing most daily Covid-19 cases, sparking fear of a second wave in the country:Maharashtra: According to the health ministry, Maharashtra logged 15,817 cases of Covid-19 in a day as of Saturday. The state has been witnessing a rise in cases since February. While Maharashtra reported 6281 cases on February 21, the daily tally has gradually increased with it remaining above 13,000 since March 11.Kerala: The state next in line is Kerala with 1780 new cases, according to the state's health department. The Covid-19 tally in the southern state has gone up to 1,087,443.Punjab: The third-highest rise in daily of 1,408 cases was reported by Punjab, which has ordered a partial shutdown in several districts due to the spike. While 352 new cases were reported in the northern state on February 21, the number of cases went up steadily and has remained over 1,000 since March 7.Tamil Nadu: The state recorded 670 daily cases on Saturday. While the daily tally above 400 between February 21 and March 5, the count surpasses 500 on March 6 and 600 on March 11 and has since remained above that.Madhya Pradesh: The rise in cases in Madhya Pradesh has also been pretty steep. The state reported 257 Covid-19 cases on February 21. The count rose steadily and on Saturday there were 603 new cases in MP.Karnataka: The state logged 833 fresh cases on Saturday. There were 490 new cases in Karnataka on February 21 and the daily count rose past 700 on March 11.Gujarat: Covid-19 infections in Gujarat have also been rising steadily. On February 21, the state reported 258 fresh cases and the daily count on March 13 stands at 715, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-over-2-lakh-7-states-contributing-most-cases-101615635020540.html
13-03-2021||India||Jal Shakti Ministry launches framework for water quality testing, monitoring||The Ministry of Jal Shakti on Saturday launched a framework and guidelines for testing, monitoring and surveillance of drinking water quality as well as a Water Quality Information Management System (WQMIS), an online portal that provides detailed information on laboratories for this purpose.The guidelines specify work to be done in terms of surveillance and monitoring at the state, district, block/tehsil and village levels.The basic water quality parameters prescribed under the guidelines are pH value, total dissolved solids, turbidity, chloride, total alkalinity, total hardness, sulphate, iron, total arsenic, fluoride, nitrate, total coliform bacteria, e.coil or thermo-tolerant coliform bacteria.The guidelines have been prepared in consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat told reporters that the aim of the Jal Jeevan Mission is to provide functional tap water connections by 2024 to all rural households and water quality is an important aspect of it.He said the total cost of the Jal Jeevan Mission is ₹3,60,000 crore and 2 per cent of it has been dedicated to the quality of water.According to a 2018 assessment by the Central Ground Water Board, 52 per cent of all the blocks in the country have inter alia any one of the geogenic contaminants like arsenic, chloride, fluoride, iron, nitrate and salinity.Nearly 20 states in India have drinking water source contaminated with arsenic, fluoride, nitrate, iron, salinity or heavy metals.Apart from these, there are 61 priority districts across five states identified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which are affected by Japanese Encephalitis - Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (JE-AES).Bharat Lal, Additional Secretary and Mission Director of National Jeevan Mission, said the purpose of the exercise is to instil a sense of confidence about water quality and people can also test water quality.He added that a database of 2,200 laboratories across the country has been prepared so that water quality can be tested. All the laboratories have been accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories. PTI PR PR NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-shakti-minsitry-launches-famework-for-water-quality-testing-monitoring-101615634936865.html
13-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 cases rising in 6 states says health minister Harsh Vardhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 cases rising in 6 states, isn’t time to be negligent: Harsh VardhanUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday people must follow social distancing norms and wear masks as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in several parts of the country reflected a spike in recent days. Read moreDMK poll manifesto promises to abolish NEET, slash fuel prices in Tamil NaduTamil Nadu’s opposition party Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Saturday released its manifesto for the upcoming assembly elections and promised to reduce fuel prices, bring in legislation to abolish medical exam National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and provide 75% reservation in jobs for natives among other sops. Read more‘Mamata offered to be exchanged for hostages’: Yashwant Sinha on IC 814 crisisSoon after Yashwant Sinha joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday, he claimed that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee ‘offered to be taken hostage in exchange for other passengers’ of an Indian Airlines flight hijacked in 1999. Read moreDGCA reads riot act to flyers violating Covid protocol, warns of de-boardingThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation (GCA) has warned passengers who do not wear masks properly inside an aircraft even after repeated warnings would be de-boarded. Read more'What was the reason India lost': Irfan Pathan highlights 'the difference' between England and Team IndiaTeam India were completely outplayed by England in the first T20 international at Narendra Modi Stadium on Friday. After being asked to bat first, Indian batsmen were under-par as England bowlers tightened the noose around them. If Shreyas Iyer had not hit a half-century then India's total would not have even reached 100. Read moreArrogant, unapologetic about my brown skin: Masaba Gupta preaches self loveThe fashion designer behind the eponymous brand, Masaba Gupta has always been very unapologetic about who she is and where she comes from, and has always been a vocal advocate of self love and acceptance. Read moreAnil Kapoor invites modelling offers from jeans brands with then-and-now photos, daughter Rhea wants her jacket backAnil Kapoor, who turned 64 last year, seems immune to the process of ageing. He invited offers from jeans brands looking for a model, as he shared two pictures of himself, taken over three decades apart. Read more‘Story of life’: Harsh Goenka shares flip book video, wows peopleIf you follow business tycoon Harsh Goenka on Twitter, then you’re probably aware of the various kinds of posts he often shares. From funny posts that make people giggle to motivating ones that turn into life lessons, he shares wonderful tweets. His recent post is no different. It is a video of a flip book. Read moreWatch| 'Tipping point to join TMC was attack on Mamata in Nandigram': Yashwant Sinha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-cases-rising-in-6-states-says-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-and-all-the-latest-news-101615632514215.html
13-03-2021||India||Don't do or say anything that could damage India's image: Naidu to RS members||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged members of the House not to do or say anything that could damage India's image and might be used by the country's enemies against it.Speaking at the inauguration of a two-day orientation programme for new members of the Upper House, Naidu stressed that "discuss, debate and decide" is the mantra of democracy and that members should not resort to disruption.He also said while free writing and expression are allowed in a democracy, they "shouldn't cause disaffection in society".Naidu called upon members not to cause disruption citing rules. He noted that Rule 267, often cited by opposition members, should be used on rare occasions as a 'Brahmastra' for emergent or extraordinary situations."The House frequently runs into problems on account of repeated recourse to certain rules," he told the new members."If you start seeking recourse to (Rule) 267, you cannot run the House. It is very rarely used. It is like 'Brahmastra', (which is used) when other 'astras' (weapons) do not succeed. If you (frequently) start taking recourse to 'Brahmastra', it becomes an 'astra'," he said.Rule 267 calls for setting aside of business of the day to take up a discussion on the issue pressed.It has been quoted by opposition members during the ongoing budget session to debate on issues like farmers' problems and high fuel prices, leading to frequent disruptions last week.Asking members to speak and work for a united and inclusive India, the Rajya Sabha chairman said, "Discussing issues which are not connected to us and going out of the way while trying to paint the country in a negative light is not going to help.""We may have political differences. We oppose each other. But at the same time, when the country is concerned, we should not do anything or say anything which will damage the country's image which our enemies will use and say this has been said in the Indian parliament."We shouldn't give them such a scope because unity, integrity, safety and security of the nation is vital for all," he said.Naidu said every stage of passing laws offers opportunities to oppose or support a bill."You have the power to block a legislation provided you have the numbers. One cannot obstruct physically. Then that is the negation of democracy," he said."Brute majorities have been used by all parties. I don't think it was used only by some and opposition parties know that the majority is given by people and the majority is decided on the floor of the House," he said.Stressing that the mantra for democracy is "discuss, debate and decide", he said let the government propose, the opposition oppose and the House dispose as there is no other way out.Opposition members have accused the government of pushing through crucial farm laws amid a din in the Upper House in September last year."People say don't pass any bill in a din. Some chairmen, after retirement, wrote about it. I have found an easy solution to this -- 'No din, no passage of the bill in the din'," Naidu said."You can't create a din and then say don't pass it (bill). Your legislative mandate is to support or oppose a bill. You can oppose and the House has to decide as the House is supreme," he noted.The Rajya Sabha chairman observed that there is a misconception about privileges that can't be invoked for criticising each other."If someone obstructs you from discharging your responsibility, it leads to privilege. If you criticise each other and say privilege is affected, it is not so," Naidu said.He said free speech and expression are allowed in a democracy but they "shouldn't cause disaffection in society".He said one has both rights and responsibilities and the presiding officer is the custodian of rules while the Chair's decision is final.A number of newly elected members of Rajya Sabha including External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar attended the programme. Deputy Chairman Harivansh was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-do-or-say-anything-that-could-damage-india-s-image-naidu-to-rs-members-101615634170819.html
13-03-2021||India||PM Modi reiterates Sri Lanka's importance to India's Neighbourhood First policy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa spoke on Saturday and discussed issues relevant to the bilateral and multilateral cooperation, including the coronavirus pandemic, a government statement said. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said the leaders “reviewed topical developments and the ongoing cooperation between both countries in bilateral and multilateral forums.”“They agreed to maintain regular contact between relevant officials, including in the context of the continuing COVID-19 challenges. Prime Minister reiterated the importance of Sri Lanka to India's Neighbourhood First policy,” the PMO’s statement added.Prime Minister Modi also tweeted about the conversation with the Sri Lankan leader. “Had a telephone conversation with President @GotabayaR. We discussed issues relevant to our bilateral and multilateral cooperation, including in the context of COVID-19,” PM Modi said.India gifted 500,000 doses of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII) to Sri Lanka, which kicked off the island nation’s vaccine rollout in late January. Rajapaksa thanked India in January for its generosity after he received the doses of Covishield vaccine donated by the country under the 'Neighbourhood First' policy.In February, Sri Lanka received another 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from India. Sri Lanka’s acting health minister Channa Jayasumana said the new batch was ordered under an agreement between the State Pharmaceuticals Corporation (SPC) of Sri Lanka and Serum Institute. Sri Lanka has placed an order for 10 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine from the Serum Institute of India at a cost of $52.5 million and a further 3.5 million doses directly from AstraZeneca Institute of UK under the Covax programme.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reiterates-sri-lanka-s-importance-to-india-s-neighbourhood-first-policy-101615629879554.html
13-03-2021||India||DMK announces 12 out of 13 candidates for Puducherry Assembly elections||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Saturday announced candidates for 12 out of the 13 seats the party will be contesting in the upcoming Puducherry Assembly elections. The candidate for the Bagur constituency will be announced later.S Gopal will be contesting from Uruliyanpet, V Anipal Kennedy from Uppalam, Sun Kumaravel from Mangalam, L Sampath from Mudaliyarpet, R Siva from Villiyanur and V Karthikeyan from Nellithoopu constituency.SP Sivakumar will contest from Raj Bhavan constituency, A K Kumar from Mannadipattu, S Muthuvel from Kallapattu, A Mugilan from Thirupuvanai, AMH Nazeem from Karaikal south and M Nagathyagarajan from Niravi Thirupattinam.Polling for 30 assembly seats in Puducherry will be held on April 6.As many as 10,02,589 electors will choose the candidates for the 15th legislative Assembly of Puducherry.The Congress-led government in the Union Territory fell before completing its five-year term under the Chief Minister V Narayansamy.Narayanasamy had resigned on February 22 ahead of a floor test in the 33-member House (including three nominated) following the resignations of five Congress and one Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislators.On February 23, President Ram Nath Kovind accepted the resignation of Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and his council of ministers.In the 2016 Assembly polls, Congress had won 15 seats, All India NR Congress eight seats, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) got four seats, DMK walked away with two MLAs. BJP could not win any seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-announces-12-out-of-13-candidates-for-puducherry-assembly-elections-101615632516897.html
13-03-2021||India||UDF ally Kerala Cong (Joseph) releases candidate list for assembly polls||The Kerala Congress (Joseph) group, an ally of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on Saturday announced the candidate list for the April 6 state Assembly election with party supremo P J Joseph fighting the poll from Thodupuzha constituency. Senior leaders Advocate Monce Joseph MLA, K Franscis George, Thomas Unniyadan are contesting from Kaduthuruthy, Idukki and Irinjalakuda constituencies. M P Joseph, son-in-law of former minister and Kerala Congress supremo, K M Mani, is contesting from Trikaripur constituency. The UDF leaders had yesterday announced that as per the seat sharing agreement, 10 seats have been allocated for the Joseph faction of Kerala Congress. Kerala Congress (M) had last year severed its three- decade-old ties with the opposition UDF and joined the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), however, a faction led by senior leader Joseph remained with the UDF. A legal battle following the split resulted in the Election Commission allotting the official 'Two Leaves' symbol to Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K Mani, who joined the LDF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/udf-ally-kerala-cong-joseph-releases-candidate-list-for-assembly-polls-101615630395346.html
13-03-2021||India||Delhi CM gives ₹1 crore compensation to family of deceased 'corona warrior'||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday met the family members of a civic hospital's lab technician who died due to Covid-19, and offered them a compensation of ₹1 crore, officials said.He met the mother, wife and children of Rakesh Jain, who was working at the Hindu Rao Hospital in north Delhi."While working on Covid duty, Jain got contracted the Covid-19 infection. He was shifted to the Metro Hospital, but later he lost his life due to Covid. He was martyred but till his last breath, he served the citizens of Delhi. The Delhi government salutes such frontline workers who have served relentlessly the citizens of Delhi," Kejriwal was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister's office."Today, on behalf of the Delhi government, I have handed over a cheque of ₹1 crore to the family members of Rakesh Jain," he said.He continued to serve the people till his last breath, the chief minister said."There is no compensation for anyone's life, but I am hopeful that this financial assistance will provide some ease to his family," he added.A large number of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers and frontline workers, have contacted the infection in the past one year, and some of them have also died to the Covid-19. "His (Jain's) elder son is looking for a job. The Delhi government will also provide a job to his son. I want to ensure the family of Rakesh Jain that the Delhi government will stand beside them in the future also, whenever they need any help," Kejriwal said.Jain got infected by Covid-19 while serving coronavirus patients and was admitted to the Metro Hospital at Preet Vihar on June 17, where he died the next day. A resident of Delhi, he had joined the service in 1988, and was due to retire in 2022, officials said.He is survived by his mother, wife and two children. His wife is a homemaker, while the elder son is preparing for jobs, the younger son is pursuing a bachelor's course, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-gives-rs-1-crore-compensation-to-family-of-deceased-corona-warrior-101615630133990.html
13-03-2021||India||Farmers hold protest in Haryana's Kurukshetra during event organised by JJP||A group of farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) tried to force its way into the Circuit House here on Saturday, where workers of the ruling JJP had organised a function to honour a few "safai karamcharis" to mark the birthday of party chief Ajay Singh Chautala.A large police contingent was deployed in the area as a precautionary measure. The doors of the Circuit House, a state government building, were locked to prevent the farmers from entering its premises, officials said.Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) MLA Ram Karan Kala was to preside over the function. However, he skipped the event.The farmers raised slogans against the JJP MLAs and said they had not backed the opposition's no-confidence motion against the Haryana government, which was brought on farmers' issues.A leader of the farmers said they wanted to meet the MLA who had assured them sometime ago that he would support the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new farm laws but failed to support the no-confidence motion moved by the Congress against the BJP-JJP government in the state Assembly.With the intervention of the police, the farmers agreed to disperse after the organisers decided to cancel the function.Kurukshetra Station House Officer (SHO) Devinder Walia said the police kept the doors of the Circuit House locked for about an hour-and-a-half because the agitating farmers were adamant on entering the building.The protesters said they wanted to "blacken the faces of those holding the function", he said.Meanwhile, another group of farmers staged a protest and raised slogans against Independent MLA Dharam Pal Gonder, who was to attend an event in neighbouring Karnal district, alleging that the legislator had not stood with the peasants as he had voted against the opposition's no-confidence motion against the state government.The farmers reached near the spot in Karnal's Nissing, where the MLA from the Nilokheri Assembly segment was to attend an event in a "gaushala" (cow shelter).The protesters, who were carrying black flags, claimed that Gonder skipped the event in view of their protest."We had gone to Gonder's residence on March 9, where his wife was present, and we requested the family that the legislator should stand with the farmers and support the no-confidence motion. However, he chose not to support the farmers and voted against the motion," one of the protesters said.Another protester said they will not allow those MLAs, who chose not to stand with the farmers, to hold public meetings in villages."We will not allow them to hold meetings in villages till the farm laws are repealed," he said.Farmers from the state had blocked traffic in Jind and Hisar on Thursday while another group protested outside BJP MLA Asseem Goel's residence in Ambala, a day after the no-confidence motion against the Haryana government was defeated in the Assembly.The BJP-JJP government in Haryana survived the floor test on Wednesday, comfortably defeating the no-confidence motion moved against it by the main opposition Congress.The motion was defeated following a division of votes. Fifty-five members voted against the motion while 32 backed it.All the 10 MLAs of the JJP and five of the seven independent lawmakers voted against the no-confidence motion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hold-protest-in-haryana-s-kurukshetra-during-event-organised-by-jjp-101615629814799.html
13-03-2021||India||DGCA reads riot act to flyers violating Covid protocol, warns of de-boarding||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (GCA) has warned passengers who do not wear masks properly inside an aircraft even after repeated warnings would be de-boarded.In a circular Saturday about strict compliance of Covid-19 protocols during air travel, the DGCA said that it has been noticed that some travellers do not adhere to Covid-19 protocols which involves wearing of mask properly during the journey from entering the airport for departure to exiting the airport after arrival.It asked passengers to wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel.“On board the aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing of mask properly even after repeated warnings, he/she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure. In case any passenger on board an aircraft refuse to wear mask or violates the “Covid-19 protocol for passengers” even after repeated warnings, during the course of the flight, such passenger may may be treated as ‘unruly passenger’ …. and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in the above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airline,” the circular said.“The airport director/terminal manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the airport premises. In case any passenger is not following the “Covid-19 protocol”, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law,” it said.The DGCA also said that the CISF or other police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport shall ensure that no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask. “CASO and other supervising officers must ensure this personally,” it said.Earlier this month, a judge of the Delhi High Court who watched passengers pull down their masks on board during a Kolkata-Delhi flight issued a set of guidelines that empowers the cabin crew to offload passengers who do not properly wear their masks. If the plane has already taken off, the judge ordered action should be taken against delinquent passengers that could include permanently barring them from flying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-reads-riot-act-to-flyers-violating-covid-protocol-warns-of-deboarding-101615628921729.html
13-03-2021||India||BJP's Central Election Committee meeting today, likely to finalise candidates for Assembly polls||A meeting of the BJP's Central Election Committee (CEC) in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be held in the evening today and is likely to finalise candidates for the upcoming Assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, West Bengal and Assam.Sources said that the party is likely to finalise its list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, West Bengal and Assam today.Assam BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass said: "There will be a meeting of the parliamentary board at 5 pm, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi."Earlier today, Dass attended a meeting at BJP National Chief Jagat Prakash Nadda's residence.In the meeting, several ministers were present including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Jitendra Singh and Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-central-election-committee-meeting-today-likely-to-finalise-candidates-for-assembly-polls-101615627637530.html
13-03-2021||India||Ambani bomb scare probe: Sachin Waze appears before NIA in Mumbai||Police officer Sachin Waze on Saturday reached the National Investigation Agency's (NIA) office in south Mumbai to give statement in connection with the explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month, an official said.The assistant police inspector reached the agency's office at Cumballa Hill around 11.30 am, police said.The NIA is investigating the case of explosives recovery from the SUV parked near Ambani's residence on Carmichael Road on February 25.The probe agency wants information from Waze in connection with the case, which is why he is at the NIA office, the police official said.The Scorpio found parked near Ambani's house contained explosives and a threat letter. Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, had claimed that it had been stolen a week earlier, but the case got murky when he was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5.Waze, accused by Hiran's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-bomb-scare-probe-sachin-waze-appears-before-nia-in-mumbai-101615628679100.html
13-03-2021||India||Gujarat lab agent booked for selling false Covid-19 negative reports||A FIR has been registered against a laboratory agent for allegedly selling false Covid-19 negative reports to people in Gujarat's Rajkot city, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the accused Parag Joshi managed to procure Covid-19 negative certificates for people who needed them for ₹1,500 each.Based on a complaint lodged by deputy medical officer Dr Parag Chunara, a case has been registered against Joshi and other unidentified accused under relevant provisions of the IPC, Disaster Management Act and Gujarat Medical Practitioners' Act at Gandhigram police station, an official said.Joshi ran a home sample collection centre and sold Covid-19 negative reports to people without collecting their swab samples, he said."We have learnt that the sample of a different person was sent to a laboratory with the documents of the person in whose name the report was to be issued," the official said.The laboratory would then issue a report in the name of the person whose documents it received, he said.The accused also did not have a licence to run the sample collection centre, and was hence also booked under the Gujarat Medical Practitioners' Act, the official said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-lab-agent-booked-for-selling-false-covid-19-negative-reports-101615627006989.html
13-03-2021||India||Tripura poll panel defers tribal council election to April 6||The state election commission has deferred a Tripura district council poll by two days to April 6, following objections by some political parties and a body of the Christian community to the earlier date which coincided with Easter Sunday.The election to the 30-member Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) was earlier scheduled on April 4."Several representations were received from political parties and other organisations of the state, requesting the commission to change the date of poll," state election commission secretary Prasenjit Bhattacharjee said in a notification issued on Friday.He said it was brought to the notice of the poll panel that voting on April 4 would be inconvenient for a large section of people for whom this day holds special significance as it coincides with Easter Sunday.Considering the local importance of Eastern Sunday, polling for the autonomous tribal administrative body will be held on April 6, he said.The results will be announced on April 10.According to the 2011 Census report, Christians account for 4.35% of the state's population.The United Christan Forum for Human Rights had objected to the council election date on April 4 and requested the commission to change it.The opposition CPI(M) and the Congress had also protested against the state election commission's decision to hold the polling on Easter Sunday.Left body Ganamukti Parishad president Jitendra Chaudhury had posted on a social media site that Easter Sunday is on April 4, which is a special day for Christians and the commission should not have chosen the date for the ADC polling.State Congress vice president Tapas Dey said the election date should be deferred as it coincided with a festival.Altogether 8,65,041 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise across 1,244 polling stations in the district council election.Polling would begin at 7 am and continue till 9 pm.Altogether 185 candidates of various parties, including the ruling BJP and its ally Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), the Left Front, the Congress and the Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), have filed their nominations.The last date of filing nominations was on Friday.The scrutiny of the papers would be completed by March 15.The TTAADC constitute a two-third area of the state territory and is home to tribals, who form one-third of Tripura's estimated 40 lakh population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-poll-panel-defers-tribal-council-election-to-april-6-101615625675730.html
13-03-2021||India||RJD MLAs stage protest at Bihar Assembly over sale of liquor in state||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLAs on Saturday staged a protest at the Assembly against the alleged sale of liquor in Bihar despite the ban."The government announced that liquor is completely banned in Bihar. But still, liquor is sold in Bihar at many places also their leaders are involved with the liquor mafias and under their supervision, the liquor is sold," RJD MLA Bhai Virendra told ANI outside the Assembly.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Legislative Assembly Tejashwi Yadav said, "We have discussed a lot about the reality of the prohibition of liquor in Bihar. We made our point based on the evidence. An FIR was filed against Ram Sundar Rai's brother Hansal but he has not been arrested yet.""Under the liquor prohibition law, police stations will be opened from wherever liquor is seized. Alcohol was seized in November but neither the police station is opened till now nor Ram Sundar Rai's brother is arrested," he added.In 2016, chief minister Nitish Kumar banned alcohol consumption in Bihar making it a dry state.Tejashwi Yadav with other party MLAs marched towards Raj Bhavan after walking out of the Bihar Assembly."The government is not allowing us to put our views in the House. It is a dictatorship. Vidhan Sabha has become JD(U) and BJP's office," Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mlas-stage-protest-at-bihar-assembly-over-sale-of-liquor-in-state-101615625798535.html
13-03-2021||India||Air travellers not adhering to Covid-19 norms will be treated as 'unruly passengers': DGCA||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Saturday issued a strict warning to air passengers not adhering to the Covid-19 norms while flying on airlines, amid reports of violations by travellers. Passengers will be de-boarded if they don't wear masks properly inside the aircraft or don't follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the DGCA said in a statement. In case a passenger violates a protocol despite repeated warnings then they will be treated as "unruly passengers," the aviation regulatory body also said.Also Read | DGCA issues post-vaccination guidelines for aircrewDGCA also directed the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and other police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport to stop anyone who tries to enter the airport without a face mask. It also asked airport authorities to keep strict vigilance that no person is allowed inside the airport with a face mask. "In case, any passenger is not following COVID-19 Protocol they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law," the regulator said in the statement. "The adherence to directions shall be ensured by all concerned with immediate effect. Strict action shall be taken in case of any violation," it added.Also Read | Mumbai: 2 years on, DGCA yet to decide on resuming Boeing 737 MAX opsThe warnings also come as the country is witnessing a sharp spike in its daily cases of infection. On Saturday, India's Covid-19 tally jumped to 11,333,728 after it added 24,882 cases in the span of 24 hours. This is the fourth time that the country’s single-day cases have crossed the 20,000-mark this year. The active cases also soared to 202,022, after a downward trend since January 20, as 4,785 new cases were added in the last 24 hours, comprising 1.74% of the total cases seen so far. The death toll stood at 158,446 after 140 fresh fatalities.Experts have attributed the negligence in behaviour as a reason behind the rise in the Covid-19 infection. On Friday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan urged people to follow social distancing norms and wear masks as he pointed that at least six states are reporting a spike in the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-travellers-not-adhering-to-covid-19-norms-will-be-treated-as-unruly-passengers-dgca-101615625852958.html
13-03-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Municipal corporation elections to be held on April 7||Municipal Corporation elections in Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan to be held on April 7."Municipal Corporation elections in Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan to be held on 7th April. Counting of votes will take place on the same day," informed the state election commission on Saturday.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh Assembly elections for 68 seats will take place in 2022.In the 2017 HP Assembly elections, BJP secured 44 seats followed by INC gaining 20 seats, CPI winning 1 seat and the rest were won by others. Following this, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur took oath as the Chief Minister of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-municipal-corporation-elections-to-be-held-on-april-7-101615625602358.html
13-03-2021||India||Govt to put in place safeguards to prevent data misuse by unauthorised persons: Draft e-comm policy||The government would lay down principles for usage of data for the development of any industry, where such norms do not already exist, and put in place adequate safeguards to prevent misuse and access of data by unauthorized persons, according to a draft national e-commerce policy.The government is in the process of developing regulations for personal and non-personal data, the policy, which is under discussion, said.The draft has stated that sharing of data for industrial development would be encouraged and regulations for data will be provided for the sharing mechanism."The government shall lay down principles for usage of data for the purpose of development of any industry, e-commerce, consumer protection, national security, economic security and law enforcement including taxation where such principles do not already exist and put in place adequate safeguards to prevent misuse and access of data by unauthorized persons," it said.According to the draft, the government acknowledges the importance of data as an asset and needs to use data emanating from India for "Indian entities first".An inter-ministerial meeting, under the chairmanship of a top official of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), was held on Saturday to deliberate upon this draft.For free and informed choice, it said that e-commerce operators would have to ensure that algorithms used by them, are not biased and that no discrimination due to digitally induced biases is prevalent."Consumers have a right to be made aware of all relevant details about the goods and services offered for sale including country of origin, value addition in India, and any other such information which may be necessary for making an informed decision at the pre-purchase stage," it said.To promote fair competition, the draft said that e-commerce operators must ensure equal treatment of all sellers/vendors registered on their platforms and not adopt algorithms which result in prioritizing select vendors/sellers.It said the operators have to bring out clear and transparent policies on discounts, including the basis of discount rates funded by platforms for different products/suppliers and implications of participation/ non-participation in discount schemes, so as to ensure fair and equal treatment."In the interest of the Indian consumer, and the local startup ecosystem, the government will aim to ensure that there are more service providers available, and that network effects do not lead to creation of digital monopolies misusing their dominant market position," it added.Further, to eliminate counterfeit products from online platforms, it said the companies would create adequate safeguards to ensure that products offered are genuine and the liability for counterfeit products would be "jointly and severally" of the online firm and the seller.In order to ensure that e-commerce is not used to defraud customers, registration with an authority identified by the government would be made mandatory, it added."In order to keep up with the technological and economic transformations in the e-commerce sector, measurement of e-commerce activities, including but not limited to details of sale, import and customs duties, grievance redressal, compliance to existing or new regulations/rules, rogue sellers, counterfeit items etc. will be undertaken by concerned agencies in a periodic manner," it added.It also said that given the interdisciplinary nature of e-commerce, a Standing Group of Secretaries on e-commerce would give recommendations to address policy challenges.Regarding anti-piracy measures, the draft said that a body of industry stakeholders and identified trusted parties will be created that would identify "rogue e-commerce entities", meaning those firms that host predominantly pirated content."After verification, these rogue e-commerce entities shall be included in the 'Infringing e-Commerce Entities' (IEE). Internet service providers shall remove or disable access to the websites identified in the IEE within the set time-lines," it said.Further, it said the policy would be a kind of a consolidated document for providing a level-playing field to all stakeholders, including individual consumers, MSMEs, traders, artisans, start-ups, while pursuing a development agenda which addresses growth and reduces prevalent market distortions.The policy would cover all modes of e-commerce - inventory, marketplace and hybrid model and it would be equally applicable to entities, natural and /or legal with foreign and domestic investments, the 9-page draft of the DPIIT said.Depending on parameters such as turnover, market size, active users, registered sellers, sale of merchandise value of an e-commerce operator, distinction would be made separately for e-commerce operators of significance who may be required to have additional compliance requirements.To promote exports through e-commerce, it said India Post will develop a specialized, low cost, and trackable solution targeted at e-commerce exporters for small products, with committed timelines for express delivery.Besides Foreign Post Offices will be strengthened and their numbers will be increased, so that they may act as delivery hubs, across regions.The draft also said that the policy would bring e-commerce exports on par with non-e-commerce exports by enabling online grant of drawbacks, advance authorization, EPCG (export promotion capital goods) and GST (Goods and Services Tax) refund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-put-in-place-safeguards-to-prevent-data-misuse-by-unauthorised-persons-draft-e-comm-policy-101615625195122.html
13-03-2021||India||Incidents of influx of people from Myanmar into Manipur not reported so far: CM Biren Singh||Amid ongoing violence in Myanmar after the military coup last month, Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Friday said that incidents of the influx of people from Myanmar into Manipur has not been reported so far.He further said that security forces are put on alert at the borders."Till now, there is no information about the influx (of Myanmarese) into the state. We have deployed and alerted the security at the border. The matter is a bilateral issue between India and Myanmar. The state cannot take any action on this issue," said Singh.The Ministry of Home Affairs on Friday asked four northeastern states- Mizoram, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh- to take appropriate action as per law to prevent a possible influx of people from Myanmar into India.The MHA also said that it has been reported that illegal influx from Myanmar has started and agencies have been asked to identify migrants and initiate the deportation processes without delay.The Home Ministry reiterated that state governments and Union Territory (UT) administrations have no power to grant "refugee" status to any foreigner as India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol.The military toppled Myanmar's elected government on February 1 and launched a massive crackdown on anti-coup protesters, shutting down the internet and arresting hundreds of people, including the state counsellor, de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi, and the figurehead president.Violence against protesters has so far left over 60 people dead and more than 1,800 people arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incidents-of-influx-of-people-from-myanmar-into-manipur-not-reported-so-far-cm-biren-singh-101615625221741.html
13-03-2021||India||3 Congress MLAs accuse govt of discrimination against SC, ST lawmakers||Three ruling Congress lawmakers in Rajasthan, who were part of Sachin Pilot's rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year, have accused the state government of discriminating against MLAs belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), and religious minorities.The allegation comes ahead of by-polls to four assembly seats in the state. The by-poll schedule is yet to be announced and they are expected to be held within the next two months.The Congress has a wafer-thin majority of 104 in the 200-member state assembly. Lone Rashtriya Lok Dal and 12 Independent lawmakers support its government in the state, where SC, ST, and Muslim communities account for about 40% of the population.Ramesh Meena, who was a minister before the rebellion, said he would not hesitate in resigning if their problems are not addressed and that he has sought a meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to discuss the matter. He said ministers do not meet lawmakers such as Ameen Khan and Babulal Bairwa."If an SC, ST member approaches ministers, they are scolded. Why this discrimination with our people?" asked Meena who got into an argument with the assembly Speaker over seating arrangement in the House this week.Meena referred to three previous budgets and questioned what did SC, ST, and minority communities' lawmakers get for development works in their constituencies. "And what development is happening in Jodhpur...the chief minister's... hometown." Meena accused the government of trying to suppress the voice of lawmakers representing SC, ST, and minorities by giving them seats in the Assembly without microphones. “When we are not being heard, then where do the people from SC, ST, and OBC [other backward classes] go. Our voice is not taken seriously. It is a serious issue. Our government was formed with the support of people from SC, ST, and minorities... and now discrimination is done with them.”Meena said that he was a minister and could have remained silent to retain his ministry. “I do not want to become a minister but cannot remain silent if discrimination is done with us. I am raising my voice against the acts that weaken Congress. If you do not allow us to speak, give funds for development works. Ministers do not meet us and then you call us the backbone of the government. What is it?"Murari Lal Meena, another lawmaker, said the development works have taken place in his area but the work of several people in his constituency is not being done. He said that party leaders consider SC, ST, and minorities as the Congress's backbone. But, he added, the backbone is being weakened in the assembly, at the government, and the party level. "This will not benefit the party and the party should look into it."Ved Prakash Solanki, the third lawmaker, said 50 lawmakers without microphones in the assembly are mostly from SC, ST, and minority communities. "The chief whip should have thought about the criteria; seniors are side-lined... first-timers are sitting in front [assembly rows]. It is not one lawmaker's resentment... it should be corrected. Those who helped in forming the government should be taken care of."In July last year, Pilot had camped in the National Capital Region with a group of Congress legislators backing him as the rebellion raised questions about the stability of the state government. He agreed to a truce after his meeting with Gandhi a month later in New Delhi and put an end to the uncertainty.HT reached out to Congress leaders for reactions, but they refused to comment immediately.Political analyst Sunny Sebastian said the lack of microphones cannot be the real issue as social distancing due to Covid-19 has warranted distanced seating arrangement in the House. "The three, who rebelled along with Sachin Pilot are making statements together, which shows that something is... [wrong]. However, it does not look like a revolt...but resentment... maybe as they are out of power," he said. He added the three making charges of discrimination certainly sends a wrong message in public, especially when by-polls to four seats are due."The Congress needs to resolve the grievances before it gets out of hand."Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leader Satish Poonia said the allegations of the three lawmakers show that all is not well with their party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-congress-mlas-accuse-govt-of-discrimination-against-sc-st-lawmakers-101615624829597.html
13-03-2021||India||India records highest single-day Covid-19 vaccinations with over 2 million doses||With over 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, India on Friday recorded the highest number of vaccinations administered in a single day, the Union Health Ministry informed on Saturday.As many as 20,53,537 vaccine doses were administered on Day 56 of the vaccination drive ( March 12) through 30,561 sessions.A total of 16,39,663 beneficiaries that included Health Care Workers (HCW) and Front Line Workers (FLW) were vaccinated the first dose and 4,13,874 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of the vaccine.So far, a cumulative total of 2,82,18,457 doses of the vaccine have been administered through 4,86,314 sessions.Eight states constituted 74 per cent of the 20,53,537 doses administered in the last 24 hours. Uttar Pradesh has topped the list with more than 3.3 lakh doses.Ten States account for 69 per cent of the second dose vaccinations in the country. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 9.71 per cent (4,99,242) of the total second dose vaccinations.There are currently 2,02,022 active cases in the country, 1.78 per cent of the total positive cases, including 24,882 new cases in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra, one of the worst affected states, accounts for 63.57 per cent of the total active cases. 15,817 new cases reported in the last 24 hours in the state.As many as 20 States/UTs have less than 1,000 Active Cases.Meanwhile, cumulative recoveries rose to 1,09,73,260 with the national Recovery Rate reaching 96.82 per cent.A total of 140 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Five States account for 81.43 per cent of the new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-vaccinations-with-over-2-million-doses-101615624689800.html
13-03-2021||India||Renewal of registration for 15-year-old govt vehicles to stop from Apr 1, 2022||The government departments will not be able to renew registration of their vehicles older than 15 years from April 1, 2022, if a proposal in this regard issued by the the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is finalised.It has sought stakeholders comments to amend related rules in this regard issuing a notification.Once approved, this will be applicable to all government vehicles - central or state governments, union territories, PSUs, municipal and autonomous bodies, as per the notification."From April 1, 2022, government departments will not be able to renew the certificate of registration of their vehicles, after 15 years. This will apply to all government - central, state, UT, PSUs, municipal bodies & autonomous bodies," the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways said in a tweet.The development comes close on heels of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union Budget on February 1 for 2021-22 which provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years.Notification of the draft rules has been issued to this effect on March 12 by the ministry seeking comments, objections and suggestions from the stakeholders within thirty days.The certificate of registration shall not be renewed after the laps of 15 years for govenrment vehicles, it said.Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 had announced vehicle scrapping policy.Road, Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari had said that initially one crore vehicles will go for scrapping and the policy will lead to new investments of around ₹10,000 crore and create as many as 50,000 jobs.These old vehicles are estimated to cause 10-12 times more pollution than the latest vehicles.The government had earlier said it plans to impose green tax on old polluting vehicles soon in a bid to protect the environment and curb pollution while vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and those running on alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol and LPG will be exempted. The revenue collected through the green tax will be utilised for tackling pollution.Under the scheme, transport vehicles older than eight years could be charged green tax at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10%-25% of road tax, as per green tax proposal sent to states for consultations after cleared by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renewal-of-registration-for-15-year-old-govt-vehicles-to-stop-from-apr-1-2022-101615622822176.html
13-03-2021||India||Prime Minister Shram Yogi Mandhan Yojana: Check eligibility, other details here||Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan (PM-SYM), which was launched in 2019, is a government scheme that caters to old age protection and social security of unorganised workers. The scheme provides subscribers with a minimum assured pension of ₹3000 per month after the age of 60 years. The scheme requires subscribers to make monthly contributions in the range of ₹55 to ₹200 per month till the age of 60 years.What are the eligibility criteria for enrollment?The scheme is for unorganised workers and has an entry age between 18 to 40 years. The applicant for the scheme must have a monthly income of ₹15,000 or less and should not be an income tax payee. Additionally, the applicant should not be enrolled in schemes like the National Pension Scheme, the Employees' State Insurance Corp scheme, or the Employees' Provident Fund scheme.How does the scheme work?The scheme is voluntary in nature and works on contributions made by the subscribers, which are matched with the contributions from the government on a 50:50 basis. These contributions become higher with the age of the subscribers and the contribution amount for the first month is paid in cash for which the subscriber is also provided with a receipt. Cards with unique ID numbers are issued to all subscribers of the scheme.How to enrol for the scheme?After checking the eligibility criteria, subscribers can enrol for the scheme by visiting the nearest common service centres (CSCs). According to the government, enrollment services for this scheme are being provided at more than 300,000 CSCs across the country.What are the documents required for enrollment?To enrol for the scheme, the subscriber requires a savings bank account or Jan Dhan account. Aadhaar card is also mandatory for this scheme.What are the exit provisions in the scheme?In case the subscriber wishes to exit the scheme within a period of fewer than 10 years, their share of contribution will be returned with a savings bank interest rate. If the subscriber exits after 10 years or more but before turning 60, their share of contribution along with accumulated interest or the savings bank interest rate, whichever is higher, will be returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-shram-yogi-mandhan-yojana-check-eligibility-other-details-here-101615622381526.html
13-03-2021||India||Explained: Lightning, its effects and precautions to be taken||One person died and three others sustained injuries on Friday when a tree under which they were taking shelter from the rain was struck by lightning in Sector 82 of Haryana’s Gurugram. All four of them, the staff of the horticulture department, were rushed to the hospital where 38-year-old Ram Prasad later succumbed to his injuries. Officials later said Shiv Dutt, 43, Lali, 32, and Anil Kumar, 32, were stable and recovering after the accident in the residential township Vatika India Next.On camera: Lightning hits tree in Gurugram, injures 4 who took shelterHere’s a look at what is lightning and how does it take place:What is lightning?Lightning is a sudden electrostatic discharge during an electrical storm with a frequency of around 40-50 times a second on Earth, some of which may be seen even before the thunder is heard. But sometimes, distant lightning can be seen but maybe too far away for thunder to be heard. Lightning is of three forms: intra-cloud lightning, cloud to cloud lightning and cloud-to-ground lightning. Cloud-to-ground lightning is the most common form of lightning and accounts for about 25 per cent of cases in the world.How does lightning take place?During a thunderstorm due to separation of charge, the air currents start to move upwards while the water droplets simultaneously move downwards. Positive charges, therefore, start collecting near the upper edge of the cloud and the negative charges gather near the lower edge as well as close to the ground. When the magnitude of the charges becomes huge, the water droplets which are in the air start acting as the conductor of the charges and thus, the charges flow to meet, resulting in lightning and thunder.What are the precautions which should be taken against lightning?During lightning, taking shelter under a tree or lying on the ground can be very dangerous. Staying indoors is safer but touching electrical fittings, wires, metal and water must be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-lightning-its-effects-and-precautions-to-be-taken-101615620169466.html
13-03-2021||India||US development bank to assist India's Biological E for Quad Vaccine Partnership||The US development bank will assist India’s biopharmaceutical company Biological E to produce one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to be rolled out by the end of 2022 under the ambitious new vaccine partnership unveiled at the first Quad Summit.The four countries agreed on Friday to pool their financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistical strengths to ramp up manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines across the region as part of efforts to boost post-pandemic recovery.The initiative will create additional manufacturing capacities in India, the world’s largest producer of vaccines, to make doses developed in the US, including the Johnson & Johnson candidate. This will be done with financing from the US and Japan.Australia will help overcome last mile and logistical delivery issues and assist in delivering the vaccines to countries in Southeast Asia, the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Islands.The US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has announced it will “finance increased capacity to support Biological E’s effort to produce at least 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2022”.This will be done with Stringent Regulatory Authorization (SRA) and the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Emergency Use Listing.The move is part of DFC’s Global Health and Prosperity Initiative, under which it is increasing manufacturing, production and distribution capacity for vaccines.The Quad Vaccine Partnership was seen as the most significant deliverable of the first summit of the leaders of India, Australia, Japan and the US. Observers believe the move will help counter China’s influence across the Indo-Pacific while at the same time signalling that the Quad is evolving from a group that only discusses strategic approaches to cooperating in definite areas.DFC chief operating officer David Marchick said, “It is hard to conceive of an investment with a greater developmental impact than using our financial tools to increase the capacity of vaccine manufacturing to help developing countries in Asia and around the world respond to Covid-19 and other diseases.”He added, “Expanding vaccine manufacturing, especially the Covid-19 vaccine and boosters, will help increase vaccination rates and protect communities around the world.”Partnering with Biological E, which is a woman-run business, will also advance DFC’s “2X Women’s Initiative” to promote global gender equity.Mahima Datla is currently the managing director of Biological E, which was founded in 1953, and became the first Indian private sector company to enter the vaccines business in 1962. The firm launched commercial operations in the US in 2019.TheDFC is also working to strengthen the vaccine supply chain and last mile logistics for distribution. Under its Global Health and Prosperity Initiative, DFC will invest between $5 million and $500 million on eligible projects, including equity and debt financing, political risk insurance and technical development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-development-bank-to-assist-india-s-biological-e-for-quad-vaccine-partnership-101615621618815.html
13-03-2021||India||Week-long lockdown in Nagpur from Monday: A look at what’s open and what’s not||Nagpur, one of the worst hit-regions in Maharashtra other than Pune and Mumbai, will be placed under a week-long lockdown from Monday, March 15, till March 21 due to a recent spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is the first city in India that is going back to a complete lockdown after authorities had started lifting nationwide curbs in June last year. The decision was taken after Nagpur’s guardian minister Nitin Raut chaired a meeting of top district officials on Thursday.Nagpur is contributing the most number of Covid-19 cases towards the state’s daily tally. On Friday, 1,729 cases were reported in Nagpur - the second-highest in Maharashtra - which pushed the division’s caseload to 248,912 of which 4,893 people have died. Infections have been on the rise in Nagpur since mid-February with the daily tally breaching the 1,000-mark on February 24.Hundreds of people were seen flouting social distancing rules on Saturday morning at the city’s Cotton Market. Images from ANI showed that many of them were not wearing a face mask or any face covering. A similar situation was also seen at a liquor shop in the city on Friday. Last week, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation had extended curbs on several activities till Sunday (March 14). These curbs, which ordered the closure of educational institutions, weekly markets, marriage halls and other social, political and cultural events, were first introduced on February 22.Amid the worrying situation, here are the instructions that residents will have to adhere to during the week-long lockdown:1. Shops selling essential commodities such as vegetables, fruits and medicines and milk booths will remain open during the lockdown. Liquor can be sold online.2. Guardian minister Raut appealed to the residents on Thursday that they should not move out of their homes unnecessarily during the lockdown.3. Private offices will be shut while government offices will function at a capacity of 25 per cent.4. Nearly 3,000 police personnel will be deployed across Nagpur. Police commissioner Amitesh Kumar told Reuters on Friday that they will be monitoring traffic to stop unnecessary journeys and also check that the majority of the offices and shops- apart from medicines and groceries remain closed.5. Kumar also added that hospitals would be functioning and people will be allowed to take the vaccination doses against the Covid-19 disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weeklong-lockdown-in-nagpur-from-monday-a-look-at-what-s-open-and-what-s-not-101615620855567.html
13-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Palaniswami hits out at DMK over dynasty politics and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.People must prove their worth: Palaniswami hits out at DMKTamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami slammed the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) over dynasty politics on Saturday. Read MoreUN experts ask India to release Christian Michel from ‘arbitrary’ detentionA panel of UN experts has called on the Indian government to immediately release Christian Michel. Read MoreFive members of family found dead in Bihar, suicide suspectedFive members of a family facing financial hardships allegedly died by suicide in Bihar’s Supaul district, the state police said on Saturday. Read More'Courageous shot': Gautam Gambhir lauds Rishabh Pant's outrageous reverse-flick off Jofra Archer that went for a sixAfter the 4th Test between India and England at Motera in Ahmedabad, a lot of the chatter revolved around Rishabh Pant's beautiful reverse scoop-off veteran pacer James Anderson for a six. Read MoreManushi Chhillar takes style game up a notch in bodysuit and pants worth Rs.20kTime and again, Miss World 2017 Manushi Chhillar shares images of herself in gorgeous attires and breaks the internet. Read MoreSmriti Irani, Mumbai Police share clip of musicians performing enthusiasticallyUnion minister Smriti Irani often takes to Instagram to share various kinds of posts. Read MoreRoohi box office day 2: Janhvi-starrer sees standard drop, makes Rs.2.25 croreRoohi experienced a standard day two drop at the box office after it premiered on the Mahashivratri holiday on Thursday. Read MoreBengal polls: Mamata's injury; Nandigram significance; BJP strategy | HT InsightHindustan Times' Editor-in-chief, Sukumar Ranganathan decodes the upcoming West Bengal elections in the latest episode of HT Insight. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-palaniswami-hits-out-at-dmk-over-dynasty-politics-and-all-the-latest-news-101615618162120.html
13-03-2021||India||Bihar minister blames Bangladesh treaty, Farakka barrage for floods and droughts||Bihar’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Friday blamed the treaty with Bangladesh for sharing the Ganga waters and the “faulty design” of the Farakka barrage for floods in the state in the monsoon season and drought-like situation for the rest of the year.The Farakka barrage has often been criticized for floods in Bihar due to excessive siltation in the Ganga. On Friday, Jha also put it in his line of fire.“Faulty design of the Farakka barrage has led to a heavy deposit of silt in the Ganga in the upstream up to Buxar. This leads to flooding of the entire plain along the river’s course during the rains. Post-monsoon, Bihar rivers have to supplement the quantum of flow in the Ganga to provide 1400 cusec of water... the original flow in the river gets reduced to just 400 cusecs as it enters the state,” Jha said at a seminar.He cited chief minister Nitish Kumar’s pre-poll pledge to take water to every farm in the next five years and added that Bihar would be the next state after Punjab and Haryana to reap the benefits of a Green Revolution. "...the state government is working on ambitious projects like Jal-Jeevan-Haryali and Har Khet Ko Pani for sustainable development of rural economy...,” said Jha. He added that the groundwork to provide the water to every farm would start in April.Jha said a detailed survey for this had started on January 18 across Bihar. “So far, 58% of rural areas have been surveyed and 12,188 schemes have been finalised...after technical feasibility reports. However, a comprehensive strategy over the way to irrigate the farms would be decided later..."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-minister-blames-bangladesh-treaty-farakka-barrage-for-floods-and-droughts-101615619994315.html
13-03-2021||India||SpiceJet to add 66 new flights to domestic network from March 28||No-frills carrier SpiceJet on Saturday said it will add 66 new flights, including additional services on certain routes, in its domestic network from March 28.These new flights, which will be operated with Boeing 737s and regional jet Bombardier Q400s, are aimed at augmenting connectivity between metro and non-metro cities as part of its enhanced network."We are delighted to further expand our domestic operations and add 66 new flights to our network for the start of this summer schedule. As the country's largest regional operator, the new flights further reiterate our commitment towards enhancing regional connectivity, besides offering unique connections to many leisure destinations,” said Shilpa Bhatia, Chief Commercial Officer, SpiceJet.In a bid to support the increasing travel demand from smaller cities which were initially connected by SpiceJet under UDAN scheme, the airline has introduced new flights connecting Darbhanga, Durgapur, Jharsuguda, Gwalior and Nashik with some key metro cities, the airline said in a release.The airline will launch new flights on the sectors of Ahmedabad-Darbhanga-Ahmedabad, Hyderabad-Darbhanga-Hyderabad, Pune-Darbhanga-Pune and Kolkata-Darbhanga-Kolkata after connecting Darbhanga with Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru earlier, it said.Similarly, Durgapur will now be connected to Pune which SpiceJet already connects with Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi. Jharsuguda will now be connected to Chennai in addition to Delhi, Hyderabad & Kolkata which SpiceJet already operates to.While Gwalior which was earlier connected with Hyderabad, Jammu, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Delhi will now be connected to Pune as well, it said, adding after connecting Nashik with Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, SpiceJet will now connect the city with Kolkata as well.The airline will also be the first to connect Pune with Darbhanga, Durgapur, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Varanasi, it said.SpiceJet said it will also launch multiple new flights connecting Srinagar with Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata.Besides, the airline has also introduced new non-stop daily flights on Mumbai-Leh, Leh-Srinagar, Srinagar-Mumbai, Hyderabad-Mumbai, Mumbai-Hyderabad, Mumbai-Surat, Surat-Mumbai, Kochi-Pune, Pune-Kochi, Jabalpur-Pune and Pune-Jabalpur routes, said the release.The airline will also enhance its operations with additional frequencies on Delhi-Gorakhpur (2nd frequency), Mumbai-Rajkot (2nd frequency), Chennai-Madurai (2nd frequency), Mumbai-Jaipur (2nd frequency), Bengaluru-Goa (2nd frequency), Mumbai-Srinagar (2nd frequency), Delhi-Rajkot (2nd frequency), Delhi-Srinagar (3rd and 4th frequency), Delhi-Dharamshala (3rd frequency), Mumbai-Goa (3rd  and 4th frequency) amongst many other routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-to-add-66-new-flights-to-domestic-network-from-march-28-101615617507928.html
13-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Complete lockdown imposed in Maharashtra's Aurangabad on weekends||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in the state, the district administration of Aurangabad on Saturday decided to impose lockdown on weekends until further orders."Complete lockdown has been imposed in Aurangabad on weekends, due to a rise in COVID-19 cases until further orders. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Aurangabad district is 57,755 including 5,569 active cases, till yesterday," informed the administration.Further, the administration informed that they have ordered a partial lockdown in the district during weekdays till April 4.Maharashtra government on Thursday also decided to impose a lockdown in Nagpur district from March 15 to 21. Only essential services such as vegetable and fruit shops and milk booths will stay open, according to the order issued by the Nagpur district administration."Maharashtra reported 13,659 new COVID-19 cases and 54 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of the cases in the state has reached 22,52,057. The state currently has 1,00,240 active coronavirus cases. Registering as many as 9,913 recoveries in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra's total recovery count went up to 20,99,207," the Union Health Ministry informed on Thursday morning.The Union Health Ministry on Thursday during its weekly press conference expressed concerns over the COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra and said the reduced testing, tracing and lack of COVID-19 appropriate behaviours have led to the surge in active cases in the state."We are very worried about Maharashtra. This is a serious matter. This has two lessons -- don't take the virus for granted and if we have to remain Covid free, then, we need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour," Member (Health), NITI Aayog Dr VK Paul said.Echoing a similar remark, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said Maharashtra has shown a worrisome trend."The mutant strain has not been found incriminating in this surge in cases. It is just related to reduced testing, tracking & tracing and COVID inappropriate behaviour and large congregations," he said.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said strict lockdown measures will be enforced in some parts of the state to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-complete-lockdown-imposed-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-on-weekends-101615619370671.html
13-03-2021||India||Five members of family found dead in Bihar, suicide suspected||Five members of a family facing financial hardships allegedly died by suicide in Bihar’s Supaul district, the state police said on Saturday.Their bodies were found hanging from the ceiling of their house. Police said preliminary investigation suggested suicide, but no note was recovered.Supaul’s superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar said the five include a couple, aged 50 and 45, their two daughters, and a son. He added their neighbours alerted the police after they found a foul smell coming out of their house. The neighbours said the family was last seen on March 6.Police said the family head who ran a coal business had run up a debt of several lakhs of rupees which he could not repay because of financial losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Police suspect all five died two to three days ago.Kumar said the bodies have been sent for post-mortem and a probe was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-members-of-family-found-dead-in-bihar-suicide-suspected-101615617144443.html
13-03-2021||India||UP CM Adityanath withdrawing cases against himself, alleges BSP MP||BSP MP Afzal Ansari has accused the BJP of indulging in politics of hatred and pushing the country backwards by five decades by "destroying" social harmony.Ansari claimed that after the upcoming assembly elections to five states were over, the BJP government would divide Uttar Pradesh into four parts.Speaking at a programme at Belthara Road in Ballia district on Friday evening, the Ghazipur MP hit out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, accusing him of trying to be "Mr Clean" by withdrawing cases registered against him."Yogi ji says that his government is moving bulldozers over the mafia. But he is withdrawing cases registered against himself and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. This is against the Constitution," Ansari added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-adityanath-withdrawing-cases-against-himself-alleges-bsp-mp-101615616175187.html
13-03-2021||India||IRCTC to resume luxury train 'Golden Chariot' from tomorrow. See details here||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will resume its ‘Golden Chariot’, a luxury train started by the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) in 2008, from Sunday. “We wish to inform you that IRCTC will operate trips through Golden Chariot from March 14 2O2l,” the state-run company said.The operations, management and marketing of the train were later taken over by IRCTC through an agreement with KSTDC. The train provides travellers a chance to experience the historical, architectural and scenic beauty of south India while enjoying the comfort of a state of the art amenities and international service standards.IRCTC has scheduled two trips, which will start from Bengaluru on Sunday and cover various destinations in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Goa. The cost of the luxury train tour package will include all onboard meals, transport for sightseeing, entrance fee to all the sites covered in the trip as well as the cost of guides.These two trips are:‘Pride of Karnataka’‘Pride of Karnataka’ will be a six nights/seven days journey starting from Bengaluru on Sunday and will cover the Bandipur national park, Mysuru, Halebidu, Chikkamagaluru and Goa. The trip will also include visits to Unesco world heritage sites of Badami Caves, Pattadakal temples and Hampi palace ruins and will end in Bengaluru. The price of a deluxe cabin for the trip is ₹320,130 and for a single supplement, the trip is priced at ₹240,100.Jewels of South IndiaThe three nights/four days’ journey starting from Bengaluru on March 21 will cover Mysuru, Tamil Nadu, Mahabalipuram, Thanjavur, Chettinad and Kerala. The trip will include visits to the Hampi palace ruins, Fort Kochi and Kerala backwaters. A deluxe cabin in the train will cost ₹320,130 while for a single supplement, the cost of the journey is ₹240,100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-resume-luxury-train-golden-chariot-from-tomorrow-see-details-here-101615614006908.html
13-03-2021||India||One arrested for murder of BJP booth president in Assam||Police in Assam’s Tinsukia district have arrested one person for the murder of a booth president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday ahead of assembly election in the state.Debananda Gogoi, president of BJP’s Buridihing gaon panchayat was stabbed to death in Nagaon area of Bordumsa in Margherita assembly seat on Friday evening.Since polling in Margherita is scheduled to be held in the first phase on March 27, it was immediately suspected that the reason for the murder could be linked to political rivalry.The murder was allegedly committed by one Joychandra Gogoi, who was nabbed late on Friday night by Tinsukia police. Though some reports say that the accused is affiliated with a newly formed regional party, the police did not confirm it.“The accused was nabbed hours after the incident. Both the deceased and the accused are related. The accused seems a bit mentally unstable and has a history of violent behaviour. There seems to be no political motive behind the murder,” said Jitmol Doley, deputy inspector general of police (DIGP), Tinsukia.The BJP has condemned the murder.“Deeply saddened to know about the killing of Shri Debananda Gogoi, BJP booth president of Buridihing gaon panchayat in Tinsukia. Such brutal inhumane act will not be tolerated,” tweeted BJP’s Assam unit chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass.Senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also expressed shock and anguish at the murder and expressed condolences to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-arrested-for-murder-of-bjp-booth-president-in-assam-101615615173945.html
13-03-2021||India||IIT Kharagpur receives ₹2.25 crore student grant from alumni||IIT Kharagpur has instituted eight new student grants for the autumn semester scheduled to begin in August this year as a group of alumni and their families have raised a corpus of over ₹2 crore.The institute has received generous grants from eight alumni and their families, who have come forward to support the students in need, according to a statement issued by IIT Kharagpur on Friday.The aids are collectively valued at around ₹2.25 crore which will be utilised to support undergraduate and postgraduate students of chemistry and various engineering departments through merit-based scholarships and awards, it said.A memorandum of understanding was signed with the former students and their families for instituting the grants at a recently-concluded virtual event, the institute said in the statement.A key feature of these grants is that over ₹65 lakh has been allocated for undergraduate female students exclusively.IIT Kharagpur Director Prof VK Tewari congratulated the former students for their contributions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kharagpur-receives-rs-2-25-crore-student-grant-from-alumni-101615614823891.html
13-03-2021||India||Man arrested with 10 kg explosives, 150 rounds ammunition and pistol in Bengal||A 38-year-old man was arrested from Samserganj in Murshidabad district allegedly with around 10 kg of explosives, 150 rounds of ammunition and a pistol in poll-bound West Bengal on Friday.Police said that the explosives were being smuggled into West Bengal from Munger in Bihar to trigger violence. The crucial eight-phase assembly elections are scheduled to start from March 27.On February 17, West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain was injured along with 22 others in a blast in the same district. The National Investigation Agency is now probing the case and two persons have already been arrested.“Acting on a tip off, we arrested a man named Tempu Mondol at a naka checking in Samserganj. A huge cache of explosives and ammunition were recovered from him. He was supposed to hand over the consignment to someone. Investigation is on,” said a senior police official of the district. The operation was carried out jointly by the Special Task Force (STF) and the district police.The officer said that the explosives were being transferred in four packets. He also said that Mondol is from Munger.With elections around the corner, there have been several clashes, particularly between the TMC and the BJP in different places in the state.Last week one person was killed and five others were injured in an explosion at Gosaba in South 24 Parganas district. Police had said that the men were making bombs. In a separate incident police seized around 200 crude bombs from a hideout at Bhangar in South 24 Parganas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-with-10-kg-explosives-150-rounds-ammunition-and-pistol-in-bengal-101615614154984.html
13-03-2021||India||PM Modi to attend golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Dhaka on March 26 to attend celebrations of the golden jubilee of Bangladesh's independence and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen said on Friday."No unresolved bilateral issues between Bangladesh and India will be discussed during PM Narendra Modi's visit to Dhaka. We are happy that he is coming. It shows the height of diplomatic maturity and achievement," Momen told reporters here, reported Dhaka Tribune."This will be PM Modi's first visit to a foreign country during the Covid-19 period. Other heads of state only visit Dhaka during their stay, but PM Modi will go to remote parts of the country," he added.According to Dhaka Tribune, PM Modi is scheduled to arrive in Dhaka on March 26. The next day, he will visit Hindu temples in Satkhira and Gopalganj's Orakandi. He is also scheduled to pay his respects to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at his tomb in Tungiapara.On the occasion of the golden jubilee of independence and Bangabandhu's birth centenary, the Bangladesh government will organise a 10-day program from March 17 to March 26. Heads of state and government of Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, and the Maldives are also attending the event.PM Modi was scheduled to attend the birth centenary celebrations of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman last year. But his visit was called off due to coronavirus pandemic.Rahman was the first President and later the Prime Minister of Bangladesh. He was assassinated on August 15, 1975. Rahman is known as the "Father of the Nation" or simply "Mujib" in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-golden-jubilee-celebrations-of-bangladesh-independence-101615613526940.html
13-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases rising in 6 states, isn’t time to be negligent: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday people must follow social distancing norms and wear masks as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in several parts of the country reflected a spike in recent days. The health minister’s advice to ensure Covid-appropriate norms comes amid fears that the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has started in India, according to data analysed by Hindustan Times.“India has the lowest fatality rate and now the vaccine is here but this is not the time to be negligent regarding Covid appropriate behaviour. Cases are rising in six states due to people's carelessness. I urge all to abide by social distancing and wear masks,” Vardhan told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The pace at which cases in Punjab are climbing is the highest in the country. As of Friday, the northern state’s seven-day average of daily cases went up 509% from the trough after the first wave. This almost eight times the national average. Maharashtra, which is witnessing the second-highest resurgence of cases, saw a jump of 331% from its post-peak low seen for the week ending February 11. The western state on Friday logged 15,817 fresh cases, breaching the 15,000 daily case count for the first time in 162 days, according to the state’s health department. Kerala, on the other hand, reported 1,780 new cases taking the state’s infection tally to 1,087,443.The grim figures come at a time when testing in India is at least 40% off its peak. In the past week, 725,626 samples were tested every day for Covid-19 across the country on average, against a peak of 1,196,972 tests a day on average for the week ending October 10, 2020.Other states reporting a high number of daily Covid-19 cases are Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu. Following the upward trend, the country’s active caseload on Saturday surpassed the 200,000-mark, for the first time since January 19, according to the latest figures released by the health ministry.According to an expert team sent to Maharashtra, the Covid-inappropriate behaviour, pandemic fatigue, gram panchayat elections, marriage season and opening of schools, crowded public transport were the possible reasons for the upsurge in cases in the western state. While local administrations have already put in place full or partial lockdowns in several districts, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned that they may have to shut down more places if the cases continue to rise.The central government is regularly reviewing the status of Covid-19 containment and public health measures with states and Union territories reporting an upsurge in daily new cases, the ministry said in a statement. “Recently, the Centre rushed high-level Public Health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in COVID-19 control and containment measures in view of the recent spike in cases in these States,” the ministry added.The government said it had earlier also deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-lowest-but-we-can-t-be-negligent-harsh-vardhan-101615612402816.html
13-03-2021||India||UN experts ask India to release Christian Michel from ‘arbitrary’ detention||A panel of UN experts has called on the Indian government to immediately release Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, as his detention was arbitrary and violates the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights, formally released its findings in Michel’s case late on Friday in Geneva.Michel, a British national, has been held in India since December 2018 after being extradited from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).The WGAD was very critical in its evaluation of the handling of Michel’s case by the governments of the UAE and India and said both countries should “accord him an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law”.Even before the formal release of WGAD’s opinion, the external affairs ministry had last month rejected the group’s reported findings and said the conclusions were based on “limited information, biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to WGAD’s report and this report will be updated when there is one.The WGAD said that, “taking into account all the circumstances of the case, the appropriate remedy would be for the Government of India to release Mr Michel immediately”.It added, “In the current context of the global Covid-19 pandemic and the threat that it poses in places of detention, the Working Group calls upon the Government of India to take urgent action to ensure the immediate release of Mr Michel.”The WGAD also urged the governments of India and the UAE to “ensure a full and independent investigation of the circumstances surrounding the arbitrary deprivation of liberty of Mr Michel and to take appropriate measures against those responsible for the violation of his rights”.The group concluded that Michel’s detention violated both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and referred his case to the UN “Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and the Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health for appropriate action”.Michel is currently being held in Delhi’s Tihar Jail. He was living in Dubai when India sought his extradition for involvement in alleged irregularities in the 2010 deal to acquire 12 AgustaWestland helicopters worth 556.2 million euros for the transportation of VVIPs. At the time, Michel was a middleman and an external consultant for a subsidiary of AgustaWestland.The chairman of Finmeccanica, the previous owner of AgustaWestland, and the chief executive officer of AgustaWestland were acquitted of charges of corruption in the helicopter deal by courts in Italy in 2019. Michel has denied involvement in wrong-doing and also pointed to the acquittal in Italy of the two others as proof that there was no corruption in the deal.The WGAD report cited a source as saying that there were several lapses in the handling of Michel’s case after he was arrested in Dubai in 2017 following an extradition request in connection with allegedly organising the payment of bribes to Indian politicians and officials for the helicopter deal.The source told WGAD that “Indian authorities visited Mr Michel in Dubai on several occasions, in the presence of local officials, and interrogated him for hours before getting him to sign statements implicating the Gandhi family, under threat of further prosecution”.After being out on bail, Michel was arrested again by Dubai authorities in June 2018 and detained without charge, the source said. After again being granted bail in July 2018, the Dubai Court of Appeal authorised India’s extradition request on September 2, 2018.“Mr Michel was told that his extradition had been granted in exchange for the earlier seizure and return of a high-profile detainee to Dubai despite the detainee’s plea for asylum. The detainee was extradited by the Indian forces, which had intercepted his yacht in international waters off the coast of Goa in March 2018, after the Prime Minister of India had made a personal telephone call to the Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates and ruler of the Emirate of Dubai,” the WGAD report said.The source told WGAD that on December 4, 2018, Michel was “reportedly handcuffed, blindfolded and transported by private jet to India, in a hurried and unlawful manner that prevented him from challenging any decision”.In reply to communications from WGAD, the Indian government submitted a response on Michel’s case in June last year, disputing the “allegation that due process was not followed in Mr Michel’s extradition”. The government denied “any procedural deficiencies” in the extradition request.The response from the UAE government was submitted after the deadline set by WGAD and was “therefore considered late and the Working Group cannot accept the response”, the report said.The WGAd further said “the burden of proof should be understood to rest upon the Government [of India] if it wishes to refute the allegations. Mere assertions by the Government that lawful procedures have been followed are not sufficient to rebut the source’s allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-experts-ask-india-to-release-christian-michel-from-arbitrary-detention-101615610670073.html
13-03-2021||India||India records 24,882 new Covid-19 infections, highest this year; active cases cross 2 lakh again||India recorded 24,882 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest daily figure so far this year, and 140 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. This is the fourth time that the country’s single-day cases have crossed the 20,000-mark this year. The active cases also soared to 202,022, after a downward trend since January 20, as 4,785 new cases were added in the last 24 hours, comprising 1.74% of the total cases seen so far. The first two instances of a spike in active cases were seen in the first week of January when the first wave of Covid cases was receding, followed by a third rise on March 11.The surge in Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday is almost 7% higher than the previous day's number. Data also showed that 19,957 people were cured of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, taking the recoveries to 10,973,260 so far and the national recovery rate to 96.81%.Also read: India's daily Covid-19 cases cross 20,000 mark for third time this year, active cases up by 4,628After witnessing a reduced number of cases in the last few months, the infections have once again spiked in several parts of the country. In a bid to combat the infection spread, authorities have implemented restrictions and pushed the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country with full force. The health ministry said 2,82,18,457 vaccine doses have been administered so far, with 20,53,537 doses given in the last 24 hours.In the last five days, the surge in India's Covid-19 cases is being reported from six states, including Maharashtra where authorities have announced a weeklong lockdown in the densely-populated Nagpur city next week and placed restrictions in other regions. Five states account for 82.96% of the total active cases in the country, and two severely affected states—Maharashtra and Kerala—account for 71.69% of India’s total active cases, according to the health ministry’s data on Friday.Also read: No clotting case in India after Oxford dose, officials sayAccording to the health ministry, eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. These include Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-records-24-882-new-cases-140-deaths-active-cases-cross-2lakh-101615608008196.html
13-03-2021||India||Forcible entry not seen on SUV with explosives found near Ambani's house: Police||There were no marks indicating a forcible opening of doors of the Scorpio which was found with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house last month, a senior police official said here on Friday.This led the investigators of Mumbai Crime Branch to suspect that it may have been opened with a duplicate key when it was stolen, he said.The case has been now taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Mansukh Hiran, in whose possession the SUV was, had claimed that it was stolen from Vikhroli area a week before it was found outside Ambani's house. Hiran was found dead in mysterious circumstances on March 5."We did not find any marks suggesting that the doors were opened using force," said the official who was part of the crime branch probe team.But the forensic lab report of the vehicle was awaited, he added.Hiran had said he had left it on the road as its steering got jammed on the night of February 17.Meanwhile, on Friday an NIA team visited Thane police officials to get information related to the case, sources said.The Maharashtra ATS, which is probing Hiran's death, also recorded some persons' statements in Thane, sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forcible-entry-not-seen-on-suv-with-explosives-found-near-ambani-s-house-police-101615606218817.html
13-03-2021||India||NSIL to invest ₹10,000 crore in 5 years to launch commercial satellites||The NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), a central government run Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE), on Friday said that it plans to invest around ₹10,000 crore over the next five fiscals and will hire around 300 people during the same period."We expect to have an investment of approximately ₹2,000 crore per year, starting next year or the year after that. That will be the kind of investment that we will be kind of seeking to do every year. We are estimating manpower requirement of 300 people in about five years," Radhakrishnan Durairaj, executive director of NSIL said on Friday in Bengaluru.He said that the company, which was incorporated in March 2019, will raise capital with a mix of equity and debt.Durairaj said that the company had revenues of ₹300 crore in the previous fiscal and around ₹400 crore in the current year. He added that the NSIL anticipates around ₹400 crore revenue next fiscal as well as it looks to scale up operations.NSIL, with a paid up capital of ₹10 crore and authorised capital of ₹100 crore, was allocated ₹700 crore by the Union government in its budget 2021-22. However, the newly formed entity is still working out the modalities to get this money.With a robust order book and its offer of niche services, NSIL looks to capitalise on demand for launch of commercial satellites among other services to raise more revenues.NSIL has four dedicated launches lined up over the next couple of years and most of its revenues earned so far have been through services, the officials added.“We have contracts for four more dedicated launches but our NDAs (non-disclosure agreements) prevent us from revealing more details. All are foreign satellites,” he added.With more services on offer, NSIL is looking to scale up operations and said that it was extremely competitive in the mixed category launches or dedicated missions but faces threats in the ride-share category which has several other global players.“We were quite competitive commercially until recently. But now many of the international players have slashed their prices quite substantially. NSIL is not facing any major challenges but they (international players) are still quite a threat for us (NSIL),” he said.Global players like SpaceX, led billionaire Elon Musk among others are also on the market for commercial launches of private satellites for various applications like communications, broadband, DTH, GPS and earth monitoring among other uses.However, the company said that it has an edge over the others in the higher payload categories or dedicated missions of under 1000 kgs where the client bears the entire cost of the launch. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on February 28, successfully launched Amazonia-I and 18 co-passenger satellites from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh.The space agency has already executed four PSLV missions for 45 auxiliary commercial satellites, apart from Amazonia-I.“NSIL has established itself as a major space service provider in a very short period and in the not so distant future, you will see it emerging as a key player in all areas of space sector and space-based services in India with a significant global presence,” NSIL chairman and managing director C Narayanan said.According to ISRO, Amazonia-I is an optical earth observation satellite of National Institute for Space Research (INPE) and would strengthen the existing structure by providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory.Amazonia-I was the first dedicated commercial mission of the NSIL.The 18 co-passenger satellites onboard the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV)-C51, considered the workhorse of the space agency, included four from IN-SPACe and 14 from NSIL. Only one of the 14 commercial satellites was from India while the remaining 13 were from the USA. ISRO has put 342 customer satellites from 34 countries into orbit so far.The company has also floated RFPs (request for proposals) to five Indian companies or consortia to build PSLV launch vehicles but Durairaj said that there will be no transfer of technology to these firms and that it will only be through licenced production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsil-to-invest-rs-10-000-crore-in-5-years-to-launch-commercial-satellites-101615606655687.html
13-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Normal’ monsoon likely for 3rd year in row, say experts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Normal’ monsoon likely for 3rd year in row, say expertsIndia has received normal monsoon for two straight years, aiding a farm-driven economic recovery in a pandemic year. Sufficient June-to-September rains will be critical this year, but data show three consecutive normal monsoons are rare, occurring only once in the past two decades. Read moreBJP MLA tries to drink sanitiser in Odisha Assembly over paddy procurement rowA BJP legislator on Friday rocked the legislative assembly when he tried to drink hand sanitiser to protest the state government’s “failure” to procure paddy of thousands of farmers in his area in the western district of Bargarh. Read moreMumbai cop Sachin Vaze seeks anticipatory bail in Mansukh Hiran caseAssistant police inspector Sachin Vaze who is in the eye of a storm in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the SUV found parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter, applied for anticipatory bail in Thane sessions court on Friday. Read moreRefrain from forming ‘exclusive cliques’: China on Quad summitThe Quad grouping - comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia - shouldn’t undermine the interests of any third party or form “cliques”, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Friday while the state-controlled media dismissed its first-ever summit as an attempt to copy the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Nato) model. Read more'Don't have dedication to play international cricket': Brad Hogg slams Chakravarthy, Tewatia for failing fitness testFormer Australia spinner Brad Hogg is unimpressed with the fact that Varun Chakravarthy and Rahul Tewatia have failed to pass the fitness test for India ahead of the England T20Is and will miss out on the high-profile series. Read moreNeena Gupta, Vivian Richards feature with Masaba in this unseen, throwback pic: 'My world, my blood'Designer-actor Masaba Gupta has shared unseen throwback pictures from her childhood and it is totally winning everyone's hearts online. Masaba is actor Neena Gupta and former West Indies cricketer Vivian Richards’ daughter. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor in sheer feather mini dress will steal your breath away, picsSheer dresses with feathers are celebrity favourite and for all the right reasons. From Beyonce to Jennifer Lopez and Kendal Jenner, the globally renowned fashionistas have often been spotted on the red carpet wearing some version of the sheer dress adorned with feathers. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-normal-monsoon-likely-for-3rd-year-in-row-say-experts-and-all-the-latest-news-101615604399302.html
13-03-2021||NA||Highlights | Over 2.91 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far||India's weekly coronavirus (Covid-19) tally went past one lakh mark today as the country has been logging a rise in cases this month. The country, which expert say may be witnessing a second wave of the pandemic, has witnessed nearly 100,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the second week of March, data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. The likely signs of the second wave are surfacing almost a year after India announced its first lockdown triggered by rising cases in March 2020.The country has recorded 98,047 Covid-19 cases in March so far and on Friday clocked the highest daily infections at 23,285, data shows. The surge in cases is being reported in six states, including Maharashtra where authorities have announced a weeklong lockdown in the densely-populated Nagpur city next week and placed restrictions in other regions. Five states account for 82.96% of the total active cases in the country, and two severely affected states—Maharashtra and Kerala—account for 71.69% of India’s total active cases, according to the health ministry’s data.Follow all the updates here:Kuwait reports 1,211 new Covid-19 casesKuwait on Saturday reported 1,211 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 2,08,460, as per the country's health ministry, reports ANI.Britain reports 121 new coronavirus cases in last 24 hoursBritain reported 121 new Covid deaths on Saturday, taking the number of people who have died within 28 days of a positive test result to 125,464, daily government figures showed, reports Reuters.Karnataka reports 900 new Covid-19 cases including one of South African strainThe Covid-19 case count shot past the 900 mark in Karnataka on Saturday, including one with the South African strain, taking the caseload to just above 9.59 lakh, while a lone fatality took the toll to 12,387, the health department said, reports PTI.Chhattisgarh logs 543 new Covid-19 casesChhattisgarh on Saturday reported 543 Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the infection count to 3,16,854 and the toll to 3,886, a health official said, reports PTI.More than 2.91 crore Covid vaccine doses administered so far9,74,090 vaccine doses have been given on 57th day of vaccination today, taking total number of vaccines doses administered to over 2,91,92,547 in the country, as per the Union health ministry.Rajasthan reports 201 new Covid-19 casesRajasthan reported 201 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, pushing the state’s infection count to 3,22,719, according to a Health Department bulletin, reports PTI.Kerala reports more than 2,000 new Covid-19 casesKerala added 2,035 new Covid-19 cases and 12 more deaths on Saturday, taking the infection count to 10,89,827 and the toll to 4,381, reports PTI.Goa logs 93 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursGoa's coronavirus caseload went up by 93 and reached 55,851 on Saturday, while the death toll touched 805 and the recovery count stood at 54,297, an official said, reports PTI.Tamil Nadu reports 695 new Covid-19 casesTamil Nadu logged 695 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the caseload to 8,58,967, while four more fatalities took the toll to 12,543, the health department said, reports PTI.Maharashtra records over 15,000 new Covid-19 cases for second straight day, more than 1,700 fresh infections in MumbaiMaharashtra reported 15,602 new coronavirus cases and 88 deaths in last 24 hours. The state capital reported 1,709 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths on Saturday.8.9% surge in Covid-19 positive cases in Indore: OfficialA surge of 8.9% was recorded in COVID positive cases. The mortality rate has witnessed a decline. Small institutions are allowed to vaccinate 250 people a day & big hospitals are allowed up to 500. 1,38,000 people have been vaccinated so far: Indore CMHO Praveen Jadia pic.twitter.com/XPTvGG6nX2BSP chief Mayawati gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccineBahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati receives COVID-19 vaccine jab at a private hospital in Lucknow. "I appeal the Central and state government to provide free vaccine to the poor. I appeal to everyone to take the vaccine," she says. pic.twitter.com/woJHXQomfEDelhi again records over 400 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload crosses 2,200Delhi reports 419 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Saturday, as per the health bulletin. The positivity rate in the national capitals stands at 0.56 per cent. A total of 74,326 tests were conducted in last 24 hours for the detection of the disease.Indian Oil aids Covid-19 vaccination driveIndian Oil Corporation Limited (IndianOil) has leveraged its expertise and reach to bolster India's Covid-19 vaccination program by supplementing the available Cold Chain Equipment (CCE) infrastructure in Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Manipur and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for the storage and transportation of vaccine, said the oil and gas company on Saturday, reports ANI.No new case of Covid-19 variant detected in Madhya PradeshAfter six people tested positive for the UK strain of coronavirus in Indore in Madhya Pradesh last week, no new case with that variant has come to light in the state, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said here on Saturday, reports PTI.Ethiopia reports 1,361 new Covid-19 casesEthiopia reported 1,361 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, taking the national count to 172,571, the country's Federal Ministry of Health said on Friday evening, reports ANI.Over 6 Covid-19 vaccines to come up in India: Health minister VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that more than six coronavirus vaccines will come up in India. He also said that 1.84 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to people so far, while 23 crore tests have been conducted, reports PTI.Odisha reports 65 new Covid-19 casesOdisha's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 3,38,121 on Saturday as 65 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said, reports PTI.Telangana reports 216 new Covid-19 infectionsTelangana saw a slight rise in coronavirus cases with 216 new infections added in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 3 lakh, while the toll rose to 1,652 with two more fatalities, reports PTI.Russia reports more than 9,900 new Covid-19 cases Russia reported 9,908 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 1,600 in Moscow, taking its total case tally to 4,380,525 since the pandemic began, reports Reuters.20 lakh jabs on Friday, highest so far, says govtThe Health Ministry said on Saturday that more than 20 lakh vaccine doses against the coronavirus were administered across the country the previous day, the highest single-day count so farAs many as 16,39,663 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose -- healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) -- and 4,13,874 such people received the second shot.Bhopal might see night curfew: CM ChouhanNight curfew might be imposed in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday in view of spurt in coronavirus cases in these two districts: MP CMShivraj Singh ChouhanOne new Covid-19 case in Andamans; tally at 5,029The Covid-19 caseload in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 5,029 as one more person has tested positive for the disease in the Union Territory, a health department official said on Saturday.The fresh case was detected during contact tracing, he said."The new patient was diagnosed with the disease on Friday after a gap of two days," the official said.India's records 24,882 new cases, 140 deaths; active cases soarIndia recorded 24,882 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 140 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday.Assam reports 21 new Covid-19 casesAssam reported 21 new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday taking the total case load to 2,17,776, according to a bulletin issued by the National Health Mission, Assam. Meanwhile, 19,219 beneficiaries were administered the Covid-19 jabs during the day taking the total to 5,24,629 so far, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-march-13-101615605471722.html
13-03-2021||India||MCOCA court junks gangster’s plea to stay release of Mumbai Saga||A special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA) court on Friday refused to stay the release of the movie Mumbai Saga allegedly based on the life of Ravi Mallesh Bora, known in Mumbai underworld as gangster DK Rao.Rao on Wednesday had a pproached the court through his lawyers, Prashant Pandey and Pradip Singh, seeking the stay on the release of the movie starring John Abrahim, Emraan Hashmi, Kajal Aggarwal, Sunil Shetty, and Prateik Babbar on March 19.Rao, in his plea, claimed that the case against him was still pending trial before the special court. He added the release of the "movie on my life" may prejudice the case and affect his right to a fair and impartial trial.“As the court has turned down our plea, we will have no other option but to approach the Bombay high court to stop the release of this movie, as it violates fundamental rights of my clients,” said Pandey.Rao, an alleged member of the Chhota Rajan gang, is lodged in Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail in connection with an extortion case.Rao survived a shootout with the Mumbai police in 1998 before he was arrested. While he was in jail, he is believed to have come in contact with members of the Rajan gang. Rao has claimed that soon he climbed the ladder within the gang and became one of its key members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mcoca-court-junks-gangster-s-plea-to-stay-release-of-mumbai-saga-101615605219929.html
13-03-2021||India||Ahead of lockdown, hundreds flout social distancing norms in Nagpur market||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, hundreds of people were seen flouting social distancing norms at the Cotton Market in Nagpur in Maharashtra on Friday.Many among them were not wearing masks. Similarly, social distancing norms were flouted at another place in Nagpur as people gathered outside a liquor store ahead of a week-long lockdown starting Monday.Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state government on Thursday decided to impose a lockdown in Nagpur district from March 15 to 21.Only essential services such as vegetable and fruit shops and milk booths will stay open, according to the order issued by the Nagpur district administration."Complete lockdown to remain imposed in Nagpur City Police Commissionerate area from March 15 to March 21. Essential services will continue," said Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut."Maharashtra reported 13,659 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of the cases in the state has reached 22,52,057. The state currently has 1,00,240 active coronavirus cases. Registering as many as 9,913 recoveries in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra's total recovery count went up to 20,99,207," the Union Health Ministry informed on Thursday morning.The Union Health Ministry on Thursday during its weekly press conference expressed concerns over the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra and said that the reduced testing, tracing and lack of Covid appropriate behaviours have led to the surge in active cases in the state."We are very worried about Maharashtra. This is a serious matter. This has two lessons- don't take the virus for granted and if we have to remain Covid free, then, we need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour," Member (Health), NITI Aayog Dr VK Paul said.Echoing a similar remark, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said that Maharashtra has shown a worrisome trend."The mutant strain has not been found incriminating in this surge in cases. It is just related to reduced testing, tracking & tracing and Covid inappropriate behaviour and large congregations," he said.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said strict lockdown measures will be enforced in some parts of the state to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-lockdown-hundreds-flout-social-distancing-norms-in-nagpur-market-101615604089926.html
13-03-2021||India||BJP MLA tries to drink sanitiser in Odisha Assembly over paddy procurement row||A BJP legislator on Friday rocked the legislative assembly when he tried to drink hand sanitiser to protest the state government’s “failure” to procure paddy of thousands of farmers in his area in the western district of Bargarh.BJP MLA from Deogarh, Subash Chandra Panigrahi who earlier in the morning had threatened to immolate himself over the paddy procurement issues was about to gulp the contents of hand sanitiser bottle when parliamentary affairs minister Bikram Arukha, senior BJD legislator Pramila Mallick and other legislators stopped him.“We should raise the farmers’ issue in the Assembly. But, such an act in the House is not acceptable,” said BJD MLA Ananta Das.Panigrahi's shocking display came while state food supplies minister Ranendra Pratap Swain was reading out a statement about the status of paddy procurement in the state in the 2020-21 kharif marketing season. Swain said so far 60.44 lakh tonne of paddy have been procured by the government through several market yards, considerably higher than last year's collection of 53.31 lakh tonne."This is an all-time record. We would continue to procure paddy till March 31 and ensure that no genuine farmer is left out," the minister said.This season's record procurement came on the back of close to 15 lakh farmers registering as against 12.35 lakh last season.In the morning, the BJP and Congress members had stalled the Assembly proceedings alleging that the procurement procedure was faulty. Congress leader Narasingha Mishra alleged that paddy procurement in the state was in a state of disarray."The state government had earlier assured the Assembly that paddy would be procured from the genuine farmers and criminal action would be taken against the middlemen. Lots of paddy have still not been cleared from the mandis and the minister’s statement on the floor in the previous session was a farce. Why should the Assembly function if the decision taken here is not honoured,” asked Mishra.Leader of Opposition Pradipta Kumar Naik (BJP) said even after the assurance of the minister, paddy is not being procured from the farmers. He alleged that the state government has funds to organise cricket matches at the panchayat level, but it can’t procure paddy from the farmers.Despite the record paddy procurement this kharif season, farmers across the state have resorted to protests paralysing traffic movements expressing their anger over the paddy procurement system. Over the last few years, paddy procurement has been playing a critical role in the state's rural economy. This year around ₹10,800 crore have been transferred to the accounts of the farmers who sold their paddy at the mandis.With immediate payment assured for their harvest, farmers and farmer organisations in Odisha want the government to buy all their harvest. On Friday, farmer leader Mahendra Patel of Sundargarh district led a protest of farmers in Talasara area demanding that the government renew the lapsed tokens that would enable the farmers sell their paddy. Similarly, farmers under the banner of Navanirman Krushak Samiti stopped traffic on state highway 65 at Badamba-Narasinghpur area of Cuttack district demanding that the paddy be purchased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-tries-to-drink-sanitiser-in-odisha-assembly-over-paddy-procurement-row-101615602627185.html
13-03-2021||India||Transgenders in khaki: Ready to take on the world||Two years ago, when Tanushree Sahu, 23, filled up the form to apply as a police constable in Chattisgarh, all hell broke loose at home. Her mistake was that she had selected the transgender category in it, ‘bringing disgrace to her family’. Her brother attacked her with an iron rod, made her head bleed and threw her out of the home in the middle of the night. Her parents turned their faces away when she pleaded to them for help. Sahu started living with a friend and kept herself focused on her police training. The day her selection letter came, her family called her to say, “You are a chhakka (a derogatory term used for transgenders) , you have been selected under the chhakka category, you have brought us such shame. We wish you were dead.” Sahu is among the 13 transgender people that the Chhattisgarh police has recruited as constables in four districts of the state for the first time ever. Soon, Sahu will join duty as a constable and become the first person in her entire clan to join the police force. “I am eagerly waiting for the day when I will step out in police uniform. I know my family would still be ashamed of me, but it doesn’t matter anymore.” Sahu says her biggest achievement would be to get justice to transgenders facing brutality and ostracism. “The day I will be able to stand for those who have been wronged, I will be truly proud of myself. Attacks on transgenders are a common occurrence. They are scared to go to the police station fearing ridicule. I want to change this situation forever,” she says. Sahu is happy that she will be finally able to take off her scarf that she uses to cover her identity. “I wear it fearing hate. People stare, make fun, pass the most heartless remarks. All of that will end. The day I will wear khaki, I will not need to cover my face,” she says. RK Vij, Special DGP, Chhattisgarh says that the recruitment of transgenders in the Chhattisgarh police is historic. It marks a new beginning not only for the thirteen (13) recruits but also their entire community. “Though each one of them has her own painful story of abuse and abandonment, their induction in the police force is a vital message to make people believe that they not only deserve the equal constitutional right of opportunity to employment but are also totally competent to compete with others. This is more significant in the backdrop that there was no reservation for the transgender community as a separate class,” he says. The transgenders in khaki will now be first responders in handling law and order situations. “This will help in changing the perception of people who used to think of them as a fearful entity and had attached the stigma of identity, disability, criminals, or untouchables,” says Vij. One of the recruits, Krishi Tandi, 22, looking forward to join service as a police constable says it’s the fulfilment of a promise that she had made to herself. “It’s like a festival for me! We are indeed creating history. I don’t feel hopeless anymore,” says Tandi who had to deal with the loss of both her parents in an interval of three months during her training. “I wanted to give my parents a surprise by turning up in uniform one day…but it was not destined. Now I want to devote myself to the protection and upliftment of my community,” she says. She is glad that now she will have a new identity that she will be super proud of. “People looked at me as someone who could only sing and dance during celebrations. Now I will be known as police constable Krishi Tandi, who will protect transgenders and stand up for their rights,” she says. Vidya Rajput, member Thirdgender Welfare Board, Chhattisgarh who was actively involved in coordinating training lessons for the recruits also nurtured the dream to be a cop in her childhood. “I used to think that if I become a cop, all the cruel hooting would stop. While I could never become one, I am glad that I have been able to encourage and help transgenders to join the police force and live their dreams,” says Rajput who has been helping them train for both physical as well as written examination. The mindset will change massively, believes Rajput when transgender police personnel will be appointed in the police station. “In the eyes of the police, a transgender is either a criminal or a victim. None would have imagined that one day police stations would have transgenders in uniform standing up to protect the voiceless from their community,” she says. Vij recalls the day when some transgenders came to his office with a request to organise a state level workshop to sensitise police officers, to which he readily agreed. “In this workshop, the police officers were apprised not only about the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in the landmark judgment, NALSA vs. Union of India (2014) about transgender rights but were also made aware about the impending The Transgenders Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2016. It was a huge success. The message percolated down to the district level in no time and more workshops were organised to sensitise subordinate police officers. Necessary instructions were issued to the Superintendents of Police to ensure that transgenders are treated with dignity,” he says. Training institutes were asked to educate recruits about transgenders and their rights. “This effort encouraged them to participate in recruitment and emerge successful,” says Vij. The Chhattisgarh government constituted the Third gender Welfare Board in 2014, and issued instructions to include third-gender as one of the options (along with male and female) in all official documents which require mention of gender or sex of a person. “Biases will melt away once the freshly recruited members of the transgender community join the force and start interacting with other members of the force,” says the DGP. The selected transgenders will freely work with NGOs to bring about changes in the perception of people towards transgender community. “We already have special cells in the police headquarters working closely with NGOs, dealing with the needs of elderly persons and rescue and rehabilitation of trafficked children. The jurisdiction of these cells can further be extended to the transgender community. Certain transgender NGOs such as Chhattisgarh Mitwa Sankalp Samiti are already working for the cause of transgenders. The successful candidates can now act as a catalyst of change for their community so that they get the respect they deserve as a part of society,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transgenders-in-khaki-ready-to-take-on-the-world-101615602341789.html
13-03-2021||India||Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze seeks anticipatory bail in Mansukh Hiran case||Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze who is in the eye of a storm in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the SUV found parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter, applied for anticipatory bail in Thane sessions court on Friday.Vaze’s lawyer Kalekar submitted the application for bail and argued for the same. The court has asked the investigating officer’s response on the next date of hearing on March 19. Public prosecutor Vivek Kadu represented the ATS which is probing the case. On February 25, an SUV with gelatin sticks was found parked near Mukesh Ambani’s residence. It was traced back to Hiran, a Thane auto parts businessman. On March 5, his body washed up ashore in a creek outside Mumbai.In her statement to police, Hiran’s widow Vimla Hiran said she was suspicious of Sachin Vaze who was allegedly forcing her husband to get arrested in the case.Vimla also told investigators that the vehicle belonged to a certain Dr Peter Newton who was known to her husband. The SUV was in her husband’s possession for the past three years. Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021.Vaze was transferred from the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch to Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of Mumbai police on Wednesday after Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the Maharashtra assembly sought his arrest for Hiran’s suspicious death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-seeks-anticipatory-bail-in-mansukh-hiran-case-101615600982609.html
13-03-2021||India||ISRO launches sounding rocket RH-560, to study neutral winds, plasma dynamics||Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched the sounding rocket (RH-560) to study attitudinal variations in the neutral winds and plasma dynamics carried out on Friday at Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), Sriharikota Range (SHAR)."Launch of sounding rocket (RH-560) to study attitudinal variations in the neutral winds and plasma dynamics carried out today at SDSC SHAR, Sriharikota," tweeted the official account of ISRO.As per ISRO, sounding rockets are one or two-stage solid propellant rockets used for probing the upper atmospheric regions and for space research."They also serve as easily affordable platforms to test or prove prototypes of new components or subsystems intended for use in launch vehicles and satellites...ISRO started launching indigenously made sounding rockets from 1965 and experience gained was of immense value in the mastering of solid propellant technology," said ISRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-launches-sounding-rocket-rh-560-to-study-neutral-winds-plasma-dynamics-101615596782395.html
13-03-2021||India||Uptick in Delhi Covid graph continues: 431 new cases, most in over 2 months||The trend of rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi continued on Friday as the city reported 431 new infections, the highest single-day rise in over two months, or since January 9, with experts warning that the Capital may be looking at the start of the fourth Covid wave.The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, in the Capital has now been rising for 18 straight days – this number has gone from 134 for the week ending on February 22 to 339 in the last week. This means that Delhi is now reporting, on average, 200 more cases every day than what it was less than three weeks ago.With 72,031 tests conducted, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive among total tested – stood at 0.60%, which was again the highest since January 9.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTo keep new infections in check, Delhi government officials said they are focussing on tracing as many as 30 contacts for every positive case recorded. “We are focussing on aggressive contact tracing. For every case, we are tracing at least 30 contacts and keeping them under surveillance. We are trying to contain the infection before it has a chance to spread again,” said a senior district level official on condition of anonymity.Only half as many contacts were being traced on average in early-November, when Delhi had witnessed its third surge in the number of infections.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had in November said, “If a person tests positive then his entire family and the people in contact have to be tested, thus more cases of Covid-19 were recorded. Earlier six-seven contacts of a positive person were traced, now this number has crossed 15.”The district official also added that in addition to contact tracing, focus was also on increasing the number of tests and vaccinations.The Centre on Thursday had said that Delhi-NCR was also becoming one of the regions of concern where Covid-19 was seeing an uptick.“There is spike in cases in Maharashtra and Kerala too. But there is a difference. The positivity rates in those states are high. In Delhi, the positivity rate has been lower than 1% for more than two months now. The government is prepared in all aspects of Covid-19 management, and we have maintained tests at scaled-up levels,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters outside the Delhi assembly on Friday.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital said, “We need to continue following the Covid-19 norms; there is Holi this month and celebrations should be curtailed to ensure we do not see a surge like after Diwali,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uptick-in-delhi-covid-graph-continues-431-new-cases-most-in-over-2-months-101615580697154.html
13-03-2021||India||Understanding Kerala’s unique political economy||When EMS Namboodiripad of the Communist Party of India (CPI) was elected chief minister of Kerala in 1957 , he became the first communist leader in India to govern a state. With the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M), having lost power in West Bengal and Tripura – two states where it ruled without interruption for decades – Kerala is now the last place in India where a communist party runs an elected government.The CPI (M) and its partners in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) rightly trace their legacy to the times of EMS. But the challenges facing the current CPI (M) are very different from what EMS faced. The reason is that Kerala’s political economy has undergone a radical shift in the last six-and-a-half decades, and particularly in the latter half of this period. The communists captured power in the state by championing the politics of radical land redistribution and improvised on its economic benefits with rapid advances in the social sector, especially literacy.Today, agriculture has a negligible role in the state’s economy. The state’s demographic profile is the most skewed in India towards people from older age groups. This also means that unskilled workers earn way more than what their peers get in any other Indian state. A lot of the state’s well-being and its growing consumerism are sustained by overseas remittances, particularly from those in oil-exporting countries in West Asia. These characteristics make Kerala a unique outlier in India’s political economy landscape.1. Kerala has among the most equally sized farms in India, but there are hardly any farmers left nowFarm-land concentration, when seen by size of operational holdings is among the most equal in Kerala. According to the latest available data (2012-13) from the National Sample Survey Organisation’s (NSSO) report on Household Ownership and Operational Holdings in India, Gini’s coefficient for size distribution of operational holdings in Kerala was 0.342 (0 and 1 represent perfect equality and inequality) against an all-India average of 0.516. Only four states, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha and Himachal Pradesh had a lower Gini’s coefficient on this count than Kerala.However, what separates Kerala when it comes to farming is the fact that there are hardly any farmers in the state. The NSSO report found that Kerala had the smallest share of households engaged in cultivation. Even among households engaged in cultivation, Kerala had the highest share of households where no other member apart from the head of the household was part of agricultural activity. This means that not only does Kerala have the lowest employment dependence on agriculture, it also has the lowest amount of what is often referred to as disguised unemployment in agriculture.2. Kerala has the highest unskilled wages in the country due to its ageing populationThe Left-leaning political culture in Kerala also means that the state witnesses a large number of political protests and shutdowns. Even when things are normal, unions are an influential player in Kerala’s economy. Among the most historically infamous union-related practices in Kerala is what is referred to as Nokku Kooli, a Malayalam word which literally translates to “wages for watching”. This involves unions charging a fee for “overseeing” loading and unloading activities at residential or commercial enterprises, if their demanded wages were not agreed to. While the prevalence of Nokku Kooli has come down in the recent past, and attempts to end it have had bipartisan support, Kerala still has the highest wages for unskilled workers in India. Kerala’s wage premium is only expected to increase going forward due to its aging population. The share of persons aged 50 and above was 38.7% in Kerala as on March 1, 2021 according to projections by the Report of The Technical Group on Population Projections November, 2019. This number was just 28.2% at the all-India level. This means blue-collar unions do not need to resort to strong-arm tactics anymore to preserve their material interests in the state.3. Story of remittance tailwinds in the Kerala economyKerala is India’s only state with four functional international airports: Thiruvananthapuram, Cochin, Kannur and Calicut. The massive demand for international air travel needs to be seen with the widespread international emigration from Kerala, primarily to the oil-exporting countries in west Asia. A 2020 paper in the Indian Journal of Labour Economics by KP Kannan and KS Hari put the number of Kerala emigrants abroad, with an identifiable household to report in Kerala, at 2.12 million in 2020, which the authors noted, “works out to a little more than 6% of the population but 17 to 18% of its workforce”.A steady rise in international emigration from Kerala has also meant a growing flow of remittance incomes. Kannan and Hari estimate that the share of remittances in the Kerala’s Net State Domestic Product (NSDP) increased from almost nothing (0.57%) in 1972-73 to almost one-fourth in the first and second decade of the century.While this number has come down since, it was still a significant 13.3% in 2019-20, the latest period for which data is available. The paper also constructs something called modified state income (MSI) to account for the positive impact of remittance incomes on official NSDP, which the authors argue does not capture the positive impact of remittances adequately. The paper argues that additional remittance incomes have led to a reduction in propensity to consume and an increase in propensity to save.The savings have primarily been directed to house construction, investment in gold and financial assets, the authors note. Kerala had the highest share of construction (13.7%) in its Gross Value Added among India’s states in 2018-19, the latest period for which data is available for all states in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) database. The all-India share was just 8% in 2018-19. It is ironical that the last surviving communist bastion is a state where labour is scarce and remittances are a key driver of the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-kerala-s-unique-political-economy-101615579469570.html
13-03-2021||India||Medha Patkar lends support to Haridwar seer who is fasting to save River Ganga||Social activist Medha Patkar has extended her support to the ongoing fast of Haridwar-based Matri Sadan seer Brahamchari Atmabodhanand.In a communiqué to Matri Sadan on Friday, Medha Patkar urged newly appointed Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to take cognisance of the agitation by Brahamchari Atmabodhanand for the last 17 days.Medha Patkar urged central and state government to instantly look into the demands of the Matri Sadan seer --- of scrapping of hydro power electric projects on Ganga and its adjacent tributaries, prohibition of quarrying on Ganga river bed, enactment of Ganga Act and shifting of all stone crushers from the Ganga river bed.She also expressed displeasure over the government not adhering to directives of the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal regarding ensuring sanctity –unhindered flow of sacred Ganga and conservation of ecology saying whether Ganga, Bhagirathi or Narmada every river needs to be saved.Initially Brahamchari Atmabodhanand, since February 23 when he started his agitation was relying on water, salt, honey and lemon intake but for the past five days has shunned water intake also as part of intensifying his agitation.The young seer, who is a graduate in computer science from Kerala, came into contact with Matri Sadan founder Swami Shivanand Saraswati during his spiritual sojourn to the revered shrine of Badrinath in 2014.Despite having lost nearly five kgs since he started his agitation, Brahamchari Atmabodhanand reiterated that he won’t give up his agitation until his demands are met. His demands are the same as that of late Swami Nigmanand, Swami Gyan Swarup Sanand who gave up their lives for the cause of the holy Ganga, ecology and society.Brahamchari Atmabodhanand had last staged 41 days of agitation in February-March 2020, on similar demands while prior to that he had been on a record 194 day agitation from October 2018 till May 2019.Swami Shivanand Saraswati has asked new chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat to take cognizance of Matri Sadan ashramite’s agitation saying when seers are agitating rulers can’t stay happy referring to the ouster of Trivendra Singh Rawat from the CM’s post blaming him for ignoring the seer’s agitation when he was chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medha-patkar-lends-support-to-haridwar-seer-who-is-fasting-to-save-river-ganga-101615578963581.html
13-03-2021||India||Private bank staffer held for forging bank statements, salary papers||The police have arrested an employee of a private bank for allegedly facilitating personal loans by the bank through fake salary certificates and bank statements to various customers.Police identified the arrested man, held on March 8, as Sanjeet Kumar, a resident of Gurugram. Police said Kumar was currently working as an assistant bank manager at in Gurugram.Deputy commissioner of police (economic offences wing) Mohammad Ali said that a complaint was filed by the bank wherein it was alleged that during the routine business inquiry, the risk control unit of the bank has identified 145 personal loans and 78 credit cards with disbursement amount of ₹10 crore, which were disbursed and issued to the various individual customers of Delhi.“The complainant alleged that initially these customers opened saving accounts and then applied for the fraudulent disbursement of personal loan and credit cards which were introduced by the sales executives on the basis of forged documents. The loans and credit cards were issued by the bank on the basis of the forged documents as submitted by the customers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-bank-staffer-held-for-forging-bank-statements-salary-papers-101615578337606.html
13-03-2021||India||2 days after CM was replaced, BJP changes Uttarakhand unit chief||Two days after the chief minister was replaced in Uttarakhand, the BJP on Friday changed the state present by replacing Bansidhar Bhagat with Madan Kaushik, who was a cabinet minister and spokesperson in the Trivendra Singh Rawat government.This is being seen as part of the BJP’s efforts to overhaul the party and government with just one year left for the elections amid reports that all was not well with the BJP regime in the hill state, prompting the high command to make such major changes so close to the elections in the state.Madan Kaushik, while talking to reporters after his appointment, said that this should not be seen in any negative way as the party can give responsibility to anyone whether he is in serving in the government or in the party. “We will win the 2022 elections in a big way and we will pass this agni-pariksha by winning over 60 seats (in the 70-member assembly),” he said.Kaushik, a four-time MLA from Haridwar constituency, has served as a cabinet minister between 2007 to 2012 in the governments of BC Khanduri and Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Kaushik was first elected as MLA in 2002 and subsequently in 2007, 2012 and 2017. In the previous government, as spokesperson, he not only was the face of what the government was doing but also its chief defender, whenever the government was going through a difficult situation.Bansidhar Bhagat, who has been replaced by Kaushik, said the party has taken the decision after considering all aspects and whatever new responsibility he is given, he will try to work to his best capacity in the interest of the party.Dhan Singh Rawat, higher education minister in the Trivendra Singh government said Kaushik will be very good as state BJP president since he has vast experience both within the party and the government. He has severed in various capacities in both party and the state government and his experience will help the party in a major way at this juncture when the elections are round the corner.The appointment of Kaushik, who is MLA from Haridwar in Garhwal region, will also push the party for changes to balance the equation between Kumaon and Garhwal. Bansidhar Bhagat hails from Kumaon. So at this juncture, both state BJP president and chief minister are from Garhwal. This will prompt the party to give more representation in the cabinet formation from the Kumaon region.A senior BJP leader said it is for the first time that the BJP state president is from the plains and not the hill region of the state. “Also, it is likely for the first time that both state BJP president and the chief minister are from the Garhwal region. This will push the party leadership to bring in more changes in the leadership here to strike a balance among castes (Thakur-Brahmin) and region (Garhwal-Kumaon),” he said.On the BJP going for a total overhaul in the state, Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson said he welcomed the changes being brought in by the party as they are meant for the betterment of the party in the state. “We are having elections here soon and these changes have been brought about to strengthen the party and make sure that the party wins in the 2022 elections in a big way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-days-after-cm-was-replaced-bjp-changes-uttarakhand-unit-chief-101615577937768.html
13-03-2021||India||Zoos on forest land to be considered ‘forestry activity’; experts flag concerns||The Union environment ministry’s forest advisory committee has decided that zoos on forest land will be deemed as “forestry” activity, according to minutes of the panel’s February 17 meeting published on the Parivesh website on Thursday.The proposal was placed before a technical committee of the Central Zoo Authority on July 30, 2020, which gave its nod and got subsequent approval from Prakash Javadekar, Union environment minister and chairperson of the authority. “Ex-situ conservation measures are taken in zoological parks. So, of course they should be considered to be forestry activity. We have lots of zoos in forest areas, many more may come up. There are talks in the ministry to amend the FC (forest conservation) Act to relax certain provisions, but no call has been taken yet,” a senior official of the forest conservation division said on condition of anonymity.Wildlife experts said this will mean a boom in safari rides in wildlife-rich areas and a high footfall in ecologically sensitive forest land. HT reported on Friday that the FAC (forest advisory committee) eased norms for ecotourism projects by allowing “non-permanent” structures in protected areas without permission from the central government. These decisions are part of the larger goal of the ministry to ease provisions under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.During discussions in the ministry, it was debated whether zoo, rescue/rehabilitation and captive breeding facilities be treated as a forestry activity and provisions of the Act should apply. Construction of zoos on forest land, however, has diversified components including public utility facilities that have since been treated as non-forestry activity.“The FAC members reviewed this issue in great detail in the present meeting and opined that all these public utility facilities are necessary for catering to broad objective of raising of awareness and people’s participation in wildlife conservation and for wildlife education,” the minutes state.It was further decided that “the FAC concurred with the facts highlighted by the CZA (Central Zoo Authority) that considering zoos as a non-forestry activity has added multiple/overlapping layers of permissions to be procured under different agencies. Such multiple regulations hamper the spirit of conservation enshrined in the FCA 1980, which permits work relating or ancillary to conservation, development and management of forests and wildlife. Therefore, the FAC recommended that establishment of zoos over forest area... should not be considered as a non-forestry activity.”Under the Wildlife Conservation Act, a zoo is defined as an establishment -- stationary or mobile -- where captive animals are kept for exhibition to the public but does not include a circus and an establishment of a licensed dealer in captive animals. Around 15% of land in a zoo is used for parking, cafeteria and other utilities.“This directive will make declaration of big cat safaris (large enclosures) inside Protected Areas much simpler. This seems to have been done to mitigate human-large carnivore conflict, as large cats involved in conflict could be captured and released in such safaris (enclosures). These safaris can also subsequently help raise funds for the forest department by introducing regulated tourism," said Anish Andheria, President of Wildlife Conservation Trust. He cautioned on the tourism aspect of the decision and also on the ministry's policy to facilitate ecotourism in forest areas. "Unless 'Ecotourism' is first defined unambiguously, relaxing these two clauses (clauses that said ecotourism is a non-forestry activity) will result in huge damage to natural ecosystems. The current Ecotourism models are far from eco-friendly. Even obvious non-negotiables such as usage of renewable energy; installation of waste management facilities, and sharing of majority of profits with local communities are not being enforced. To dilute the guidelines further may be a death knell for forested landscapes,” said Andheria.He cautioned against the tourism aspect and the facilitation of ecotourism. “Unless ‘ecotourism’ is first defined unambiguously, relaxing these two clauses (on ecotourism being a non-forestry activity) will result in huge damage to natural ecosystems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoos-on-forest-land-to-be-considered-forestry-activity-experts-flag-concerns-101615577631120.html
13-03-2021||India||Kerala High Court rejects govt’s plea to withdraw assembly violence case||In a setback to the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the midst of assembly elections, the Kerala High Court on Friday rejected the government’s plea to withdraw the cases relating to the violence in the state assembly in 2015 in which two ministers and four former legislators of the ruling front are accused.Rejecting the plea the single judge bench of Justice V J Arun said the case involving lawmakers, that too in the house, can’t be justified and directed all accused to face the law. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has also filed a plea asking the court not to withdraw the case saying it will set a bad precedent. A government spokesperson said it will be challenged in the Supreme Court.The House had witnessed ruckus in March 2015 after opposition LDF legislators prevented then Finance Minister K M Mani from presenting the state budget. Angry members snapped mikes, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee and two legislators were later hospitalized.The session was live when violent incidents unfolded and later Speaker N Sakthan had filed a police complaint against six LDF legislators, two of them E P Jayarajan and K T Jaleel are ministers in the Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet now. The complaint said properties worth ₹2.5 lakh were damaged in the melee and they tried to manhandle treasury bench members. Interestingly, after K M Mani’s death his son took the party, Kerala Congress (Mani), to the LDF camp.Earlier the government had invoked the privilege of the house to justify its decision to withdraw the case but the CJM court in Thiruvananthapuram had rejected it saying privilege was not a licence to carry out violent activities. During a discussion in the assembly last year Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said assembly proceedings should not be dragged to courts and later the government moved the HC but it refused to entertain its plea. Among six facing charges, two are seeking re-election this time, K T Jaleel and V Sivankutty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-rejects-govt-s-plea-to-withdraw-assembly-violence-case-101615577137923.html
13-03-2021||India||SC seeks govt’s response to plea over CBI chief||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the response of the central government on a petition seeking appointment of a regular Director for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).NGO Common Cause approached the top court with a public interest litigation to question the Centre’s decision to appoint an interim chief for the agency, Pravin Sinha. The plea, argued by advocate Prashant Bhushan pointed out there was no concept in law of appointing an interim or acting director under the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, which applies to the central agency.According to Section 4A of the Act, the government is required to convene a meeting of the High Powered Committee chaired by the Prime Minister and comprising the leader of the single largest Opposition party and the Chief Justice of India or his nominee. This panel has to recommend the name of a suitable candidate as director following which the recommendation is approved by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) finally issues the order appointing the CBI director. This procedure was bypassed after the previous director Rishi Kumar Shukla demitted office on February 2 this year, the petition alleged.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat issued notice and gave the Centre two weeks to file a response. Meanwhile, Bhushan urged for direction to convene the meeting of the High Powered Committee under Section 4A of the Act. “Not only has the independence of CBI been eroded with the appointment of an interim Director but even the work of the agency has been affected.” he said. But the bench refused to pass any interim orders. “We will first hear them and then pass any orders,” they said.In the petition, the NGO said: “The Director of CBI is the final authority in the organization. He supervises all the work in CBI and is responsible for constitution of investigating teams for probing cases. Hence, this Court and later even Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance the functional autonomy of the CBI Director and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment of this key functionary.”In 2016 too, the appointment of an interim director of CBI was challenged before SC by Common Cause. “Now again the same issue has cropped up which has to be dealt with utmost seriousness in view of the sheer power that vests with the important office of a CBI Director,” the petition stated, adding: “The manifest unwillingness of the government to institute a transparent and accountable system to ensure that the culprits are punished seriously impairs the right of the people to live in a corruption and crime free society which violates Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty)...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scseeks-govt-s-response-to-plea-over-cbi-chief-101615576639045.html
13-03-2021||India||Quad makes its first big move: Joint vaccine push||The maiden Quad Summit on Friday unveiled an ambitious partnership to pool resources and capabilities of the four members to roll out a billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022, and created three working groups in the critical areas of new technologies and the climate crisis to give a formal structure to the group.The virtual summit convened by US President Joe Biden and joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, reviewed common challenges across the Indo-Pacific – especially China’s assertive actions – and the Quad committed itself to promoting a free and open rules-based order to advance security and prosperity and to counter threats in the region and beyond.Also Read | ‘United by democratic values’: PM Modi at historic first Quad leaders' summitFor the Quad Vaccine Partnership, the countries agreed to pool their financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistical strengths to ramp up the manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines across the Indo-Pacific.“Our agenda today, covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies, make the Quad a force for global good,” Prime Minister Modi said in his opening remarks. “I see this positive vision as an extension of India’s ancient philosophy of Vasudeva Kutumbhakum, which regards the world as one family,” he added.“Today’s summit meeting shows that the Quad has come of age. It will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region,” he said, as the four countries came together for a summit just about 18 months after the Quad was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers.The Quad leaders also agreed to hold an in-person meeting this year, either on the margins of the G7 Summit in UK in June or in one of the four countries, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The Quad Summit was the first plurilateral engagement for Biden since he assumed office in January, and he said a free and open Indo-Pacific was essential to the future of all four countries. He added that the Quad was renewing its commitment to “ensure that our region is governed by international law, committed to upholding universal values and free from coercion”.The US president was accompanied at the virtual summit by Vice-President Kamala Harris, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Covid-19 response coordinator Jeff Zients.Also Read: Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM Modi“We’ve got a big agenda ahead of us gentlemen as you well know, but I’m optimistic about our prospects,” Biden said, adding, “The Quad is going to be vital in our cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and I look forward to looking closely to working with all of you in the coming years.”Though none of the four leaders named China in their remarks, and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla played up the “positive agenda” focused on vaccines and climate change, the shadow of China’s assertive and aggressive actions hung large over the meeting and even played a key role in hastening plans for holding the summit, the people added.India’s military standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) came up when the leaders discussed regional issues and the other members had a “sympathetic view” towards New Delhi on the matter, said one of the people cited above.Shringla told a news briefing: “As far as India is concerned, we have always said the Quad does not stand against something, it stands for something...which is positive, it stands for doing something in the realm of consideration for others.”All the leaders shared Modi’s vision of a world that looks after its people by pooling capabilities, he said. “That should put to rest any speculation about Quad’s activities directed against any states or others. Quad is an organisation that is working towards a very positive agenda,” he added.The vaccine initiative will create additional manufacturing capacities in India and build on New Delhi’s Vaccine Maitri initiative that has already supplied close to 60 million doses to some 70 countries without affecting domestic production and rollout.“President Biden has worked hard to bring these leaders together to make a clear statement of the importance of the Indo Pacific region,” a senior US official said, reasserting US/Biden ownership of the summit.“I do believe that this (the vaccine initiative) is an historic deliverable. It’s unprecedented, it’s complex, it’s deeply strategically significant, and it is timely,” said another Biden administration official, adding, “it’s hard to do these things and the fact that the Quad has rallied and engaged deeply essentially around the clock, over the course of the last few weeks to do this in a manner which allowed the president to host the summit”.Vaccines developed by the US will be manufactured in India, the world’s largest producer of vaccines, and financing will be provided by the US Development Finance Corporation (DFC), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Japan Bank of International Cooperation (JBIC) and others.The DFC will work with India’s Biological E Ltd to finance increased capacity to support efforts to produce at least a billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2022 with Stringent Regulatory Authorization (SRA) and the WHO’s Emergency Use Listing (EUL), including the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.Australia will contribute to overcome last mile and logistical delivery issues and also help countries in Southeast Asia, the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Islands receiving the vaccines, including financing worth $77 million for cold chains, training and building capacity for effective use of the doses. Japan will also help vaccination programmes of developing countries through a grant of $41 million and concessional loans.The partnership will work with the COVAX facility, WHO, Gavi, Asean and G7 for vaccine distribution, Shringla said. The Quad believes this partnership will also create capabilities to prepare for any future pandemics, he said.The Quad leaders agreed on creating three working groups that will for the first time give the loose grouping a more formal structure to deal with common challenges across the Indo-Pacific.The Quad vaccine experts group, comprising top scientists and officials, will design an implementation plan for the vaccine partnership. The Quad climate working group will work to strengthen implementation of the Paris Agreement and strengthen climate actions globally for mitigation, adaptation, resilience, and climate finance. The Quad critical and emerging technology working group will facilitate cooperation on international standards and innovative future technologies, and their safe and judicious use.The technology group will coordinate on standards development and cooperate on issues such as 5G, including telecommunications deployment, diversification of equipment suppliers and future telecommunications.The Biden administration is touting the summit as another evidence of America reversing President Donald Trump’s America First approach that alienated allies and partners and won no favours with the country’s new and old rivals, China and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-makes-its-first-big-move-joint-vaccine-push-101615574498256.html
13-03-2021||India||Jagan seeks Bharat Ratna for Tricolour’s designer||Hyderabad Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday appealed to the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country, on Pingali Venkaiah, a prominent freedom fighter from the state who designed the Indian national tricolour.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the YSRCP president said conferring the award on Venkaiah posthumously would be a matter of prestige for every Indian on the occasion of the country’s 75th Independence Day next year.Jagan visited the freedom fighter’s residence at Macherla in Guntur district and felicitated his daughter Ghantasala Seetha Mahalakshmi and other family members. He also garlanded a portrait of Venkaiah and announced a financial assistance of ₹75 lakh for Mahalakshmi. A government order has already been issued in this regard. While appreciating Modi’s decision to hold ‘Azadi ki Amrut Mahotsav’ programme, Jagan recalled that during the first meeting of the national committee on March 8, ‘Har Ghar Jhanda’ (flag in every household) was selected as one of the key themes for the celebration.“A call will be given to every citizen to hoist the national flag in their house on August 15 next year as part of the festivities. In this context, I would like to draw your attention towards the immense contribution made by Pingali Venkaiah in designing the Indian national flag,” the letter read. The freedom fighter, also known as Jhanda Venkaiah, was born on August 2, 1876 in Bhatlapenumarru village near Machalipatnam and was deeply influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideology, Reddy said. “He worked on various designs of the national flag and on March 31, 1921, in Vijayawada, he gifted them to Mahatma Gandhi who mentioned Venkaiah’s efforts in his journal Young India,” he added. The chief minister said Venkaiah’s design of the tricolor was adopted as the national flag of India by the Constituent Assembly on July 22, 1947.“Thus, Venkaiah was credited as the architect or designer of the Indian national flag. The flag designed by him came to be synonymous with the spirit of free and independent India. However, his life and works largely remain unrecognized. He breathed his last on July 4, 1963,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-tricolour-s-designer-101615574200288.html
13-03-2021||India||PM Modi flags off symbolic ‘Dandi March’ of freedom||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday likened the historic Dandi March to the slogan of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, and said that if the salt yatra was an assertion of India’s resolve for self-reliance, so is the country’s new push in that direction.The PM also flagged off a symbolic 386-kilometre-long Dandi March from the precincts of the Sabarmati Ashram on the 91st anniversary of the historic protest, and launched the celebration of 75 years of independence “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, which will go on for 75 weeks until August 15, 2022, India’s 75th Independence Day.The event was held amid allegations by the Congress that its Gujarat leaders were detained to prevent them from holding a parallel Dandi Yatra at the same time.Referring to the salt march that was started on this day by Mahatma Gandhi in 1930 as a springboard to the Civil Disobedience movement in opposition to a salt tax imposed in India by the British, Modi said: “Salt was a symbol of India’s self-reliance, since that time the people had to depend on salt coming from England. Gandhiji understood this and caught the pulse of the people. Soon, the movement became a movement of every Indian.”The PM linked the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign with the manufacture and export of made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines, and said the country had demonstrated its increasing self-reliance and was showing a way to the world.“The achievements of India are not only our own today, but they are going to show light to the whole world,” he said.Modi was addressing a public meeting near Abhay Ghat, the resting place of late prime minister Morarji Desai. Earlier, he visited the Sabarmati Ashram, where he paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi.Paying tribute to Gandhi and other freedom fighters, the PM said: “I bow to the feet of all the great personalities who participated in India’s freedom struggle and have led the country.”Referring to his government’s efforts, Modi said the country had been making relentless efforts for the last six years to restore the glory of India’s history, and said such a push was being given in every state.As an instance, Modi said the country completed the revival of the site associated with the Dandi March two years ago. “I myself had the opportunity to visit Dandi on this occasion,” he said.The event was held in the backdrop of the Congress being denied permission to take out a “tractor yatra to Dandi” and allegations that the police either put several opposition MLAs under house arrest, detained them, or deflated tyres of the 80-odd tractors which were to partake in the rally.Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani said: “For six full days, they kept our application for the yatra hanging fire and then since late last (Thursday) night until this afternoon, our MLAs and leaders were kept under house arrest and many were detained by the police. The police took away tractors lying at the Congress headquarters and at many places the tyres were deflated to ensure we didn’t implement our plan.”For such an event, “A permission should not have been required at all. Gandhi fought the British, we are fighting another version now,” Dhanani said.When contacted, minister of state for home Pradeepsinh Jadeja said, “Yes, we refused permission because the Congress was trying to politicise the event by trying to link it with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. It is unfortunate that despite such a drubbing given by the people of Gujarat, the party is not learning its lessons.”He said, “We would have given permission if it was for a Dandi yatra. We are speaking of 75 years of Independence, and not of your (Congress) party.”Ghanshyam Shah, a Gujarat-based political scientist, said, “The entire Dandi yatra was a symbol of civil disobedience and if people want to take out a protest yatra in whatever form, it is the spirit of what Gandhiji said and meant. It is not about Congress or any other political party, it is about the people’s right. This is like ‘people’s politics versus my politics’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-flags-off-symbolic-dandi-march-of-freedom-101615573997569.html
13-03-2021||India||Isro’s commercial arm to scale up ops with ₹10K-cr investment in five years||BengaluruThe NewSpace India Limited, the commercial arm of Indian Space Research Organisation, on Friday said that it is looking at investing approximately ₹10,000 crore over the next five years and a manpower requirement of around 300 people as it plans to scale up operations.“We expect an investment of approximately ₹2,000 crore per year starting next year or year after, that is the kind investment we are seeking to do, and our resources, manpower we are targeting a requirement of approximately 300 people in about 5 years from now,” Radhakrishnan Durairaj, executive director of NSIL, said on Friday in Bengaluru.He said that the company, which was incorporated in March 2019, will raise capital with a mix of equity and debt.The company earned revenues of ₹300 crore in the previous fiscal and around ₹400 crore in the current year, Durairaj said, adding the NSIL anticipates around ₹400 crore revenues next fiscal as well.NSIL, incorporated as a wholly government owned Central Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE) with a paid up capital of ₹10 crore on March 6, 2019, was allocated ₹700 crore by the union government in its budget 2021-22. However, the newly formed entity is still working out the modalities to get the money.With a robust order book and its offer of niche services, NSIL looks to capitalise on demand for launch of commercial satellites among other services to increase revenues.The company has four dedicated launches lined up for the next couple of years and most of its revenues earned so far have been through services, Durairaj said.“We have contracts for four more dedicated launches but our NDAs (non-disclosure agreements) prevent us from revealing more details. All are foreign satellites,” Durairaj said.The company, however, has concerns in the ride-share category which has several other global players.“We were quite competitive commercially until recently. But now many international players have slashed their prices quite substantially. NSIL is not facing any major challenges but it (international players) is still quite a threat for us (NSIL),” he said.Global companies like Elon Musk-owned SpaceX are also in the market for commercial launches of private satellites for various applications like communications, broadband, DTH, GPS and earth monitoring among other uses.However, the company said that it continues to have an edge over others in the higher payload categories or dedicated missions of under 1000 kgs where the client bears the entire cost of the launch. On February 28, Isro launched Amazonia-I and 18 co-passenger satellites from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh, which was the first dedicated commercial mission of the NSIL.The space agency has already executed four PSLV missions for 45 auxiliary commercial satellites, apart from Amazonia-I.“NSIL has established itself as a major space service provider in a very short period and in the not so distant future, you will see it emerging as a key player in all areas of space sector and space-based services in India with a significant global presence,” NSIL Chairman and Managing Director G Narayanan said.According to Isro, Amazonia-I is an optical earth observation satellite of the National Institute for Space Research (INPE) and would strengthen the existing structure by providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory.The 18 co-passenger satellites onboard the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV)-C51, considered the workhorse of the space agency, included four from IN-SPACe and 14 from NSIL. Only one of the 14 commercial satellites was from India while the remaining 13 were from the USA. Isro has put 342 customer satellites from 34 countries into orbit so far.The company has also floated RFPs (request for proposals) to five Indian companies or consortia to build PSLV launch vehicles but Durairaj said that there will be no transfer of technology to these firms and that it will only be through licensed production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isros-commercial-arm-to-scale-up-ops-with-10k-cr-investment-in-five-years-101615573900565.html
13-03-2021||India||Zomato to cover medical bills of woman, legal cost of accused delivery person||Bengaluru: Deepinder Goyal, co-founder of online food aggregator Zomato, on Friday said the company will cover the medical bills of Hitesha Chandranee, who claimed she was attacked by a delivery person from the company. Goyal added that they will also take care of the legal cost of the delivery person Kamaraj, who denied the charges and said it was he who was attacked by the woman. “Right from the get-go, our topmost priority has been to get to the truth. Towards that, we are helping both Hitesha and Kamaraj (our delivery partner) with all the support they need while the investigation is pending. We are also assisting the police in whichever way asked. We are in constant touch with Hitesha, covering her medical expenses, and helping her with the proceedings,” Goyal said in a statement posted on Twitter. “We are also in constant touch with Kamaraj, extending all possible support to make sure both sides of the story come to light and that due process is followed in the spirit of fairness,” the statement added. Goyal added that as per protocol, Zomato has temporarily suspended Kamaraj from making active deliveries, while covering his earnings in the interim. “Also, for the record, Kamaraj has made 5,000 deliveries for us so far and has a 4.75/5-star rating on our platform (which is one of the highest) and has been working with us for 26 months now (these are facts, not opinions, or inferences),” read the statement. On Wednesday, Bengaluru-based content creator Hitesha Chandranee posted a video on social media alleging that the Zomato delivery person assaulted her following an argument over a delay in delivery. She claimed that Kamaraj barged into her house, verbally abused her and punched her in her face. On the same day, Electronic City Police registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) against Kamaraj. He was subsequently arrested but let off on bail the same day. On Thursday, Kamaraj claimed that contrary to the woman’s claim, it was he who was attacked. “As she was hitting me, I tried to block using my hands. When she tried to push my hand away, a ring on her finger hit her nose,” he said. Police officials said statements of both parties were being recorded and further investigation in the case was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zomato-to-cover-medical-bills-of-woman-legal-cost-of-accused-delivery-person-101615573899981.html
13-03-2021||India||After stormy start, House may function next week||Chances have brightened for the two Houses of Parliament to return to normalcy from Monday as the opposition parties agreed to participate in proceedings at a meeting chaired by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Friday, after the opening week of the budget session was washed out amid protests over rising fuel prices.According to two opposition leaders, Birla told them that while their issues — fuel price hike and farm laws — are important for them, urgent business that has constitutional requirements needs to be completed.Also Read: Ruckus in Delhi assembly after riots report“The speaker told us we need to pass the Finance Bill and the demand for grants on an urgent basis. He also told us that he will adjourn the House quickly so that the MPs can go back to their states for the poll campaign,” said senior Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Ray.The budget session of Parliament is likely to be cut short by 10 days and is expected to be adjourned on March 25.A senior Congress leader admitted that disruptions “can’t go on forever”. “We have protested for three consecutive days and didn’t allow any government business. Now, we also need to raise out issues on the floor of the House and corner the BJP over people’s issues,” a senior Rajya Sabha strategist of the Congress said on Friday on the condition of anonymity.Opposition parties are likely to meet informally on Monday morning and prepare a joint strategy on how to utilise the debates on the demand for grants and the Finance Bill to underline the alleged mismanagement by the government of various sectors of the economy.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make a statement on Monday to commemorate celebrations of the country’s 75 years of Independence. He was scheduled to speak on March 12 but deferred the plan due to a lack of consensus between the ruling dispensation and opposition parties.Opposition parties disrupted both Houses of Parliament for three consecutive days over fuel price hikes and the three contentious farm laws before proceedings were adjourned till Monday.After negotiations with the opposition failed, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said: “PM Modi wanted to make a statement in the House on the 75 years of Independence celebrations, ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. But due to a lack of consensus, the statement will not be made. It will happen when a consensus is reached.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-stormy-start-house-may-function-next-week-101615573541530.html
13-03-2021||India||‘Normal’ monsoon likely for 3rd year in row, say experts||India has received normal monsoon for two straight years, aiding a farm-driven economic recovery in a pandemic year. Sufficient June-to-September rains will be critical this year, but data show three consecutive normal monsoons are rare, occurring only once in the past two decades.Scientists say current conditions suggest they should favour a normal 2021 monsoon, the lifeblood of Asia’s third-largest economy. As the country tries to claw out of a recession, patchy rains may weigh on recovery, analysts say.The monsoon is critical because two-thirds of Indians depend on farm-based income and over 40% of the country’s net-sown cropped area does not have any form of irrigation.Millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin summer sowing of crops, such as rice, sugar, cotton, pulses, horticulture produce and coarse cereals.Agriculture, which contributes 39% to the rural economy, was able to shake off the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic because of normal rains and ample supplies of subsidised inputs, such a fertilisers, during the pandemic. The sector also benefited from fiscal support from the rural job guarantee scheme MGNREGA and PM Kisan, a cash-transfer programme for farmers.Throughout the peak pandemic months, the farm sector was the only bright spot in the Indian economy. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, when rest of the economy fell deep into recession of -24.4% due to a widespread lockdown.Growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, the latest available data, expanding 0.4%. Agriculture grew at 3.9% in the same period, compared to 3% in the previous quarter.To be sure, the Reserve Bank of India and the official Economic Survey have forecast the economy to grow 10.5% and 11% respectively in the next fiscal, after a nearly 8% negative growth this fiscal.Much depends on how the monsoon pans out. “After two consecutive years of normal monsoon, a third year of timely and well-distributed rains is not a given,” said DK Joshi, chief economist of Crisil Ltd, ratings firm.The monsoon also replenishes 89 nationally important water reservoirs vital for drinking, power and irrigation. When rains lead to robust farm output, rural incomes rise and spending goes up on almost everything – television sets to gold.For example, 48% of all motorcycles and 44% of TV sets are sold in rural India. Without this demand, industrial growth tends to slow down. Normal rains act as a strong check on inflation through plentiful food stocks.The long-range forecast division of the India Meteorological Department is currently preparing to forecast the monsoon next month. “The indications (about the monsoon) are good. We have our fingers crossed,” an agriculture department official said.The Indian monsoon usually ends up short when oceans temperatures in the Pacific are higher than normal, a weather pattern known as El Nino. The opposite happens, and rains are plentiful, when oceans are cooler, known meteorologically as La Nina. Both 2019 and 2020 fell in the latter category.The monsoon also depends on what Met scientists call the Indian Ocean Dipole, which refers to the difference in sea-surface temperatures in two opposite parts of the Indian Ocean.Scientists watching the monsoon say, till now, there aren’t signs of oceans warming. “The Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) (was) solidly in La Nina range in February, but down from January and peak in December. Downward trend of SOI continued in early March as ENSO marches toward neutral,” said Jason Nicholls, international forecasting manager at AccuWeather, a weather forecasting firm.ENSO refers to a recurring weather pattern that influences ocean temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-monsoon-likely-for-3rd-year-in-row-say-experts-101615573539873.html
13-03-2021||India||No clotting case in India after Oxford dose: Officials||No cases of adverse event involving blood clots have been reported in India in the case of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, according to top officials involved in the country’s coronavirus inoculation campaign, who also said a deeper review of post-vaccination side effects will be carried out next week.The announcement came after several countries halted the roll-out of the AZD1222 vaccine, which is separately being administered in India as Covishield (the version made by Serum Institute of India). AstraZeneca, the World Health Organization (WHO) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) have said the shot is safe to use.Also Read: Britons told to keep getting vaccinated after some countries suspend AstraZeneca shotsNonetheless, India will review adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) data from across the country for any reports of blood clots or similar adverse reaction. “The review is taking place as a matter of abundant precaution, even though India so far has not reported any cases of clotting related damage that is in medical terms called thromboembolic phenomenon. It has been reported in a Scandinavian country, but we have decided to scrutinise India data very carefully,” said Dr NK Arora, member of the national task force on Covid-19 vaccination’s committee on AEFI.“The health ministry will be providing raw AEFI data from across the country for next week’s review,” he added.Union ministry of health and family welfare held a separate meeting with nodal officers of AEFI committees at the state level on Friday, to collate updated data on adverse events reported from across the country.After reports of blood clots and one death from Denmark, eight other countries—Norway, Iceland, Austria, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Italy, and Latvia— also temporarily suspended use of AZD1222 as a precautionary measure.The EMA said that it is reviewing the matter and has not established a link between vaccination and these clotting events.“The Covid Task Force has been asked to look into the issue, but for them to review the matter they need raw data that we will provide. Though there has been no case of blood clots reported so far in the country, we are finding out if anything similar has been reported from anywhere in the country in individuals who have been administered the vaccines,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health ministry.The meeting will continue on Saturday, and the date for national committee meeting will be decided based on the outcome of Saturday’s meeting.The central and state governments have been conducting AEFI surveillance at multiple levels. There is an AEFI expert committee in place at the district, state and national level. The health ministry is collating AEFI data from the state AEFI committee nodal officers.“Broadly speaking there are two types of adverse events post vaccination: mild and those that cause death or hospitalization. It is the latter that is of concern to us, and we want to be doubly sure that this is not happening in our country,” said Dr Arora.“It will be an entirely independent review that will involve high-level experts from the field. It will also be a rolling kind of a review so that we analyse real-time data. All deaths and hospitalizations post Covid-19 vaccinations will be reviewed in great detail,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-clotting-case-in-india-after-oxford-dose-101615573479974.html
13-03-2021||India||HC rejects Kerala govt’s plea to drop assembly ruckus case||In a setback to the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) ahead of the April 6 assembly elections, the Kerala high court on Friday rejected the Pinarayi Vijayan government’s plea to withdraw a criminal caserelating to the violence in the state assembly in 2015 during the previous Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) regime.Two ministers from the present state cabinet and four former legislators are accused in the case.Rejecting the plea, a single bench of Justice V J Arun said withdrawing the case involving thebehavior of the lawmakersin the House cannot be justified and directed all the accused to face legal proceedings.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has filed a plea, urging the court not to withdraw the case to avoid setting a bad precedent.The high court’s move will be challenged in the Supreme Court, a government spokesperson said.In March 2015, the House witnessed a ruckus after then opposition LDF legislators prevented finance minister K M Mani, who was facing charges in a bribery case, from presenting the state budget. The members snapped mikes, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee that ensued. Two legislators were later hospitalised.The session was live when the violent incidents unfolded, prompting the then speaker N Sakthan to file a police complaint against six LDF legislators, including E P Jayarajan and K T Jaleel who are serving as industries minister and education minister, respectively, in the present Vijayan cabinet.In his complaint, the speaker said property worth ₹2.5 lakh was damaged and also accused the legislators of trying to manhandle the members of the treasury bench. The case was filed under Prevention of Destruction of Public Property Act and sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code.Interestingly, after Mani’s death in 2019, his son took the party, Kerala Congress (Mani), to the LDF camp.Earlier, the present state government invoked the privilege of the house to justify its decision to withdraw the case but the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate in Thiruvanthapuram rejected this on grounds that privilege did not serve as a license to carry out violent activities.During a discussion in the Assembly last year, Vijayan had said that assembly proceedings should not be dragged to the courts. The government later moved the high court which refused to entertain the plea.Among the six legislators facing the case, K T Jaleel and V Sivankutty are seeking re-election this time from Thavanoor and Nemom, respectively.K Ajith, C K Sadasivan and K Kunhammed are the remaining former legislators accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-kerala-govt-s-plea-to-drop-assembly-ruckus-case-101615573359428.html
13-03-2021||India||2 years after violent stir, will CAA issue sway Assam polls?||With elections to the Assam assembly due next month, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA -- a controversial legislation that seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Muslim-majority Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who entered India on or before December 31, 2014 -- is in focus again.Violent protests had rocked the state for several days in December 2019 against CAA, claiming the lives of five in police firing, and the clamour against the legislation led to the birth of two regional parties. While the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition is downplaying CAA and its impact (the legislation is yet to be implemented), the opposition alliance led by the Congress is raking it up again.Fear of outsidersThe genesis to the opposition to the legislation lies in indigenous communities in Assam being apprehensive of outsiders, especially those from Bangladesh (erstwhile East Pakistan) for over a century. This sentiment led to an agitation between 1979 and 1985, which claimed over 800 lives in police action and ended with signing of an accord that promised sealing of borders with Bangladesh and the detection and deportation of illegal immigrants who entered after March 24, 1971.Successive governments failed to implement the accord and the illegal Bangladeshi immigrants issue continued to simmer. Five years ago, when the BJP promised to deport all illegal Bangladeshis, it galvanised voters, and the party was able to come to power for the first time along with alliance partners Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF).So when the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) introduced and passed CAA in Parliament in December 2019, protests flared up across most parts of Assam, fearing that it would lead to the influx of more “outsiders”. There were protests in other parts of India as well, but while those protests were against the exclusion of Muslims from its the law’s purview, in Assam opposition was against allowing non-Muslim illegal immigrants to become citizens.Protesters said the CAA provisions was against the 1985 Assam Accord that assured an end to entry of illegal immigrants irrespective of their religious affiliations. Several groups and indigenous associations contended that if CAA is implemented, it could lead to an influx of illegal immigrants from Bangladesh and threaten language, culture and land holdings of local populations.New regional parties opposed to CAA Though the protests against CAA died down after few days, they resulted in formation of two regional parties opposed to the legislation. The All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), two prominent student bodies that spearheaded the protests, formed Assam Jatiya Parishad. And another outfit, Raijor Dal, was launched by Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), a farmers’ rights body that also played a key role in the anti-CAA stir.Claiming to be unadulterated representatives of indigenous aspirations, these two parties have joined hands to form the third alternative for voters while trying to remain equidistant from the BJP-led ruling alliance and the Congress-led Opposition.“Once we come to power, our government will take a decision on non-implementation of CAA in Assam, pass a resolution in assembly on it and intensify protests to get the legislation scrapped in parliament,” Raijor Dal’s working president said on Tuesday after releasing the party’s “vision document”.The AJP has released a list of candidates for 68 (out of 126) seats till now, Raijor Dal has announced candidates for 20 seats. President of AJP Lurinjyoti Gogoi will contest from Duliajan and Naharkatiya and Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi, who is under arrest since December 2019 for his role in the anti-CAA protests, will be contesting from the Sivasagar and Mariani seats. The alliance has a tie-up with Autonomous State Demand Committee (ASDC) for the seats in two hills districts of Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao.Congress’s standThe two new regional outfits are not alone in their opposition to CAA. The “grand alliance” of Congress and six other parties — All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), BPF, CPI, CPI-M, CPI-ML and newly formed Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) are also raising the legislation as a key poll issue.The Congress’s stance on CAA was displayed loud and clear during party leader Rahul Gandhi’s first poll rally in the state last month at Sivasagar, where all senior leaders wore “gamosas” (traditional towels) around their necks with a struck-through CAA written on it. Gandhi said that CAA was the BJP’s attempt at dividing the people of Assam, and the Congress will now allow its implementation in Assam if the party comes to power.The anti-CAA stance is also part of Congress’s five guarantees for voters in this election. The party has also announced plans to build a memorial on the anti-CAA protests after coming to power. “After we win the election, we will pass a law in the assembly that won’t allow the CAA to be implemented in Assam. We have already asked lawyers to start drafting such a law,” Congress Lok Sabha MP from Nagaon Pradyut Bordoloi said.BJP unperturbedThe BJP and its allies, however, are confident (at least publicly) that CAA is a non-issue in this election, and the ruling coalition’s development and welfare schemes in the past five years will be enough to ensure another term.“Protests against CAA have lost relevance post the Covid-19 pandemic. Voters are not bothered about it now. They are more concerned about development. The Congress and other parties have failed to judge the sentiment of the public,” senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said recently.Instead of mentioning CAA in their poll rallies, the party is playing the religion card. Sarma has stressed that there is a threat to Assamese people and their religion and culture from Muslims who came from Bangladesh. He and his party colleagues also highlight how Congress has acted against the interest of people of Assam by joining hands with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF, a party they describe as communal.“Our stand on CAA has been very clear and implementing it is part of BJP’s ideology. Despite that, people of Assam have supported us in 2016 assembly polls and the 2019 general election. It won’t affect us this time as well. In fact, people are more worried about the unholy nexus between Congress and AIUDF and will show them the door again,” BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami said.Limited impactExperts say that the CAA issue have a limited impact on the polls.“CAA should and could have been an important poll issue in Assam. But the spontaneous protests against the legislation erupted like a volcano in December 2019 and petered out. Even the two political parties, Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal, which were formed as an outcome of the protests, failed to carry forward or sustain the issue,” said Alaka Sarmah, professor of political science at Gauhati University.“The legislation may play on mind of a section of voters in urban areas who are more aware of the issue, but it won’t affect how people vote in the rural areas, which is substantial, as they are aloof or not aware enough about CAA. On the other hand, the welfare schemes of the present government targeting almost all sections could play a bigger role. At least that’s the mood at the moment,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-yrs-after-violent-stir-will-caa-issue-sway-assam-polls-101615573239916.html
13-03-2021||India||Delhi orders inquiry into Ambani case’s Tihar link||The Delhi government ordered an inquiry after an inmate of Tihar jail found in possession of two cell phones was linked to the security threat to industrialist Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai, state home minister Satyendar Jain said on FridayThe inmate, Tehseen Akhtar, has been in jail since March 2014 after being arrested for being a key operative of the banned terror group Indian Mujahidden and planning attacks across the country. Prison officers said they handed the cell phones and SIM cards to the Delhi police special cell.Also Read | Antilia bomb threat: Jaish-ul-Hind's Telegram channel made in Tihar, say policePolice suspect Akhtar used the phone to claim responsibility for placing an explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio car near Ambani’s house on February 25.On Friday, the special cell moved an application in a city court seeking Akhtar’s custodial interrogation. Police and prison officers, who did not wish to be named, said Akhtar shared the high-risk cell inside Tihar with at least two Indian Mujahideen men and two operatives of the Indian module of Al Qaeda. Police suspect Akhtar shared the phones with them too.Prison officers said they conducted a raid inside the high-security ward of jail 8 on Thursday where Akhtar is lodged with other prisoners. The prison authorities received a tip-off from the special cell about Akhtar actively using the two phones. Unlike a regular ward, which is guarded by prison guards, some prisoners such as terrorist Yaseen Bhatkal are lodged in high-risk wards. The movement of prisoners in such wards is restricted and they are guarded round-the-clock by officials of the Tamil Nadu State Police. They are also not allowed to interact with other prisoners. A high-risk ward has about 10-15 prisoners, while other wards have at least 100 prisoners.The Delhi government inquiry and police investigation will probe how the two cell phones were smuggled inside the prison and that too to an inmate arrested for terrorism. A cell phone is a prohibited item inside prison.Delhi police said Akhtar was using the Telegram messenger app. Police suspect he was using the cell phones for at least eight months.Police suspect Akhtar created the channel Jaish-ul-Hind on Telegram, and claimed responsibility for the blast outside the Israel embassy in New Delhi on January 29. Police suspect Akhtar also used the same phone to claim responsibility for placing the car near Ambani’s house. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is probing the two cases but is yet to make any arrests.In an official statement on Friday, Delhi police special cell’s deputy commissioner of police Pramod Kuswah said, “Based on information provided by the special cell, Tihar jail authorities have seized a mobile phone from a jail where certain terror convicts are lodged. It is suspected that this phone has been used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts and threats. Further investigation and forensic analysis will be done after the mobile handset and details of the seizure are received from Tihar jail authorities.”The officer did not specify the terror acts for which the phone was used to claim responsibility.Akhtar was arrested from Naxalbari, West Bengal, in March 2014. Police said he was the operational chief of Indian Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-orders-inquiry-into-ambani-case-s-tihar-link-101615572639358.html
13-03-2021||India||At her farewell, Justice Indu Malhotra chokes with emotion during speech||upreme Court justice Indu Malhotra, the first woman member of the Bar to be directly appointed as a judge in the top court, could not hold back the tears during her farewell speech on Friday, prompting Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde to cut in.On her last working day in the apex court, justice Malhotra sat on the bench with the CJI, in accordance with the convention in the top court. Attorney general KK Venugopal, leaders of the Bar, and some other senior lawyers, were present before the bench to bid adieu to her.Justice Malhotra began her final address by saying that she felt blessed to have served as a judge in the Supreme Court, but was soon overcome by emotions. At this point, the CJI took over to conclude the ceremonial proceedings. “I expect her to complete her speech on some other occasion,” CJI Bobde said.CJI Bobde recounted an episode when justice Malhotra was a lawyer and had argued before his bench.“She was arguing in a matter and she wouldn’t stop arguing. I asked my colleague on the bench that we have already understood her points. So, why is she still arguing? I was told that she prepares everything so well that she wouldn’t stop before telling everything,” quipped the CJI.Justice Bobde shared another personal anecdote when his daughter, lawyer Rukmini Bobde, had opined about an issue, something which he later heard from justice Malhotra in the court.“My daughter used to often appear with her (justice Malhotra) when she was a lawyer. It was long before I came to this court. One day during our discussion, my daughter came up with a peculiar reason. I listened to her. These days you don’t question anyone but only listen. I also did the same. When we both were judges in this court, one day, justice Malhotra shared the same opinion with me about what my daughter was talking about. I realised what a good role model she is. My daughter was making the same argument she (justice Malhotra) was making,” he said. The CJI did not mention the subject though.The attorney general began by calling it a “great pity” that excellent judges in the apex court had to retire so quickly. “She could have worked here at least for 10 more years. It is very unfortunate that the judges in this court have to retire at 65,” said the A-G, adding judges must continue at least till the age of 70.Venugopal also recalled how justice Malhotra was the sole woman judge who dissented from her four male colleagues while deciding the Sabarimala case. Four judges on the SC bench decided in favour of allowing women of all ages to enter the shrine in Kerala but justice Malhotra differed, saying courts should not interfere with the matters of faith until the practices are inherently unconstitutional.The A-G commended her for “the integrity she showed as a woman judge” in delivering the Sabarimala judgment, and concluded by saying: “We are losing a great judge.”Senior advocate Vikas Singh, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), said that justice Malhotra had been an inspiration for the young members of the Bar, especially for women lawyers. “It (advocacy) has been one of those professions which hasn’t been very kind to the women members. But justice Malhotra has motivated so many young women lawyers as she became the first woman member of the Bar to be directly appointed as a judge in the Supreme Court,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-her-farewell-justice-indu-malhotra-chokes-with-emotion-during-speech-101615544913631.html
13-03-2021||Today's||A Calmer You by Sonal Kalra: Don’t diss the disability. Here’s a true story, a good one||Recently, I had a long, rather erudite ­discussion with this great-looking guy. On how, despite being blessed with some envious quality, most people’s minds still focus on that one outwardly visible ‘flaw’ which they think they have. Because hey, it’s much easier to give yourself grief over being too short, fat, thin, dark, fair, than patting your back for having something that’s better than everyone else. While talking, the man started to stutter. With a chuckle, he pointed at himself to make the point. “It took me a while to go from the stage of fighting it to embracing it. That’s when I overcame the so-called ‘disability’,” he said. “And that’s why you are Hrithik Roshan,” I replied. The exchange reminded me to re-run one of the earliest write-ups I had penned in this column. For the longest time, some readers have been asking for it. Each word of this is close to my heart. Hope you feel the same way.It was the summer of ’69. Quite literally. My newly-wed parents had just shifted base from Punjab to Delhi and were traveling on a train with the last leg of their luggage. On the opposite berth, sat a family of four – a thin middle aged man with a moustache heavier than his built, his wife with a built that more than made up for the loss and their two kids, a sweet little girl around six years of age and a teenaged son who kept staring at my mom with the most weird smile ever.Not able to withstand such an intense gaze attack, coupled with a perpetual amusing grin, my mother grew increasingly uncomfortable and silently toyed with the options of confronting the boy herself or bringing my dad, so far blissfully unaware of the ­scenario and busy solving the crossword in the newspaper, into the picture. Finally, she settled on the former and made an interrogative hand gesture to the boy meaning to ask, “What’s so funny?”To her utter surprise and increasing dismay, the boy chose neither to respond nor shy away. His stare got a bit intense and the grin on his face a tad bit wider. However, this rather silent hand gesture by my mom didn’t go totally unnoticed as it was seen by the boy’s little sister who was now poking her elbow quite forcefully in her mother’s waist, trying to draw her attention to what was happening. After a few unsuccessful attempts, her little elbow found some respect through the enormity of her mom’s waistline and she turned her attention to what was happening. She immediately understood what was wrong, and, in an explanatory tone, told my mother, “He’s not looking at you.”The boy suddenly tilted his head on hearing his mom’s loudly spoken words, and this time, lowered his eyes while his mother further explained, “You see, he has a vision defect.” Before my mother could even react, the man sitting on the upper berth decided to intervene in a typical manner every Indian considers his birth-right and offered this explanation, “Oh madam, he has a ‘looking at London and talking to Tokyo’ type of problem”.Amidst the silly giggles his remark prompted from some fellow passengers, it dawned upon my mother that the boy had a squint in his eyes — and that all this while, he wasn’t looking at her at all. His parents looked embarrassed and while the boy continued to look down with an expressionless face, his mom glared at the man on the upper berth and said to my mother, in a rather hurt tone, “If my son had been blind, these very people would’ve regarded him with compassion, and felt generous while doing it. But thanks to his ‘funny disability’, he would only be ridiculed all his life. And he still dreams of doing something big and ‘reach for the stars’ someday.”My mother sat ashen faced with a mixed feeling of guilt and helplessness. The atmosphere had suddenly become very heavy and even my dad was listening now, the newspaper folded on his lap. Suddenly, the young boy with the squint looked up and spoke, with his eyes fixed straight on the window pane, and it took my mother a few seconds to realise that he was addressing her. “Ma’am, please don’t feel bad about what my mom said. I find myself having a rather advantage. If I want, I can look at the answer sheet of the fellow sitting next to me during exams and no one would come to know!” he said cheerfully. “Though I’ve never felt the need to do that,” he added, with a proud expression on his face. At this, his father spoke up, “He has been an exemplary student all along.”By then the sombre atmosphere had begun to lighten up a bit. “I can even stare at beautiful girls and claim I was looking elsewhere,” the boy joked with a mischievous wink, and everyone around, including the gentleman on the berth above, laughed heartily. “Not everyone has the gift of being able to observe something or someone without getting observed. I do”, the boy said, with his head held high. “I am not ashamed of my vision ma’am. I am thankful to God for it. And just to explain why I was smiling earlier,” he pointed towards the unfinished crossword on my father’s lap, “The eight-lettered noun for ‘a situation with lack of variety’ would be ‘monotony’ and not ‘marriage’!!”Everyone, including my dad, burst into laughter, and my mother, misty eyed at the sheer spirit of the young boy, told his mom, “You know something, your son should never try to reach for the stars. Because he IS one!!”Sonal Kalra embraces her flaws, several of them. But still can’t bear Chaddha’s ji’s ­disability — lack of common sense. May God bless her with sensitivity.Mail her at sonal.kalra@ hindustantimes.com or facebook.com/sonalkalraofficial. Follow on Twitter @sonalkalra. You can now also listen to Sonal Kalra’s podcast #TensionNot on http://HTsmartcast.com and http://hthealthshots.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-calmer-you-by-sonal-kalra-don-t-diss-the-disability-here-s-a-true-story-a-good-one-101615643983757.html
13-03-2021||Today's||Bengal’s politics has changed, forever||There are two ways to understand the most important political battle underway in India at the moment, the assembly elections in Bengal. The first is a standard framework for examining the state of play in Bengal, as in any state election, and seeing it as a contest between the incumbent, Trinamool Congress (TMC), and the challenger, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This party-based contest will, in turn, hinge on a set of factors. The question of leadership will loom large — will voters decide to repose faith, for a third time, in a rooted, Bengali leader, Mamata Banerjee or will voters decide that it is Narendra Modi who deserves an opportunity to shape Bengal’s future through a BJP state government? This is, make no mistake, a straight chief minister (CM) versus prime minister (PM) battle, especially since the BJP does not have a local chief ministerial face. Voters are being told that it is only Modi who can address Bengal’s challenges, since it will ensure a “double engine” government with the same party in power at both the Centre and in the state. Recent electoral history offers mixed lessons on this — in states such as Uttar Pradesh in 2017, Modi’s name was enough for voters to give the BJP an overwhelming majority even without the party having a chief ministerial candidate, while in other states such as Odisha in 2019 or Delhi in 2015 and 2020, Modi’s name was not enough when confronted with a popular CM. Organisational strength will matter. The TMC is a rooted organisation in the state, which has imported the violent party machinery from the Left, and through both a mix of consent and coercion, created a formidable footprint across all villages and districts of the state. There is voluntary, even enthusiastic, support for the party — but there is also fear generated by this organisational machine. The BJP has an organisation that has built on the work done by various Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) affiliates, especially in the past decade. It, now, has a greatly expanded party network down to booth committees. But between the two forces, it is clear that the TMC retains an organisational edge, especially if you take into account all the sub-regions of the state. Governance record will shape voter preferences. The TMC is banking substantially on its welfare schemes, with a particular focus on women. The BJP is promising the implementation of central welfare schemes, and greater investment, industrialisation and infrastructure. But governance is a lot more complex than schemes.It is inextricably tied to politics and how the power structure responds to citizens — are some citizens (say party workers) preferred over others; are some castes and religious communities seen as being more favoured than others; is there a strong enough feedback loop on errors and a willingness to correct those errors; what is the balance between the party and the government and is the former subservient to the latter or does the party structure overwhelm governance systems? Even if the TMC has scored on welfare, it is on these other elements of governance where it has faltered, generating a definite anti-incumbency sentiment. What is unclear is the depth of this sentiment. If there is deep enough anti-incumbency, which borders on rage against the incumbent, then, for the BJP, the absence of a local CM face or weaker organisation won’t matter, and it will sail through. If there is discontent, but not necessarily deep anger, then the TMC will be able to offset it with other elements in the political matrix. Social coalitions are key. The TMC starts with a clear advantage of having an overwhelming segment of Muslims — who constitute over a quarter of the population and are influential in determining outcomes in close to 100 seats — with the party. And most observers, including the TMC’s rivals, acknowledge that despite the presence of a Muslim cleric in the third force with the Left and Congress, Muslims are largely with Banerjee. This is coupled with segments of Hindus across castes, which is what has led a TMC adviser to suggest that a majority of the minority votes and a minority of the majority votes will see the party win. But the BJP’s social coalition is remarkable in its own right. Unlike elsewhere in India, where the party usually begins with an urban and upper-caste base, the BJP’s core vote in Bengal, as field work by political scientist Sajjan Kumar shows, is the subaltern vote, especially Dalits, and segments of the tribal population in rural pockets. The BJP believes Hindu consolidation is happening, primarily due to the perceived pro-Muslim tilt of the TMC, and constituencies with over 60% Hindus will see the party win. It is, therefore, banking on a majority of the majority votes and a possible fragmentation of the minority votes.And so, whichever force has the right mix of leadership, social coalition, organisational strength, governance platform and geographic spread (for instance, can the BJP breach south Bengal and can the TMC do well in north Bengal?) will win electorally. And then there are the unknowns — such as the impact of the CM’s Nandigram incident.There is also a second way to understand the Bengal election — and in this respect, the battle of 2021 goes far beyond who will form the government.Bengal has a special place in the Hindutva imagination — for political, cultural, intellectual, inter-religious and intra-religious reasons. But this has not translated, over all these decades, into either deep ideological and organisational penetration of the RSS in Bengal or political strength for the BJP. Even if the BJP loses the election, Hindutva has now established itself as an ideological factor in Bengal’s politics — this has already redefined politics, visible in Banerjee’s attempts to tone down her association with Muslims and play up her Hindu identity or in the Jai Sri Ram slogan becoming a chant of political resistance or in the discourse around Bangladeshi immigrants. The Hindu-Muslim question will now remain a defining feature of Bengal’s politics.Bengal’s outcome will shape national politics, for a TMC win will serve as a check on the BJP’s centralising tendencies while a BJP win will give it renewed political legitimacy to push through its ideological and governance agenda for the remaining three years of its term in Delhi. But most importantly, the politics leading up to the election has already changed Bengal in fundamental ways, perhaps forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bengals-politics-has-changed-forever-101615640563762.html
13-03-2021||Today's||Kobad Ghandy’s notes from prison||I don’t usually think about jail, but there are times I’m curious. Kobad Ghandy’s just-published book provides a fascinating insight. Called Fractured Freedom: A Prison Memoir, it’s the story of the 10 years its author, allegedly a politburo member of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), spent in jails in Delhi, Hyderabad, Patiala, Visakhapatnam, Hazaribagh and Surat.Of Tihar, he writes, “Throughout my stay … I was in a cell with a CCTV camera, being watched day and night”. There was even one “perched just above the toilet”. It made him feel like an animal in a zoo. But the prisoners were thoughtful and kind. When his shoes wore out, Sunil Rathi, a murder convict, gave him a new Adidas pair. Sometimes jail superintendents could be equally considerate. One permitted Ghandy and Devinderpal Singh Bhullar, a Khalistani sentenced to death, to plant tulsi, guava and dhania in the courtyard and provided a hose for watering the plants.However, Ghandy has no illusions about the jail’s capacity to reform. He comments cynically: “Most (inmates) have one aim. To commit a bigger crime on their release and make pots of money. That is the common refrain.” What I found particularly interesting is Ghandy’s description of his fellow prisoners. He met many we know of. In 2015, he shared a cell with a Delhi 2012 gang rape case convict, Vinay Sharma. He calls him “a vile sort”. Om Prakash Chautala “would call his lawyer every day so he could continue his political activities from within the jail.” When he got caught, lawyer-visits for everyone were restricted to one a week. A third was Chhota Rajan. He had “the whole high risk ward to himself, with VIP facilities … for his own protection no one was allowed to meet him”. This made Rajan “a veritable state guest”.However, Ghandy’s account of Afzal Guru, who he knew well and liked, reveals a side we’re unaware of. We think of Guru as a conspirator sentenced to death for the 2001 attack on Parliament. Ghandy reveals the man behind the convict.Guru “had a knack of converting basically hot water into an excellent cup of tea”. He was also well-informed, if not scholarly. “He introduced me to the Kashmir situation, Islam and its progressive aspects,” Ghandy writes, “and, most importantly, Sufi thinking, in which he strongly believed”. And who could have guessed Guru was romantic? “Once when he had access to someone’s mobile I remember him singing ghazals on the phone to his wife, which continued for nearly an hour.”Without emotion and certainly bare of rhetorical flourish, Ghandy recounts the morning of Saturday, February 9, 2013, the day Guru was hanged. “The staff was apparently in tears on seeing his courage while going to the gallows. They said while he was walking towards the phansi koti from his cell — barely a three-minute walk — he wished all the staff lined up and asked the officers to take good care of them.” Ghandy adds: “The staff quite respected him as he was not fanatical, was highly disciplined, lived simply and was of a jovial temperament”.Of course, there’s more to this book than an account of prison life. Towards the end, Ghandy reflects on communism. It seems the scales have fallen and doubt or, at least, questions have taken their place. Of the ambition to build “a democratic and just society”, he says, “one may not have advanced even a step further”. Of his countrymen, he asks, “Why did the masses so easily choose a free market over real freedom, as also freedom from want?” Actually, what struck me is the word “masses”. Its use by a communist is surprising.Finally, Ghandy laments: “So where did we or, for that matter the communists throughout the world, go wrong?” There isn’t a clear answer but there is a hint. “The goalposts have to be changed from fighting inequality to happiness for all”. That sounds more philosophical than political. Did prison transform his Naxal journey into a quest for spiritual fulfilment?Karan Thapar is author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/kobad-ghandy-s-notes-from-prison-101615640083759.html
13-03-2021||Today's||A city isn’t smart if it cannot provide safety||As India embarks on retrofitting old cities to make them smart and investing in new urban developments, some conceptual rethink is needed to make them safer. Town planners and security professionals are increasingly collaborating, using concepts from behavioural sciences, environmental psychology and criminology while designing urban habitats. One such initiative is called Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED). Many of the concepts of CPTED are part of the Indian tradition, though they may have been lost sight of in the course of urban evolution. With modifications, standard urban planning can address the needs of community safety and policing much better.CPTED started with elements of the physical environment, such as how many people are looking into a place; the lighting; the control of who is allowed into a space; the sense of belonging and the image that a place conveys. Such factors are known to influence the decision of the offenders on whether or not to commit a crime, based on the psychological estimation of opportunities vs risks. A lonely dark street, with dead walls on both sides, will always be a preferred target for crimes on the street and the adjoining buildings.A boundary wall is generally thought up as the first line of defence against intrusion. As crime rates go up, people begin to invest in stronger and higher compound walls. In fact, such a wall can cut off all visual and audio links to the house from the street and vice-versa. These walls can also become psychological barriers for any neighbourly relations to develop. If there are children playing on the street or people in the vicinity, crime is difficult to commit as there is community surveillance. Ultimately, no one from the street can help anyone in distress behind such a wall, and no one from the house can deter street crimes.Another common response to heightened security concerns has been the popularity of gated communities, to create safe havens for those who can afford them. Ironically, these real estate silos are recognised today as working against security. Their dead walls, exclusionary practices and restricted communities symbolise desperate attempts to buy a piece of security, but this does not even extend to the space right outside the gates. The conventional approach to city planning does not realise that community participation in surveillance, citizen involvement in acting against crime, and socio-cultural factors are all essential security features. Usually, when it comes to securing a smart city, CCTV surveillance has been thought up as the technology of choice. They are, indeed, helpful in the detection of crime, though not as directly for prevention. Even for investigation, their efficacy is reduced when criminals are masked or the exact time of the crime is difficult to ascertain, increasing the list of suspect vehicles and individuals beyond any practical use. Community surveillance and involvement of neighbours, well-wishers and local people can never be substituted by electronic gadgets and physical barriers. The critical balance between the connection with community and privacy hinges on cultivating the neighbour as a partner and not as an adversary. The Neighbourhood Watch Scheme in some cities is a success story that aligns with the global theories of CPTED. It is time that the design fraternity and policymakers realised that security has never been and cannot be the sole responsibility of a single department, i.e. the police. India’s urban development needs to re-adjust its methodologies to integrate security into the planning of cities, neighbourhoods and regulatory controls. Re-adjust because most things are right, and course correction is all that is required. For example, the boundary wall height is restricted in by-laws. We need to enforce them and provide for the sense of community, visual connect and natural security to develop. This is the only solution to cope with the endless pressure on police resources and address the common citizen’s anxiety.Sudhanshu Sarangi is a senior IPS officer and Manjari Khanna Kapoor is an architect-security intergrationist The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-city-isn-t-smart-if-it-cannot-provide-safety-101615639963791.html
13-03-2021||Today's||The Pope sends out a message of fraternity||Last weekend, while India was focused on the campaign for the upcoming assembly polls, the eyes of the world were focused on the visit of Pope Francis to Iraq. He described this visit as emblematic, which I take to mean setting a benchmark for papal visits. The Pope had to face considerable opposition to the visit from within the Vatican. It was feared he would be seen as irresponsible, travelling in the middle of a global pandemic. Then there was the question of the Pope’s health. He is 84-years-old and suffers severe pain from sciatica. But the Pope insisted he must go “as a penitential pilgrim asking God’s forgiveness for years of war, persecution and destruction”. Christian and other minority communities were the main victims of the barbarities committed during the Isis occupation of Iraq from 2014 to 2017. The Iraqi Christian community is reported to have declined from 1.5 million to 250,000 since the overthrow of Saddam Hussein in 2003. Travelling with the Pope was the Italian Cardinal Fernando Filoni who, as the Vatican’s ambassador in Iraq at the time, had tried to mediate between the United States (US) and Saddam Hussein. He had told a newspaper that Saddam Hussein was willing to negotiate. His one condition was that he should not be humiliated. The former diplomat maintained, “It was a war founded on lies. Everything the Saddam Hussein regime was accused of didn’t exist, that included chemical weapons and weapons of mass destruction”. The theme of the Pope’s visit was fraternity, with particular emphasis on fraternity between religions. Fraternity was also the theme of his recent Encyclical called Fratelli Tutti (we are all brothers). During the Iraq visit, the Pope’s call for fraternity was appreciated by Muslim leaders. Sheikh Ahmad al-Tayeb, the Sunni Grand Imam of al-Azhar University, tweeted, “I hope his trip achieves the desired outcome to continue on the path of human fraternity.” The Pope met the scholarly Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the leading Shia cleric in Iraq and one of the senior-most leaders of Shia Islam. After their meeting, the Ayatollah issued a statement affirming his concern and saying that “Christian citizens should live like all Iraqis in peace and security and with their full constitutional rights.” While in Iraq, Pope Francis also addressed an interfaith meeting of Muslims, Christians, and other Iraqi communities held in Ur, the place where Abraham, the Patriarch of Christianity, Islam, and Judaism is believed to have been born. He called on believers to bear witness to God’s goodness through fraternity, and warned, “The greatest blasphemy is to profane God’s name by hating our brothers and sisters.”Fraternity does accord with India’s tradition of religious pluralism, of which Swami Vivekananda is an outstanding example. He is often invoked now as a model of a patriotic Indian, a nationalist, but he was also one of the most profound thinkers of 19th century Hinduism. Writing about the Parliament of Religions in Chicago, where he spoke to a western, largely Christian audience, he declared, “The Parliament has proved to the world that every system has produced men and women of the most exalted character.” Vivekananda went on to foresee this fraternal destiny for all the world’s faith communities, and wrote, “Upon the banner of every religion will soon be written, in spite of resistance: “Help and not fight. Assimilation and not Destruction. Harmony and Peace and not Dissension”.India has not yet fulfilled that destiny, which is why the Pope’s campaign for fraternity is relevant here too. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-pope-sends-out-a-message-of-fraternity-101615639843782.html
13-03-2021||Today's||The Western Indian Ocean Region matters||The United States (US) secretary of defence Lloyd Austin’s upcoming visit to India will give both countries a chance to take a significant step towards extending their Indo-Pacific engagement beyond the western shores of India to cover the Western Indian Ocean Region (WIOR), and, finally, all of the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). Austin’s talking points include “the US-India Major Defense Partnership and advancing cooperation between our countries for a free, prosperous and open Indo-Pacific and Western Indian Ocean Region”.Just that acknowledgement of a key strategic imperative was enough for those frustrated by prolonged inaction on this front. “The increased focus on the IOR was bound to happen — the big challenge for us is how to better integrate it into the military planning for the Western Pacific,” Ashley Tellis of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace said. “Austin’s visit to India gives us a new opportunity to intensify collaboration with New Delhi. So, I think of this as a necessary and long overdue evolution of US thinking on the Indo-Pacific”A Congressional aide said, “There have certainly been rumblings about more US-India cooperation in the western IOR for a few years now, and Congress has specifically endorsed same, but I haven’t seen it emerge with this level of visibility before.”The WIOR consists of 10 African countries — Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, South Africa, Comoros, Madagascar, Seychelles, Mauritius, and Reunion. A large percentage of the world’s crude oil traffic transits through this region.China is one of these players. It has been ramping up its presence in the region and has its first and only foreign military base close by in Djibouti, which, incidentally, also hosts a US base. India has had an all-of-the-IOR approach as defined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Security and Growth for All” — SAGAR doctrine — since 2015.The US has tended to look at the region through the prism of its Indo-Pacific strategy, which stops at the western shores of India, “wholly ignoring one half of the IOR”, Louis Bergeron, Nick Iorio, and Jeff Payne said in an article in The Diplomat.US lawmakers have been frustrated as well. The National Defense Authorization Act, 2020, sought to push the Donald Trump administration by directing it to brief Congress on military activities and cooperation with India in WIOR; how US geographic combatant commands coordinate their activities with the Indian military; and how a major defence partnership with India will be utilised to enhance cooperation.The Trump administration was cognisant of the importance of the region. In a joint statement issued after the first 2+2 meeting in 2018, the two countries had underscored the “importance of deepening their maritime cooperation in the western Indian Ocean”. The next two 2+2s went with “Indo-Pacific region and beyond”.But the Joe Biden administration might be ready to go beyond that “beyond”.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-western-indian-ocean-region-matters-101615569099783.html
13-03-2021||Editorials||The second wave is here | HT Editorial||On Wednesday and Thursday, India reported 22,855 and 23,297 new Covid-19 infections respectively — setting back-to-back records for the most number of single-day cases in 2021. What started as a bottoming out of the case trajectory in the second half of February has now become a steady stream of rising infections in the past week or so, pushing the pandemic back to a case rate last seen at the end of December. And while Maharashtra may be reporting the most number of cases right now, it’s not the only state that has seen a new wave. Out of India’s 20 most populous cases, 17 states and Union Territories have seen their trajectories rise significantly after bottoming out — this list includes Punjab, Delhi, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. The second wave is here.The key question for all governments (states and Centre) is what can be done to fight the pandemic all over again? They would do well to remember the basics about tackling the pandemic. One of the most crucial elements that helped control the first wave was aggressive testing. Through September to November, nearly every state in the country worked at the peak of their testing capacity. Lately though, testing has dropped significantly — the testing rate in the last week in India was 40% below peak capacity levels. Restrictions on large-scale congregations and gatherings also are key to preventing the spread of the virus. Big congregations — political, religious, cultural, farmer protests, weddings, election rallies — all face risks of turning into super-spreading events. Authorities at all levels need to enforce limits on such gatherings.India needs to throw open its vaccination drive – both by making more people eligible, as well as by approving more vaccines. Right now, only those who remain most vulnerable to the virus are being vaccinated. To be sure, in the past two weeks, there has been progress in the rate of vaccination. But while this is a good start, it is time to expand the eligibility criteria to include younger people — after all, they are the ones most mobile, and most likely to be the ones spreading the virus. Doing so would remove several million people from the chain of infection. Throwing more vaccines into the mix will also enhance options, and ensure that the drive is not limited by any manufacturer’s production constraints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-second-wave-is-here-hteditorial-101615558599375.html
