15-03-2021||News||Surge in Covid-19 cases: Is India heading towards another hard lockdown?||From today, about 3,000 policemen are out on the streets in Nagpur to enforce a week-long lockdown after a 60% jump in coronavirus cases in the city. Only essential services such as vegetable and fruit shops and milk booths will stay open.Nagpur is the first Indian city to impose such severe restrictions after the national lockdown restrictions, imposed in March last year, were lifted in June. But there are many other cities in Maharashtra including Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Pune, Nasik, etc that have been placed under partial lockdowns and night curfews due to the virus surge in the state.As India witnesses a steady rise in the number of new infections over the past few weeks, there is a possibility that more cities could explore the possibility of imposing similar restrictions in other hotspots across the country.Surge triggers fears of lockdownThe daily cases crossed the 26,000-mark on Sunday, the first time since December 19, or in the last 85 days. Over the past week, India has registered the highest spike in the number of fresh cases since mid-December and has triggered worries that a new wave of Covid-19 infections has started.And this spike is despite 1.26 million doses of vaccines administered on an average every day in the last week. In fact, India’s inoculation drive is now the world’s second-largest –in terms of daily doses being administered – and is now behind only the US, which is administering 2.5 million doses a day.Why Covid-19 cases are risingSo why are cases rising again? There are multiple factors at play here starting with laxity in people adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. As Union health minister Harsh Vardhan underlined on Monday, the main reason behind the increase in cases is that “people are not taking Covid appropriate behaviour”.Some spike in cases was expected once lockdown 1.0 was lifted and travel restrictions were relaxed. But with pandemic fatigue weighing heavily on minds and vaccine cheer adding to the melee, many people have started becoming careless or simply overconfident.Remember, Covid has not gone away. The virus is still around. And is looking for opportunities to spread…Secondly, a vast number of India’s population is still susceptible to the infection. They don’t have antibodies.Thirdly, it’s also possible that there will be the emergence of variants that could be more infectious as the virus mutates over a period of time. Remember variants from South Africa, UK and Brazil have been identified so far.Silver liningThe hopeful news is that the surge in cases is limited to certain hotspots - five states account for 85% of the caseload - and not the entire country. The Centre has red-flagged states such as Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Punjab urging them to enhance efforts to contain the spread. Health authorities have also warned Delhi and neighbouring areas of Noida, Faridabad, and Ghaziabad to be cautious.The measures adopted in the beginning to curb the spread of the virus-like localised containment, stringent measures in hotspots could be used effectively again to control the spread. Experts also underline that the country must also increase vaccination coverage for priority groups in the most affected districts.The other silver lining is that even though the cases are rising, the case fatality ratio has been on the decline. For instance, in Maharashtra, the fatality rate in the last month has been less than 1%. So there is worry over the rise in the number of cases but at least fewer people are dying as a result of it.What more can be doneAnother hard lockdown is not the solution, especially given its social and economic downsides, which eventually can turn out to be a huge problem. The first round of a hard lockdown had given the government time to prepare to deal with the crisis. It gave us time to upgrade our health infrastructure, strengthen our laboratory network, procure ventilators and spread awareness. But now that these systems are in place, a lockdown can only delay the spread of the virus, not contain it.Many experts believe that authorities should open up the inoculation drive and make the vaccine available to everyone instead of limiting it to (as on date) to people above 60 years or those above 45 years and with co-morbidities. They argue that the restriction is slowing the pace of vaccination due to the low turnout. The opportunity can be used to inoculate the larger population. It would help accelerate inoculations if the government also expands the involvement of the private sector in the country’s last-mile vaccine delivery efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/surge-in-covid-19-cases-is-india-heading-towards-another-hard-lockdown-101615809611544.html
15-03-2021||News||Deepening India-UAE defence cooperation enlarges India's footprint in West Asia||Ahead of the 2020 Republic Day parade being held amid the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Delhi, security officials were concerned about the possible use of drones to breach Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security. They did have the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO)’s anti-drone system installed for the parade but they felt there was a gap. They needed a mobile system that could be part of the prime minister’s cavalcade to prevent an untoward incident. One country that promptly came forward to offer the mobile anti-drone system for PM Modi’s security was the United Arab Emirates (UAE).A little over a year later as New Delhi prepares to fly at least four Rafale fighters from France to Ambala airbase, the UAE will again help out. Its air force will deploy its Airbus 330 multi-role transport tankers (MRTT) later this month to provide mid-air refuelling to the Rafale jets so that the fourth-generation-plus fighters can fly non-stop to India. The UAE will extend the facility to the next batch of eight fighters that are expected to be flagged off from France by the visiting Indian Air Chief RKS Bhadauria in April. This would enable the Indian Air Force to activate the second base of the Rafale fightersThis means that the second base of Rafale fighters, the strategically-located air force base in north Bengal’s Hasimara, will be activated by April. The deployment at this base, located close to the tri-junction of Sikkim, Bhutan and Tibet, will strengthen India’s air capability in India’s eastern sector manifold.The decision to request UAE rather than the French air force to deploy its mid-air refuellers was taken after the Indian Air Force’s earlier experience which found that the use of the French refuellers ended up slowing down the speed of the fleet of fighter jets.That New Delhi could turn to the UAE for help, and it agreed to extend the facility, is seen to reflect the close relationship that India and Abu Dhabi have built, particularly after PM Modi came to power in 2014. It is due to the personal connect between PM Modi and UAE de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan that the Indian diaspora was looked after by the Gulf when the global pandemic was raging last year. And this is the reason why external affairs minister S Jaishankar has made it a point to keep in constant touch with the UAE and India’s other West Asia partners throughout the pandemic.While the two countries have deepened their economic relationship over the past few years - Abu Dhabi has also invested through the sovereign fund route - it is the defence relationship that has clearly taken off.The UAE Navy has confirmed to its Indian and French counterparts that it will, for the first time, join the Varuna naval exercises to be held around the Gulf of Oman as the third partner between April 25 and 27. The French Navy is bringing the Charles de Gaulle carrier strike force while India will bring its heavy-duty guided missile destroyers for the advanced naval exercise. Next on the agenda are air exercises between the three air forces with Mirage 2000 fighters being the common thread and IAF looking to get Airbus 330 MRTT on lease from France.But the relationship goes beyond issues of national security too.While India and UAE are constantly in touch with each other through institutionalised deradicalisation programmes and promote tolerance, Abu Dhabi has turned into a no-go area for anyone looking for a haven after fleeing Indian law enforcement agencies. Not only has UAE deported more than 100 Indian fugitives back, but it also helped India with real-time intelligence from Iraq and Syria during the rise of the so-called Islamic State. The UAE also helped India keep a watch on the Indian diaspora from getting sucked into the ultra-conservative Sunni movement and stopped them from joining the so-called Islamic State jihad in the Levant.Today, Indian fugitives from the law and based in Pakistan like Dawood Ibrahim cannot play around or invest in Dubai or anywhere in the UAE, a sea change from the past when all the mafia watched sub-continental cricket and toasted with Bollywood stars in the 1990s. The India-UAE relations are now a game-changer for the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/deepening-india-uae-defence-cooperation-enlarges-india-s-footprint-in-west-asia-101615786054363.html
15-03-2021||Noida||Relief for commuters as Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway at UP Gate opened after 48 days||Ghaziabad: The Delhi Police on Monday reopened the Delhi to Ghaziabad carriageway of National Highway 9 near the UP Gate, 48 days after it was closed following the incidents of violence on the Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor rally. The move will facilitate the commute of thousands of people travelling from Delhi to Ghaziabad using the stretch.Earlier, commuters from Delhi were forced to use various alternate routes such as through Sector 62 in Noida and the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border. According to officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the UP Gate stretch caters to anything between 80,000 to 100,000 passenger car units per day. “It is a big relief for thousands of commuters as they had to travel an additional 5 to 10km each day and waste 30-45 minutes for taking different alternate routes to reach home in evening. The Hindon canal road is also serving as alternate route, but proper traffic management is needed to ensure smooth vehicular movement,” said Kuldeep Saxena, an Indirapuram resident and a daily commuter to Delhi. In Delhi, the additional deputy commissioner of police (east), Vinit Kumar, said in a statement that the decision to open the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway was taken in view of the prevailing law and order situation at the Ghazipur border and keeping in mind the public convenience. “The carriageway of the national highway going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi has been opened in due consultation with the police officials of Ghaziabad district in public interest,” the statement said. Officials of the Ghaziabad police said that the other carriageway from Ghaziabad to Delhi still remains blocked as protesting farmers are camping at the site. Gyandendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said that Delhi to Ghaziabad side of the highway was made operational on Monday . “The carriageway from Delhi to Ghaziabad is operational now and vehicles are plying normally. The Ghazipur to Vaishali slip road is still closed. So, commuters are using the Hindon canal road to move to Ghazipur in Delhi but there are some traffic snarls as it is a small road and catering to heavy traffic which is meant for the expressway/highway. We have deployed our traffic personnel to manage the traffic and other diversions are still continuing,” Singh said.The farmers are camping at the UP Gate since November 28 last year and blocked the carriageway on December 3. They have maintained that some “outsiders” resorted to violence during the tractor rally on the Republic Day. The farmers are demanding repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws and also urging the government to bring in a new law on minimum support price.“One side of the highway has been opened up. It was our demand that road barricades should be removed for daily commuters who were facing issues. Our protest is going on at the other carriageway,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a member of UP Gate farmers’ committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/relief-for-commuters-as-delhi-ghaziabad-carriageway-at-up-gate-opened-after-48-days-101615832993279.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali city accounts for 67% cases in district this month||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Mohali city continues to account for bulk of the cases in the district, with 67% reported this month. Of 1,711 people who have tested positive in the district in the past 15 days, 1,141 are from Mohali city alone.Even on Monday, as 164 cases surfaced in the district , 97 were from Mohali city, followed by 24 from Kharar, 18 from Dhakoli, 17 from Dera Bassi, five from Kurali and three from Lalru.Within the city, maximum cases have surfaced in Sector 68 and Phase 10. In fact, the district administration on Monday declared six areas as micro-containment zones, including two in Phase 10. The remaining are at Shivalik Vihar in Zirakpur , Dharamgarh village in Lalru , Vikas Nagar in Nayagaon and National Dental College in Dera Bassi.Though the daily tally dropped from Sunday’s 206 to 164 on Monday, it was sixth consecutive day that witnessed 100+ cases in the district. Meanwhile, one patient died, taking this month’s toll to 18 and the total to 403. The total number of cases has climbed to 22,026, of which 1,338 are active, up from 636 at the beginning of the month. With 184 people being discharged, the number of those cured has reached 20,285. The recovery rate stands at 92%, down from 95% on March 1. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, said: “We were expecting such numbers in the second surge, which has taken place as people are not taking precautions, especially in urban pockets. In rural areas, people are still maintaining social distancing and wearing masks due to fear.”In view of the surge, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has advised all private and government hospitals to avoid elective surgeries as far as possible and dedicate all the necessary resources towards treating Covid patients. He has also asked all L2 and L3 hospitals to provide an inventory of their beds (including ICU) and ventilators to the district nodal officer and update the occupancy and vacancy numbers daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-city-accounts-for-67-cases-in-district-this-month-101615832992761.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh at tipping point of second Covid wave||The Chandigarh health authorities have said that the city is on the tipping point of a second Covid-19 wave as infections continued to rise for the fourth consecutive week and the number of fresh cases reached 148 on Monday, highest in almost five months.In the week that ended on March 14, the city reported 778 cases, 42% jump from the preceding week. However, the number of tests saw a marginal dip, one of the reasons for the high weekly positivity rate, which went up from 4.5% to 6.4%.“The infection numbers being reported in this surge are around a fourth of what were reported in the first wave that occurred in September. To suggest this is the second wave, we have to wait for some more time to see where the trajectory goes. The daily infection numbers should at least be half of what we saw in September,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health department.In September last year, single-day Covid-19 cases peaked at 449 while the active case load reached 3,171. In comparison, Chandigarh has been reporting 120-150 cases in a day, while the number of active cases stand at 1,166. In November, too, active cases had gone up to 1,190 after the festival season, but there was a steady downfall thereafter.Hereon, the adherence to Covid-19 protocol and enforcement of restrictions will determine the course of this surge, said Dr Kang.“The impact of not following Covid appropriate behaviour is witnessed after four to six weeks. So, the rise in cases that started in February was due to not adhering to the protocols in December and January,” said Dr GD Puri, chairman of Covid-19 management committee at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. “We had warned of a new surge back in early February, as we had more than 100 patients with severe condition from across the region admitted in Covid-19 wards. The numbers are expected to rise further.” Meanwhile, the total number of cases has reached 23,244. While 21,720 patients have recovered, 358 have died so far. Amid the surge, the health department is set to start testing in educational institutes, starting with Post Graduate Government College in Sector 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-at-tipping-point-of-second-covid-wave-101615832751865.html
15-03-2021||Kolkata||Shah promises development, forest rights in Bengal tribal belt; CM hits back||Sparks flew fast and thick in poll-bound West Bengal on Monday when Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Mamata Banerjee targeted each other from back-to-back rallies in the tribal belts. While Shah’s chopper suffered a technical snag, Banerjee’s ankle injury didn't deter her enthusiasm. The day also witnessed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers add to the rising political temperature as they protested against the choice of candidates in several districts.At a rally in Ranibandh in Bankura district on Monday, Shah said the BJP will fully implement the Forest Rights Act in the tribal belts of West Bengal, buy all forest products at maximum support price, provide local employment to all and spend a few thousand crores of rupees for the development of tribal people if it wins the coming election.On a two-day tour of the tribal belt in the western part of Bengal, where the BJP performed very well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Shah arrived at Kharagpur in West Midnapore district on Sunday night. His adversary, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was on a tour of the same region. The statements they made at back-to-back rallies added to political heat in the poll-bound state.Significantly, while Shah was flying from one district to the next in a chopper, BJP workers staged an agitation at several places in Bengal, including the central election office in Kolkata, opposing the fielding of some Trinamool Congress (TMC) turncoats whose names were announced on Sunday for the third and fourth phases of polling.Also read: Adhikari seeks rejection of Mamata Banerjee's nomination, cites pending CBI case“Some supporters are unhappy. This is not a major issue. We will sort it out through discussions,” said BJP state vice-president and Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh even as police were deployed to maintain law and order at the BJP’s new election office in the Hastings area of Kolkata.Shah, who left for Assam in the afternoon, returned to Kolkata on Monday night after convening an emergency meeting of the party's core committee. BJP national president JP Nadda was also summoned to Kolkata. The two met senior BJP leaders at a hotel in New Town on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata.Shah was supposed to address his first rally on Monday at Jhargram district. However, his helicopter could not land because of a technical snag. Shah was flown to Ranibandh, his second destination. A few hours later, Shah virtually addressed the people of Jhargram through a live video.The BJP leader did not let go of this opportunity to target the TMC chief who was addressing rallies in the adjoining Purulia district where tribal voters are equally important for both parties. In 2019, the BJP won a Lok Sabha seat in Purulia, one in Jhargram and two in Bankura district.“My helicopter developed a snag but I will not say it is a conspiracy. There can be a snag in a helicopter. That is why I got late,” Shah said in his virtual address to Jhargram residents.While physically addressing the Ranibandh rally, he said, “We saw Mamata Didi (elder sister) got hurt in the leg. A probe is on to find out how it happened. The TMC says it was a conspiracy to assault her. The Election Commission says it was an accident. God knows what is true. Didi you say you are hurt and sad. Do you feel the pain of the mothers of those 130 BJP workers who were killed in political violence?” said Shah.Banerjee, who sustained an injury in her ankle at Nandigram in East Midnapore on March 10, hit back at Shah from her rally. She said no conspiracy or injury can stop her from taking forward her battle against the BJP.Without naming Shah or the BJP, she quipped, “I heard that a rally in Jhargram had to be cancelled. Had they told me, I could have sent some people.”Her nephew Abhishek Bannerjee, who addressed a rally in West Midnapore district, also took potshots at the BJP, saying very few people are attending the saffron camp’s rallies. “You will find more people at road construction sites or tea stalls in the morning,” he said.Shah promised a plethora of projects for the tribal belt, saying these would figure in the BJP’s election manifesto. His promises included a fund of ₹250 crore for the development of places that tribal people consider holy, schools for children in all community blocks, ₹3,000 crore for an irrigation dam on Gandheswari river in Bankura and a university in Jhargram in the memory of tribal scholar Pundit Raghunath Murmu.Shah also announced ₹10 core each for the various tribal communities and implementation of the recommendations of the seventh pay commission for state government employees and a commission to revise the salaries of teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/shah-promises-development-forest-rights-in-bengal-tribal-belt-cm-hits-back-101615831764205.html
15-03-2021||Jaipur||BJP corners Gehlot govt on phone tapping; demands resignation, CBI probe||The BJP cornered chief minister Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government on Monday for allegedly tapping phones and misusing the government machinery to curb the rebel inside the party. The party even demanded Gehlot's resignation on moral grounds.Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, posted a series of tweets with the hashtag RajasthanCrisis, after news reports emerged stating that phones were tapped during the time of political crisis in Rajasthan.Months after the political crisis in Rajasthan, the Gehlot government admitted that the phones were intercepted to maintain public order and in the interest of public safety.Amid the political crisis, senior BJP MLA Kali Charan Saraf, in August 2020, had put up a question, "Is this true that phone tapping cases have come up in the last days? If yes, under which law and whose orders? Place complete details on the table of the House".Saraf had raised the question during the special assembly session called by the government to prove its majority through floor test after 18 MLAs led by then Deputy CM Sachin Pilot rebelled against the leadership.An alleged leaked telephonic conversation between a Union minister and Congress leaders in Rajasthan had triggered the political crisis in the state, which also gave rise to the charges of illegal phone tapping.Also read: Rajasthan govt to terminate police service officer for demanding sexual favoursIn the reply to the question raised by Saraf, the home department replied, “In the interest of the public safety and public order, and to prevent the occurrence of a crime which might risk public safety or public order, the telephones are intercepted under the provision of section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, and section 419(A) of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007, and section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 – after an approval by a competent officer.”The department further stated that the telephone interception had been done by the Rajasthan Police under the above provision and after obtaining permission from the competent officer. “Interception cases are reviewed by the chief secretary as per rules and all cases till November 2020 have been reviewed,” the reply stated.“I had asked these questions in the last assembly session. The questions were raised in reference to the political crisis. I haven’t received the written reply to the questions asked,” said Saraf.In a series of tweets, Shekhawat said, “This is what the BJP said in July last year - 'Emergency is going on in Rajasthan'. The Gehlot government denied it at the time and is now accepting that the phones were tapped. This is a violation of privacy, the murder of democracy!”“Gehlot had remained a saint on the phone tape case then, he will have to answer today. I am questioning him because he made the internal fight within his party administrative!”“I feel sorry for the helplessness of the Congress! The legislators, including the young leaders of his own party, were caught in the trap of phone tapping! But such a culmination of insult has been the tradition of the Congress! How should Rajasthan trust a government that does not trust its MLAs only,” he tweeted.State BJP chief Satish Poonia tweeted saying Gehlot crossed all limits to save his chair. "They conspired against the people of their own party and even tapped phones of leaders of the opposition party in an unethical manner and even spied," he said.Poonia demanded a CBI inquiry in the phone tapping matter. "It has become such a serious matter that lies were spoken in the House and facts were tampered with. The chief minister, who holds the home portfolio, is guilty of this,” he told reporters. He said that that the chief minister should resign from the post and the matter should be investigated by the CBI.Leaders of the Gehlot camp had alleged that BJP leaders were involved in horse-trading of Rajasthan Congress MLAs to topple the government. The state government had rejected allegations last year that phone tapping was done.Gehlot had categorically stated in the last assembly session that no illegal phone tapping of any elected representative was done in the state.Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi said in the reply by the government, the process of conducting phone tapping has been told. After permission from the competent authority, phone tapping is being done. The Rajasthan government has not tapped any phone of MLA or Minister. “If Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is so confident that phones were tapped, why doesn’t he give his voice samples, which will prove whether the phone was tapped or not,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-corners-gehlot-govt-on-phone-tapping-demands-resignation-cbi-probe-101615830397131.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kiran Choudhry seeks privilege proceedings on distortions in budget speech||Former Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry on Monday sought initiation of privilege proceedings against those responsible for distortions and inconsistencies in the 2021-22 budget speech delivered by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the assembly last week.Speaking on the budget estimates in the House, Choudhry said it was rather unfortunate that the budget speech had so many errors and inconsistencies.“Who is responsible for this? There are so many conflicting aspects in the English and Hindi versions of the speech. Also, there is more than one English version of the speech. We would like to know which is the correct version. The matter should be referred to the committee of privileges of the assembly. Presentation of budget estimates is a serious business but the speech is misleading,” Choudhry said.She added that the budget estimates were nothing but an illusion of statistics. “Numbers have been manipulated and cloaked,” she said.Quoting a number of inconsistencies including paragraph numbers, the Tosham MLA said that even the statistics have not been presented in a transparent manner.“The allocation for health and wellness included an amount of ₹394 crore for the sports department. It has been appended to the health sector allocation to jack up figures,” she said.The former minister said that increasing debt liability and revenue deficit is a cause of concern. “Borrowings for the next fiscal have been pegged at 38.41% of the consolidated fund and 30.8% of the borrowings will be used for repayment of debt and interest,” she added.The Congress MLA said that while the financial mismanagement of the government was written large, a fact substantiated by declining revenue receipts, the government unabashedly is self-patting.Choudhry questioned as to why the rural electrification (RE) subsidy in 2021-22 has come down to ₹5,600 crore from ₹6,040 crore in 2020-21.0Also, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLA Ram Kumar Gautam, an ally of the ruling BJP, slammed the enactment of 75% private sector job quota law during his address.“It is one nation and it should stay united. Do not turn the nation into a small municipality. Such laws will break unity of the country,” Gautam said.The JJP MLA urged the state government to end the deadlock with protesting farmers as the farmers’ agitation will spell doom for politicians.“Even people like me, who are against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, are not allowed to enter villages,” he said.Gautam praised former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda for undertaking development in the state during the Congress rule, particularly in Rohtak.“I call a spade a spade. I always value good deeds whether they are by present CM Manohar Lal Khattar or his predecessors,” Gautam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kiran-choudhry-seeks-privilege-proceedings-on-distortions-in-budget-speech-101615830350969.html
15-03-2021||Lucknow||Expose Opposition canard on farm laws: Yogi to party||: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath strongly backed the Centre’s new farm laws, saying that the farmers were being misled. He urged the party cadres to expose the “canard” being spread by a “frustrated Opposition” on the issue. He tasked booth level cadres at all the party booths to tweet and retweet achievements and initiatives of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure maximum mileage and awareness to the various pro-poor schemes. He unveiled plans to distribute tablets to students of economically weaker sections and also referred to the Abhuday free coaching scheme in which, he said, 10 lakh students had joined so far. The image of the state had undergone a sea change over the last four years, he said and flagged the state’s jump to second spot in ease of doing business rankings, no riots and zero tolerance on crime and corruption as the key achievements. Addressing the concluding session of the UP BJP state working committee, Adityanath also referred to the issue of stray cattle in the state and how his government dealt with it. “Can any BJP cadre tolerate this that excess stray cattle be sent to the butchers?” he asked as the party workers responded with a resounding “no”. At this, Yogi said that his government had set up cow shelters across the state to address the issue. “As many as 5.5 lakh stray cattle are in various cow shelters. An additional 75,000 cattle have been given to people who are being given ₹900 for their upkeep. Now, we are also setting up cow shelters in villages,” he said. Referring to how 2.42 lakh farmers had benefitted from the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme announced by PM Modi, Adityanath asked the cadres to “expose the Opposition claims.” “The Opposition is instigating farmers on contract farming when the fact is that in many parts of the state, like in Jhansi, contract farming has been going on for long, without any problem and to farmers’ advantage,” he said and referred to “record purchase” of food grains under the minimum support price (MSP). “Just see how since 2017 the state’s revenue has increased manifold. For instance, when we assumed office in 2017, there was value added tax (VAT) that fetched the state ₹49,000 crore. The same year GST (Goods and Services Tax) was introduced and the state’s revenue jumped to nearly ₹1 lakh crore. Similarly, the excise revenue that was just about ₹11,000 crore is now around ₹36,000 crore. The same is true for stamp and registration duty, mining and others,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/expose-opposition-canard-on-farm-laws-yogi-to-party-101615829990404.html
15-03-2021||Lucknow||FOUR YEARS Yogi govt’s achievements galore, but faces challenges ahead of 2022||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath completes four years in office this week and he has a long list of achievements, to claim, but his government faces several challenges on various fronts ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. A 64-page booklet titled “Chunotiyon main talaashe avsar” (Challenges turned into opportunities) has been brought out listing the achievements of his government in various fields in the “four years of service and good governance.” Besides referring to the presentation of its first paperless budget (2021-2022) with largest ever size of ₹5.5 lakh crore for all round development of Uttar Pradesh, the booklet lists efforts to make the state a trillion dollar economy and bring about improvement in law and order situation, among major achievements. “Uttar Pradesh is ahead of other states in the country in implementation of 44 development schemes… this record of development has been achieved when the world is fighting Covid-19. By making arrangements for controlling Covid-19, the state turned this challenge into an opportunity,” it says. Even the World Health Organisation has appreciated the state’s Covid management. It claims that the state’s GSDP has gone up in the last four years from ₹10.9 lakh crore to ₹21.73 lakh crore, taking the state from the list of ‘Bimaru” states to second largest economy in the country. It says the per capita income has doubled. It quotes a report of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) to make a point about the rate of unemployment coming down from 17.5 per cent to 4.1 per cent in the state. It says the state government had adopted zero tolerance towards criminals and Mafiosi, and their illegally accumulated assets worth about ₹1,000 crore have been demolished or confiscated. It said work on metro rail project has already started, while Meerut is soon going to get a gift of metro rail. Light metro will soon be launched in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Jhansi. The chief minister will want that the major development projects are completed in next few months. He reviewed progress of expressway projects and launched drinking some water projects for Bundelkhand region in recent weeks. The state government will, however, have to further expedite action and closely monitor the progress of projects close to his heart before the state goes into poll mode in the next few months. According to professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University, “The Yogi government has performed well in the past four years. There is no doubt that UP’s performance has been better than other states in various sectors. The state government is working for all sections of society. In recent months, the Ram temple construction has begun and led to a positive mood among the people.” Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, economics department, Lucknow University, said: “The government is making the state an attractive destination for both foreign and domestic investors. This should push up the growth of economy in the state. In terms of GSDP, UP may have attained the status of the second largest economy in India but its rank in terms of per capita income is second from the bottom. The state government should not be sitting on its laurels but continue to make investment in areas like education, health and social welfare so as to improve its rank in human development. With a population of about 24 crore and having a youth bulge, UP has both big challenges as also opportunities to harness its vast ‘demographic dividend’ to usher in an era of sustained, accelerated development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-years-yogi-govt-s-achievements-galore-but-faces-challenges-ahead-of-2022-101615829870418.html
15-03-2021||Lucknow||Filling work of Ram temple foundation starts||The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust on Monday started filling work of Ram temple’s foundation after performing vedic rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi. Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust and its other members performed the rituals, after which engineered material was spread over the foundation. The remaining work related to spreading of engineered material, a mixture of several buildings’ material, in the foundation will be done from April 9 when the trust is expected to receive supply of the requisite material. Till then, rollers will be used to level the 13,000 sq metre dug-up area of the temple’s foundation. “Around 40 feet deep foundation of Ram temple will be filled by August this year,” Rai told media persons at Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya, on Monday. “The National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), Hyderabad, had informed us about the presence of 12 feet debris at the foundation site after carrying out technical survey of the ground,” said Rai. The NGRI experts had suggested removing this debris to make the temple’s foundation strong, Rai added. The temple’s foundation, which will be 107 feet above sea level, will be made by layers of stones. For filling the foundation, gitti (pebble) of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos will be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/filling-work-of-ram-temple-foundation-starts-101615829690387.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cong walks out of Khattar’s trap indirectly seeking support to condemn boycott of BJP-JJP leaders||The growing worry of the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government leaders about their inability to move freely across Haryana and hold public functions due to the ongoing boycott call by the agitating farmers echoed in the Vidhan Sabha on Monday.Ever since the farmers’ protests began against Centre’s three contentious farm laws, now put on hold by the Supreme Court, different villages and unions have not been letting the BJP-JJP leaders to hold functions.This boycott by a section of the public has left leaders of the ruling party red-faced.The continuous boycott and protests being held outside residences of BJP legislators has been dominating the discourse within BJP and the party has been reaching out to Congress to defuse the situation.In this backdrop, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar moved an impromptu resolution in what was a ‘well-crafted move’ to seek Congress’ support to officially condemn those giving a call to boycott to “leaders of any political party”.Before the CM floated the idea of resolution, BJP’s Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel informed the House that some people with vested interests held a “highly abusive” demonstration outside his residence.He accused the Congress of backing such protesters drawing sharp reaction from the Opposition.Parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal also persuaded the Congress to intervene and defuse this “critical situation prevailing in state” where BJP-JJP leaders cannot hold functions.“Will the Opposition keep mum and do nothing,” he asked, even as Speaker Gian Chand Gupta reminded the principal Opposition party about its responsibility towards democracy.“The resolution is in favour of the democracy. Both the ruling party and the Opposition have equal responsibility when the issue is about saving the democratic setup,” Gupta said, pleading that the resolution doesn’t mention name of any political outfit.The Congress was, however, unmoved and refused to entertain the desperate pleas of the ruling party.Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and former two-time chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda dismissed Khattar’s move terming it “unnecessary” and questioned the need of bringing in such a resolution in the House.The single line resolution reads: “This House passes a resolution condemning if any section of the society or any organisation announces to boycott leaders of any political party.”Amid din, the resolution was adopted with voice vote, while the Congress staged a noisy walk out from the House against the resolution.Earlier, the CM had targeted the Congress for instigating people behind the call to boycott BJP-JJP leaders - a charge that Hooda stoutly refuted.While moving the resolution the CM said that voting will be carried out in this regard if required. He said that the responsibility of the ruling party is as much as that of the Opposition to protect democracy.“Stop instigating protesters. Congress will have to come forward and stop what the protesters have been doing,” Khattar said.“Neither has any Congress MLA instigated any organisation or class to boycott political leaders, nor will they do this,” Hooda said, asking the CM to withdraw the resolution as it was “unnecessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-walks-out-of-khattar-s-trap-indirectly-seeking-support-to-condemn-boycott-of-bjp-jjp-leaders-101615829635665.html
15-03-2021||Lucknow||Fund collection for Ram temple now ₹3,000 cr||The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has received ₹3,000 crore in the fund collection drive for construction of Ram temple, till now. The figure is expected to increase as audit work of the money deposited in banks is still going on. “In the ongoing audit of the fund collection drive, till date, the trust has received ₹3,000 crore. The figure is expected to go up as audit is still going on,” Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, told media persons in Ayodhya on Monday. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had launched, from January 15, a 44-day, nationwide campaign spread over two phases, to connect with people and raise funds for the construction of the temple. In the first phase from January 15 to 31, the VHP, which has been at the vanguard of a campaign for construction of the Ram temple, contacted eminent people who were identified by its local cadre. The second phase of the campaign, which involved reaching out to the common people, started from February 1 and ended on February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fund-collection-for-ram-temple-now-rs-3-000-cr-101615829570398.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Over 39,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Monday, 107-year-old man receives first dose||Over 39,000 beneficiaries received anti-Covid-19 vaccine shots in the national capital on Monday, including 21,622 senior citizens, as per official data.In the age bracket, 45-59 years, 3,429 beneficiaries received the jabs, a senior official said.On Wednesday 30,940 people had received shots. The number had fallen to 29,441 on Thursday. On Friday, the count rose again to 30,575, as per the official data shared by the health department. On Saturday, 39,853 beneficiaries were given shots.On Monday, 39,742 people were vaccinated, as per official data.Three cases of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were recorded, officials said.Kewal Krishan, who was just five years old during the deadly Spanish Flu of 1918, and later became part of the drafting committee of the Constituent Assembly of India, also received his first shot of anti-Covid-19 vaccine at a private facility in Delhi on Monday.Earlier in the day, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said he received his first shot of the vaccine against Covid-19, and appealed to others to also get the jab to combat the coronavirus pandemic.The mayor said well-known film and TV actor Dalip Tahil also accompanied him to the Hindu Rao Hospital and got vaccinated.Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one.In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated in Delhi.Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive began in the national capital.As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi.People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the vaccination, the officials said.People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter card.On Monday, second doses were given to 10,052 people, officials said, adding, 2,996 frontline workers and 1,643 healthcare workers also got their first shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-over-39-000-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-on-monday-107-year-old-man-receives-first-dose-101615828524856.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Petition challenging Haryana’s 75% job quota withdrawn from HC||A petition challenging the Haryana law that provides 75% reservation to locals in private sector jobs was withdrawn from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday.The plea was filed by a Rohtak-based firm AK Automatics last week. Detailed order from the HC is awaited; however, counsel for the firm, Vishal Sharma said that the plea was withdrawn with a liberty to file it afresh.It was withdrawn after the judges observed that government is yet to enforce the Act, so the petitioner industry is not adversely affected by the law at this stage, Sharma said.The Rohtak-based firm had challenged the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 on grounds that by introducing the policy of “son of soils,” the government wants to create reservation in the private sector.The law which provides for 75% reservation of seats in all private sector jobs with gross salary under ₹50,000 per month for those born in the state or living here for five years was notified by the government earlier this month.It was argued that the law is an attempt to introduce a domicile methodology for securing job in the private sector rather than on the basis of a prospective employee’s education skills and IQ, which will create chaos in the current industrial employment structure.“The law is an infringement on the constitutional rights of the employers because private-sector jobs are purely based on skills and an analytical bend of mind of employees, who are citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to opt for jobs in any part of India,” the plea said.It was further argued that the law is unconstitutional and cannot stand the legal scrutiny as it violates the principles to meet the requirement under Articles 14, 15, 16 (2) and 16 (3), 19 (1)(g), 21 of the Constitution.The law notified by the state government is an act of unfair competition between deserving employees and local residents claiming to have a right as an employee on the basis of local residence, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petition-challenging-haryana-s-75-job-quota-withdrawn-from-hc-101615829270915.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Coronavirus continues to infect in Haryana but positivity rate under check||Haryana registered an increase of 881 coronavirus infections last week (March 8-14) in comparison to the week before.The continuous increase in the number of cases has been on for the last five weeks even as the sample positivity rate has declined.Health department officials said that 2,617 infections were reported last week (March 8-14) as compared to 1,736 the week before (March 1-7).However, the sample positivity rate stayed put at 4.7%, officials said. The recovery rate was 97.8% and the mortality rate was 1.1%.Mega vaccine driveThe state government, however, seems to be going full steam as far as vaccination is concerned.On Monday, vaccinators in state inoculated above 1.58 lakh individuals under a mega vaccination drive across state. The vaccination coverage numbers thus crossed 6.72 lakh.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that structural planning and proactive initiatives ensuring wide mobilisation of the people resulted in such an overwhelming response to this special vaccination drive.“We have decided to hold a mega vaccination day every Monday,” Arora said.The ACS said that most of the beneficiaries who were administered vaccine on Monday were above 60 and persons between 45 to 60 years with co-morbidities. The department ensured that the vaccination centres are in close proximity to people’s residences even in rural areas and they do not have to travel for which the number of vaccination centres has also been enhanced, he said.Sampling continues to be lakh plusArora said the health department tested about one lakh persons last week. The health department had tested about 1.27 lakh persons the week before (March 1-7) and about 1.15 lakh persons between Feb 22-28.A large majority, about 99%, of the sampling is being done using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits, the gold standard test for detecting Covid-19, he said.Data showed that only three districts - Faridabad (8.5%), Gurugram and Rewari (6.8% each) have a critical positivity rate of more than 6%.There are 16 districts in state which have a positivity rate in the range of 2.5-5.5%, thereby meaning it is lower than the critical positivity rate of more than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2 %.Three districts - Nuh (0%), Charkhi Dadri (1.2%) and Jhajjar (1.8%) continue to have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for last several weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coronavirus-continues-to-infect-in-haryana-but-positivity-rate-under-check-101615829094771.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||CAG report: Audit slams HSIIDC for imprudent loan for MRTS||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has slammed the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for imprudent resource mobilisation for financing the Mass Rapid Transport System (MRTS).In its report on public sector undertakings (social, general and economic sectors) for year-ending March 2019, the CAG said that HSIIDC availed Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO) loan carrying higher rate of interest despite availability of cheaper cash credit or term loans for financing of MRTS, which resulted in an avoidable expenditure of ₹11.24 crore.“It is recommended that being a commercial organisation, the HSIIDC should act with prudence to safeguard its financial interests,” the CAG said.The report stated that HSIIDC, in June 2006, entered into a joint venture agreement with the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project Implementation Trust Fund for development of MRTS between Gurugram to Manesar and Bawal.The detailed project report put the approximate cost of the project at ₹17,328 crore to be funded through loans raised from multilateral agencies, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, World Bank – IBRD and domestic market.The state government was to contribute ₹1,313 crore in cash and land valuing ₹1,368 crore as equity towards the project.“The company, in April 2016, approached HUDCO for term loan of ₹1,313 crore for land acquisition and allied uses. However, before sanctioning the loan, the company had acquired 452-acre land for MRTS in Gurugram, Manesar and Rewari (for Bawal) at a cost of ₹1,220 crore and transferred this amount from other available sources to land acquisition collectors for making payments to landowners,” the audit said.“In the meantime, HUDCO sanctioned a loan of ₹876 crore bearing interest at the rate of 10.15% per annum subject to HSIIDC providing government guarantee and budgetary provision in the state government budget for repayment of dues and released first instalment of loan of ₹250 crore upon receipt of the state government guarantee,” the audit added.“Thereafter, HUDCO repeatedly insisted the HSIIDC to provide budgetary provision in the state budget and stated that non-compliance thereof shall be treated as an event of default. The HSIIDC, however, decided to repay the HUDCO loan as budgetary provision could not be arranged and even the interest charged by HUDCO was considered higher as compared to other loans. It repaid the loan in February 2018 along with pre-payment charges of ₹5.04 crore,” the audit said.The CAG observed that before drawl of HUDCO loan, the HSIIDC had already made payment of ₹657 crore to the LACs concerned and an amount of ₹562 crore was payable in March 2017.The HSIIDC had sufficient amount of unavailed loan or cash credit limit in the range of ₹916 crore and ₹3,337 crore between February 2017 and February 2018 (excluding HUDCO loan) at cheaper rates of interest ranging between 8.1% and 9.65% per annum for making balance payment of ₹562 crore.The government, while granting guarantee to the loan in December 2016, had desired that as the rate of interest of HUDCO loan was higher, the HSIIDC should raise minimum amount of loan as per actual requirement. Thus, the company could have avoided drawl of HUDCO loan, the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cag-report-audit-slams-hsiidc-for-imprudent-loan-for-mrts-101615828910799.html
15-03-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat polls: HC quashes order, asks state govt to take 2015 as base year for reserving seats||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday ordered the Uttar Pradesh government to take 2015 as the base year for the reservation of seats in the panchayat elections after the government apprised the court that it had no objection to doing the same.The court quashed the state government’s February 11 order that was issued for the reservation of seats for panchayat polls, taking 1995 as the base year.A division bench of Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Manish Mathur also ordered the state government to complete the reservation process by March 27. Advocate general Raghvendra Singh informed the court about the government’s stance, stating that it had no objection to 2015 as the base year.“Learned Advocate General appearing for the opposite parties no. 1 and 2 (state govt, principal secretary Panchayati Raj) on the basis of written instructions, copy of which has been placed before the court and the same is taken on record, submits that the state government has no objection to implement the reservation and allotment of seats of constituencies in Panchayat elections taking 2015 as the base year,” said the court.“It is submitted by the learned Advocate General that the entire exercise for providing reservation in the panchayat elections has to be done afresh taking 2015 as the base year, as such, it would not be possible that the reservation of constituencies to be finalized by March 17, 2021,” said the court. “It is stated that they will complete the entire exercise in this regard by March 27, 2021, and hold the elections by May 10, 2021. Indirect elections would be completed by May 25, 2021,” the court added. “Considering the submission of learned Advocate General, the impugned order dated February 11, 2021 is hereby quashed. The writ petition is allowed,” said the court. The court, on March 12, had stayed the publication of the final list of seats reserved for the panchayat polls till March 15. The court had passed the order on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Ajay Kumar, challenging the state government’s decision to take 1995 as the base year, instead of 2015, for reserving the seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-polls-hc-quashes-order-asks-state-govt-to-take-2015-as-base-year-for-reserving-seats-101615828790307.html
15-03-2021||City||Manipur govt celebrates 4 years in power, launches over 300 projects||Manipur’s BJP-led coalition government on Monday celebrated '4 Years of Citizen-Centric Governance' and inaugurated 311 projects worth ₹1,096.05 crores apart from laying the foundation stone of 39 new projects to be taken up at a total estimated cost of ₹278.77 crore.Addressing the gathering, chief minister Biren Singh said that whatever the present state government had achieved was due to the unstinting support of the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the co-operation of the people of Manipur. People of Manipur are indebted to the Central government for implementing Inner Line Permit System in the state, he said.Highlighting the important achievements of the government, Biren said, "I met around 40,000 people to attend to their grievances within about three years before Covid-19 pandemic during monthly public meetings called 'Meyamgi Numit' (people's day) and hill leaders day' and solved about 17,000 public grievances."Under the ‘Go to Village’ mission of the government, the CM said it took the governance to people’s doorsteps covering around 2,691 villages in a year besides reviving the government’s public transport system after a gap of 15 years. Around 6.75 lakh people have benefitted from PM’s Ayushman Bharat and CMHT, a state health schemes in the state, he added.So far, the start-up scheme had covered around 1,000 entrepreneurs while 2.11 lakh households had been provided functional tap water connection till date against the target of 4.51 lakh households, he added.In his speech, deputy chief minister Y Joykumar said that although most of the ministers and ruling MLAs are first-timers, the government could perform well due to its pro-people ideas and governance.Manipur ministers Th Biswajit (works), Awangbow Newmai (forest) and S Rajen (education) also spoke on the occasion which was attended by top officials of the state. The day’s event was also telecast live through local TV channels and DIPR Manipur Facebook/YouTube. The district administrations in the state also observed the day.The occasion also saw the release of a coffee table book on the government’s achievements, the release of a district-specific e-book, distribution of solar study lanterns to selected students of 16 districts, the launch of a mobile rural mart, among other significant events.In March 2017, with its 21 MLAs, the BJP formed a coalition government with the support of four MLAs each from the NPP and the Naga Peoples Front besides one MLA each from the Trinamool Congress, the Lok Janshakti Party and an independent candidate in the 60-member House. The Congress had won 28 seats in the 2017 polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-4th-year-s-governance-celebration-manipur-govt-launches-over-300-projects-101615828292559.html
15-03-2021||Other||Cash-strapped Kurukshetra University gets ₹220-cr grant||Providing a major relief to the cash-starved Kurukshetra University, the Haryana government has released a grant of ₹200 crore.As per the varsity management, following repeated requests sent by the university, the government has released the ₹220-crore budget grant for 2021-22 financial year.Of this grant, ₹180 crore has been released as a recurring grant and ₹40 crore as non-recurring grant, the officials said.Vice chancellor (V-C) Prof Som Nath Sachdeva thanked governor Satyadeo Narain Arya and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for their cooperation in providing grants to Kurukshetra University.Sachdeva said that the university is the oldest in state and the grant will benefit in further improving the field of education and research.As per officials, the university is facing financial crisis for the past couple of years and the release of this annual grant will solve the present fiscal problems.Now the finance department of the university will be able to pay salaries of employees and pensioners as per schedule, they added.The V-C added that a new recruitment process of teachers will soon be started according to the UGC norms.Sachdeva and registrar Dr Sanjeev Sharma congratulated employees of the varsity’s accounts branch for their special efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cashstrapped-kurukshetra-university-gets-rs-220-cr-grant-101615828671061.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||420 fresh cases push Haryana's Covid-19 tally to 275,557||Haryana reported three coronavirus-related deaths on Monday, pushing the toll to 3,077, while the infection count rose to 2,75,557 with 420 fresh cases, a health department bulletin said.A fatality each was reported from Gurugram, Faridabad and Kurukshetra districts.The fresh cases were reported from districts including Gurugram (81) and Kurukshetra (79), according to the bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 3,212 in the state. Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.72 per cent, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/420-fresh-cases-push-haryana-s-covid-19-tally-to-275557-101615828051964.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray has time for Aamir Khan but not for Sharad Pawar: BJP leader Nitesh Rane||Hitting out at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Nitesh Rane on Monday said the former has time for actor Aamir Khan but not for Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar."We have information that NCP chief Sharad Pawar was trying to meet the chief minister since Wednesday but Thackeray met him only today. The chief minister did not have time to meet Pawar Saheb earlier but he had time to have Friday dinner with actor Aamir Khan," Rane told ANI.Earlier on Monday, Pawar met Thackeray at the latter's official residence 'Varsha'. According to NCP sources, it was a routine meeting between the two leaders.However, the meeting comes in the backdrop of the case in which an explosive-laden car found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai last month and the subsequent arrest of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the case.Sachin Waze, who was Assistant Police Inspector in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) and later transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre at Mumbai Police Headquarters after his name came up in Mansukh Hiren death case, has been sent to NIA custody till March 25, in connection with his role and involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai on February 25.Hiren, the owner of the vehicle that was found containing explosives outside the house of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani, was found dead in a creek on March 5 in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-has-time-for-aamir-khan-but-not-for-sharad-pawar-bjp-leader-nitesh-rane-101615827899604.html
15-03-2021||Bangalore||Experts see spike in Covid-19 cases as indication of second wave, says BS Yediyurappa||With Karnataka seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said experts had said it was an indication of a second wave and advised strict enforcement of measures to contain the spread. The Chief Minister chaired a meeting with senior officials and members of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee, comprising health experts to assess the situation. "We have been informed that the Covid-19 scenario is on an increasing trend over the last fortnight. The positivity rate has increased, but by God's grace, the mortality rate is low," Yediyurappa said. He said the positivity rate has increased in districts like Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Udupi Tumakuru and Dakshina Kannada. "Experts see this as an indication of Covid-19 second wave.. The technical advisory committee have advised strict enforcement of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19," he added. The state has been logging over 900 new cases over the last three days. Cumulatively 9,61,204 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,397 deaths and 9,39,928 discharges. The total number of active cases stood at 8,860. Yediyurappa requested citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing at public places to balance economic activities and to avoid any further lockdown. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would chair a meeting on March 17 with Chief Ministers of various states on the Covid situation, where Karnataka would seek advice and take necessary strict measures, if required. "I appeal to the people of the state, especially Bengaluru... if you don't want lockdown once again,take strict measures by yourselves," he said,regretting that people don't wear masks, awareness has gone and the situation has gone back to what it was earlier. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Health Minister K Sudhakar attended the meeting on Monday. The Chief Minister said the meeting decided to increase vaccination across the state, as also contact tracing and testing. "It was also decided to make the RT-PCR test report compulsory for those entering the state at Maharashtra and Kerala borders. I have held discussions with all the district Deputy Commissioners and strict instructions have been given to follow the measures from tomorrow itself," he said. Noting that officials have advised to increase vaccination in districts with more positivity rate, he said a good number of health workers have been vaccinated, but only 58 per cent of the frontline workers have taken the shots so far. "Experts have advised to conduct vaccinations in big apartments and also inoculate senior citizens by identifying them, based on the electoral rolls," he added. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is compulsory and violators would be fined, Yediyurappa said. "We will see for a week..if people don't cooperate and don't wear masks, we will start imposing fine of ₹250... don't push us to take this step." The CM said officials have been directed to ensure that not more than 500 people attend social, religious and other events, including weddings. To be prepared for any eventuality, it was decided to make arrangements at Covid hospitals for oxygenated beds, availability at Intensive Care Units and setting up of Covid care centres. The meeting also decided to hold discussions with private hospitals for providing treatment to Covid patients like in the past, Yediyurappa said. Among other issues deliberated at the meeting for implementation was to enhance vaccination of senior citizens and those at slums and rural areas and not ferrying a large number of people in public transport vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/experts-see-spike-in-covid-19-cases-as-indication-of-second-wave-says-bs-yediyurappa-101615823982604.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces stricter norms for hotels, movie halls, offices||Cinema halls, hotels, restaurants and offices except those related to health and essential services in Maharashtra will function at 50 percent capacity till March 31, the state government said on Monday.Violation of norms will result in the shutting down of the establishment as long as the Central government's notification of the Covid-19 pandemic as a "disaster" is in force, it said.Nobody will be allowed inside these establishments without wearing a mask and a temperature check, the state government said in a notification as Maharashtra again recorded 15,000-plus new cases of infection on Monday.Establishments (cinema halls, hotels, offices) will ensure they have enough personnel to enforce the mask rule as well as physical distancing by all visitors.These restrictions will be applicable to shopping malls too.The 50 per cent capacity rule will not apply to offices dealing with health and other essential services.As far as possible, employees should be asked to work from home, the state notification said.No social, cultural, religious gatherings will be allowed, while no more than 50 people will be allowed to be present at weddings. Action will be taken against the owners of premises (such as wedding halls) if these norms are violated, the government said.For the last rites of a person, not more than 20 people will be allowed to be present.In the case of home isolation, the patient must inform local authorities about the medical professional under whose supervision he or she is.A board will be put up on the door for 14 days indicating the presence of COVID-19 patient at the location. Patients will be stamped "home quarantine" on the hand.If patients violate these norms, they will be shifted to covid care centres.Management bodies of all religious places have been asked to decide and declare the maximum number of visitors per hour they will allow, depending on the availability of space for movement and gatheringwith proper distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-stricter-norms-for-hotels-movie-halls-offices-101615826005513.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Over 26k vaccinated, 2,100 new Covid cases reported in Pune district||Pune: The district reported 2,183 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 4.41 lakh cases of which 4.07 have recovered and 26,468 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. The district has reported 8,193 deaths due to the infection. No new deaths were reported by the state health department on Monday. Pune city has reported 1,122 new cases which took the progressive count to 2.26 lakh and the death toll to 4,626. PCMC reported 698 new cases which took the progressive count to 1.10 lakh and zero deaths were reported which took the death toll to 1,345. Pune rural reported 363 new cases which took the progressive count to 1.04 lakh and the death toll stood at 2,173. Over 26,560 Covid vaccinations were administered as first dose on Monday in the district of which 496 were of Covaxin and the remaining were Covishield. Covaxin was also given to healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens as their first dose. Zero adverse effects were reported on the day. The district saw an average 100% vaccination as against the set beneficiary target for the day. The three hospitals which administered Covaxin also included Aundh district hospital which has been administering Covaxin since the beginning of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-26k-vaccinated-2-100-new-covid-cases-reported-in-pune-district-101615827110310.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Firing incident: Doctors lift protest after assurance of police deployment at Amritsar civil hospital||Doctors and paramedical staff members of the Amritsar civil hospital staging a demonstration against the district administration and the city police since Sunday morning over an incident of firing lifted their protest on Monday after they were assured that cops will be deployed at the healthcare facility. Dr Bhavneet Singh, a medical officer who was on emergency duty, was injured in the firing between two groups outside his ward at the hospital late Saturday night. The police gave a written assurance to the staff protesting under the banner of Employees’ Welfare Association. A bullet had hit Dr Bhavneet on the left thigh when a group barged inside and started firing indiscriminately after their rival group member was admitted to the emergency ward for getting medico-legal report (MLR). The police arrested three persons—Aman, Vijay Pardhan and Barinder Singh—on Sunday. Other three suspects, including key accused Sunny Sahota, are absconding.In a letter to the hospital staff, additional deputy commissioner of police (city 3) Harpal Singh said, “To avoid such incident, 8 cops, including a sub-inspector, have been deployed permanently at the district hospital. They will work in two shifts. The police are making efforts to nab the absconding accused.”On Monday morning, the out-patient departments (OPDs) of the hospital remained closed, causing inconvenience to the patients and their attendants as the doctors and paramedical staff had suspended work during the protest.Rajesh Sharma, a senior medical lab technician, said, “The medical services, including OPDs, will resume from Tuesday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firing-incident-doctors-lift-protest-after-assurance-of-police-deployment-at-amritsar-civil-hospital-101615826751756.html
15-03-2021||Noida||Noida's active Covid-19 caseload drops to 73; 2 fresh cases reported||Noida (UP), Mar 15 (PTI) Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded two new cases of Covid-19 on Monday that pushed the district's infection tally to 25,669, official data showed.The active cases in the district dropped to 73 from 84 the previous day, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.Another 13 patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 25,505, the fifth highest in the state, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The recovery rate of patients remained at 99.36 per cent, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh came down to 1,838 from 1,851 on Sunday while the overall recoveries reached 5,94,855 and the death toll reached at 8,748 on Monday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-active-covid-19-caseload-drops-to-73-2-fresh-cases-reported-101615825495534.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s latest daily Covid-19 count falls below 400, city records 368 new cases||Delhi reported 368 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, according to a bulletin from the health department, making it the first time since March 10 that the city saw less than 400 fresh infections of the viral disease. 409, 431, 419 and 407 new cases were detected in Delhi from March 11-14, respectively, while there were 370 infections on March 10.The Delhi health department’s bulletin showed that the national capital’s infection tally stood at 644,064 while three related deaths on the day took the death toll to 10,944. Also, the active caseload in the capital city continued to increase and currently stands at 2,321 cases, an increase of 59 cases from the 2,262 reported on Sunday. Delhi also reported 306 new recoveries from coronavirus, taking the overall recoveries to 630,799, according to the bulletin.Also read | These countries have suspended AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine useBefore Delhi reported more than 400 cases per day from March 11-14, its previous spike of over 400 new cases came on January 3.The daily bulletin further showed that on Monday, the Delhi government tested 62,272 samples for the coronavirus disease, comprising 44,526 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TruNat tests and 17,746 Rapid antigen tests. So far, 13,358,365 tests have been conducted in the city and the tests per million count stands at 703,071 tests, according to the data.The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has identified Delhi, along with the states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana, where a trend has been observed of a rise in new daily Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-latest-daily-covid-19-count-falls-below-400-city-records-368-new-cases-101615825194594.html
15-03-2021||Other||SPPU cuts syllabus for final-year courses||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has now decided to cut its syllabus for third-year students for the next semester. “UGC has given the right to the university to reduce the syllabus of courses in their respective regions. So we have now asked for a review from all the deans of SPPU and accordingly, to complete the second semester in time, we are planning to cut down the syllabus,” said N S Umrani, pro-vice chancellor of SPPU.A review of all the graduate and post-graduate courses was done by the SPPU on Monday, and now the process of cutting down the syllabus for this academic year has been started.As first semester examinations have been delayed, the SPPU administration took this decision to ensure the syllabus of future courses was not affected. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic the academic year 2020-21 began late.From July-August online classes were held for all the years. It is necessary to have a 90 day period of classes per semester. This was difficult to maintain online, due to various issues like connectivity and students not having access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-cuts-syllabus-for-final-year-courses-101615825910181.html
15-03-2021||City||Day after tonsuring head, Kerala Mahila Congress leader announces candidature||A day after tonsuring her head at the party headquarters in the state capital over denial of a seat, Kerala Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash on Monday announced her decision to contest as an independent candidate from Ettumanoor constituency in Kottayam district.Her action invited enough embarrassment to the party and attracted national attention as well. Though the party is yet to take action against her, senior Congress leaders said she had closed all avenues for discussion and the party will take disciplinary action if she contests against the UDF candidate.But Subhash said she had quit all party posts and challenged the party to expel her.“I have cut all my ties with the party. Let leaders take any action, I am least bothered. I will go by the decision of my followers,” she said after addressing a convention of her supporters in Ettumanoor. She said she will file her papers on Tuesday.Meanwhile, party leaders are divided over her action. While some supported her, others said her action crossed all limits and she portrayed the party in a bad light. “We have sympathy for her. But she should have taken it to the party forum instead of this open defiance. Her action was in bad taste and it damaged the party’s image,” said PCC vice-president Lali Vincent. Another woman leader KC Rosakutty supported her.Also read: Kerala Congress list has 55% new faces, party calls it ‘generational shift’Communist Party of India (CPI) national leader Annie Raja said all three formations in the state, including the Left, failed to give proper representation to women. “I feel all three fronts, including the Left, failed women. In Subash’s case, some leaders even questioned her right to protest but they all conveniently forget what prompted her to take such an action,” she said in Delhi. Out of 85 seats declared, nine women figured in the Congress list while its rival CPI(M) has given tickets to 12 women this time.Similar dissent is brewing in other parts of the state and efforts are on to quell it. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has rushed to Kalpetta in Wayanad to talk to local leaders who opposed the candidature of T Siddique. Congress candidate in Wayanad had to make way for party leader Rahul Gandhi in the last Lok Sabha elections. In Kannur also, the candidate list kicked up a big row. Party strongman K Sudhakaran MP criticised it openly saying seats were distributed on faction lines and winnability criteria took a back seat. Disgruntled leaders have called a convention in Kannur on Tuesday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also suffered a setback after a tribal candidate it announced in Wayanad with much fanfare backed out from the race saying his name was announced without his consent. C Manikandan, a research scholar from the Paniya community later took to social media quoting BR Ambedkar. “Even if I am hanged upside down, I will not betray my people,” he wrote in his Facebook post. He said he was not interested in electoral politics and will devote his time to the betterment of marginalised people.In Kuttiyadi in north Kerala, the CPI(M) has decided to field party leader Kunahamad Kutty after party workers took to the streets protesting over the party’s decision to hand over the seat to the Kerala Congress (Mani). For a change, dissension rocked all parties this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-tonsuring-head-kerala-mahila-congress-leader-announces-candidature-101615823707936.html
15-03-2021||Dehradun||BJP will win more than 60 of 70 Uttarakhand seats in next year polls: CM Rawat||The BJP will better its 2017 performance in Uttarakhand and return to power by winning more than 60 of its 70 seats in the next year's polls, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat said Monday, days after he took over the charge from Trivendra Singh Rawat.The chief minister Monday took out a rally on the roads of state capital in an open truck alongside the newly-appointed state BJP chief Madan Kaushik, who also exuded confidence of the party winning over 60 seats in the 2022 polls.As they reached the party headquarters here in their first visit after taking charge of their respective posts, they were welcomed enthusiastically by BJP workers.The chief minister said he will take everybody along in the state's journey forward, and that the BJP will win more than 60 seats in the next year’s assembly polls.The BJP had swept the 2017 polls in the state winning 57 of the 70 seats.Mentioning the Chardham Devasthanam Board, he said he will speak to the priest community and 'teerath pujaris' before taking any decision in the interest of people.Kaushik said the party organisation will work in coordination with the state government, and will win over 60 seats in the next polls.They were also joined by cabinet minister Banshidhar Bhagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bjp-will-win-more-than-60-of-70-uttarakhand-seats-in-next-year-polls-cm-rawat-101615822536748.html
15-03-2021||Other||Cleaning Ganga the responsibility of all citizens, says President||Describing the Ganga as synonymous with the identity of the people of India, President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday lauded the government’s efforts to clean the river even while he emphasised that the task was the social and personal responsibility of all countrymen, not that of the governments alone.The President was addressing a gathering after inaugurating a programme on “Ganga, Environment and Indian Culture” organised in Varanasi. Quoting a couplet by Sant Kabir, the President remarked, “Sant Kabir said: Kabir mana nirmal bhaya jaise Ganga neer (The mind has become pure like Ganga water). It means, Ganga jal (Ganga water) was considered the biggest benchmark of cleanliness. Today, it becomes the responsibility of all of us to take Ganga once again to the same level of cleanliness, which we find in the words of Sant Kabir, Sant Ravidas and the sages of ancient times.” “Keeping the river Ganga clean, preserving the environment and enriching our culture and heritage is not only the work of governments, but also the social and personal responsibility of all countrymen,” the President said and added that this thought needed to be adopted and assimilated nationwide.“For cleaning the Ganga and environmental conservation, the government launched Namami Gange, the Integrated Ganga Conservation mission, in 2015. I am satisfied that this mission has begun showing good results. But we haven’t achieved the goal of complete Ganga cleaning yet. In addition, large capacity sewage treatment plants are being set up from Rishikesh to Gangasagar to make the Ganga clean,” he observed. The President also said, “I believe that the Ganga and our culture have been based on each other. The cleanliness of the Mother Ganga is an important criterion for the cleanliness of our environment. The preservation and promotion of the Ganga, the environment and culture are the basis of the development of our country.” It was not enough to see the Ganga just as a river as it was the lifeline of Indian culture and the conduit for spirituality and faith, he said.The civilization of the Ganga River Basin can be called an aquatic civilization, he said, adding that “Ganga jal is really the water of life.”“Therefore, water conservation in the Ganga river basin and reducing flood and erosion are both necessary. With both these objectives, the goal of the cleanliness of the Ganga and the protection of the environment are also connected,” he added. “In fact, the Ganga is the identity of the people of India and this public sentiment is reflected in a popular song,” the President said. The area of the Ganga and its tributaries is spread over 11 states and has been named the Ganga River Basin. According to an estimate, the region is inhabited by 43% of the country’s population. It is also the most densely populated area, he said.Amazing examples of attachment to the Ganga were found in the memoirs of Bharat Ratna Shehnai maestro (the late) Bismillah Khan saheb, President Kovind said.“During his visit to Mumbai, many music lovers requested him to settle there. Khan saheb used to say, ‘Mujhe to le jaaoge, main yahan bas bhi jaunga, lekin yahan Mumbai meain, Ganga maiya kahan se laaoge (Even if I settle down in Mumbai, how will you bring the Ganga there)’. Such was his bond with the Ganga.” Strike balance between antiquity, modernity Expressing happiness over transformation of Kashi, the President said the changing form had also preserved the city’s antiquity.“However, antiquity does not mean inertia. The inertia of any country and society causes its decay and decline. That is why I urge the people of Banaras to strike a balance between antiquity and modernity,” he said. “Banaras has a wonderful confluence of spirituality, literature and music. Gautam Buddha gave his first message in Sarnath, located in the same area, about 2600 years ago. Adi Shankaracharya had received the knowledge in Kashi itself that there is only one Brahma in all beings,” he remarked. PM Modi’s efforts praisedPrime Minister Narendra Modi, the MP from Varanasi, had taken the initiative to increase the cleanliness of the Ganga and the splendour of Kashi, the President said.He added that the people of Kashi would remember that the Prime Minister launched the campaign to clean the ghats of Varanasi by cleaning the Assi Ghat. He used a spade to remove silt deposited at the ghat.The President said he was informed that the ghats of Varanasi were now clean and tidy.“The emphasis on cleanliness of the Ganga river, the ghats and the city of Banaras has not only given a boost to environmental protection but has made the journey to it more enjoyable for the tourists,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cleaning-ganga-the-responsibility-of-all-citizens-says-president-101615823810861.html
15-03-2021||Other||Each Pune hospital to administer specific vaccine dose, Covishield or Covaxin, not both||PUNE With the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) currently holding a stock of Covaxin doses for the first time since the Covid vaccine drive began, private hospitals in the city have asked to be allowed to administer both, Covishield and Covaxin. However, PMC has decided to allow only one vaccine to be administered at a hospital, to avoid any confusion. The district administration got one lakh additional doses of both, Covishield and Covaxin, which will be distributed to PMC, PCMC and Pune rural. Dr Manisha Naik, assistant medical officer in charge of the vaccination drive at private hospitals, said, “We are creating session sites for Covaxin at the 41 private hospitals. We have also asked the private hospitals to ensure that they have 100 or more doses of Covishield, to continue vaccinating on Tuesday. Those hospitals that do not have enough Covishield doses should buy Covaxin doses and not continue with Covishield. “We are in fact getting requests from multiple hospitals to allow the option to use both the vaccines, however, this could lead to confusion during vaccination,” she added.Although both the vaccines have proven their efficacy against the Covid-19 virus, the government is promoting Covaxin, an indigenously developed vaccine, by NIV and Bharat Biotech. Covishield has been developed by Oxford University and is being mass produced by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). On March 11, the Drug Comptroller and General of India (DCGI), declared in a press conference that Covaxin, which was earlier approved in its “clinical trial mode”, would now be for “regular” emergency use. This decision came after Bharat Biotech published the phase three clinical trials which showed its efficacy and significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants. Following the announcement the government increased its procurement of Covaxin. On Monday, the district administration received one lakh doses – 50K of Covishield and 50K of Covaxin. Of the 50K doses of Covishield, 20K will be with PMC, 10K with PCMC and 20K with rural Pune. Of the 50K Covaxin doses, PMC will get 25K, PCMC 10K, and Pune rural 15K. Rural Pune will allow both the vaccines to be administered at hospitals in distant locations. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad said, “In rural areas we would prioritise Covishield for the second dose, and Covaxin as the first dose from here onwards. Each hospital will get both the doses are per their requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/each-pune-hospital-to-administer-specific-vaccine-dose-covishield-or-covaxin-not-both-101615823810135.html
15-03-2021||Other||BJP to woo farmers, rural segments ahead of panchayat polls in UP||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh will hold eight primarily farmer and rural outreach programmes across the state from March 19. The initiative is timed with the completion of four years of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s government in office. A broad consensus in this regard was reached at the UP BJP working committee meet here on Monday, where the party appeared keen to placate the farmers who are agitated over the Centre’s three new farm laws. While the farmers’ protests are being supported by the Opposition parties, the BJP’s farmer outreach initiatives come just ahead of the panchayat polls in UP. The BJP has decided to field candidates for 826 block pramukh posts and for 3051 district panchayat members’ posts, party leaders said. It has also decided to back candidates for the post of gram pradhan and block development council (BDC) posts in these panchayat polls.“Between March 19 and 25, the party would run a series of campaigns, primarily focused on rural UP. These include a farmer-specific contact campaign, possibly on March 21, where we will hold dialogue with farmers and tell them that the party has always cared for them and that it is always willing to hear them out on their concerns on farm laws and address all the issues,” a BJP leader said. On March 22, the party would hold a dialogue with youths, a party leader said, adding that the BJP would be talking about the various initiatives of the four-year-old Yogi Adityanath government touching all sections of the people though the campaigns would be largely aimed at the rural areas. “We also plan to hold campaigns simultaneously in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state. Nearly 300 assembly segments are fully or partially rural and hence the dialogue is aimed at rebutting the Opposition build-up against us,” a BJP leader said. While inaugurating the state working committee meet, defence minister Rajnath Singh had given a hint of the party plan when he had appealed to the farmers to call off their stir and invited them for a dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjpto-woo-farmers-rural-segments-ahead-of-panchayat-polls-in-up-101615823630143.html
15-03-2021||Other||Shortage of vaccine doses forces PMC to cancel registrations||PUNE A day after receiving 50,000 doses of Covaxin, instead of one lakh doses of Covishield, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had to cancel scheduled registrations on Monday. The civic body has now decided to ensure that no hospital provides both the vaccines at the same site. The civic body’s current stock of the vaccine – Covaxin and Covishield - is enough for only a week, if the current daily rate of vaccination remains the same. Ironically, the Serum Institute of India, which has manufactured and supplied the Covishield vaccine to multiple countries across the world, is located in Pune. After a meeting with divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, the civic body decided that Kamala Nehru hospital and the Rajiv Gandhi hospital, both run by the PMC, would provide only a second dose of Covishield. This will mainly include health care workers who started getting the vaccine from January 16, and frontline workers who began getting inoculated on February 8. Phase two of the vaccination drive began on March 1, and second doses will only begin from March 28, onwards. Until now, PMC has vaccinated a total of 1.46 lakh beneficiaries, of which, 11,911 have completed their vaccination course after the second dose. The PMC still needs 1,34,872 doses of Covishield, as both vaccine doses have to be the same as per government guidelines. A senior PMC official said, “We currently have about 60,000 doses in the pipeline, of which 33,000 are with government hospitals and the rest with private hospitals. We are expecting more doses, but they would probably be Covaxin and so now, we are awaiting Covishield stock which will be given as second doses.” The PMC returned 15,000 of a 20,000 stock of Covishield doses received on Monday evening from the PCMC, as the PCMC is also seeing a huge response to the vaccination drive from its citizens. On Monday, many beneficiaries did not get the vaccine as their scheduled slots were cancelled, or hospitals put up notices stating that vaccinations have been temporarily suspended. One such citizen, PS Gadkari, 82, who lives in Wadgaonsheri, registered three of his family members, which was later cancelled. He said, “I had registered myself and two of my relatives, Nanda (61) and Bapu Kamble (64) for vaccination on Saturday at PMC’s Meenatai Thackeray health centre. However, on Monday afternoon I got a message that the registration has been cancelled and that we will have to re-register.” Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer, PMC, said, “We asked for one lakh doses which would be enough for 10 days, given that we have 60,000 doses currently and about 15,000 people are vaccinated daily. However, we only got 50,000 doses of Covaxin. We will now keep two of our hospitals exclusively for a second dose of Covishield and rest only for Covaxin to avoid confusion. If we allow both the vaccines to be administered this could lead to a lot of confusion and also possibly a mix- up of the vaccines, since the doses are administered by auxillary nurses and midwives.” He further added that the civic body will now pull back all its Covishield stock from hospitals and divert it to two designated hospitals, while the remaining civic hospitals and clinics would be supplied with Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-vaccine-doses-forces-pmc-to-cancel-registrations-101615822850201.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Two Pune realtors arrested for duping man of ₹40 lakh||PUNE: Two realtors from Pune were arrested by the Pune police on Sunday for allegedly duping a man of ₹40,00,000 after promising a flat and a house to him along with the ownership of the land. The arrested were identified as Vaibhav Pandurang Tawaare (29) of Gadital area of Hadapsar and Amit Lakshman Shendage (27) of Malwadi area. The police are on a lookout for another person in the case. A complaint was lodged by Aniruddha Ghodake (31) of Phursungi who took loans and paid ₹40,00,000 to the arrested men’s company between October 2018 and 2021. However, the house and the flat that he was promised was not delivered to him. The complainant submitted that a construction company run by the two had attached a pamphlet along with a newspaper that advertised ownership of land and built bungalow in a project called Gokul Park in Manjari area of Haveli for ₹40 lakh under a national scheme. He submitted proof of money transfer from his account to the account of the company run by the two. A case under Sections 420, 406, 504, 506 and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station against the three. Assistant police inspector MD Patil of Hadapsar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-pune-realtors-arrested-for-duping-man-of-rs-40-lakh-101615822730083.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Army exam paper leak: Police identify suspect “Pawan”||PUNE: The police have identified another person in the Army recruitment exam question paper leak case, according to public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal who was speaking in open court in Pune on Monday. “Money transaction worth ₹25 lakh from accused 6 (Major T) to accused 7 (Major Kilari) was agreed upon. The police are on the lookout to arrest a man named Pawan,” said Agarwal. Meanwhile, the police custody of two arrested Major rank officers, Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47) and Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), was extended by special judge SR Navander on Monday. The third accused is Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37), an ex-serviceman living in Pachora area of Pune and native of Jalgaon. Rahul Deshmukh, Jyoti Pawar and Rahul Lonandkar are defence advocates for the Kilari, Adakmol and Thangavelu respectively. Extending police custody, the judge said, “Data from the phones of accused has been retrieved and is in Tamil language.” The case is registered under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-exam-paper-leak-police-identify-suspect-pawan-101615822490154.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare: No question of Maha home minister being replaced, says NCP||State NCP chief Jayant Patil on Monday ruled out the possibility of Maharashtra home minister and party leader Anil Deshmukh losing his job.Speculation is rife that Deshmukh may be shunted out against the backdrop of the recovery of an SUV with explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house here and the arrest by the NIA of police officer Sachin Waze in the case.Patil was talking to reporters after a meeting of NCP ministers in the MVA government with party chief Sharad Pawar. Pawar met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier in the day."There is no question of home minister Anil Deshmukh being replaced. There is no cabinet reshuffle happening," Patil said.Action would be taken against those found guilty in the case of the recovery of SUV as well as the mysterious death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, he said.While the NIA is probing the SUV case, the state ATS is probing the death of Hiran, who had claimed that the vehicle had been stolen from his possession.The Sachin Waze case was not discussed in the meeting with Pawar, said Patil, the state Water Resources Minister.Ruling allies Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress were of the view that whosoever is guilty in the two cases should not be spared, he said."The government doesn't intend to save anyone," Patil added.Elsewhere, state Congress president Nana Patole also told reporters that a cabinet reshuffle was not on cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-no-question-of-maha-home-minister-being-replaced-says-ncp-101615821941518.html
15-03-2021||Kolkata||Adhikari seeks rejection of Mamata Banerjee's nomination, cites pending CBI case||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari, who has been fielded against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has filed an objection with the Election Commission of India seeking the rejection of Banerjee’s nomination.Adhikari, in his letter to the returning officer of Nandigram constituency in East Midnapore, has alleged that Banerjee suppressed criminal proceedings against her, including a CBI case.A senior official of the CBI, however, said that the woman named in the case is a different woman and not chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The accused’s name was also Mamata Banerjee.“Under the circumstances, we humbly pray that the nomination of the candidate Mamata Banerjee be forthwith rejected,” Adhikari wrote in the letter sent to the returning officer of Nandigram assembly constituency on Monday.He alleged that while at least five cases are pending against Banerjee at various police stations in Assam including Geeta Nagar, Pan Bazar, Jagiroad, North Lakhimpur and Udharbond, a CBI case is also pending against her.“I have informed the ECI. Now they would search for the cases and find out. Let’s see what actions they take,” Adhikari had told media earlier in the day.He referred to three news articles in his letter which say that in 2018 Assam Police registered five cases against Banerjee for making provocative remarks regarding the Assam National Register of Citizens (NRC).Also read: ‘Pishi and Bhaipo are going’ - Smriti Irani’s jibe at Mamata Banerjee in WB rally“It is shameful. The BJP is trying to malign the chief minister and casting aspersions against her by linking her to a case in which another person has been named. He knows very well that he would lose, and his security deposit would be forfeited. So he is resorting to such malicious propaganda,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.A few days ago Banerjee was injured while she was campaigning in Nandigram. That the TMC is not letting these two opportunities go and was planning to go all out against the BJP on both issues was evident from the party spokesperson’s statements.“While the people of Bengal would respond to this, the TMC as a party would also think whether any further steps could be taken,” said GhoshWhile the crucial West Bengal assembly elections would take off from March 27 and would be held in eight phases, Nandigram goes to poll in the second phase on April 1.A CBI official in Kolkata, however, said that the woman who has been named in the charge sheet in a disproportionate asset case is not the chief minister but the wife of a central government employee with a similar name.“The central government employee was employed in Asansol Durgapur zone at that time. Even though his wife Mamata Banerjee was not named in the FIR her name was included in the charge sheet later. This is not the chief minister,” said an official.“The returning officer hasn't forwarded it to me yet. It hasn’t reached my office. I would be in a position to comment on it only after the RO forwards me the letter with his views after examining the merits of the complaint,” said Smita Pandey, the district magistrate who doubles up as the district election officer.Meanwhile, the state BJP unit has also moved the ECI with the same letter.With Banerjee contesting the polls against her protégé-turned-adversary Adhikari, West Bengal is likely to witness one of the most high-pitched poll battles in recent times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/adhikari-seeks-rejection-of-mamata-banerjee-s-nomination-cites-pending-cbi-case-101615821443414.html
15-03-2021||Other||Rupnagar jail doc gets four years in prison for taking ₹4,000 bribe||Chandigarh Observing that due to such medical officers, the whole society will suffer, the Special Court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chandigarh, has awarded four-year jail to Dr Rajiv Jassi, convicted of taking ₹4,000 as bribe from a woman for referring her son, lodged in Rupnagar jail, to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). The court has also imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on him. The CBI had arrested the doctor for demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹4,000, in July 2014. Dr Jassi had taken the bribe from Dolly Rani, mother of a prisoner named Sandeep and had been convicted on March 10, with the sentence announced on Monday. The doctor’s counsel pleaded in court that Dr Jassi had been facing mental agony for the past seven years on account of this case, and, hence, a lenient view may kindly be takenPublic prosecutor KP Singh, however, said that taking a lenient view in such matters sent a wrong message to undesirable elements in the society, therefore, stringent and deterrent punishment may be imposed upon the convict.Observing that the “court should not show leniency”, Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, stated: “While imposing sentence in corruption cases, society’s cry for justice should also be kept in mind. When such a medical officer does not act with integrity, the whole society will suffer. Corruption deserves no sympathy and leniency.”It added: “It is proved that the convict Dr Rajiv Jassi has demanded and accepted a bribe amount of ₹4,000. Therefore, looking at the gravity of the offence, Dr Jassi is awarded four-year jail under Section 7, Section 13 (1) (d) punishable under Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rupnagar-jail-doc-gets-four-years-in-prison-for-taking-rs-4-000-bribe-101615821951189.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Wedding halls in Pune see cancellation of bookings due to Covid restrictions||Pune: Owners and firms operating halls and venues that are rented out for weddings in the city are complaining now of several cancellations in the light of the new Covid restrictions for Pune. The number of people allowed to be present at a wedding reception, or any other marriage-related celebration, cannot be more than 50. This has dropped from the erstwhile number of 200. The spike in Covid cases in Pune district, on average, 2,500-3,000 new cases a day, has led to these new rules, among others. According to the wedding hall association of Pune, most bookings, especially those in the March to May period, are getting cancelled. According to the association, the industry, with an annual turnover of ₹2,000 crore, has taken a hit on it revenue earnings. Sripal Oswal, association president, said, “After reopening, January saw some booking and things were looking better. With the restrictions being enforced, customers want to book for July now, and the situation is bleak for wedding hall owners.” Sudam Jagtap, owner of a prominent marriage hall in Hadapsar, and association office-bearer, said, “The industry is in need of government funding. How will we meet our expenses? We had to lay off many of our employees. People prefer small halls and low budgets and it is destroying our economy.” Jagtap added, “Currently, only 10 per cent of the business is back, but that too will be eliminated if a fresh lockdown is implemented.” The guest-reduction directives have impacted the entire industry, with band managers, caterers, and decor companies, claim that clients have already to cancel. Asghar Shaikh had booked a wedding hall in Camp for his daughter’s wedding. He cancelled. “I held my daughter’s wedding with limited guests and the budget was affordable,” he said. Wedding card (of rules and regulations) Police permission Mask compulsory for all who attend ceremony(ies) Entry of name, contact details and signature of all guests Entry only after oximeter, and/or infra-thermometer check Sanitisation of premises||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marriage-halls-in-pune-see-cancellation-of-bookings-due-to-covid-restrictions-101615821530114.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Owners, managers of four restaurants in Koregaon Park booked for flouting Covid norms||Pune: Four restaurants in Koregaon Park have been raided by the Pune police on Sunday night, and the owners and managers have been booked for flouting rules in place to curb Covid-19. Talli, Murphies, The Daily, and Publiq, are the four night-life destinations in trouble, according to a statement issued by the Pune police. The four restaurants allegedly housed more customers than the permitted capacity, in light of social distancing norms. While social distancing has been mandatory in the light of the pandemic, stricter norms were introduced after Pune district, and Maharashtra, saw a spike in the number of Covid19 cases in the past three weeks. On March 14, Pune district recorded 3,267 new cases, according to district information office records. The Pune Municipal commissioner’s office issued orders on March 12 that required restaurants and eateries to display their seating capacity and number of customers at any given time, according to the police statement. However, no such display of information was made outside these restaurants, the police claimed. “Those booked, include owners and managers of the four businesses,” according to senior police inspector Dilip Shinde. Subsequently, a case under Sections 188, 269 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005 has been registered at the Koregaon Park police station. Who? We? Pubs deny flouting of norms The owner of Murphies, one of the pubs raided, said he was not aware of the action. “I am out of the city on business and am unaware of any such action. We have been diligently following all the norms laid down by the PMC,” said Aman Talreja. Daily All Day confirmed that the police visited their premises, but denied any action as taken. “In fact, we have been following rules from the beginning. We have a sitting area of 162, but we allow only for 100 tables. The police were here at 8pm because someone complained that the music was loud and they took away our music console,” said manager Abhijeet Biswas. Karan Bhandari, owner of Tulli said, “We have been following social distancing and had 50 per cent capacity, when suddenly the police came in and many of the guests ran away without paying. It is a loss for us and we have done nothing wrong. We have sanitisers in place too.” Publiq owner Anuj Agarwal does not deny the police action, but adds, “We strictly adhere to rules and follow all Covid norms. In fact, a fortnight ago we had a team from the PMC visit us and applaud us for ensuring social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/owners-managers-of-four-restaurants-in-koregaon-park-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-101615820810083.html
15-03-2021||Other||Green NIBM: Residents’ forum, forest trust plant trees along 1km stretch to prevent littering||PUNE The NIBM-Undri road residents’ forum, in association with the Anandvan Forest Trust, has planted trees along one side of a road in the area, which has witnessed dumping of garbage in the recent past. A water tanker has also been commissioned to water the plants.Earlier, this one-km stretch of the road had seen the installation of boards appealing to residents to put an end to garbage littering in the area. Anand Kumar, president of the trust, said, “We want to make Pune one of the greenest cities in the country and a disease-free city. Tree plantation will ensure that the environment is safe and citizens have plenty of pure oxygen to breathe, which will help tide the current pandemic.” Forum office bearer, Shahnaz Chawla, said, “Our mission is ‘green NIBM’, and we will take the help of all stakeholders to make it a garbage-free area at the earliest. Members of the forum will be at the site, from NIBM chowk to Everyjoy premises, every morning from 7am to 9am to clean the garbage, supervise the sanitation workers and ensure that the plants are looked after and watered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/green-nibm-residents-forum-forest-trust-plant-trees-along-1km-stretch-to-prevent-littering-101615820090060.html
15-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand AAP to mark BJP govt's 4 years as 'black day', hold rallies||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Uttarakhand unit would mark the completion of the BJP government's completion of four years on March 18 as a "black day" and hold protest rallies across all 70 assembly seats. Party workers will also hold 'gherao' of the chief minister house in Dehradun on that day, party leader Ravinder Jugran said on Monday.Jugran, who joined AAP from BJP about a month ago, said the party decided to hold the above-mentioned events as the "BJP government failed the people of the state in its four years of the rule so far"."The party will observe March 18, the day when the BJP government will complete its four years in the state, as a 'Black Day' as it failed in every aspect. We would also hold protest rallies in all the 70 assembly seats and gherao CM house in Dehradun under the leadership of our party state president SS Kaler on that day," said Jugran.Alleging the government of doing nothing for the development of the state, he said, "Today, the unemployment rate is at an all-time high with unemployed youths protesting on roads demanding jobs. The women protesting on the road in their area are being lathi-charged. Government employees protesting for their rights are being booked by the police. This sorry state of Uttarakhand has been caused by this BJP government."Also read: Uttarakhand BJP leaders flock to CM Rawat's 'political guru'. It's a strategyCiting the recent leadership change, he said, "With only a year left for the next assembly elections, the BJP has changed the CM in an attempt to cover up its failures in the past four years of its tenure. But people know everything and will throw them out of power in 2022 elections."The BJP, meanwhile, refuted the allegations made by the AAP and said it is a "non-existent party in Uttarakhand.""The AAP is a non-existent party in Uttarakhand's political scenario and has no right to accuse our government after what their government did with the people of Uttarakhand during the lockdown in Delhi. Our government has done many developments works for the people of Uttarakhand in the last four years for which the people have been overwhelmingly supportive toward us. With their support, we will again win the next elections," said Manveer Singh Chauhan, BJP state media in-charge.The BJP government had planned programmes across all 70 assembly seats to celebrate the completion of four years of their government. New CM Tirath Singh Rawat, however, cancelled them all on Saturday in his first major decision after taking charge of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-aap-to-mark-bjp-govt-s-4-years-as-black-day-hold-rallies-101615819012732.html
15-03-2021||Other||RTO launches drive to check and verify registration of motor driving schools in Pune||PUNE The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has now started a drive to check and verify the registration of motor driving schools in Pune. All RTO inspectors in the Pune region are been given a list of schools to conduct the checks.“There are 400 driving schools in Pune, of which only 152 have proper permissions and legal documents. The rest have either not renewed their permissions, or they are running illegally. The number of such driving schools risking the lives of people is high, so we decided to check the verification of each and every motor driving school,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic for the 10 months driving classes were closed, but since January classes restarted. Fees for driving classes are around ₹8,000 per person in Pune, for a period of two weeks.“Till this drive is completed our appeal to the public is that they should verify the permissions and then only take admission,” said Bhor.Welcoming this decision of the Pune RTO, Kaushik Mhatre, a driving school owner said, “It is good that RTO is checking the schools’ authorisation. There are several such illegal schools that do not have any permission and any person without proper training experience is giving training to new drivers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rto-launches-drive-to-check-and-verify-registration-of-motor-driving-schools-in-pune-101615819490059.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Some vaccination sites in Pune have no slots till April 6; admn admits tech glitch||Pune: Post Covaxin rollout on Monday, many vaccination centres in the city have no slots till April 6 leaving many beneficiaries to struggle to get an earlier date. While beneficiaries have to wait for their turn, officials cite a problem with the system as vaccine slots are opened only till March 17. Speaking on unavailable slots, Vikas Apte, 65, said that he has however registered online. “The online application status shows no slot available till April 6. When I visited the local government hospital and private hospital in my area, they refused to give me vaccination stating that the pending beneficiary list,” said Apte. Sarang Shintre, 57, who was waiting at Sanjeevan hospital for his turn also noted that many nearby hospitals do not have on-spot inoculation facility due to the rush. “We are waiting at the centre since 9:15 am. While booking for slots, only two options — forenoon or afternoon — are available. The afternoon slot is extended till 6 pm. How can senior citizens manage to wait in queues till those long hours during the summer season,” said Shintre. Manjushree Gole, who was at the vaccination centre with her 77-year-old father Anile Gole, said that she had booked her spot on March 15 (Sunday). “But we were asked to come and take the jab on Monday. I had to take a day off from the office because of their change in vax day. Also, there is confusion about which vaccine will be given to us and whether we will get the second dose after 28 days. Do we have to visit the same centre to take the second jab?” said Manjushree. Speaking about the booked slots, Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that the slots are open only till March 17. “Beneficiaries should refresh and check for slots in their areas. It may be a minor glitch which will be solved soon. If beneficiaries keep checking for slots they will be able to get a vaccination centre nearby. If not, many government-run hospitals have on-spot vaccination after you have registered. Beneficiaries can also avail this facility,” said Dr Bharti. Meanwhile, the Chemists Association of Pune District has submitted a letter to the PMC health department seeking their inclusion as frontline workers for the ongoing vaccination drive. As per the association, there are about 8,000 chemists and druggists in Pune district who are waiting for free vaccination drive as Covid frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-vaccination-sites-in-pune-have-no-slots-till-april-6-admn-admits-tech-glitch-101615819370031.html
15-03-2021||Other||PSPCL’s poor handling of schemes caused it ₹529cr loss, says CAG||Patiala The Comptroller and Auditor (CAG) report on public sector undertakings has flagged off a a loss of ₹529 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The report documents poor implementation of schemes as the key reason for what it says was ‘avoidable loss’ for 2019-20.Even as the major focus of the report on poor implementation of the Re-structured Accelerated Power Development and Reforms Programme (R-APDRP), a Centre-funded programme, it does record that low billing and collection efficiency in 21 and 19 towns respectively, resulted in revenue loss of ₹206 crore to the company.The CAG says that undue waiver of interest and allowance of rebate to arc furnace industrial consumers, in violation of the Supply Code and Electricity Supply Instruction Manual 2018, resulted in undue financial burden of ₹12.8 crore.Interestingly, even the media had reported chinks in the way the government was implementing the R-APDRP, which was launched in September 2008. The scheme envisaged reduction in Aggregate Technical and Commercial (AT&C1 ) losses, establishing reliable and automated systems for collection of base line data, adoption of Information Technology (IT) in the areas of energy accounting and customer care and strengthening of power distribution network in urban areas with population of more than 30,000. It was implemented in 47 towns of the state.Initially, 100% of project cost was taken as loan from the Power Finance Corporation (PFC). The loan, along with interest, was to be converted into grant after the establishment of IT systems and verification by an independent agency that the PFC appointed.CAG found, however, that the PSPCL could not implement the R-APDRP scheme within the timelines that the Centre had stipulated. The conversion of loan into grant remained pending, leading to the company being deprived of conversion of interest of ₹179 crore into grant and tranche of grant of ₹116 crore. Against the target of reducing the AT&C losses to 15%, the AT&C losses of 22 towns were higher, which would result in non-conversion of loan of ₹7.7 crore into grant. The report also pointed out that the lack of co-ordination between operational wings of the company, during the construction of Stage-II of Mukerian Hydel Project, resulted in avoidable loss of generation of power, valued at ₹15.2 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcls-poor-handling-of-schemes-caused-it-rs-529cr-loss-says-cag-101615818831178.html
15-03-2021||Pune||State approves ₹13 crore for development of Pachgaon Parvati hill in Pune||Pune: The state government has approved ₹13 crore to develop the Pachgaon Parvati hill (Taljai tekdi) to restore the ecology and increase green cover on the forest land.Madhuri Misal, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) of Parvati, gave the information at a press conference on Monday.PMC has acquired 110-acre Taljai hill for development of forest park under the hill top hill slope category and 50 acres of Parvati Hill under transfer of development rights (TDR) for development of park. PMC and the forest department are executing a joint forest management project with the civic body executing the project on 812.5 acres and the latter on 987 acres of forest cover.She said, “The development of forest land includes bamboo plantation, open air amphitheatre, construction of entrance gate, water management, yoga centre and children playground.” No funds for development of 23 proposed villages Misal said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is yet to allocate funds for development of newly merged 23 villages. She said, “The state government has started the process of including 23 new villages in corporation limits. These villages need primary health centres, water supply, solid waste management, sanitation, street light and sewerage treatment plant. However, the government has not allocated a single penny for these villages.” The BJP MLA said that the government is yet to provide financial help to Ambil odha affected families despite many assurances. She said that the one per cent concession on stamp duty for women homebuyers without mention of loan limit could lead to misuse of facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-approves-rs-13-crore-for-development-of-pachgaon-parvati-hill-in-pune-101615817569969.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 15,000 new Covid-19 cases for fourth successive day||Maharashtra on Monday witnessed a slight dip in its latest daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 15,051 fresh infections were registered on the day, according to the health department, pushing the state’s infection tally to 2,329,464. This is the fourth day in a row that there have been more than 15,000 new cases in Maharashtra, which saw 16,620 infections on Sunday, its highest in 164 days.The related death toll rose by 48 on the day, the health department’s bulletin showed, taking the total fatalities to 52,909. More than 2.14 million people have recovered from the viral disease so far in the western state while active cases have climbed to 130,547, the data showed.As many as 10,671 people were tested for the infection which led to the detection of Monday’s cases, the data further showed.Maharashtra’s capital city of Mumbai, meanwhile also witnessed a slight fall on Monday as 1,713 cases were detected here as against 1,963 on Sunday. The caseload in Mumbai has climbed to 345,675 of which 11,539 have died, including four on the day.Maharashtra reports 15,051 new COVID-19 cases, 10,671 discharges, and 48 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 23,29,464Total discharges: 21,44,743Active cases: 1,30,547Death toll: 52,909 pic.twitter.com/ToKb4hysh5The overall Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has been worsening since early February which has led to authorities imposing lockdown, night curfews and curbs in several cities and districts such as Nagpur, Pune, Nanded among others. Nagpur entered a week-long total lockdown on Monday while night curfew has been imposed in Pune from 11pm to 6am and in Nanded from 7pm to 7am.State health minister Rajesh Tope warned that lockdown may also be imposed in other districts witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases. However, Tope also observed that while the number of daily cases in Maharashtra were increasing in the last few days, the mortality rate remained low. “People should also observe self-discipline by ensuring physical distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands regularly. Follow rules to avoid new lockdown,” the minister told news agency PTI.Meanwhile, 2,832,150 doses of the vaccine to combat Covid-19 have been administered in Maharashtra thus far of which 2,427,213 beneficiaries have received the first dose and the remaining 404,937 have been administered the second dose as well. With a view to speed up the vaccination drive, the state government on March 11 had allowed all vaccination centres to operate round the clock. However, this provision is only limited to those centres which have sufficient staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-in-daily-covid-tally-with-15-051-new-cases-101615817237891.html
15-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP leaders flock to CM Rawat's 'political guru'. It's a strategy||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Major General BC Khanduri (Retd), who had been away from any political limelight since the last couple of years, seems to be in the news again ever since Tirath Singh Rawat, who calls Khanduri as his "political guru", took charge as the new CM of the state.After taking oath as the state's head, Rawat paid his first visit to Khanduri on the morning of March 11 during which he cited him as a father figure and the reason behind his present political stature. Since then, BJP state leaders, including new party state president Madan Kaushik, have been paying visits to him with many suggesting that the party leaders have figured out that if one needs to get close to CM Rawat, the passage will go through Khanduri.Major Gen Khanduri (Retd), a five-time MP from Pauri Garhwal seat, had been the CM of Uttarakhand twice from 2007-09 and 2011-12. Known as a tough taskmaster as a CM, he was widely considered a leader of integrity and honesty by the public. He had also been Union minister of state with independent charge in the then NDA government from 2000-2003.After losing the 2012 state assembly elections, he then contested the 2014 general elections from Pauri Garhwal which he won with a margin of over 1.85 lakh votes. However, in the 2019 general elections, he refused to contest again citing ill health following which present CM Rawat contested from the seat and won against his son Manish Khanduri who fought the elections from the Congress. Following that, he went dormant in the state politics with the state BJP not involving him in any party activities until March 10 when Rawat took charge as the new CM.Also read: Govt did not permit any new hydel project in Upper Ganges region in last 6 yearsPolitical experts say that, with the affinity of CM Rawat towards Khanduri known to all and proved by his visit next morning, BJP state leaders are now trying to gather brownie points from Rawat by paying visits to Khanduri."This is obviously a visible change in the strategy of the BJP leaders from a corporator to a senior leader. Since March 11, all have been visiting him at his residence in Dehradun, including newly appointed party state president Madan Kaushik to newly inducted cabinet minister Ganesh Joshi," said political analyst SMA Kazmi.Kazmi said the visit paid by the CM the very next morning with his wife to Khanduri, during which he immensely praised his role in his political life as was well as personal life, has "hit a chord with other party leaders.""The visit has again pulled him in the political limelight because a CM meeting him is obvious to send some message down the ranks. Also, being an ex-army man, Khanduri is widely respected in the Garhwal region even today. All the party leaders are now trying to cash in that," he said, adding that CM Rawat has again made him politically alive in the state.Another political expert, Anoop Nautiyal, who had been keeping a close eye on the recent major political developments said, "Not only is CM Rawat close to him politically but personally too."Nautiyal said, "During his meeting with Khanduri, he heaped praises on him by calling him a father figure. But what made the news was Khanduri speaking of him like he is speaking of his son, which grabbed the attention of other party leaders who had now figured that if they want to get close to the new CM, they have to go through Khanduri. Hence, the recent spurt in visits by BJP leaders and rise in his importance."New party state president Madan Kaushik tried to play it down by saying, "Gen Khanduri has been a respected leader in the party and will always remain one.""There is nothing political in visiting one of the tallest leaders of the party in the state. He has been the CM twice and MP five times. So, there is nothing wrong if the party leaders are seeking his blessings," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-leaders-flock-to-cm-rawat-s-political-guru-it-s-a-strategy-101615816514868.html
15-03-2021||Pune||Mosquito woes sting Pune residents as civic bodies overlook water hyacinth menace||Pune: Residents are forced to face a health hazard due to mosquito problem as Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations fail to clear water bodies of spreading water hyacinth. Those living at Aundh road, Bopodi, Sangvi, Pimple Gurav, Vishrantwadi, Mula road, Bopkhel and Khadki cantonment areas are the worst affected by the mosquito havoc. Residents living near Katraj and Pashan lakes have also complained of insect issue as civic authorities have only partially cleared the water bodies of the aquatic weed. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Girish Bapat has instructed PMC and PCMC commissioners to take immediate action to remove the weed. The MP has written to the civic administration of inaction despite repeated complaints from residents. He sought urgent meeting of Pimpri-Chinchwad, Khadki Cantonment Board and heads of three local self-governing bodies of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to relieve citizens of the problem. After receiving the letter, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar has promised action. “No action has been taken by PMC despite many letters to the commissioner. The problem is that water hyacinth is removed and dumped in the river. So, it stays and remains breeding ground for mosquitos till the monsoon season,” said SK Patil from Mantri Rivera Society, Bopodi. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) corporator Vasant More said, “Though the weed is removed from big lakes, the problem persists at small water bodies.” “After 6 pm, it becomes inconvenient to sit at the courtyard facing the lake because of the mosquitos. We also don’t allow children to play outside during the evenings,” said Rupesh Ahuja, who stays near Pashan lake. “The administration gets money to clean rivers every year, but monsoon waters clear most of the weed and authorities take credit for it,” said Sachin Kalbhor, president of Rotary Club Walhekarwadi. Ashok Ghorpade, chief garden superintendent and incharge of Katraj and Pashan lakes, did not respond to calls or messages. Sanjay Wavare, head of insecticide department PMC, said “We have not received any case of dengue or mosquito-borne diseases till now this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mosquito-woes-sting-pune-residents-as-civic-bodies-overlook-water-hyacinth-menace-101615815889968.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||With Kolianwali’s death, SGPC loses fourth member in a week||With the death of Shiromani Akali Dal leader and three-time SGPC member Dyal Singh Kolianwali in Gurugram on Monday, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, the apex body of Sikhs to manage gurdwara affairs, has lost four members in a week. The strength of the SGPC general house now stands at 162. While 21 members have died since the last elections in 2011, two have resigned from membership. The general house originally had 170 elected and 15 nominated members. The SGPC, which celebrated its centenary in November 2020, looks after the management of gurdwaras across Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. It runs the world’s largest community kitchen service or langars, feeding hundreds of thousands of people daily. On March 10, Gurtej Singh Dhade, the SGPC member from Maur Mandi, passed away. He had been a member of the SGPC executive committee also. The next day, another member, Bikkar Singh Channu, died. On March 13, Sukhdarshan Singh Mrar, also a former Muktsar MLA, breathed his last at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. All four SGPC members were ailing and belonged to Bathinda and Muktsar, the home district of the Badal family. They were senior members of the SAD and remained on key posts in the party. Expressing grief over the passing away of the members, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur extended condolences to their families. She led a gathering of SGPC members and staffers at the committee’s headquarters at Teja Singh Samundri Hall in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar during which tributes were paid to the departed souls by reciting Gurbani and offering ardas (prayers). During the condolence meet for Kolianwali on Monday, members paid tributes to the departed soul by reciting the Moolmantra and Gurmantra. Bibi Jagir Kaur termed Kolianwali’s death as a loss to the panth (community), while SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka recalled the late member’s service to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-kolianwali-s-death-sgpc-loses-fourth-member-in-a-week-101615814570902.html
15-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to terminate police service officer for demanding sexual favours||In a rare move, the Rajasthan government on Monday initiated the termination process of Rajasthan police service (RPS) officer Kailash Bohra, who allegedly demanded sexual favour from a rape survivor for taking action in cases lodged by her.The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had arrested Bohra on Sunday.The government has also appointed a new investigating officer for the seven cases probed by Bohra. The cases investigated by the accused officer in past will be also re-examined to ensure whether they were fairly investigated or not.Bohra is a 1996 batch sub-inspector who was promoted to the post of deputy superintendent of police two years ago. For over a year, he was posted as an ACP in Jaipur city.Terming the case as “rare of the rarest”, parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal in the state assembly said it was a blot not only on the reputation of the police alone but also on the government and entire system.Dhariwal informed the House that Bohra was initially suspended but now the process to terminate him under the Rajasthan civil services rules 1958 has been started.The minister also said that sometimes victims turn hostile which gives benefit to the accused.Also read: Woman, 30, allegedly gang-raped in front of husband in Rajasthan’s BaranEarlier, during the 'zero hour', the Opposition BJP demanded stern action against Bohra.Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore raised the matter through an adjournment motion and said it was a shameful incident. “The accused officer was facing a CBI inquiry in a case and despite that, he was given posting in the special investigation unit for crimes against women,” he said.The BJP leader said such officers should be terminated from service and CCTV cameras in police stations should be installed, adding that the government should take exemplary steps in the case.Leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria also demanded stern action in the matter. “If no action is taken against him despite a discussion in the House, then the public will not forgive us. People should get the assurance," Kataria said.Speaker CP Joshi asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal whether he has anything to say on the issue. Dhariwal said there was a ruling of the Speaker that ministers would not reply to an adjournment motion. The Speaker gave a ruling that the minister would later give a statement in the House on the issue.Bohra, who was posted as the assistant commissioner of police (special investigation unit for crimes against women) in the DCP East office, was caught by the ACB team on Sunday.Informing the House, Dhairwal said Bohra first demanded money from the woman who had lodged three complaints, including one of rape, and then began demanding sexual favours from her after she expressed her inability to give him money.“No notice or reply has been sought from the accused officer – this shows the government's seriousness and sensitivity,” said Dhariwal.Regarding the case, DG, ACB, BL Soni said on March 6, a 30-year-old woman filed a complaint against Bohra in the ACB stating that she had lodged three cases, including rape, cheating against a man and others, at the Jawahar Circle police station. The ACP was investigating these cases.Two weeks ago, the accused RPS officer demanded a bribe to take action against the accused and when she refused, saying that she doesn’t have money, the police officer demanded sexual favours from her.“The victim alleged that the investigating officer, Kailash Bohra, first demanded a bribe from her to take action in all the three cases. When she did not give the money, he started calling her office repeatedly in name of investigation. Eventually, he started harassing and demanding sexual favours as a bribe. The woman also alleged that Bohra pressured her to meet him even after office hours,” added Soni.In order to trap the ACP, the anti-graft body had applied chemical on the victim's clothes, which is generally applied on currency, to verify any undue favour taken by a government servant.Additional director general (ADG), ACB Dinesh MN, said that along with a case of corruption, cases under section 376C (government official taking advantage of his official position to seduce any female at a workplace), 354 (outraging modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code have been lodged against Borah.Bohra entered the Rajasthan Police in 1996 as a sub-inspector. He has been an inspector at many other police stations including Bajaj Nagar, Sadar, Shivdaspura in Jaipur. The CBI is investigating a 10-year-old Arms Act case when the accused was posted in Sadar police station of Jaipur city. Bohra had arrested two youths, including a jeweller, in two Arms Act cases.In this case, a few months ago, the High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry against half a dozen policemen including Kailash Bohra.Big catches of ACBTwo union services officers, seven state services officers have been caught by the ACB in the last two months. The two officers include former Dausa superintendent of police Manish Agarwal and Baran collector Indra Singh Rao. Along with Agarwal, two Rajasthan administrative services officer Pinky Meena and Puskar Mittal were also held.In January, Alwar rural DSP Sampat Khan, along with his driver, was caught taking a bribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-to-terminate-police-service-officer-for-demanding-sexual-favours-101615813460850.html
15-03-2021||Other||Namami Gange Project - Phase-2 of search begins for third stream on Kaushambi-Kanpur stretch||The second phase of a high-tech survey by Indian and Danish scientists to search for further tracks of the subterranean third water stream has begun. A team of scientists belonging to National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), Hyderabad, and their counterparts from Denmark are busy concentrating on the stretch of land lying between the Ganga and the Yamuna: the land between Kaushambi and Kanpur, officials said. The important survey, involving high-precision gadgets, follows a similar survey undertaken earlier by the team in 2018. That survey had found a third paleochannel (a dry river bed) beneath the surface from Prayagraj to Manjhanpur between the Ganga and the Yamuna. The team of scientists has returned to trace and identify sources of this water and to discover new ways of water conservation. This survey is being carried out by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) under the Namami Gange Project. The basic objective of this survey is to look for new ways for water conservation by inspecting the quality of water, they added, distancing the work from being seen as an effort to find the mythical Saraswati. During phase-1 of this survey, a water stream was found between Prayagraj and Kaushambi. It was about 14 kilometres long and five kilometres wide. The water stream thus found in the earlier survey is extinct in contemporary times, but scientific survey found evidence of its existence many years ago. In phase-2 of the survey being undertaken now, the scientists are conducting an aerial survey from Kaushambi (Manjhanpur) to Kanpur. CGWB scientist Shashi Kumar said that the aerial survey is being carried out to a depth of 300 metres (around 1000 feet) beneath the earth surface. “The primary objective of the second phase of research is to find how far the paleochannel goes so that water can be conserved, and its resources can be enhanced,” he explained. The experts will study various components including soil, pebbles etc. These vital components give a fair amount of information about the amount of water in that particular area or in what proportion, he added. Carbon-dating of the soil, collection of pebbles, sand and water specimens will be carried out by the team of scientists, who will be joined by scientists from the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, in this effort. Investigations are expected to conclude by the end of this month, findings of which will be forwarded to the Central Ground Water Board. The equipment used by the team can extract relevant information from 200-400 metres beneath the earth crust and similar work has already been done in six districts in the country including Patna, Tumkur, Dosa and Nagpur among others. The main equipment— transient electromagnetic sensors (TEM)—would be attached to a chopper which would fly along pre-decided longitudes between the two rivers, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/namami-gange-project-phase-2-of-search-begins-for-third-stream-on-kaushambi-kanpur-stretch-101615812349953.html
15-03-2021||Lucknow||Maya defends sale of state-run sugar mills in BSP regime||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday reiterated her party’s decision to contest all forthcoming polls, both in Uttar Pradesh and other states, alone. She also broke her silence on the controversial sale of 21 sugar mills run by a state corporation during 2007-2012, when she headed a majority government in UP.“There was nothing wrong with the sale of these mills. I didn’t head that department. A minister of mine did. But even that minister wasn’t responsible for the decision was taken by the cabinet. And as you know, a decision taken by the cabinet is a collective one,” she said after paying tribute to her mentor and BSP founder Kanshiram on his 87th birth anniversary on Monday. The Yogi Adityanath government had in 2018 recommended a CBI probe into the sale of those sugar mills. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had subsequently taken over the probe and in 2019 registered FIR in the case. The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), in its report, had estimated losses to the tune of ₹1,179.84 crore due to the sale of these sugar mills. However, Mayawati said the sale was made as per rules and regulations, saying that there wasn’t any foul play in the matter.“I think such things happen in all governments which decide the issues on the basis of existing rules and regulations,” she said, refuting allegations of corruption. No pre-poll alliance with any party now Mayawati said she had decided against having an alliance with any party for any polls, whether in UP or outside. “We won’t have any pre-poll alliance with any party, whether in poll-bound West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry or the 2022 UP assembly polls,” she said and explained that it was because such tie-ups had not benefitted her party in the past. “It has been seen while we manage to get our base vote transferred, the same doesn’t happen for us. So, there is no point in entering into an alliance which doesn’t benefit us,” she said. Asked if the decision to go it alone in several poll-bound states like West Bengal would be to the BJP’s advantage, she said, “Who benefits, who doesn’t is not our outlook. We take decisions on the basis of their utility for the party and the people.” Mayawati had entered into a pre-poll tie-up with the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but the alliance ended after it failed to make an impact as the BJP again emerged triumphant at the hustings. No comment on Priyanka’s meeting with Bhim Army chiefMayawati refused to comment on Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s political activities in UP and her previous meeting with Bhim army chief Chandrashekhar. “We are a democratic country and, in a democracy, each one is free to contest elections. So, who meets whom is none of our concern,” she said. Recall of new farm laws demandedMayawati appealed to the BJP government to recall the three new contentious farm laws and said that the BSP fully backed the farmers’ stir. “I would urge the BJP government to recall the three farm laws. I would also appeal to the government to provide adequate compensation to the family (members) of those farmers who died during the stir,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maya-defends-sale-of-state-run-sugar-mills-in-bsp-regime-101615811871227.html
15-03-2021||City||'Covid-19 vaccination drive on track': J-K DG family welfare tells HT||With nearly 1.24 lakh Covid-19 cases and 1,974 deaths since the first case was detected in Jammu and Kashmir last March, the vaccination drive in the Union territory is right on track as over four lakh people have already received shots, J&K' Director-General Family Welfare, MCH and Immunisation, Dr Saleem ur Rehman told HT's Mir Ehsan in an interview.Already 77 per cent of frontline workers have received the inoculation and more and more people are receiving the jabs with the opening of more centres in 20 districts of J&K, he added. Here are the excerpts from the interview.Q: How many people have been vaccinated in J&K so far?A: Till yesterday, 3,63,450 people have received their first dose of vaccination after J&K began the inoculation. Among the 10,0591 health care workers, 76,964 have received the first dose which is around 77 per cent and 28,732 have also received the second dose which amounts to 29 per cent. Of 2,76,559 Front Line Workers (FLW) 198,655 received the first dose which is 72 per cent and 22,060, which is 8 per cent, got the second dose. Among those comprising people over 60 years, so far 81,064 have received their jabs which is around 7 per cent.Q: How is the response from people? Are people reluctant?A: So far, the response from people have been good and in the coming days we are further going to step up the vaccination drive in J&K. We first started with 5,000 jabs then 6,000 and 10,000 and on the last working day on Saturday, we gave 43,000 vaccine shots to people. Even the percentage of the second dose is going up gradually. In the second dose, people have a choice if they want to get the shot after six, eight or twelve weeks. Many people want to get more immunity so they delay the second dose. Currently, we are getting an overwhelming response as people ask about the address of the vaccination centres.Also read: Health minister gives ‘main reason’ for recent spike in India’s Covid-19 tallyQ: How many centres have been established in J&K for vaccination?A: We started with some 250 vaccination sites which have been increased to 350. Currently, we are running 772 sites across the UT. We increased the number of vaccination sites after we started giving jabs to people ageing 60 years and above. We don't want our senior citizens to face any sort of problems to locate these centres. We have even established centres at far off places in different regions.The best thing about our vaccination drive is that our wastage is far less than the national average because of the hard work and the expertise of our staff. We have set up two control rooms in Jammu and Srinagar, besides, post immunisation control rooms to monitor any adverse effects in beneficiaries are at every place. We didn't have any major adverse case in J&K due to immunisation.Q: Are people still afraid or reluctant to get the vaccination?A: Whenever any new vaccination drive is started anywhere, initially people are always apprehensive. Here also people were afraid but once we launched this program, the senior J&K health officers and heads of medical institutions were first to get the vaccination, besides, we also launched a social media campaign which worked and our vaccination program is going nicely. Near about 4 lakh people have been vaccinated in our UT, not a single case of death was reported due to this, unfortunately, some people exaggerate things.Q: Do we have a dearth of vaccines?A: In the coming days or weeks, we will require more and more vaccines, the government has promised us adequate stocks as the number of people coming for the vaccination is going up day by day and we are definitely prepared to meet any target. We have an adequate supply of vaccines in all the districts. The centre has asked us not to stock any vaccine as there will be adequate supply coming to our sites.Q: Do you think with an increase in vaccinations, the protection against the Covid-19 virus will go up in J&K?A: Yes, its really going to help to bring down the numbers. This time also in J&K the disease is well under control but people and the officials have to be vigilant, especially about travellers. We should devise a mechanism that will help us to prevent the entry of new strains of the virus in the UT. So far, our health system and administration have remained successful in bringing down the numbers what it was three to four months ago.Q: Are covid cases rising in J&K?A: As of now, we don't have any evidence which will suggest that the cases are rising in the UT. We have increased testings which were already there. Even the hospitals meant for Covid-19 patients have vacant spaces. Still, we are keeping a close watch on the data daily, especially we have to do more testing on travellers to ensure that the new strains don't enter our place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid19-vaccination-drive-on-track-j-k-dg-family-welfare-tells-ht-101615808893498.html
15-03-2021||Other||Tiger cub’s body found; tigress succumbs to injuries in Maharashtra||Two tigers were reported dead on Sunday in separate incidents in Maharashtra.The half-eaten body of a tiger cub was found in Karhandla jungle, some 50 km from Nagpur, of Umred Paoni Karhandla sanctuary on Sunday evening while one of the cubs of Avni, the tigress from Yavatmal that was shot dead in 2018, succumbed to its injuries in Pench on Sunday morning. According to reports, a forest guard found the half-eaten body of the cub during a routine patrolling in the Karhandla jungle. Divisional forest officer (wildlife), Bor Sanctuary, and other senior officials rushed to the spot. As per the Standard Operating Procedure of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the spot was sealed and a panchanama was conducted. Also Read | Carcass of tiger cub found in Kaziranga National ParkThe team found no traces of any kind of illegal activity or poaching. Necessary search operations and examinations were conducted in the presence of the authorities. There were indications of a scuffle and movement of an adult tiger nearby. The dead cub was the offspring of tigress T1 who has been spotted with male tiger T9. Officials suspect that T9 killed the cub. Camera traps have been deployed in the area and investigation will continue. Earlier on Sunday morning, a three-year-old tigress, one of the cubs of tigress Avni of Yavatmal, died during treatment. The tigress was captured on December 22, 2018, when it was just a year old. It was rewilded in a five-hectare enclosure in Pench for over two years before being released in the wild first week of this month. It was recaptured on March 8 after being attacked by another tigress. It was being treated in Pench where it succumbed to its injuries.Pench tiger reserves field director RS Govekar said the tigress’s condition deteriorated on Saturday and veterinary doctors suggested shifting it to the Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur. But the animal died early on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-cub-s-body-found-tigress-succumbs-to-injuries-in-maharashtra-101615807910584.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Setback to Kairon as Sukhbir backs Valtoha as SAD candidate from Khemkaran||In a setback to former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s son-in-law Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday announced former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha’s name as the party’s candidate from Khemkaran constituency for the 2022 assembly elections. Addressing the SAD’s Punjab Mangda Jawab rally at Amarkot village in Tarn Taran district, Sukhbir asked the people at the gathering who they wanted as their candidate from Khemkaran and they raised their hands in favour of Valtoha. During public meetings over two days in Khemkaran last week, Kairon had announced that one of his family members would be fielded from the assembly constituency, revealing the rift in the party. Without naming Kairon, Sukhbir said that leaders should stop groupism and work for strengthening the party. “I want to request the entire leadership here to stop groupism. Your group is the SAD. Your mother party is the SAD. Today, the power you have got is because of the party. If you have been given honour and are sitting on the stage, it is because of the SAD.” Turning towards his supporters, he said: “The SAD is the property of the people. It is our responsibility to make the state progressive. Everyone has to obey the decision, whatever it is, of the party. If the SAD is powerful then we are all powerful.” Later, he announced Valtoha’s name from the constituency. Former Tarn Taran MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu also endorsed Valtoha’s name for the party ticket from Khemkaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/setback-to-kairon-as-sukhbir-backs-valtoha-as-sad-candidate-from-khemkaran-101615807851275.html
15-03-2021||Pune||$25K ITF WTT Cup tennis: Pigossi fights back to earn singles title||Pune: Brazil’s Laura Pigossi grabbed her first ITF 25K title of the year by beating Marianna Zakarlyuk of Ukraine 6-0, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5) at Deccan Gymkhana courts on Sunday. She rallied back from 1-5 down to claim the third set in a tie breaker. “I had played three tournaments last week this year and lost a tough final. So, I was looking forward to winning this title even as the conditions were difficult,” said Pigossi after the match. In the first set, the third seeded Pigossi broke the opponent’s serve in the first, third and fifth. Zakarlyuk was dull with her approach as she made three double faults to go down 6-0 in the first set. During the second set, Zakarlyuk showed more intent in her game and hit two aces to open up 1-0 and then broke Pigossi in the fourth game to take 3-1 lead before winning it 6-3. Pigossi followed her opponents’ mistakes of the first set and made five double faults of which three came on the trot in the seventh game. “I need to work on certain areas of my game,” Pigossi said. Zakarlyuk, who had defeated home favourite Rutuja Bhosale in the quarterfinal, was in control in the third set for the first four games breaking Pigossi twice (first and third game). However, 26-year-old Pigossi clawed back into the match from the sixth game from 1-5 down to break Zakarlyuk in the eight and tenth game to force a set into tie break which she won 7-5 to claim the title in 2 hour 37 minutes. “I played well and had many opportunities in the second set as well. When I was down 1-5, I told myself I have to win and hung on. Suddenly the momentum started shifting and the scores were 5-5 by the time I realised. Credit to my opponent for making a great match,” Zakarlyuk said. The singles winner got $3,935 ( ₹2,86,000) and 50 WTA points while the runners up received $2,107( ₹1,54,000) and 30 points. Bhosale, Webley-Smith lift doubles title Top seeds Rutuja Bhosale of India and Emily Webley-Smith of Great Britain lifted the doubles title on Saturday. In the doubles finals Bhosale and Webley-Smith won their second 25K event on the ITF circuit as they trounced second seeded Riya Bhatia of India and Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) 6-2, 7-5 to win the title. The pair had earlier won a similar event at Jodhpur in February 2020 before the lockdown. Bhosale will move into the top 200 in the doubles ranking. Rutuja and Emily won 50 WTA points and $1,437 ( ₹1,05,000) while the runners up had to be content with 30 WTA points and $719 ( ₹52000). Results Finals Singles: 3-Laura Pigossi (BRA) bt 5-Marianna Zakarlyuk (UKR) 6-0, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5). Doubles: 1-Rutuja Bhosale (Ind) and Emily Webley-Smith (Gbr) bt 2-Riya Bhatia (Ind) and Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) 6-2, 7-5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/25k-itf-wtt-cup-tennis-pigossi-fights-back-to-earn-singles-title-101615807494165.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sarpanch among 4 booked for beating up, forcing 4 boys to walk 4km for stealing ₹300 in Sangrur||Four boys, aged 11 to 13 years, were allegedly beaten up and paraded 4km with their hands tied behind their backs after they stole ₹300 from a tomb (samadh) at Banbhori village in Dhuri sub-division of Punjab’s Sangrur district. The boys were punished by the sarpanch and panchayat members of Bhasaur village. Their families were fined ₹5,000.The incident took place on March 7, but came to light on Sunday when the family members of the boys submitted a complaint to Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) and sent a letter to the state commission for protection of child rights.According to the complaint, the boys of Bhasaur village went to Banbhori village and stole the ₹300 from a tomb located in a field. The residents of the village caught them and called the sarpanch and panchayat members of Bhasaur and handed over the boys to them. The sarpanch and others allegedly forced them to walk in front of their motorcycles. The boys belong to Dalit families. Gurmeet Singh, the father of one of the boys, said: “One of them has suffered a fracture on his wrist when he was beaten up. I have filed an application with the police and child rights commission. We want justice and punishment for the accused.” Sarpanch Gurnam Singh said that the boys were involved in theft for the past few months and the panchayat just wanted to teach them a lesson. “Our rivals have made a mountain out of a molehill. When we reached Banbhori village, their hands were already tied with a rope. We asked them to walk and imposed a fine to teach them a lesson. We did not assault anyone,” the sarpanch said.Dhuri Sadar police station in-charge Deepinderpal Singh said that the police had booked four men, including sarpanch Gurnam Singh. A case was registered under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarpanch-among-4-booked-for-beating-up-forcing-4-boys-to-walk-4km-for-stealing-300-in-sangrur-101615805930470.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ stir finds echo in BJP-ruled HP as apple growers demand repeal of farm laws||The ongoing agitation against the three farm laws found an echo in BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh on Monday as farmers, mainly apple growers of the hill state, held a statewide protest, demanding the Centre repeal the contentious legislation and bring their produce under the minimum support price (MSP), too. Representatives of the state’s farm organisations, including fruit, vegetable and milk associations, which formed the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha last week, submitted a memorandum of their demands, addressed to governor Bandaru Dattatreya, to the authorities at the district and block levels. Kisan Sabha activists staged a protest at Mashobra, 10 km from Shimla town, and submitted the memorandum to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. New farm laws favour corporates: Growers In view of the rising input cost and competition from apples imported from China, Iran and Turkey, HP Fruit and Vegetable Association president Harish Chauhan said: “Himachal Pradesh’s ₹4,000-crore apple economy is facing a crisis due to the unfavourable policies of the state and Centre. We want MSP to be fixed for the apple produce and the crop should be given special category status. The import duty on apple should be raised from 50% to 100%. This will help growers get remunerative prices.” Nawar Valley Apple Society president Mahijit Rathore said the input cost of apple cultivation has risen manifold over the years, but the government’s market intervention scheme has failed to help farmers. “The import of apples from Iran and other Saarc Preferential Trading Arrangement (SAPTA) countries have affected the prices and hit the interest of farmers of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Kashmir,” he said. Lokinder Singh Bisht, the president of Progressive Growers Association, said besides facing competition from duty-free import of Iranian and Turkish apples, apple growers of the state are burdened by the increase of diesel prices, rates of packaging material, fertilisers and other inputs. “Now with the new farm laws that favour corporatisation and monopolisation, the apple economy will be further hit. It’s imperative that the government fixes the MSP for apples and other horticulture crops to ensure sustainability,” he said. Unlike other states where farmers can grow two to four crops a year, Bisht said horticulturists of Himachal have no other source of income other than the single crop that they get in a year, battling nature’s vagaries, changing climatic conditions and labour shortage. Farmers seek FCI centres for maize in HP Kuldeep Singh Tanwar, the president of the Himachal Kisan Sabha, said while farmers have been on a protest for more than 100 days, the Centre was unfazed by their plight. Sanjay Chauhan, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Manch, demanded that the government repeal the anti-farmer laws as the legislation would do no good to farmers and only result in high input cost and the corporate sector controlling food supply. According to the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, MSP should be implemented as a law, he said. The state’s farmer leaders said that the government should set up Food Corporation of India centres to procure maize in Himachal Pradesh besides fixing the MSP for apple, tomato, garlic, ginger and milk. They also want the Electricity Amendment Act to be withdrawn as it would result in privatisation of power distribution and the cost of electricity will impact the farm input cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-stir-finds-echo-in-bjp-ruled-hp-as-apple-growers-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-101615802750205.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi is at 0.6%, says Satyendra Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Monday said that the Covid-19 positivity rate is at 0.6 per cent in the national capital."There were 407 cases in Delhi yesterday, today there are less than 400 cases. However, cases are repeatedly increasing and decreasing in Delhi. There was a time when the positivity rate was 15 per cent. According to WHO, this rate should positivity rate should be been less than five per cent and it is less than one per cent for the last two months," Jain told reporters here."The national capital is at a benchmark of Covid-19 cases with a 0.6 per cent positivity rate. In Maharashtra, the positivity rate is 16 per cent, Gujarat's positivity rate is three times of Delhi. The positivity rate has reached six times in Punjab, seven times in Kerala and 30 times in Maharashtra," he added.According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 2,262 coronavirus active cases in Delhi. As many as 6,30,493 have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi.Meanwhile, as many as 25,320 new Covid-19 cases and 16,637 recoveries were reported in India in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry informed on Sunday.With the addition of fresh infections, the total number positive cases in the country reached 1,13,59,048, including 2,10,544 active cases and 1,09,89,897 recoveries.The death toll stands at 1,58,607 including 161 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-is-at-0-6-says-satyendra-jain-101615801922002.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare: Sachin Vaze placed under suspension||Two days after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Sachin Vaze in connection with the explosive-laden SUV found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence in South Mumbai, the assistant police inspector was placed under suspension on Monday.Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya said, “API Sachin Vaze has been placed under suspension by an order of the additional commissioner of police, special branch”.This is the second suspension of the controversial police officer. Vaze was reinstated last year and was heading crime intelligence unit of the Mumbai crime branch after being suspended over the custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, an accused in BEST bus bomb blast of December 2, 2002 at Ghatkopar. On March 12, 2021, he was moved from the crime branch to the Citizen Facilitation Centre of Mumbai Police after Opposition leaders raised a hue and cry over the mysterious death of Thane resident Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the SUV found near Ambani’s residence, Antilia, and demanded his suspension.Also Read | ‘Sachin Vaze had business partnership firms with Shiv Sena leaders’: BJP leaderVaze was the first investigating officer in the Ambani security scare case before it was transferred to assistant police commissioner Nitin Alakhnoore of the crime branch. The case was later transferred to Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS). NIA took over the case on March 8.Vaze knew Hiran and allegedly used his Scorpio from November, 2020 to till Februrary 5, 2021, as per the statement given by Hiran’s wife Vimla to ATS. Hiran’s body was found on March 5 in Reti Bunder creek in Mumbra. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has registered a murder case against unknown persons and is probing the death of the automatic parts dealer.Hiran’s wife also alleged in her statement that she was suspecting that Vaze could be behind her husband murder and ATS has already interrogated Vaze for around 10 hours on March 9 in connection with the death.Vaze is also known as an encounter specialist of the Mumbai Police who has been a part of at least 63 encounter killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-sachin-vaze-placed-under-suspension-101615800415107.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: List of cities, districts where restrictions have been imposed||Several districts and cities in Maharashtra have been put under lockdown, partial lockdown or curfew as the state government tries to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a sudden surge of cases in the state, which recorded its highest daily jump in infections since October on Sunday. The state logged 16,620 fresh infections on Sunday crossing the 16,000-mark for the first time since October 1 last year. It had also logged over 15,000 cases for each of the previous two days. The caseload in the state currently stands at 2,314,413 with the number of active cases climbing to 126,213.The state government, as a result, has been forced to impose either a full lockdown, a partial lockdown or a curfew in several cities, including Nagpur and Pune.Here is a list of the cities where the government has ordered restrictions:Nagpur: Nagpur is under a strict week-long city-wide lockdown starting from March 15 until March 21.Pune: Night curfew has been imposed in the city from 11pm to 6am. No more than 50 people will be allowed at public gatherings like weddings, funerals and other social, political or religious events. All schools will remain closed March 31 while hotels, restaurants and bars have been allowed to stay open until 10pm and home deliveries auntil 11pm. Public parks and gardens have been closed.Kalyan-Dombivli: Due to a night curfew, shops in the city are only allowed to operate in a 12-hour window from 7am to 7pm and vegetable markets would be allowed to operate with 50% capacity. The shops have been allowed to open on one side of the road on Saturday and on the other side on Sunday.Wardha: A curfew was imposed in the city from 8am to 8pm on Monday with all shops, apart from those selling essential items, shut during that time. Hotels, restaurants and petrol pumps will also be shut.Meera Bhayander: Containment zones and hotspots are under lockdown rules until March 31 while other places will be operational as per pre-existing norms. Hotels, bars and restaurants will operate with 50% capacity and all shops selling goods have been asked to close by 11pm.Nanded: A night curfew has been imposed on Nanded from 7pm to 7am during which time everything, except essential services, will be closed. This curfew will be in effect until March 21. Weddings that are on March 15 will have permission, however, not more than 50 people will be allowed to attend.Panvel: Night curfew from 11pm to 5pm will be in effect in Panvel until March 22 during which time all educational institutions, including coaching classes, will be closed. Classes for 10 and 12 will only be allowed to continue in view of exams. Weddings, however, will not be allowed.Dhule: A Janata curfew is in effect in Dhule from March 14 until March 17. The curfew will last 12 hours from 6am to 6pm. Weekly markets in the districts will remain closed until March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-list-of-cities-districts-where-restrictions-have-been-imposed-101615794956886.html
15-03-2021||Other||From investigators to accused: Rise and fall of officers on the police force||PUNE The arrest of Sachin Vaze, a Mumbai police officer, by the National Investigating Agency (NIA), may have shocked some, but is it the first time Maharashtra is witnessing a serving cop getting arrested in a sensational case such as this? Around 18 years ago, Maharashtra’s police department was startled when a battery of police officials – junior and senior– were arrested by a special investigation team probing the multi-crore stamp paper scam, of which Abdul Karim Telgi was mastermind. With more than 20 convictions, imprisonment to which count up to 40 years if calculated separately, and fines slapped on him crossing ₹250 crore, Telgi died in Bengaluru, after a prolonged illness in October 2017. From former Mumbai police commissioner RS Sharma and ex-joint commissioner Shreedhar Vagal, to the then deputy commissioner Pradeep Sharma, were arrested in the case that hit headlines in 2003-04, when Maharashtra being ruled by the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). RS Sharma, who first served as Pune police commissioner before taking the charge as top cop in Mumbai, was arrested the day after his retirement, sending shockwaves in police circles. Later, during the course of the trial, those named above and some others were discharged in the case by the courts. The irony was, many of the police officials arrested in the Telgi case were also involved in probing the same scam. Their arrests also pointed to conspiracy theories about how actions were the fallout of internal rivalries between officers in the state police force. The case reverberated nationally with names of some politicians also being dragged into it. No senior politician was arrested or booked though.While Telgi scam was mostly about money, the cases that hurt the Maharashtra police most were some of the alleged fake encounters or custodial killings. Back in 2002, an investigation carried out by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) established that bomb- blast accused Sayyed Khwaja Yunus was killed in custody. It was similar to the Sachin Vaze case, and other encounter specialists like Praful Bhosale, who arrested later. Like Vaze, another Mumbai police officer who rose to fame through encounters was Daya Nayak. Nayak too faced allegations of disproportionate income and his alleged links with criminals, and was suspended from the service before being reinstated in 2012. Closer to Pune, the arrest of BR Andhalkar, a former inspector attached with the rural police in RTI activist Satish Shetty’s murder brought a fresh twist to the case. Those whom CBI has chargesheeted, includes former assistant inspector Namdeo Kauthale and former Andhalkar, even as the agency has filed a closure report against nine others, that include Ideal Road Builder (IRB) chairman and managing director Virendra Mhaiskar, and others, in the absence of evidence. Shetty, 38, an RTI activist from Pune district was working on exposing alleged irregularities in land dealings pertaining to plots alongside the Mumbai-Pune expressway, when he was stabbed to death on January 13, 2010, not far from his Panchvati Colony home in Talegaon Dabhade, while on his morning walk. If some of these policemen were held to account for their actions because of a slew of petitions in courts, judicial activism or pressure from opposition, there was no denying the rivalry among policemen. Most of these policemen were ambitious. Some of them even aligned with politicians and senior police officers for their vested interests. Some of the encounter specialists amassed disproportionate assets, while others parked their ill-gotten wealth in philanthropist activities. Unfortunately, some were suspended or dismissed and jailed, to allow them join with the same criminals they had once arrested. Many on the other hand managed to clear their names through the judicial process and rejoined duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-investigators-to-accused-rise-and-fall-of-officers-on-the-police-force-101615798609503.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor trader robbed of ₹9 lakh at gunpoint in Himachal’s Una town||Four masked men robbed a liquor trader, Rajender Singh Rana, of ₹9 lakh at gunpoint in Una town of Himachal Pradesh on Monday morning, police said. Una superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur said a team is on the trail of the four accused and the district’s borders have been sealed. In his complaint, Rana said the incident occurred at 8.30am when he arrived for work at his company’s three-storeyed office on the Una-Dharamshala highway. He said a Maruti Baleno car, bearing Punjab registration number PB70E 8751, was already parked near the office. “When I entered, two masked men were standing near the main entrance. They forced me inside at gunpoint and in the meantime two others who had already looted the cash from the cashier came down,” Rana said. The armed robbers pushed him to the wall and hit him before escaping. While fleeing, they fired four shots at his driver, Shyam Lal, who had a narrow escape. Rana informed the police after which the district’s borders, including the one at Mehatpur were sealed to prevent the robbers from entering neighbouring Punjab. The SP said a police team was on the robbers’ chase and the authorities were in touch with their Punjab counterparts. The police were studying the CCTV footage of the incident to zero in on the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-trader-robbed-of-9-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-himachal-s-una-town-101615797950005.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Fed up of caring for ailing wife, Maharashtra man kills her||A 45-year-old unemployed man allegedly killed his wife after being unable to handle her illness and medical treatment in Maharashtra's Parbhani district, a police official said on Monday.The incident took place on Saturday night when the man stabbed his wife, who was suffering from brain tumour, with a sharp weapon at their home in Mudgal village, located about 500 km from here, he said.The accused later came out of the house and threw his blood-stained clothes nearby. Some locals alerted the police who reached the spot and seized the clothes.The man was arrested on Sunday, the official said."The accused said he killed his wife after being fed up of her illness and medical treatment," Pathari police station's inspector Vasant Chavan said.A case was registered against the accused under various Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections, including 302 (murder), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fed-up-of-caring-for-ailing-wife-maharashtra-man-kills-her-101615797502943.html
15-03-2021||Kolkata||Online cab operator associations on day-long strike in Kolkata today||A section of online cab operator associations in Kolkata began a 24-hour strike on Monday in protest against the high commission rates charged by aggregators and the hike in fuel prices. With some metered cab operators also extending support to the strike, commuters were in for a tough time during the morning rush hours as only a few buses and mini buses were plying. “I had booked an app cab to reach office but the surge in fare was nearly three times over the normal fare of ₹90 – ₹100. The waiting time was also around 30 minutes. Normally, it takes five minutes,” said Rita Dey, a school teacher in east Kolkata. Striking cab operators also have a set of eight demands, including uniform fare. “We want a uniform rate, like that of other AC cabs, as fixed by the government. The high rate of commission and rise in fuel prices are draining us,” said SK Manu, secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions-affiliated app cab operators union. App cab operators affiliated to the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) have also joined the strike. “We have already started a sit-in demonstration outside the transport office in Kolkata. This is a 24-hour strike,” said NK Srivastava, convener of app-cab operators forum affiliated to AITUC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/online-cab-operator-associations-on-day-long-strike-in-kolkata-today-101615794350235.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Akali leader and Badal aide Kolianwali passes away||Dyal Singh Kolianwali, a senior Akali leader and aide of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, died at Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, on Monday morning.Party sources said the 68-year-old leader was battling stomach cancer and was admitted to the hospital last week.Akali patriarch Badal, who has been avoiding social gatherings since the Covid-19 outbreak last year, visited the ailing Kolianwali at his native village in Muktsar district’s Lambi last Monday.Family sources said the last rites will be conducted on Monday evening.A three-time Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) member, Kolianwali courted several controversies during his political career. He was arrested by the state vigilance bureau in a disproportionate assets case in December 2018 and got bail in February 2019. In December 2004, Kolianwali and his son Parminder were booked in a murder case before being acquitted by a court in 2011. During the 2012 assembly elections, 15 packets of a suspicious substance were recovered from his house. He was later acquitted in the case.He started his political career as a sarpanch of his native Kolianwali village and rose to become the Muktsar district president of the Shiromani Akali Dal. He was close to Badal and was appointed a member of the Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board and chairman of Punjab Agro Foodgrains Corporation during his tenures as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-leader-and-badal-aide-kolianwali-passes-away-101615793689935.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Despite surge in cases, MMR’s share in daily cases dips||Even though there is a surge in daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra over the past month, the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to the daily tally has reduced for the first time. The MMR, which comprises nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and the rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, however, continues to be the most affected region in Maharashtra.Of the total 16,620 cases reported on March 14, as many as 3,676, or 22.11% cases, were reported from the MMR. But the region’s share was much higher in the past two months -- 27.88% and 31.01% on February 14 and January 14 respectively, as per the data released by the state health department.Also Read | Covid-19 cases on rise, Nagpur begins week-long lockdown todayMMR’s contribution in the past six days (March 13-8) has remained between 19% and 21% but it was much higher even last year. On December 14, it was 31.36% (925 of 2,949 cases), 34.85% on November 14 (1,477 of 4,237 cases) and 38.18% on October 14 -- 4,029 of the total 10,552 cases reported on that day, according to the data.The nine municipal corporations of the region are Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Panvel, Ulhasnagar, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi. Till March 14, the region has reported the most cases, 759,860 cases, among all regions of the state. It also means 32.83% of the total cases are from MMR.Pune region follows in terms of daily case count. On March 14, it recorded 3,609 cases, the second-highest contribution to cases in the state. It is also the second most-affected area with 560,038 cases, as of March 14.It comprises three municipal corporations — Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur and rural areas of Pune, Solapur and Satara districts.“Earlier, the maximum cases used to come from MMR but these days, other areas such as Nagpur, Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Pune, Nashik and Jalgaon are contributing in big numbers, which is the reason the region’s share has come down,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.After clocking over 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily for two days in a row, Maharashtra breached the 16,000-mark to record a 164-day high with 16,620 fresh cases on Sunday. It also breached the 2.3 million mark of cases as the count reached 2,314,413. The active cases in the state also climbed to 126,213.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-despite-surge-in-cases-mmr-s-share-in-daily-cases-dips-101615792190208.html
15-03-2021||Other||Covid-19 cases on rise, Nagpur begins week-long lockdown today||As Covid-19 cases crossed 2,250-mark on Sunday, Nagpur police started a week-long lockdown on Monday morning. “No violator will be spared,” said the police commissioner, Amitesh Kumar, who inspected the implementation of lockdown early this morning. Barricades have been put up on all busy streets in the city and police are monitoring the traffic movement. Announcing the lockdown, the Nagpur district guardian minister, Nitin Raut, said, “Swab samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check whether there is any mutation in coronavirus in the district.” He also said the lockdown may be extended and also made stricter if cases continue to rise.Also Read | Covid-19: Feluda test tweaked to detect mutated variants quicklyOn Monday, schools, colleges, gyms and private offices remained closed while the government offices were functioning with 25% of their strength. However, essential services are allowed to function. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has also started hear cases through video-conferencing from today. This system will continue till March 21, according to a notice issued by the high court registrar. However, the lockdown would not affect the Covid-19 vaccination programme in the city in its 128 centres. People accompanying those to be vaccinated will not be stopped. Meanwhile, various traders’ bodies have met Raut to register their objection to the lockdown till March 21. They said businesses suffered due to the lockdown last year. Lifting of restrictions had brought some hope but the fresh lockdown has come as a huge blow, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-cases-on-rise-nagpur-begins-week-long-lockdown-today-101615788229957.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Court tells police to give sedition charge sheet to Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid||A local court in Delhi on Monday directed the police to provide former students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid and eight others with copies of the charge sheet filed against them in the 2016 sedition case. They were booked for sedition and slapped with other charges for allegedly raising anti-India slogans during an event at the JNU campus.The Delhi Police’s special cell filed a 1,200-page charge sheet before the city court on January 14, 2019, naming Kumar, Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya and others in the case. Kumar and Khalid have alleged that the police action against them was “politically motivated”.During the hearing on Monday, Kumar and another accused Sushil Bajaj also sought exemption from physical appearance, the court declined the request and said it will consider it on each date and not in advance. The court has set April 7 as the next date of hearing.As Khalid is in judicial custody in Tihar Jail for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots that had broken out in February 2020, he was allowed to meet his parents in the courtroom for a few minutes. The other accused, who are out of prison, reached the Patiala House court amid high security at the complex this morning.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma had summoned the accused on February 15 while taking cognizance of the police charge sheet. The judge had also noted that the Delhi government had granted sanction to prosecute the accused of sedition.The other seven accused charge-sheeted in the case include Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat. While the rest of the accused are out, Khalid is in judicial custody at Tihar jail his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots that had broken out in February 2020.Kumar, Khalid and other accused have been charged under Sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.A case was registered on February 11, 2016, after the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the student wing of the RSS, complained against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-tells-police-to-give-sedition-charge-sheet-to-kanhaiya-kumar-umar-khalid-101615786106858.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||JNU sedition case: Kanhaiya, Umar Khalid may appear in Delhi court today||Former JNU student leaders Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid and eight others, booked under sedition and other charges for allegedly raising anti-India slogans during an event at the university campus on February 9, 2016, are likely to appear before a city court on Monday.On February 15, chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma had summoned them while taking cognizance of the police charge sheet. The judge had also noted that the Delhi government had granted sanction to prosecute the accused for sedition.The other seven accused charge sheeted in the case are Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat. While all the others are out, Khalid is in judicial custody at Tihar jail for allegedly conspiring to orchestrate the north-east Delhi riots which had broken out in February, 2020.The Delhi police’s special cell, on January 14, 2019, filed a 1,200-page charge sheet before the city court naming Kumar, Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya and seven others.While the accused have denied the allegations, Kumar and Khalid have said the police action was “politically motivated”.They have been charged under Sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.A case was registered on February 11, 2016, following complaints from then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the student wing of the RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-sedition-case-kanhaiya-umar-khalid-may-appear-in-delhi-court-today-101615781149866.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Toolkit case: Delhi court to hear Nikita, Shantanu pre-arrest bail plea today||A Delhi court on Monday will hear the anticipatory bail plea of Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk and climate activist Shubham Kar Chowdhuri in connection to the toolkit case. The trio, along with climate activist Disha Ravi, has been charged with sedition for creating and sharing a toolkit on social media related to the ongoing farmer’s protest against the three farm bills. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana will hear the pre-arrest bail pleas today.Jacob obtained a transit anticipatory bail from Bombay high court on February 17 for three weeks, so that she could approach the Delhi court hearing the case.Muluk was granted transit anticipatory bail by the Aurangabad bench on February 16 for 10 days. He approached Delhi court on February 23 and was granted protection from arrest till March 9 which was later extended till March 15.On Friday, a city court granted interim protection from arrest to Chaudhari till March 15 in continuation of earlier relief given by the Bombay high court.The police had registered the case on February 4 for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code after Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support to the ongoing farmers’ protest. Ravi was arrested by a cyber cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. She was granted bail by the Delhi court on February 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toolkit-case-delhi-court-to-hear-nikita-shantanu-pre-arrest-bail-plea-today-101615780009388.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Carriageway towards Ghaziabad from Delhi reopens after 48 days||Vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad through Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was restored after Sunday midnight, as the police opened one carriageway that had remained closed for the past 48 days due to the farmers’ protest and the violence that took place during their tractor rally on Republic Day. Meanwhile, the other five carriageways connecting Delhi and Ghaziabad are still closed. Motorists going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad, Meerut, and places in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are still taking the alternate routes to enter the national Capital.The Ghazipur border has remained closed for the past 110 days because of the agitation. In a message posted on social media at 1.45am on Monday, additional deputy commissioner of police (east) Vinit Kumar said, “In view of the prevailing law and order situation at the Ghazipur border and keeping in mind the public convenience, the carriageway of NH-24 going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi has been opened in due consultation with the police officials of Ghaziabad district, Uttar Pradesh, in public interest.”Also Read | Delhi’s air quality in poor category; likely to remain so till March 17This is the second time since March 2 that one carriageway towards Ghaziabad from Delhi via Ghazipur border has been opened for the public. The last time it was opened for just six hours on March 2 but was blocked again with iron and concrete barricades and deployment of police personnel, as senior police officers said there was no official order for opening the route.They said it was a temporary arrangement to facilitate movement of emergency vehicles.All the six carriageways of Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-9, and NH-24 were completely blocked with multi-layered barricading and deployment of police personnel following the violence that erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 (Republic Day). Movement of vehicles through the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border has remained affected since November 25-26, when thousands of farmers who arrived from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand occupied the roads after they were stopped from entering Delhi.The Ghazipur border is among the three main borders where farmers have been protesting against the three contentious farm laws. Initially, only the carriageways going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad were closed because of the protest. After the January 26 violence, all the carriageways were closed.The other two borders where farmers are protesting are Singhu and Tikri, connecting Haryana with Delhi. These two as well as Jharoda and Dhansa borders are also shut due to the farmers’ agitation. Delhi Traffic Police officials say they have been regularly posting updates on social media such as Twitter and Facebook about the closure and opening of the borders and also the alternate routes that people should take to avoid the closure.The traffic police have advised motorists travelling to Delhi from Ghaziabad side to use EDM Mall Kaushambi, Anand Vihar, Kondli, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders as the alternate routes. They can also enter Delhi through Noida. Those coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Vasundhara, and Vaishali are advised to take the Anand Vihar (Maharajpur) border and take a left on the road towards Ghazipur roundabout from where they can use the NH-9 and NH-24 as well. The other route they can take is the EDM Mall Kaushambi border from where they can either use the Ghazipur Mandi roundabout and access the Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi, or move towards the road leading to the Ghazipur roundabout and further on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-ghazipur-border-reopened-for-traffic-101615778749498.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in poor category; likely to remain so till March 17||Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 201. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 209.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the air quality in the national Capital was going to remain in the poor to moderate category.“AQI is likely to stay in the moderate to lower end of poor category for today [Sunday] and is likely to deteriorate marginally to poor category tomorrow [Monday]. An increase in dust contribution is expected in the coming days. Poor AQI is forecast for March 16 and 17,” Safar said in its daily bulletin on Sunday.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature is likely to be at 14 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to be at 33°C.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 14°C, one degree below normal and the maximum temperature was 31.2°C -- two notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-poor-category-likely-to-remain-so-till-march-17-101615776949525.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Ghazipur border reopens for traffic movement, tweet Delhi Traffic Police||Delhi’s Ghazipur border, closed due to farmers’ protests against the Centre’s agricultural legislation, reopened on Monday for traffic movement for commuters coming to and from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, the police said. “Traffic Alert. Gazipur Border, Delhi to Gazipur is open for traffic movement,” they tweeted.“In view of prevailing law and order situation at the Ghazipur border and considering public convenience, the carriageway of NH-24 going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi has been opened after consultation with police officials of Ghaziabad district, Uttar Pradesh,” the police were quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Traffic AlertGazipur Border, Delhi to Gazipur is open for traffic movement.COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENEApart from reopening briefly on a few days, traffic on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed fully or partially as agitators have been demonstrating at the sites since late November last year against the three farm laws.As the UP border was closed, commuters were advised by the Delhi Police to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi-Noida Chilla border, however, was open for commute on both carriageways. The entry and exit points between the national capital and neighbouring Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continued to remain closed.Farmers have been protesting at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu for more than 100 days now. While the farmers are demanding a repeal of the new agricultural legislation, the government has ruled out the complete rollback and has offered to make amendments. The protesters, however, have vowed to continue camping at the borders till the laws are taken back. Several rounds of talks between the central leadership and farmers' union leaders have failed to break the deadlock over the legislation.As the matter reached the Supreme Court, it has put on hold the implementation of the three laws that were cleared during the Monsoon Session last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghazipur-border-reopens-for-traffic-movement-tweets-delhi-police-101615776062667.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Monument of ‘love’||It could be any of its cousins. This Lodhi-era tomb is looking as ignored and unremarkable as any other Lodhi-era tomb of Delhi, its centuries-old stones blackened with time.The impression dissipates on closer survey. The tiny monument—Kali Gumti, in south Delhi’s Deer Park — has something that makes it stand out. It is like a lovers’ notebook. Every inch of the monument’s surface is scratched over with I-Love-You scrawls, along with the names of what one presumes to be people in love. Some of these names are ornamented with heart-shaped drawings. A few scrawls seem to be mobile phone numbers.Here’s a sample:Swati loves SahilI love you MahiSimran love (sic) SumitThe walls of the monument are covered with such bold declarations. They haven’t been made with a pen or pencil, but rather seem to have been scratched on the stone with pebbles, or perhaps, in some cases, with fingernails. One exception is “I love you Shiva”, written with a piece of coal.The tomb is tucked within a cramped enclosure, smaller than a badminton court. The western side has a wall with beautifully sculpted niches, and large hearts haven’t spared them either. Some drawings are so deeply embedded into the stone that one wonders how much pain and time the lovers took to immortalise their romance into this relic.While reading these pairs of names, you might feel upset about the treatment given to this monument by fellow citizens. You might also be curious about how these love stories ended. There is no way of knowing, of course, unless you decide to risk dialling the phone numbers listed on the tomb.Now a man and woman appear. They must be a couple for each is in the same kind of red T-shirt, except that his has “Sher” printed on it, and hers has “Sherni.” They enter the tomb, take a selfie and exit.The tomb is again empty but it doesn’t feel empty. As if the lovers on the wall remained in the vicinity, in spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-monument-of-love-101615762201159.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Water supply hit in East Delhi for 48 hours||Several parts of east and north-east Delhi continued reeling under an acute water shortage for more than 48 hours on Sunday, as the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) carried out repair work of an interconnection pipeline.A statement issued by the DJB on Sunday said that the work on a 1,200mm main pipeline, supplying water to the east and north-east parts of the national capital, was completed by 4pm on Sunday and the evening supply was restored in many parts.“Repair work was successfully completed by 4pm on Sunday. Pumping of water also began immediately after the work was completed and by evening, water with appropriate pressure will be available in most areas. Further, by late evening or early tomorrow (Monday) morning, the entire east and north-east Delhi will get supply in full swing,” the Delhi Jal Board’s statement read.Despite the assurance that the evening water supply will be resumed in most parts, residents of most localities said that water was not available till at least late Sunday.Water supply in some of the areas started getting impacted from Friday, after the Delhi Jal Board began interconnection work on 1200 mm diameter main lines at Jal Vihar and Greater Kailash.The work was started after complaints received by residents of Vikas Kunj, reporting major leakages in the GK main lines, which resulted in water entering the basements of their houses, posing a threat to the building structure.Delhi Jal Board on March 11 had issued an advisory to people that due to the repair work of pipeline, water supply would be affected from 10am on Friday to 10am on Saturday.However, on Saturday the water utility agency issued a fresh advisory, extending the timing of the water shortage till Sunday morning.The worst impacted by the repair work were areas such as Laxmi Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Chitra Nagar, Ghazipur, Mayur Vihar phase-I, II and III, East Azad Nagar, New Kondli, Shahdara, Mandawali, Patparganj, Shalimar Park and Vishwakarma Park.Mujid Alam, a resident of Mandawali, said that the water supply in his colony has been hit for three days now.He said that by Saturday evening, the last drop of water that was stored had been exhausted, and at least for two hours on Sunday morning he went around with empty buckets for search of some water to meet basic household requirements.“We went to the local shops and even they did not have water. I heard that in some shops in Pandav Nagar, drinking water bottles are being sold for R100 per bottle. People are desperate and some shopkeepers are taking advantage of that,” Alam said.Many people also took to social media to reach out to the DJB, desperately trying to get some information on water availability.Some also highlighted that while the supply was impacted, no efforts were made by the Delhi Jal Board to ensure the availability of water tankers or other sources.“No water supply in Mayur Vihar, East Delhi since the past two days. No water tanks available, no bottled drinking water available on shops today morning. Emergency situation Please do something urgently @DJB, (sic)” tweeted Ruchi Kokcha.A senior DJB official, however, denied the allegation and said water tankers were running late because of the increased demand, but was being made available wherever supply was hit.Abhishek Dutt, Congress party spokesperson and municipal councillor from south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj, said that the water shortage was also being experienced in parts of south Delhi.“Over the past few months, the only message that the Delhi Jal Board has been posting is ‘repair/breakdown/ammonia will impact water supply in Delhi’. Every week they come up with one such excuse. Residents of Lajpat Nagar-4 and Andrews Ganj are suffering for the past two days,” Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-hit-in-east-delhi-for-48-hours-101615757464290.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||‘Made a promise’: CM Kejriwal flags off work on sewer lines in Kirari, Mundka||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday flagged off work on a sewer project slated to cover 114 unauthorised colonies and six villages across Kirari and Mundka assembly constituencies in the northwestern periphery of the Capital.“Before the last elections (February 2020), I promised you all that I will resolve all the sewer issues in Kirari and road-repair work. I have come here today to fulfil my promise. Despite the shortage of funds, I instructed officers to arrange funds from anywhere and start the sewer project as soon as possible because I had made a promise to you,” said Kejriwal, addressing a gathering in Kirari on Sunday.According to a statement released on Sunday, the government plans to lay 423km of sewer lines across the areas, as well as set up wastewater pumping stations in three areas.He further said, “We have already provided water to every household in Kirari, and we now aim to provide sewer lines to every household as well as good roads and lanes. I continue to face huge backlash from opposition parties for providing free services such as water and bus rides to people, but the support of the people keeps me going. In the last 70 years, no other party has worked for the development of unauthorised colonies, as much as AAP has have worked in the last five years.”The Delhi government in a press statement, issued later in the day, said, “The sewer scheme for Kirari and Mundka has been prepared to facilitate the public at large residing in these colonies and villages and achieve better sanitary conditions and further reduce the pollution of the River Yamuna. Under the scheme, there are provisions to lay the sewer lines in the length of about 423km. The scope of work also includes the construction of waste water pumping stations at Prem Nagar, Bhagya Vihar, and Pratap Vihar with capacities of 6.5, 9.0, and 41 MGD, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/made-a-promise-cm-kejriwal-flags-off-work-on-sewer-lines-in-kirari-mundka-101615756800886.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 407 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||The Capital reported over 400 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the fourth day in a row on Sunday. The city added 407 cases to its tally of over 643,000 infections so far since March 2 last year, when the first case was detected.The city has seen an increase in the number of people hospitalised with the infection as well — from 400 people across city hospitals on February 26 to 582 as on Sunday evening, according to the state’s daily health bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of deaths reported each day has also increased slightly. On average, 2.2 deaths were reported each day during the first 14 days of March as compared to 1.3 deaths during the second half of February. The numbers were higher – 2.6 deaths a day on average – during the first half of the month.So far, 10,941 persons have died of the infection.With over 68,000 tests conducted on Saturday – reported a day later in Sunday’s health bulletin – Delhi’s positivity rate stood at 0.60%. The positivity rate is the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested and is indicative of the spread of the infection in a region.Experts believe that a positivity rate of 5% or less maintained over two weeks indicates that the spread of the infection is under control. Although, Delhi’s positivity rate is much lower than this it has been inching upwards since mid-February.The average positivity rate over the first 14 days of March has been 0.49%. In comparison, the average positivity rate during second half of February was 0.28% and 0.23% during the first half of the month, data shows.“The situation is exactly like it was during Diwali when people were out and about, leading to a lot of asymptomatic spread of the infection. The euphoria of having low number of cases in Delhi was short-lived because people have stopped following Covid-19 norms such as social distancing and masking,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.He added, “With the number of cases going down, people stopped following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The city also has a huge floating population — people travelling to other states and other countries. There is still a significant proportion who haven’t developed immunity against the infection. The problem is compounded by the emergence of new variants — some we know of, others we don’t.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-407-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101615755976213.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Acquisition of donated land in Mohali’s Aerocity sparks dissent in SGPC ranks||The acquisition of 13 acres of donated land near the Aerocity area by Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has sparked dissent in the local Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) ranks.As the SGPC is said to have already chalked out a resolution for the land acquisition, some members are opposing the same, raising concerns over the rationality of the move.The land in question is part of the 24-acre chunk located in Sainimajra village which was donated around six decades ago by a woman to Gurdwara Amb Sahib in Phase 8 here for the promotion of religious activities and benefit of the local Sikh community. In 1998, the gurdwara came under the jurisdiction of the SGPC.In 2012, with the SGPC’s facilitation, GMADA had acquired 11 acres of land at the cost of ₹19.36 crore, despite stiff opposition from the local SGPC representative. In lieu, the SGPC purchased 59 acres of land in Bagrian village in Malerkotla for ₹19 crore.SGPC member from Mohali, Hardeep Singh, said, “It is sad that the SGPC is again allowing the acquisition of 13 acres of donated land in a prime location of Mohali. Earlier too, they got a compensation of ₹19.36 crore and bought land in far-off Malerkotla, but its value has decreased to ₹9 crore from ₹19 crore. The land swapping should take place within the same locality, else there is no real benefit of the move.”The value of the prime land now is ₹66 crore, he added.SGPC manager for Amb Sahib Gurdwara, Rajinder Singh has already prepared a resolution for giving the 13-acre land to GMADA under the land pooling scheme.Former sarpanch of Sainimajra village, Avatar Singh said that the SGPC should plan a hospital on the remaining 12.5-acre land instead of going for land pooling. “In land pooling, the gurdwara will lose 9.5 acres of land. SGPC will get residential and commercial plots. What will it will do with them? Such plots would be ultimately sold causing further loss of hundreds of crores to the gurdwara,” he said.Gurcharan Singh, a member of Amb Sahib gurdwara body, said that when he SGPC sold 11-acre donated land in 2012, the gurdwara faced a loss of ₹57 crore, and such a mistake should not be repeated as the land purchased in Malerkotla is of no use to the Mohali area sangat.When contacted, SGPC additional secretary Sukhdev Singh said, “We are trying to stop this and will soon hold a meeting with the authorities concerned.”About the local SGPC panel having already prepared the resolution, he said that the final decision would be taken in the executive committee meeting of the SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/acquisition-of-donated-land-in-mohali-s-aerocity-sparks-dissent-in-sgpc-ranks-101615751928300.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||'Sachin Vaze had business partnership firms with Shiv Sena leaders': BJP leader||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Sunday alleged that the controversial Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), had business partnership firms with Shiv Sena leaders. Somaiya also demanded the sacking of Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh saying he was backing the tainted cop.Somaiya said that Vaze had more than six businesses in which some of his partners were Shiv Sena leaders. “Vaze had a very close relationship with a top Sena leader. In addition, he has formed partnership firms dealing in construction and infrastructure with Sena leaders,” said Somaiya. He alleged that Vaze was a partner in firms like Multibuild Infraprojects Limited, Techlegal Solutions Pvt Ltd, DGNe Multimedia Limited, of which the first two had folded up and only the last one is functional.He also named local Sena leaders like Sanjay Mashilkar and Vijay Gawai as partners in these firms. “How can an assistant police inspector form so many companies? Where did he get the resources from? This needs to be checked by the NIA,” said the BJP leader.Mashilkar, who headed the Sena’s local unit for 13 years, defended his partnership in Multibuild Infraprojects Private Limited. “It was a legal private limited company and we fulfilled all the norms. It is not a crime to partner with a cop and we even disclosed it,” he said. “We however could not get business and hence wound up the company within one-and-a-half months of its formation,” added Mashilkar.Similarly, Vijay Gawai, who had contested the BMC polls in 2017 on Sena ticket from Mulund, said there was no wrong in tying up with a cop. “Kirit Somaiya’s is just playing dirty politics and trying to mislead the people. We formed a firm but this company was shut down, it did not work well,” said Gawai.Somaiya also said it was also surprising that a cop from such a lower rank can get direct access to the police commissioner. “This all seems too suspicious,” he added.The NIA on Saturday arrested Sachin Vaze, who is at the centre of the investigation in connection with the mysterious death of Mansukh Hiren, an auto parts dealer linked to the SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter. On Sunday, the NIA court remanded him in NIA custody till March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-had-business-partnership-firms-with-shiv-sena-leaders-bjp-leader-101615750097136.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Will follow original Nanakshahi calendar, not amended version, says Pakistan gurdwara body||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) on Sunday refused to follow the “amended” Nanakshahi’ calendar that was unveiled by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh in Amritsar a day before and released the original version.A religious function was organised at Gurdwara Janam Asthan, the birthplace of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, to celebrate the beginning of the Sikh new year Nanakshahi Samvat 553. Addressing the gathering, PSGPC general secretary Ameer Singh appealed to the Akal Takht jathedar to resolve the issue and call a group of Sikh scholars to implement the calendar’s original version which he termed as a “symbol of distinct identity of the Sikh religion”. The SGPC had rolled back the original version introduced in 2003 under pressure from Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa-led Sant Samaj, which was in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) during the 2010 SGPC polls. In the name of amendments, the original version was replaced with the new one which was modified as per the Bikrami calendar, but its nomenclature ‘Nanaksahi Calendar’ was not changed. “Giani Harpreet Singh during his visit to Pakistan had assured us that he would constitute a committee of scholars to address the issue. If he is facing any problem, we are ready to host a meeting of scholars at Nankana Sahib. The issue has to be resolved at the earliest possible,” said PSGPC chief Satwant Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-follow-original-nanakshahi-calendar-not-amended-version-says-pakistan-gurdwara-body-101615750968787.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Institutes can’t withhold degrees of Dalit students over pending fee: Sampla||National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman Vijay Sampla on Sunday said the colleges and universities can’t withhold the degrees and certificates of Dalit students who have passed their courses for want of pending fees and other charges. The commission will take a strict note in case of a complaint, he asserted. The issue rocked the budget session of the Vidhan Sabha that concluded recently. Nearly 7,000 students are awaiting handing over of their degrees by their colleges, the House was informed. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Sampla said, “The national commission works independently of the state panel as the SC students can take up their cases directly. Also, efforts are made to being bring to an end manual scavenging that is going on with impunity in some parts of Punjab. Besides, there is a pendency of 67,000 cases of atrocities on Dalits with the national commission. We will make sure the cases are settled in a time-bound manner. The pendency of different cases in Punjab is 5,000 and I am sure the state panel will also expedite redressal of these cases.” The national commission has a regional office in Chandigarh which caters to Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh. ‘Farmers heckling me are anti-Dalit’On opposition he is facing in Punjab from the state farmers, Sampla said heckling him as chairman of the commission means that farmers and their leaders are opposed to the Dalits. “I was chased and gheraoed by farmers and others. This is not the right way to protest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/institutes-can-t-withhold-degrees-of-dalit-students-over-pending-fee-sampla-101615750912852.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Pak drone spotted in Punjab’s Pathankot district||A Pakistani drone entered the Indian territory on Sunday but was forced to return as BSF jawans spotted it and opened fire in its direction in Punjab’s Pathankot district, a police official said.“The drone which came from the Pakistani side was sighted at Dinda post close to Bamial along the Indo-Pak international border,” Pathankot senior superintendent of police Gulneet Singh Khurana told PTI over phone.He said the BSF opened fire in its direction after which it returned to the neighbouring country.Asked if the drone dropped anything inside the Indian territory before flying back, Khurana said, “A thorough search operation was carried out at the site, but nothing was found.” In December 2020, 11 hand grenades dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan were recovered from a field near the International Border in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district.The consignment was found in Salach village, located about one km from the border.The box of hand grenades had been attached to a wooden frame which was lowered from the drone onto the ground with a nylon rope, police had then said.The first incident of dropping of arms and weapons through drones from Pakistan came to light in Punjab in September 2019 when police recovered AK-47 rifles, magazines and rounds of ammunition, hand grenades, fake currency and other items in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pak-drone-spotted-in-punjab-s-pathakot-district-101615750909893.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||25 days on, Punjab govt yet to issue notification for Mohali MC elections||Even as the outcome of the Mohali municipal corporation elections was declared 25 days ago, the Punjab government has yet to issue the notification for the same. Thus, the elected councillors have yet to take oath.The elections were held on February 14 and the results were announced on February 18.In the absence of a House of representatives, decisions for several development works and approval of MC budget for the year 2021-22 remain pending.In the results declared, Congress registered a landslide victory by winning 37 of the 50 seats. The Azad Group-Aam Aadmi Party combine clinched 10 seats, while the remaining three were bagged by independent candidates.When contacted, local bodies principal secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha said, “We are hopeful of issuing the notification in a week’s time. It got delayed due to the assembly session.”Newly elected councillor Harjinder Kaur Baidwan (Azad Group) said it has happened for the first time that the state government has not issued the notification even after 25 days. On the other hand, people are suffering as civic works are not being done, she said.The two front runners for the post are Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, brother of Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, and former senior deputy mayor Rishiv Jain, who won the elections for the third time in a row. While Amarjeet succeeded from ward 10, Rishiv swept ward 20, both on Congress tickets.For Amarjeet, who is into the liquor business and director of SAS Nagar Central Cooperative Bank Limited, it is a first win.“As of now, we have not decided on any name. We are waiting for the notification and will comply with whatever all councillors and party high command decide,” said Sidhu.A senior Congress councillor, wanting anonymity, said, “Most of the party councillors are in favour of Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, while Rishiv Jain will be again given charge as senior deputy mayor. Kuljeet Bedi, who has won for the third time, is set to be the deputy mayor.” The mayor is elected for a term of five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25-days-on-punjab-govt-yet-to-issue-notification-for-mohali-mc-elections-101615750908867.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest against MLA Goel in Ambala: SHO suspended for negligence||A station house officer (SHO) in Ambala has been suspended for negligence, following a protest by farmers and members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) against Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel on Thursday.As per the order made available on Sunday, inspector Hamir Singh, in-charge of Baldev Nagar police station, has been placed under suspension and transferred to Police Lines. “During the protest, these leaders and members of Bharatiya Kisan Union abused Aseem Goel, MLA, Ambala City. DSP (HQ) Sultan Singh further recommended that a departmental action should be taken against inspector Hamir Singh posted as SHO PS Baldev Nagar for not taking any legal action against leaders and members of Bharatiya Kisan Union. For the above misconduct and negligence, Singh is hereby placed under suspension with immediate effect,” read the order issued by Ambala senior superintendent of police Hamid Akhtar.Singh was among several other station in-charges, along with DSP Sultan Singh, who were on duty during the protests that took place from Inco Chowk to the MLA’s residence in Prem Nagar. The protesters had allegedly raised objectionable slogans and burnt the MLA’s effigy outside his residence, for his alleged derogatory remarks about farmers and for voting against the trust vote moved by the Congress in the assembly on Wednesday.Sources said the MLA, who had issued video statements clarifying his statement, was miffed with the police for letting the protesters reach his residence. On the same night of protests, an FIR was also lodged against nine farmer leaders for rioting, defamation and using obscene remarks on the complaint of Ambala police security officer Naveen at the Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-against-mla-goel-in-ambala-sho-suspended-for-negligence-101615750788579.html
15-03-2021||Other||Kalyan man stabs his uncle to death||Mahatma Phule police in Kalyan arrested a 23-year-old man on Sunday for allegedly stabbing his uncle to death over a property dispute. The accused, Harshal Thange, is a resident of Beturkarpada, Kalyan (West). He went to the house of his uncle Narayan Thange, 72, on Sunday around 6.30am and stabbed him with a knife. The accused also stabbed the victim’s son, who is undergoing treatment. Anil Powar, assistant commissioner of police, Kalyan, said, “Based on the complaint by the victim’s son, we have arrested the accused. The accused, who is unemployed, barged into his uncle’s home on Sunday morning and stabbed him and his son.” “There is a property dispute in the family. The accused was booked for other offences in the past too. We are checking his criminal records,” said Powar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kalyan-man-stabs-his-uncle-to-death-101615750548300.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||To push pending works, Chandigarh MC allots ₹80 lakh for each ward||Pending development works in various wards are likely to get a push as the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has earmarked ₹80 lakh for each ward for the financial year 2021-2022.In the 2020-21 fiscal, the councillors were not granted any funds for ward development owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent MC financial distress. Due to this, several works were hit.Confirming the development, municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “The MC has allocated ₹80 lakh each under ward development funds for the coming fiscal.”In 2019, the ward development fund amount was doubled from ₹40 lakh per year to ₹80 lakh per year. The mayor gets ₹2 crore per year, which can be spent on the development of any ward. While the councillors’ funds are carried forward for five years, those of mayor’s get lapsed each year.The MC has even started the tendering process for carrying out works under the ward development funds, said chief engineer Shailender Singh. Last week, for instance, the MC floated tenders for providing and fixing outdoor gynmastic equipment in Sector 46 parks besides installing benches in various green belts of sectors 39 and 40.While these tenders were floated in this fiscal, the work would be completed in the next fiscal. “The tendering process takes time and works are likely to be started this fiscal. But, the bills for these works will be generated in the next fiscal,” said the MC chief.However, the councillors are not so hopeful of getting much work done even after the fund allocation.“The MC is yet to even complete the works which were requested in 2019. In January this year, we had submitted a priority list of works having a budget of ₹30 lakh. But even those couldn’t be carried out. It is also questionable that with a ₹700 crore deficit budget for the 2021-2022 financial year, how the MC plans to allocate ₹80 lakh ward development fund,” said Congress councillor Satish Kainth.Councillors have also come under repeated criticism for failing to spend the allocated money. Only three councillors could spend the funds allotted to them in 2019.“The councillors either don’t utilise their funds or spend the money on frivolous items, which doesn’t benefit the residents. With elections due this year, we expect them to speed up the spending, but they must focus on the projects which are pending for several years despite of persistent demands from the residents,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/to-push-pending-works-chandigarh-mc-allots-80-lakh-for-each-ward-101615750429159.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||105 fresh virus cases in J&K, 78 in Himachal||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 105 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total cases to 1, 27,640 while the death toll remained 1,974 with no fresh fatality.Officials said that as many as 25 positive cases were reported from Jammu and 80 from Kashmir, including 12 travellers. Officials said 1,24,746 people have recovered in the UT so far taking the recovery rate to 97.73%. There are now 920 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 55.58 lakh. A total 1,244 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 730 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 51 more people tested positive including nine travellers, while 12 more cases were reported in Budgam. In Jammu division, 16 cases were recorded in Jammu district. 78 new cases in Himachal
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s daily Covid infections shoot past 200 after six months||In no-let up from the surging cases, Mohali’s daily Covid-19 infections jumped to 206 on Sunday after a gap of six months.It was in September last year, when the cases had crossed the 200 mark amid the peak of the pandemic. With the fresh cases, the district’s case tally reached 21,862, while the death toll was pushed to 402 with another fatality on Sunday.Out of the 206 cases, 121 were from Mohali’s urban areas, 34 from Dhakoli, 24 from Kharar, 16 from Dera Bassi, seven from Kurali and two each from Lalru and Gharuan. Mohali’s active cases stand at 1,359 after 20,101 recoveries. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “The increasing cases are expected as the second wave has arrived. Residents are urged to follow precautions strictly and also come forward for vaccination, which is available at 27 private hospitals and seven government hospitals in the district.” 120 test positive in UT, 47 in PanchkulaChandigarh reported 120 new cases, pushing its total to 23,096 and active cases 1,088. As many as 358 people have succumbed to the virus in the city, while 21,650 have successfully beaten the virus. In Panchkula, 47 people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district’s count to 11,332. There are 355 active cases, 10,828 persons have been cured and 149 have died.Mega camp todayRamping up its vaccination campaign, the Panchkula health department will be holding a mega Covid-19 vaccination camp on Monday, targeting at least 4,000 people at 42 sites.“The vaccination drive is taking place across Haryana on March 15. The state has a target of 1 lakh, while Panchkula has been given a target of 4,000. While some will be healthcare workers and frontline workers, the majority will be citizens,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer, Panchkula.Dr Sasan said the department had tasked health workers, auxiliary nurse midwives and ASHA workers with visiting their areas and motivating senior citizens to come forward for the vaccine. “We are hoping for a good turnout.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-daily-covid-infections-shoot-past-200-after-six-months-101615750308277.html
15-03-2021||Other||Girders for FoB near Shahad stn in Thane district launched||The girders for the foot overbridge (FoB) near Shahad railway station were launched on Sunday during a two-hour block by Central Railway (CR). A total of ₹1.25 crore has been allocated for the project, and the work is being carried out by the Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation (MRVC). A crane weighing 350 tonnes was used to launch the 63-metre-long and 4-metre-wide girders. There were six spans of girders, each weighing 23 tonnes. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) arranged for a special bus service between Kalyan and Titwala stations amid the mega block. Anilkumar Patke, chief public relations officer, MRVC, said, “The girder was launched with the manpower of 30 workers without any hurdle. The work for the bridge is expected to be completed by two months.” “Trespassing incidents at these station areas are not new. The FoB will help in bringing down such incidents and help in reducing the time required to travel between the eastern and western sides,” said Shyam Ubale, general secretary of Kasara-Karjat railway passengers’ association.“I stay at Shahad East and whenever I have to go to the western side, I have to cross the station, which is a little far from where I live. The FoB will make it easier for us to commute and also reduce our time,” said Mukesh Patil, 37.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/girders-for-fob-near-shahad-stn-in-thane-district-launched-101615750248263.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Coming up in Chandigarh, a policy to push cycling as a habit||Hoping to push cycling as a preferred alternative to driving in a city teeming with cars, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd has readied a Cycling Policy.To be notified only after approval from the UT administrator, the policy envisages major upgrade of the city’s cycling infrastructure, including creation of dedicated cycle underpasses, mandatory roof-covered cycle parking in offices and giving priority to cyclists in traffic.A range of incentives will also be given by government departments, such as leave credits, monetary benefits and facilities to employees, who opt for cycling.“Cycling Policy can be a powerful tool for the government to encourage citizens to take up cycling. The city has the highest per capita ownership of motorised vehicles in the country, which is creating severe parking and environmental issues. Promotion of cycling as a means of travelling can contribute towards sustainable urban travel,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL), which has formulated the draft policy.Chandigarh currently has cycle tracks running across 200km. About 60km of the cycling network has been identified for underpasses near V-2 (like Madhya Marg, Dakshin Marg and Jan Marg) and V-3 roads (roads around sectors). In addition, the existing cycle tracks along V3 roads will be improved and provided with proper integration, along with zebra crossings near intersections, the draft policy states.MORE PARKING SPACE FOR CYCLESProvision of a large number of cycle bays will be made at every station and parking lot, much more than those for cars. “The parking will be created in such a manner so as to enable a quick and comfortable flow of bicycle traffic. This will include provision of cycle boxes at all signals, along with four-second head start for cyclists every time the signal turns green, facilitating their safe movement across junctions,” Sharma said.INCENTIVES, SUBSIDIESEach government office will have a separate policy for their office to encourage commuting to work by cycle.Employees, who adopt cycling, will get special incentives like half-day leave for every seven days cycled. Monetary incentives for particular distance travelled by cycle will also be offered. The policy also advocates commendation certificates, awards and other recognitions for cycle users in every department. The private sector firms will also be encouraged to give similar incentives to their workforce.Employer-based health and wellness programmes will be created, which will incorporate subsidised annual memberships for employees. Besides, the policy advocates cash incentives, shower rooms, space for drying cycling clothes and borrowable cycles for short trips from the office. Every office will also have to provide covered parking space.INTEGRATING ROAD NETWORK, TRANSPORT ROUTESThe draft policy lays emphasis on integration of cycle tracks with various modes of public transport for better connectivity. “An integrated payment system that allows use of both transit and bicycle-sharing system will be the way forward. By providing real-time information to commuters about multiple public transport modes at bus stops, railway stations and public bicycle sharing stations, integration can be achieved,” said Sharma.“Cycle tracks should be set up in such a manner that they are well connected with work, entertainment, commercial and green areas, so that cyclists have a facility for smooth/easy/safe access to above spaces,” reads the draft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coming-up-in-chandigarh-a-policy-to-push-cycling-as-a-habit-101615750128254.html
15-03-2021||Other||Kirit Somaiya: Mumbai cop ran firms in partnership with Shiv Sena leaders||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Sunday alleged that controversial Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday, had six businesses, in which some of his partners were Shiv Sena leaders. Somaiya also claimed that Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh was backing the tainted cop and thus must be sacked.“Vaze had a very close relationship with a top Sena leader. He has also formed partnership firms dealing in construction and infrastructure with Sena leaders,” said Somaiya, adding that the cop was a partner in firms such as Multibuild Infraprojects Limited, Techlegal Solutions Pvt Ltd and DGNe Multimedia Limited, of which only the last one is currently functional.He also claimed that local Sena leaders such as Sanjay Mashilkar and Vijay Gawai are Vaze’s partners in these firms. “How can an assistant police inspector form so many companies? Where did he get the resources from? This needs to be checked by NIA,” said the BJP leader.Mashilkar, who headed the Sena’s local unit for 13 years, defended his partnership in Multibuild Infraprojects Private Limited and said, “It was a legal private limited company and we fulfilled all the norms. It is not a crime to partner with a cop, and we had even disclosed about it,” he said. “We, however, could not get business, and hence wound up the company within one-and-a- half months of its formation,” added Mashilkar.Gawai, who had contested the civic polls in 2017 from Mulund, said there was no wrong in tying up with a cop. “Somaiya is just playing dirty politics and is trying to mislead the people. We formed a firm, but it did not work well and later shut down,” said Gawai.Somaiya also said it was also surprising that a cop from a lower rank can get direct access to the police commissioner. “This all seems too suspicious,” he added.Vaze, who is at the centre of the investigation in connection with the mysterious death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer whose SUV was found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home on February 25 with 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening letter, was remanded in NIA custody till March 25 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kirit-somaiya-mumbai-cop-ran-firms-in-partnership-with-shiv-sena-leaders-101615750009638.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||BSF nabs 4 suspected drug smugglers near Pak border in Amritsar||The border security force (BSF) has apprehended four suspected Indian drug smugglers after a brief firing near Fatehabad village in Ajnala sub-division along the the India-Pakistan border late on Saturday night. The suspects, according to the BSF officials, were roaming near the barbed wire fence, ostensibly to clear a consignment of drugs that was to be thrown from across the border by Pakistani smugglers. One of the accomplices of the arrested accused managed to flee, said the officials, adding that “one of the arrested men was injured in the firing”. The arrested men were identified as Bikramjit Singh, Vijay Singh and Sarabjit Singh of Kakkar village and Navjot Singh of Dug Dogar village in Amritsar. Sarabjit received a bullet injury in his left thigh, said the officials. “At around 12.30 am, the personnel of 22 battalion observed some suspicious movements near border outpost (BoP) Fatehabad. Five persons were noticed approaching towards the fence. The accused were challenged to stop by our troops, but to no avail. Sensing danger, a shot was fired by our constable, which hit to one of the accused. After this, our team arrested four of the five persons, including the injured one. The firth person managed to flee from the spot,” said a senior BSF official. He said the injured was rushed to a hospital for his treatment. “Our troops had also observed two suspects across the barbed wire fence. Five rounds were fired towards Pakistan side, but the suspects managed to retreat,” he said.“Our search operation is still underway. It appears the arrested men had come to collect some drugs consignment that was to be push in from Pakistan side,” he said, adding that the accused would be handed over to the Amritsar-rural police for the further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-nabs-4-suspected-drug-smugglers-near-pak-border-in-amritsar-101615749890574.html
15-03-2021||Other||Doctor injured in firing during clash at Amritsar civil hospital||Amritsar A medical officer (MO), Dr Bhavneet Singh, who was on emergency duty at the Amritsar civil hospital was injured in firing between two groups outside his ward, around an hour after Saturday midnight. Members of one of the groups had been admitted in the emergency ward, after getting their medico-legal report (MLR), when the other group barged in and started firing indiscriminately. A bullet hit Dr Bhavneet on the left thigh, but he is out of danger. Police said about 10:15pm on Saturday, quarrel over an enmity started between Rahul Nagi group and Sunny Sahota, Gattu, Raju, Gayin in the Islamabad area. Rahul and his brother approached the cantonment police station for the registration of a case. The police had then sent the duo to the civil hospital for preparing their medico-legal report (MLR). Rahul and his brother were admitted to the civil hospital’s emergency ward after their MLR had been prepared.“The accused Sunny Sahota, Raju alias Bhindi, Vijay Pardhan, Aman alias Chinu, Gattu, Barinder Singh alias Raghu and some six-seven unidentified persons reached the hospital and started fighting with Rahul and his family again. Our guards at the hospital and Dr Bhavneet tried to stop the accused. Sahota fired from his pistol and another of his accomplices also fired. During the firing, Dr Bhavneet got injured,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) investigation, Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar.Bhullar added that three accused, Aman, Vijay and Barinder, had been arrested. “Due to the red-alert, only one guard was present on duty in hospital on Saturday night. Our DCP-law and order has assured doctors that we will step up security.” Police added Sahota had been facing several cases under the Excise Act. The DCP said, “It is yet to be ascertained whether the two weapons used for firing were licensed. Preliminary inquiry suggests that no arm license was issued to the accused booked in the case.”Punjab Civil Medical Services Association member Dr Jaspreet Singh said the incident raised questions about how miscreants can get the courage to carry weapons at public places. The doctors association of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts have condemned the incident and held responsible to the police administration for failing to ensure the security of the district hospital. They have threatened to go on strike, barring providing emergency services, until the issue of security of the hospital is sorted out.Rakesh Sharma, chairman, Employees’ Welfare Association of the health department, said police had ignored their pleas for security a number of times. “When the police commissioner had to visit the hospital for covid-19 vaccination, over 20 police guards were deployed, but hospital staff has no security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctor-injured-in-firing-during-clash-at-amritsar-civil-hospital-101615749889392.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Militant gunned down in Shopian encounter, locals clash with police||A militant has been killed in an ongoing overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian that also witnessed clashes between stone pelting youth and police around the encounter site, in which three people were injured. Locals and police said that at least four houses were severely damaged in the fire and mobile internet was also suspended in the district. Officials said the encounter started at Rawalpora area of Shopian on Saturday evening when police, army and CRPF launched a search operation after receiving a tip-off about presence of militants. They said militants opened fire on the forces, triggering an exchange of fire. The gunfight continued through the night and a militant was killed early morning. “One terrorist was eliminated as the joint operation continues,” said an army spokesperson.A police spokesperson identified the slain militant as Jahangir Ahmad Wani, a resident of Rakh Narapora Shopian, affiliated with the proscribed outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba. Wani has been active since September 2020. He said once the presence of militants was ascertained on Saturday they were given opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately. “Due to darkness the operation was suspended however the cordon remained intact throughout night. In the morning, repeated announcements were again made asking hiding terrorist to surrender, but the terrorist fired on joint search party which was retaliated and so far one terrorist has been killed, “ he said. The spokesman said that during the encounter, three houses caught fire.He said that a group of “miscreants” also tried to disrupt the operation and created a law and order problem near the encounter site during which some of them were also injured. A US-made rifle and armour piercing bullets were recovered from the site. “The recoveries include one M4 carbine, three magazines, 36 armour piercing rounds and some cash,” he said. The area was cordoned off and was being searched till the filing of this report.Locals said soon after the news of the killing of a militant spread in the area, angry youth came out protesting, threw stones on the forces and tried to march towards the site. The police retaliated with pump action pellet guns and tear gas.Officials said at least three persons were injured in the clashes, including two youngsters due to pellets and a policeman, who was hit by a stone on his head. One of the protesting youngsters was hit in the eye. Shopian medical superintendent Mohammad Ismail said the victim, who was hit with pellets on the eye, and the cop were referred to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) Hospital in Srinagar. “The cop received stitches on the side of his head and is fine,” he said.Medical Superintendent of SMHS, Nazir Choudhary identified the youth hit by pellets in the eye as 22-year-old Arif Ahmad Wagay. “He is doing fine,” he said.The locals of Shopian said that fire erupted in many houses surrounding the encounter site severely damaging around four houses. People also shared videos of fire engulfing the houses near the site of encounter. “It is not clear how the blaze erupted. The exchange of fire has stopped and searches are going on. The dead body of the militant has been shifted to Srinagar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/militant-gunned-down-in-shopian-encounter-locals-clash-with-police-101615749829700.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers force Dhankar, Dushyant to skip events||Haryana BJP leaders and workers on Sunday bore the brunt of farmers in Jhajjar, Dadri and Jind districts. Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar cancelled his visit to Charkhi and Patawas villages in Dadri after farmers led by Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan, who is also head of the Sangwan Khap, with his supporters reached Charkhi carrying black flags in their hands.Raju Mann, a farm leader, said they will not allow the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in their area and the khaps had already announced their boycott .BJP workers left the venue of the ‘chintan shivir’ at Jind’s Narwana after farmers, including children and women, reached the venue and started sloganeering amid heavy security. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala , his cabinet colleague and Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma cancelled their visit to Jhajjar’s Mahavidyalaya Gurukul after a protest by farmers and Chahar Khap members , who erected tents outside the college on Saturday to protest against the BJP-JJP leaders. Farmers continue confronting MLAs who voted gainst no-confidence motionKarnal Farmers continued with their campaign to confront BJP, JJP and Independent MLAs who had voted against the no-confidence motion in the state assembly recently.Agitated farmers staged protests and burnt the effigies of the MLAs. In Kurukshetra, farmers took out a protest march against JJP’s Shahbad MLA Ram Karan. Amid heavy police deployment, famers also gheraoed the office of the MLA, saying they will not allow him to enter villages. Also, farmers held a protest against Independent MLA from Pundri assembly constituency Randhir Gollan. Farmers staged a protest in Pundri and burnt his effigy. The farmers also circulated Gollan’s old videos on social media in which he was seen slamming the BJP leaders in Haryana for not giving him ticket and seeking support from farmers. “Gollan came to us for support when the BJP did not give him ticket and we voted for him, but now he betrayed us when we needed his vote for the no-confidence motion,” said a protesting farmer Hardeep Singh Dhull. Farmers not to build brick-mortar houses at Delhi border: Union leaderRohtak A day after Kundli police registered two FIRs against farmers for constructing brick-mortar houses and digging borewell along the highway at Kundli, the farm leaders on Sunday said they will follow the rules and will not construct ‘pucca’ structures at the protest sites.A day earlier, a man from Punjab (Karam Singh) was booked by name in two FIRs registered against farmers for constructing brick-mortar houses and digging borewell along the highway at Kundli on the complaint of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) project director Anand Singh and Kundli municipal council secretary Pawan Kumar.Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Dharshan Pal Singh said they have conducted a meeting with other leaders and decided not to build brick-mortar houses at protest sites. “We will not take any step that will weaken our agitation. We will abide by the law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-force-dhankar-dushyant-to-skip-events-101615749828434.html
15-03-2021||Other||Spate of criminal cases puts Maharashtra govt in tight spot, leaders wary of image||In the past 15 months that it has been in power, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has received more flak for crimes than it did for the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic or the cash crunch owing to the slow economy. Beginning with Palghar mob lynching to the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to the allegations against its two ministers in connection with alleged crimes against women, the government has been at the receiving end. Now it is facing flak over the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, whose SUV was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home with explosives last month. Hiran’s death came at a time was Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis in the Assembly said that the businessman needed to be protected, as he could throw some light on the case. The issue has become the latest headache for Uddhav Thackeray after Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested for his alleged involvement by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday night. The Palghar lynching case, in which two seers and their driver were beaten to death, as well as Rajput’s death, led to an uproar in social media over the state’s handling of the cases, with Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing MVA it of suppressing the facts. While the government kept insisting that the probe in both the cases was being conducted in an impartial manner, it was the allegations against its two ministers that caused it major embarrassment. Social justice minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dhananjay Munde, in the second week of January, faced allegations of rape by a budding Bollywood singer, who was also younger sister of a woman with whom the minister had admitted to be in a relationship. Though the singer later withdrew her complaint amid much political drama, the minister had almost lost his chair. A month later, Shiv Sena leader and forest minister Sanjay Rathod’s name cropped up in a case related to the suicide of a 23-year-old Pune woman. About a dozen audio clips of the mobile conversation related to the case went viral with the Opposition alleging that one of the voices in the clips was that of Rathod. The minister had to resign from the cabinet on the eve of the budget session that started on March 1. The 10-day long session ended under the shadow of the controversy over Vaze’s alleged involvement in the explosives case, with Fadnavis alleging that the cop was directly connected to Hiran’s death. Buckling under Opposition’s pressure, the assistant police inspector was shunted out of the crime branch, though chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had defended him by saying that Vaze should not be “hanged” before the trial. Fadnavis had taunted Thackeray and said Vaze does not need any lawyer as CM has himself taken up the job to defend him. Three cases in two months The three cases – two pertaining to the ministers and Vaze – have damaged MVA government’s image, according to its own ministers. The government faced many controversies during its 15-month tenure, but these two months are believed to be really troublesome for it, they said. “The wounded BJP left no opportunity to corner the Thackeray government ever since it was formed on November 28, 2019, after the decades-long Sena-BJP alliance came to an end. Be it Rajput’s death case, the Palghar lynching, handling of the Covid-19 pandemic or loan waiver, power bills, BJP leaders were very aggressive while raising the issues. However, in Rathod and Vaze’s cases, the Opposition succeeded in pushing the government to the wall. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar had to admit that it was the pressure from the Opposition that led to Vaze’s transfer, said a senior NCP minister. The minister said that Munde could save his ministership because of the political strategy adopted to turn around the perception against him. “At one moment, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had admitted it to be a serious case, hinting that the minister will have to resign. But as more people, including a former legislator, coming to Munde’s rescue by claiming that the woman had blackmailed them too, helped the minister save his chair.” Some behind-the-curtain damage control was reportedly done by NCP and Munde, which helped him retain his position. However, Rathod’s damage control management was poor, and getting linked in a woman’s death case proved to be problematic for him. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “The immoral relations of politicians outside their wedlock are not accepted by women in the society. Women voters have been playing a major role in elections, as was seen in Bihar and other states. These two [ministers’] cases may cost dear to ruling parties in the coming elections. The Vaze case was mishandled by the state government. There was no reason for CM to give loaded statements like ‘Vaze can’t be hanged before trial’. Secondly, in Rathod and Vaze’s cases, the action appeared to have been taken only after Pawar’s intervention. This has been creating a poor picture for Thackeray, who is behind the steering wheel.” Shiv Sena’s south Mumbai parliamentarian Arvind Sawant said: “I do not think the MVA government has suffered any setback because of these cases. There have been more serious cases in the country, be it Karnataka minister’s latest sex scandal or Hathras-Unnao cases in Uttar Pradesh. Rathod and Munde’s cases are their personal matters. In Vaze’s case, NIA is conducting a probe. Let the truth come to the fore and action will be taken. Also, why are questions not raised on [MP] Mohan Delkar’s suicide, which is a more serious case? We should also remember that there was ruckus created in Rajput’s death case, but the CBI found nothing.” State minority affairs minister from NCP Nawab Malik said Munde’s case was a family matter and it had nothing to do with public perception. “The case was withdrawn by the complainant. In Rathod and Vaze’s cases, the investigations are on, and truth will come to the fore once the probes are completed. In a democracy, the Opposition has its own importance, but Vaze’s transfer was not because of the Opposition’s pressure.” Poor handling, lack of coordination Insiders said that the major difference between cases related to Munde and Rathod was their handling and that the former forest minister’s case was an example of the poor crisis management by the ruling parties. Leaders from the ruling alliance said that Munde responded to the allegations within hours and ensured that the charges were withdrawn in the next few days. “On the contrary, Rathod sulked for two weeks after the controversy broke out and emerged only to commit another mistake by gathering a huge crowd at Poharadevi temple [a religious place of his Banjara community] when his party chief and CM Thackeray had banned social gatherings. BJP raked up the issue in these two weeks to a level that the general perception went against the government, said a former Sena minister.The three ruling parties are also not found to be on the same page on many occasions, and it was made evident during Vaze’s case. When Fadnavis levelled allegations of Vaze’s involvement in Hiran’s case on Tuesday, NCP leaders had initially agreed for Vaze’s transfer, but the CM put his foot down and refused any action against the officer. This led to several adjournments in the Assembly and pandemonium. The house proceedings resumed only after the government announced Vaze’s transfer. Insiders feel that the criticism and controversy could have been avoided had the officer been shunted out immediately after the issue came up. “The ruling parties, in retaliation, raised the suicides cases of interior designer Anvay Naik and Delkar, who was Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP. In the 2018 Naik case, the victim’s family had blamed the Fadnavis government of suppressing the case, while Delkar had named a BJP leader from Gujarat, holding him responsible for the suicide. This may have helped us in pushing BJP on the back foot, but the seriousness of the Hiran case does not recede,” the former Sena minister said. The leader said that ruling parties fail to pre-empt the controversies and plan accordingly. “BJP has an edge over us in picking up the issues. They miss no time in strategising and attacking the government. Be it Palghar lynching, Rajput or Rathod’s cases, the Opposition has always been aggressive. But the over-aggressive approach seems to going against them, and is playing as an advantage of the MVA government,” he said. The Congress, the third MVA partner, has distanced itself from all these issues to avoid any embarrassment. A Congress leader said that the damage to MVA’s image is unlikely to be reflected as there are no major elections anytime soon. “Moreover, these cases are mostly related to the other two ruling parties. By maintaining distance, we made sure that they directly do not hamper us,” the leader said. Malik said that the ruling parties will take more precautions for better coordination in future. “Some of the issues such as the one related to Rathod are to be tackled at the party level as it’s their internal matter. But yes, when it comes to MVA, we need to have better coordination in future,” he said. Maharashtra BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “We have been raising issues of public interest from beginning, be it Palghar lynching, SSR death or but till then the general public had sympathy for this government. Now, the people have realised the failure of the MVA government. They have realised that people here are not safe and the government is not interested at all to ensure it. Vaze’s is not the only case to establish that the law and order in the state has completely collapsed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spate-of-criminal-cases-puts-maharashtra-govt-in-tight-spot-leaders-wary-of-image-101615749650516.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Radiology diagnostic services in a shambles in HP’s medical colleges||Radiology and imaging services in different medical colleges of Himachal Pradesh are in a shambles as several machines remain dysfunctional despite the management spending crores on equipment repair. Interestingly, in some cases, the cost of repair has exceeded the actual cost of equipment.A computed tomography (CT) scan machine was installed at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College and Hospital in 2008 for ₹3.31 crore. However, so far, around ₹2.61 crore has been spent on its repair and the machine is still out of order. This was pointed out by Palampur legislator Ashish Butail, who had raised a question in this regard, in the assembly. The government had tabled a detailed answer to his question.Similarly, a Colour Doppler machine worth ₹29.25 lakh was installed in 2008 and its repair cost has reached ₹20.86 lakh. However, it has been lying dysfunctional. Of three 500-MA x-ray machines installed at a cost of ₹64.40 lakh, only one is functional despite ₹34.87 lakh being spent on repairs.In the state’s biggest health institution, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, all radiology equipment is in working condition but authorities have spent more on the repair of some machines than their actual cost. For instance, the management has spent ₹30 lakhs on the repair of the diagnostic 1000 MA x-ray machine purchased for ₹5 lakh in 2009.In 2010, ₹2.76 crore had been spent on repair of a CT Scan-64 whose cost in 2010 was ₹55 lakh. Similarly, an MRI scan machine was installed at a cost of ₹70 lakh, while its repair cost has mounted to ₹2.68 crore.A similar pattern was seen at Nahan Medical College. So far, authorities have spent ₹1.67 crore on repairing a CT scan machine that was purchased in 2007. However, the machine has been lying defunct since it malfunctioned in September 2020. It had been purchased for ₹95 lakh.The CT scan machine at Hamirpur Medical College has been out of order since October, 2020. So far, ₹96.56 lakh has been spent on the repair of the machine that cost ₹95.27 lakh.In Chamba Medical College, the CT scan machine has not worked since 2016 despite ₹82.74 lakh being spent on its repair.Butail said that this was enough to reflect the crumbling health services in the state and the problems faced by the people, who have either spent lakhs of rupees on diagnostic services in private hospitals or have been forced to go to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/radiology-diagnostic-services-in-a-shambles-in-hp-s-medical-colleges-101615749649458.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir announces to contest assembly polls from Jalalabad||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday announced to contest from Jalalabad segment in the forthcoming assembly polls.Sukhbir, a sitting MP from the Ferozepur Lok Sabha seat, announced it after launching a political programme “Punjab Mangda Jawab” organised at the grain market of Jalalabad town in Fazilka district.A former deputy chief minister, Sukhbir, had represented Jalalabad segment thrice in 2009 byelection, 2012, and 2017. In 2019, he quit as MLA after being elected to the Parliament.Meanwhile, the party leadership announced to escalate political drive against the Congress regime at a rally. It was the first major political programme after Punjab witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases.At the event, pandemic norms were violated as hardly any leader or audience was wearing a face mask and social distancing was not followed.Blowing the poll bugle with a blistering attack against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Sukhbir said four years of the Congress was a period of brazen misrule and unkept promises.Farmers, who had been promised a complete loan waiver for farmers worth ₹90,000 crore, ended with an additional burden of ₹15,000 crore loan because they did not pay their instalments believing the electoral promise made by the CM.“Similarly, youth have been tricked into filling forms for jobs which materialised. No one received ₹2,500 per month unemployment allowance promised by the Congress party in the run up to the 2017 assembly elections,” he added.Addressing the gathering, the SAD chief charged the Congress and AAP for fabricating charges of sacrileges against the Badal family under a political conspiracy.He said the party would introduce minimum support price (MSP) on milk, fruits and vegetables, besides paying commission to arhtiyas for crop procurement if the Centre abolishes the traditional system.Sukhbir counted development projects initiated by him to nurture Jalalabad constituency during the Akali regime.“Congress MLA Raminder Awla had promised to start projects from family-managed industrial houses in Jalalabad but people feel cheated by the leader. Congress could not count any major development initiated by it in the last four years,” said Sukhbir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-announces-to-contest-assembly-polls-from-jalalabad-101615749648363.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda Fort: Life, glory to return to historic Rani Mahal before monsoon||The maiden restoration work of the historic Rani Mahal, a principal area of the 1,500-year-old Bathinda or Govindgarh Fort, is expected to be completed before the onset of monsoon in July.Popularly known as Quila Mubarak, considered as the oldest surviving fort in the country, it is believed to be the place where Razia Sultana, the only woman emperor to rule Delhi, was imprisoned by Malik Altunia, the then governor and her husband.Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI’s) conservation assistant at the fort Tarak Singh said on Sunday that ₹17 lakh has been spent to conserve Rani Mahal, located above the only entrance gate, in the last one-and-half-years.“It is believed that Razia (who ruled Delhi from 1236 to 1240) had escaped from the same Rani Mahal. The roof of the Mahal, with its beautiful murals, collapsed after the rain a few years ago and outer walls have been eroding extensively during every monsoon. Work had to be suspended during the lockdown, but now restoration has been expedited,” said Singh.The fort is located in the heart of the city and according to popular belief, a river used to flow in the modern-day Bathinda city that is now a semi-arid region. The fort was considered essentially a military outpost used by rulers at different times of history.The ASI-protected heritage site was built by Raja Dab in the sixth century AD as a defence measure against the invading Hunas. The fort was visited by the 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh in 1705. To mark this event, two gurdwaras were built inside the fort, including one built by Karam Singh, the erstwhile ruler of Patiala.“It would not have possible to construct a massive structure without a huge water source in the vicinity of Bathinda. The monument is made of mud bricks and with rain, the exposed parts erode, thus posing threat to the monument,” said Singh, in-charge of the heritage building.“Since the fort was located very strategically, rulers used and conserved the fort for their armies. However, alteration in the basic design of this mud fort was not possible and it has made the structure vulnerable to deteriorate with the passage of time,” he added.There are 32 bastions and seven of them have crashed in the absence of restoration activities.“A comprehensive conservation plan has been made and it will be executed in a phased manner. Availability of expert masons for conservation is a huge challenge in such projects but we are working to complete to protect the heritage,” said the ASI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-fort-life-glory-to-return-to-historic-rani-mahal-before-monsoon-101615749528545.html
15-03-2021||Other||Clerics condemn Rizvi for filing PIL on Quran||LUCKNOW Prominent Muslim clerics on Sunday condemned former Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board chairman Waseem Rizvi for having filed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition in the Supreme Court, seeking the removal of 26 verses from the Quran.In a rally on Azadari Road here on Sunday, prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawwad, who is general secretary of Majlis-e-Ulema-e-Hind, said , “We will organise a rally in Delhi on March 19 to demand the arrest of Waseem Rizvi under NSA. He has tried to hurt the feelings of Muslims and we will socially boycott him. He is the enemy of the Quran and is acting at the behest of anti-India forces, who want to incite riots in the country.”He said his fight would not stop unless Rizvi was sent behind bars by the government.Maulana Sayyed Salman Nadwi laid stress on unity among the Shias and the Sunnis. He termed Waseem Rizvi a “qafir” for his move on the Quran.Those present at the rally included Maulana Fazl-e- Mannan Waizi, Maulana Imran Siddiqui, Maulana Hasnain Baqai, Maulana Babar Ashraf, Maulana Kalbe Sibtain Noori, Professor Maharookh Mirza and Swami Sarang.Rizvi refuses to back downIn a video statement, Rizvi said that he would not backtrack on his statement or the petition filed in the Supreme Court.He said, “I am not afraid of my boycott…I have my friends who are backing me in my fight against terrorism. If I find myself losing this fight, then I will commit suicide but not do a U-turn on the issue.”Anupam Srivastava9044409900||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clerics-condemn-rizvi-for-filing-pil-on-quran-101615749407544.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid -ve report, vaccination must for taking part in gatherings in Amritsar||To contain the Covid-19 surge in the district amid the second wave of the pandemic in Punjab, the district administration on Sunday made covid ‘negative’ report or vaccination certificate mandatory to attend any gathering in Amritsar.“The organisers of any social, religious, sports, entertainment or culture event shall ensure that any person attending the event should be either tested negative for Covid, 72 hours prior to the event, or should have been vaccinated and carries its proof,” Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said in an order, adding that the ceiling of 100 persons (for indoor) and 200 persons (for outdoor) for every kind of gathering shall be strictly enforced.The order further said that fines will be imposed for violation of above ceiling limit on the organisers and the people found violating social distancing and Covid safety norms.Besides, all the sub-divisional magistrate (SDMs) and their police counterparts have been directed to ensure that these directions are strictly followed in their subdivisions by regularly visiting marriage palaces, restaurants and other public places.On Sunday, as many as 110 fresh cases were added to the district Covid list, taking the total infections till date to 16,861. At present, 891 active cases are present in the district.Despite a second wave of infection in Amritsar, a large number of tourists can be seen visiting the Golden Temple in Amritsar and not maintaining social distancing norms. Besides Golden Temple, people can easily be spotted flouting the norms of wearing face masks in public places. “Many districts have already implemented night curfew but to avoid any such strict action in Amritsar, we have decided to make Covid negative reports and vaccination proof must attend any gathering. Also, directions have been made to ensure all Covid safety norms, especially implementation of social distancing, at Golden Temple and other religious places. If the people will not follow the guidelines, we will soon impose night curfew and other strict measures”, DC Khaira added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-ve-report-vaccination-must-for-taking-part-in-gatherings-in-amritsar-101615749289205.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Will wrest Fatehpur assembly seat from Congress, says HP CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said the BJP will try to win the Fatehpur assembly segment from Congress in the upcoming by-election.Thakur was addressing a public meeting at Nagrota Surian in Jawali sub-division of Kangra district. “The Fatehpur assembly segment is a stronghold of the Congress and we will try to win it in the upcoming bypolls,” said the chief minister.The Fatehpur assembly seat was vacated after the death of sitting legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania on February 12. The CM laid foundation stones of around 21 developmental projects of the public works department and Jal Shakti Vibhag worth ₹161.58 crore in Jawali area of Kangra district.Thakur said that under his regime all-round development was taking place across the state without any bias. He thanked the people for supporting the central and state governments amid the Covid-19 crisis and following all guidelines issued by various authorities. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had steered the nation in this testing time and provided a vibrant, transparent and dynamic leadership.Decade-old problems and issues such as the construction of the Ram Temple, revocation of Article 370 and 35 (A) and standoff at border could take place because of the strong central leadership, he said.Taking a jibe at the Opposition, the CM said that instead of cooperating the opposition leaders kept on criticising the government during pandemic and did not offer any help. He also listed the different pro-people schemes being run by his government.The chief minister also said Government High School, Nadoli, wil be upgraded to Government Senior Secondary School. “The Community Health Centre, Nagrota Surian, will also be upgraded and ₹10 lakh each will be sanctioned for four link roads,” he said. He said construction of a railway overbridge on Ghar Jarot will be taken up with Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and all possibilities would be explored for the improvement of Dehra-Jawali Road under the Central Road Fund.Speaking on the occasion, Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor listed various welfare schemes and policies of the central government. Local MLA Arjun Singh raised various demands related to his constituency.Social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary, MLAs Rita Dhiman, Rakesh Jamwal, Hoshiar Singh and Ravinder Dhiman were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-wrest-fatehpur-assembly-seat-from-congress-says-hp-cm-101615749288106.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Antilia security scare: Opposition is trying to destabilise Maharashtra: Govt||The politics over the security scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and arrest of Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze heated up in Maharashtra on Sunday, with the ruling Shiv Sena calling the takeover of the case by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) an attempt to “destabilise the state”, while the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged a deeper conspiracy that needs to be investigated and called for resignation of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut said repeated attempts were made to take over cases being investigated by city or state police to demoralise the police force. Raut said there was no need for a central agency to take over the case when the city police, which has dealt with several key cases, was investigating it. Congress leaders also expressed concern if there was politics behind NIA’s entry. “The manner in which the NIA came to Mumbai for just 20 gelatin sticks [begs the question] – Did they want to investigate a terror angle or just wanted to arrest an officer called Sachin Vaze and settle their political score? Because, this officer, some months ago, had arrested their dear TV anchor in connection with a suicide-death case and investigated the TRP scam,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai. The Sena leader said such tactics by the Centre are to put pressure on the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. “The Mumbai Police is capable of investigating any case. But they want to enter the state and try to destabilise it, demoralise the police and display that there is terror and pressure of the Centre… There was no need for a central team; Mumbai Police can unearth a conspiracy, if there is one,” Raut said. Meanwhile, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said both NIA and anti-terrorism squad (ATS) are probing the case and appropriate action will be taken based on the findings. “The bomb scare case related to industrialist Mukesh Ambani and murder of Mansukh Hiran is being probed by the NIA as well as the ATS,” Deshmukh told reporters. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar chose not to comment on the issue. “I can’t speak much about it, as it is a small and local issue. It is also not about the state government’s policy,” Pawar said in his response at Baramati in Pune on Sunday. BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis alleged that those backing Vaze should be investigated thoroughly. In Pune, he said many other names are expected to come out in the investigation, as it is a big plot. “I am of the opinion that the case is not limited to Sachin Vaze… It is a big plot and many more names will now be revealed during the investigation… It is just the beginning…Now, the NIA has sought Vaze’s custody for parking the car [outside Ambani’s residence], but the agency has got evidence and links on Hiran’s murder as well and I am expecting action on that front soon,” he said. Fadnavis also questioned reinstatement of Vaze from suspension. “Shiv Sena leaders were asking for his reinstatement when I was the chief minister and also holding charge of the home department. I sought AG’s opinion and he orally told me that it would lead to disrespect of the high court as Vaze was suspended as per their order. This (MVA) government reinstated him after coming to power on the grounds that they even required suspended officers to fight the Covid-19 pandemic,” Fadnavis said. He also said that unwarranted support and trust by the state government led Vaze to think he could do anything and so he allegedly planned and executed this incident near Antilia. “The crime intelligence unit is the most important wing of the Mumbai Police and the post of its head is being led by a police inspector level officer. But as soon as Vaze was reinstated, the existing police officer was transferred as Vaze, a junior level officer, was appointed to that post. I don’t know why he was getting so much support from the government. Was that because he had joined Shiv Sena or there was some other reason behind it,” he asked. He denied making any demand for President’s rule in the state. “Who is making the government unstable -- those executing such a plot or those [the Centre] taking action against it?” Congress leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said they suspect the entry of the NIA is part of politics on part of the BJP. “Governments keep changing, but the police force remains the same everywhere. Maharashtra and Mumbai Police are famous for its work, world over. Mumbai Police is equated to the Scotland Yard. Care should be taken not to make their morale low. We trust our police force and they are capable… With the Central agency taking over, we suspect if there is politics in it. We are concerned about it, but since the investigation is on, we would not like to comment further,” he said, in Ahmednagar. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole alleged that Maharashtra Assembly was “used or misused” by the BJP on behalf of Ambani. “Like I said [in the Assembly], they want permission for a helipad on the rooftop. Secondly, they want Z plus security for each of their family members. And thirdly, they want to create a wave of sympathy for them, as they are at the forefront of the farmers’ stir.” He further added that the car found near Antilia was a kilometre away and there were no active explosives in it. “The Centre is expert at diverting any issue… The manner in which Sachin Vaze is made a villain and he is being investigated... they can do any tests they want on him; they don’t need the state’s permission,” Patole said regarding the BJP’s demand to carry out a narco-analysis test on Vaze. BJP leader Prasad Lad said, “The chief minister should take moral responsibility and tender his resignation. He had asked if Sachin Vaze was Osama Bin Laden. The NIA should also take over the Mansukh Hiran case and get to the bottom of the conspiracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-security-scare-opposition-is-trying-to-destabilise-maharashtra-govt-101615749228566.html
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Corporation polls litmus test of Jai Ram govt’s popularity||Seen as a precursor to the Assembly elections, the municipal corporation polls scheduled for April 7 will be a litmus test for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and will help gauge the popularity of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur . The Himachal state election commission has announced its schedule for the four municipal corporations — Mandi, Solan, Palampur and Dharamshala. The saffron party recently amended the Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, to allow elections on party symbols. This will be the third time that MC polls in the state will be held on party symbols. MC elections were held on party symbols in 1997 in Shimla and then again in 2012. Despite being in power, BJP lost both seats of mayor and deputy mayor to the Communist Party of India (Marxist). However, when Congress came to power in 2012, it did away with holding elections on party symbols. This time, BJP’s cadre and leaders suggested that elections be held on party symbols despite factionalism within the party making waves. The ruling party, which had begun its preparations well in advance, was quick to amend the Municipal Corporation Act. Saffron party’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda had attended the party’s three-day meeting in Dharamshala in February. It is learnt that Nadda had emphasised on the importance of winning elections to the corporation. The party, too, seems to be taking the elections seriously as chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who had been on an inauguration spree in Mandi, laid the foundation stone of projects worth ₹17 crore. Rifts within the party a challenge There has been a rift within the Mandi chapter of the BJP since local legislator Anil Sharma was compelled to give up his cabinet berth after Congress fielded his son Ashray Sharma in the Lok Sabha elections. The heavyweight has distanced himself from the party’s activities and the CM since then. Leaders owing allegiance to former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal have begun asserting themselves. Dhumal, who had been lying low after his unexpected defeat in the Assembly elections, is reportedly touring his home district Hamirpur. Dhumal’s camp is unhappy with Jai Ram as they feel they have been sidelined . The BJP has deputed its stalwart leaders, known for their organisational skills at the forefront of the election campaign. They include Mahender Singh for Mandi, Rajeev Bindal for Solan, Rakesh Pathania in Dharamshala and Vikram Thakur in Palampur. BJP has not been able to deliver: RathoreNot one to be left behind, the Congress too has deputed its vanguard to oversee the elections. Congress’ Himachal chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said, “The MC elections are certainly a litmus test for the ruling party. They have not been able to deliver. Congress has deputed its observers for selecting candidates and a decision on candidates will be taken at a meeting of the Pradesh election committee.”  “BJP claimed victories in elections to the Panchayati Raj Institutions though elections were not held on symbols but this election will be the real litmus test for them. We welcome elections on party symbols,” said Rathore . Congress is likely to announce its candidates on March 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corporation-polls-litmus-test-of-jai-ram-govt-s-popularity-101615749108282.html
15-03-2021||Other||PFI’s ‘training commander’ nabbed from UP’s Basti district||LUCKNOW The UP Special Task Force (STF) on Sunday arrested a man in Basti district who was alleged to be the ‘training commander’ of Popular Front of India’s (PFI) hit squad, said police officials. They claimed to have recovered multiple fake identify proofs and anti-national literature from his possession.According to a statement by the UP STF, the accused Mohammed Rashid Ali of Siddharthnagar was arrested from Basti’s Moodghat crossing when he was about to board a bus to Lucknow to move towards Mumbai with the intent of meeting other members of his organisation and plan out nefarious activities against the country.The STF was trying to trace his location after his name surfaced as the training commander of the PFI’s hit squad following the arrest of Asad Badruddin, the alleged national head of the hit squad, and his accomplice Feroz Khan, from Lucknow’s Gudamba area on February 16, said an official of the STF. “Earlier, the STF had information that Rashid was about to move to Mumbai on March 11. But we failed to locate him as he had changed his plan. On Sunday, we were tipped off again about his movement from Basti and he was arrested,” he said, adding: “A bundle of pamphlets containing anti-national content, two Aadhaar cards (including one fake) and a CD containing anti-national content was recovered from him.”The official said Rashid was involved in the selection of youths for the hit squad and trained them in handling firearms and explosives. “We are investigating about his background and other people who were in touch with him for the past few months, as the hit squad was planning to trigger blasts in different parts of the state and the country,” he stated.The official said Rashid had been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 121-A (planning to commit terror blasts), 420 (fraud), 467 (forging documents), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged documents as genuine) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy). He said an FIR had been registered with the city kotwali of Basti.Earlier, the STF had claimed to have foiled a plan to carry out terror attacks after the arrest of Asad Badruddin and Firoz Khan and recovery of 16 high explosive devices, a pistol and live cartridges from them. Badruddin and Khan were natives of Kerala and had planned to carry out explosions near functions of Hindu organisations on Basant Panchami, and other strategic locations in UP, said officials.The PFI, which claimed to be a social youth organisation based in Kerala, had been on the radar of UP police since 2019 when many of its members, across the state, were arrested in connection with the violent anti CAA-NRC protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pfis-training-commander-nabbed-in-basti-101615748987565.html
15-03-2021||Other||List of religious structures on public roads in Ayodhya sent to UP govt||LUCKNOW The Ayodhya administration on Sunday sent to the state government a list of religious structures that had come up on public roads/pavements after January 1, 2011 and were causing hindrance to traffic. Such structures could be seen everywhere in Ayodhya – even in narrow lanes and bylanes. After clearance from the state government, these will be demolished, said officials of the district administration. The Ayodhya Municipal Corporation also helped the district administration in identifying religious structures blocking roads. It may be pointed out that the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had ordered the UP government to remove all religious structures (constructed after January 1, 2011) causing hindrance to traffic. In compliance of the HC’s order, the state government ordered that no religious construction be allowed on roads, lanes, footpaths or along national and state highways. Last week, in a communiqué to all divisional commissioners, district magistrates, all police officers, the government ordered that all such religious constructions made on public property after January 1, 2011 be identified and removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/list-of-religious-structures-on-public-roads-in-ayodhya-sent-to-up-govt-101615748747536.html
15-03-2021||City||It's raining sops! AIADMK promises free washing machines, cable connection||The ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) released its election manifesto on Sunday to seek a third consecutive term in Tamil Nadu’s April 6 assembly elections by promising free washing machines, offering dual citizenship to Sri Lankan refugees and pledging free housing to people.The AIADMK, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party, said it would urge the Centre to scrap the Citizenship Amendment Act and work to bring education to the state list from the concurrent list of the Constitution.Also read: MK Stalin says DMK would continue to urge Centre to scrap CAAWhile the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has vowed to abolish the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), the AIADMK has offered providing training to students appearing for competitive exams such as NEET, UPSC and JEE. NEET is an emotional issue in the state as several students have died by suicide either because they failed to clear the exam or they feared they couldn’t realise their aspirations of studying medicine.The AIADMK manifesto, coming a day after the DMK released its poll promises, bore several similarities. Both parties have tried to appeal to youngsters, women and the Tamil sentiment.Increase in maternity leave for women government employees from nine months to one year and construction of new buildings with modern medical facilities for about 2,000 Amma Mini Clinics also found mention in the AIADMK manifesto.To those who don’t own houses, the AIADMK has promised building and providing houses free of cost in rural and urban areas under the ‘Amma Illam Thittam’ (Amma Housing Scheme) and interest on housing loans availed from cooperative housing societies would be waived on loan repayment.It also said that ₹1,500 per month would be disbursed to all ration card holders and the amount would be credited to bank accounts of woman family heads, senior AIADMK leader C Ponnaiyan said.While the DMK retained its 2016 assembly poll promise of free tablets with internet for students, the AIADMK has promised 2G data to students. The AIADMK has also promised to lower fuel prices.Keeping the issue of Sri Lankan Tamils alive, the AIADMK manifesto promised steps to ensure dual citizenship and voting rights for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees.“Both manifestos are meant to attract voters which they have but compared to DMK’s manifesto, the AIADMK has more sops,” said J Jeyaranjan, who researches political economy of Tamil Nadu.After releasing the manifesto, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the party has ensured protection for farmers and students through loan waivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiadmk-promises-free-washing-machine-dual-citizenship-for-sri-lankan-refugees-101615748096949.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||407 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, 2 more deaths||The Capital reported over 400 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the fourth day in a row on Sunday. The city added 407 cases to its tally of over 643,000 infections so far since March 2 last year, when the first case was detected. The city has seen an increase in the number of people hospitalised with the infection as well — from 400 people across city hospitals on February 26 to 582 as on Sunday evening, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. The number of deaths reported each day has also increased slightly. On average, 2.2 deaths were reported each day during the first 14 days of March as compared to 1.3 deaths during the second half of February. The numbers were higher – 2.6 deaths a day on average – during the first half of the month. So far, 10,941 persons have died of the infection. With over 68,000 tests conducted on Saturday – reported a day later in Sunday’s health bulletin – Delhi’s positivity rate stood at 0.60%. The positivity rate is the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested and is indicative of the spread of the infection in a region. Experts believe that a positivity rate of 5% or less maintained over two weeks indicates that the spread of the infection is under control. Although, Delhi’s positivity rate is much lower than this it has been inching upwards since mid-February. The average positivity rate over the first 14 days of March has been 0.49%. In comparison, the average positivity rate during second half of February was 0.28% and 0.23% during the first half of the month, data shows. “The situation is exactly like it was during Diwali when people were out and about, leading to a lot of asymptomatic spread of the infection. The euphoria of having low number of cases in Delhi was short-lived because people have stopped following Covid-19 norms such as social distancing and masking,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. He added, “With the number of cases going down, people stopped following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The city also has a huge floating population — people travelling to other states and other countries. And, there is still a significant proportion of people who haven’t developed immunity against the infection. The problem is compounded by the emergence of new variants — some we know of, some we don’t.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/407-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-2-more-deaths-101615747427585.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Don’t build permanent structures at protest site: SKM||The farmers’ collective Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday called on farmers to stop constructing permanent structures at sites where they were protesting the Centre’s farm laws.The protesters had been building shelters using bamboo, tin, plywood and even bricks at the Tikri and Singhu borders over the last two weeks to beat the summer heat and rain.On Saturday, Kundli police had registered two FIRs against farmers for constructing brick and mortar houses and digging borewell along the highway at Kundli on the complaint of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).“On March 12, 32 Punjab farmer unions decided that protesters should not get into building any permanent structures at the protest sites. This decision was taken against the backdrop of some such structures coming up at Singhu border,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal on Sunday.At many of these structures, protesters had installed air conditioners, refrigerators, fans and coolers.“The building material was crowd-sourced from villages or bought from nearby stores,” said Kishan Pal Singh, 47, a farmer from Jind in Haryana. “We have seen people questioning us on social media for using fans and coolers. It is sad that they are more concerned about this than the deaths of 200 farmers in the agitation.”Anil Malik, 41, leader of Kisan Social Army that has been volunteering at the Tikri protest site, said farmers had no idea how long the 109 days old agitation would continue.“If it had been a matter of 10-20 days, we could have stayed on the roads. We have elderly protesters and many are at risk of heat stroke. Plus, there is the rain,” said Malik who is from Chakhi Dadri in Haryana. “If our leaders have asked us not to build any structure, we will respect that. But they have to suggest alternatives.”SKM’s media coordinator Harinder Singh said that they would come up with temporary arrangements. “We are thinking of having more tents or temporary bamboo structures as trolleys are not suitable for these weather conditions,” said Singh.Farmers at the protest sites said along with the heat, the dust and mosquito menace added to the woes of staying in the open.Through the protest’s trilingual weekly Trolley Times, volunteers and youth activists at Tikri border had also given the call for architects and designers to submit eco-friendly low-cost summer houses for farmers sitting at the protest spot last month.Suchetna Singh, 26, an architect who hails from Ludhiana and has been in Delhi for two years, was among those who volunteered to design these low-cost structures for the farmers. “We had to keep in mind that these structures could be disassembled and taken back to the villages if needed. Many farmers had already made their own structures using their knowledge and experience and those who were still building one came to us and asked for inputs on if we could make it easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-build-permanent-structures-at-protest-site-skm-101615747370016.html
15-03-2021||Other||Door-to-door network across Delhi districts to boost Covid vaccination turnouts||New Delhi: With Covid-19 vaccination turnouts in the city consistently below the government’s expectations, district teams have fanned out across the Capital in a bid to convince people aged above 60 and those over 45 with serious illness to get inoculated against the infection, which has steadily inched up in the city over the past few days.A senior government official said the teams have also been entrusted with helping people register and book vaccine slots through the Centre’s CoWin system and arrange conveyance for them if required.“We want to scale up the vaccination drive by increasing capacity as well as turnout. This cohort mobilisation exercise is an important step in that direction. We have to ensure that a large number of people are protected against the disease at the earliest,” said Vijay Dev, Delhi’s chief secretary.Since January 16, when the vaccination drive was rolled out across the country starting with health care workers, 664,620 people in Delhi — roughly 3.3% of its total population — have received the first dose of the vaccine. These include 173,408 health workers, 264,282 front line workers, 196,007 people aged over 60 years and 30,923 people between ages 45-59 who have comorbidities, government records showed.Out of 900,000 health workers and front line workers in the city, around 600,000 registered for the vaccine. Delhi has around 2.1 million individuals aged over 60, according to election data which the government has used to record vaccination estimates. There is no clear estimate of people aged between 45-59 years who have specific comorbidities as listed by the Union health ministry.“We are using booth-level machinery to reach out door-to-door, meet eligible beneficiaries and speak to them about the benefits of the vaccine, help reduce hesitance and assist them with the registration process,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East Delhi).Delhi currently has 438 vaccine sites across 192 health care facilities. Of these, 56 are government facilities, where the vaccines are administered for free and 136 are private that charge up to ₹250 for a single dose.“The focus of the drive is on potential beneficiaries who live in slums and low-income group colonies, where people are generally less aware about the programme. Many of them are too poor to afford conveyance or are less comfortable with technology to register themselves on CoWin. Another focus group is elderly people who have no relatives,” said Dharmendra Kumar, additional district magistrate.Each district has between 25 and 50 teams depending on its size and population.The government’s initiative comes amid a nationwide resurgence of infections. The seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases across India has risen by 67% from lows seen after the end of the first wave of the pandemic (from 10,988 cases a day week ending February 11, to 18,371 cases a day for week ending March 12), underlining what clearly appears to mark the start of the second wave of infections. On that parameter, Delhi has seen around 140% rise from the lows around mid-February. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 407 new Covid-19 cases – with a test positivity rate of 0.60% -- and two more deaths. The number of new cases recorded each day has been higher than 400 for four days now. So far, government records showed, 643,696 infections have been recorded in Delhi – of which 630,493 have recovered and 10,941 individuals have died. Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination taskforce for India, said: “Door-to-door drives is crucial for speeding up the vaccination drive and ensuring that more people are protected against the disease at the earliest, especially in the light of uptick in cases in some states. During visits by health officials, people should clearly share information regarding age and comorbidities. The government, on its part, should ensure that health officials engaged in the drive are briefed thoroughly about the communication modules drafted by the Union health ministry. The government should also monitor and evaluate how such drives contribute to turnout.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doortodoor-network-across-delhi-districts-to-boost-covid-vaccination-turnouts-101615747369433.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Tihar has no jammers that can block 4G signals||In Tihar, the country’s largest prison which houses close to 18,000 undertrials, there is not a single mobile phone jammer that is capable of blocking 4G signals, HT has learnt from prison officers.Last week, two smartphones were recovered from Tehsin Akhtar, last known chief of the now dormant homegrown terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), in Tihar’s jail number 8, one of which reportedly sent out a message that claimed responsibility for the explosives found in the SUV outside Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25.Central intelligence agencies had discovered a chat on phone app Telegram, through which a terror group that called themselves Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for planting the explosives laden car outside Ambani’s house. The Telegam group was found to have been created inside Delhi’s Tihar jail, after which Delhi police were informed. They in turn informed the prison department. On Thursday night, the Tihar prison authorities conducted a raid inside jail 8 and seized two phones. Delhi police have said that Akhtar created the group — Jaish-ul-Hind — on Telegram, on February 26, and claimed responsibility for placing an explosives laden Mahindra Scorpio car.At least two prison officials, who did not wish to be named, said though there is a need for more than 100-120 cell phone jammers that block 4G signals within the prison complex, they have less than 45 jammers. Also, those jammers were installed more than 4-5 years ago and are only capable of blocking 3G signals. Taking advantage of this fact, prisoners freely use 4G internet to make calls, said a prison officer.On Monday, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal is likely to hold a meeting with the prison’s director general Sandeep Goel, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla over the issue of jammers and cell phone use inside the jail. Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava is also likely to be present in the meeting. The lieutenant governor is mostly likely meeting the senior officers to try and find a way to stop all internet services being currently used by the prisoners.“We have seen in multiple cases that prisoners are freely using voice over internet call facility. They use WhatsApp, Facebook messenger and Telegram to make calls. The existing jammers were installed before 2014 and mildly work only against 2G and 3G signals. They are not at all effective in blocking internet calls, which is being used by every prisoner with a phone inside the jail. Another problem is that the prisoners know the corners inside the prison, where the jammers do not work. They use those spots to make calls,” said a mid-level prison officers, who did not wish to be named.When contacted, the prison’s director general Sandeep Goel said that the department will soon be doing away with jammers and adopt, what he said was, Dominant Tower Technology. “The jammers may work at some places and not work at some spots. They have certain limitations. We have found a better solution. With permission of department of telecom, we have installed one cell phone tower, at Mandoli Jail complex. Using Dominant Tower Technology, this tower blocks all signals from that particular area. We tested and found that this was effective at blocking all cell phone services from three jails in Mandoli. We will use this technology and install similar towers in Tihar too. This will cut off all signals. Delhi prisons will be the first prison to adopt this technology.”A cell phone is a prohibited item inside prison, but it is smuggled by prisoners when they go out for court hearings. The prisoners even hide the phone in their body cavities and take it inside. There are many instances of prisoners swallowing cell phones to smuggle it inside. Apart from this the phones are also thrown by accomplices of the prisoners from the main road, outside the prison complex, inside the prison.Cell phones were banned inside Tihar to ensure that prisoners do not continue their criminal activities and run their operations from behind bars. To ensure that prisoners stay connected to their families, each prisoner is allowed 5 minutes of phone call daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tihar-has-no-jammers-that-can-block-4g-signals-101615747368895.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Toying with our fears: Dummy guns a real threat in Delhi heists||What is a common link connecting a nearly successful 30-minute-long bank robbery, a phone snatching near a busy metro station, extortion by a man posing as a police officer, and a fake heist at a jewellery showroom orchestrated by its owner?All the four crimes, officers investigating the cases in the last two years found, had the suspects using toy guns or air pistols.As odd as it may sound, toy guns are not uncommon “weapons” in the hands of criminals in Delhi. Over the last two years, there have been at least 14 recorded instances of dummy firearms being used in crimes, ranging from bank robberies to street crimes, such as snatching, and extortion to fake robberies.In fact, two of the last four bank robberies in the national capital involved toy guns – in one instance it served as the lone weapon, and in the other as a back-up weapon.And this year, in a span of three days in January, there were three separate toy guns seized by the Delhi Police. In one of those cases, it was used for extortion by a club singer posing as a crime branch inspector and using the fake gun to extort people not wearing masks in Govindpuri. In another, a dummy gun was used to rob a mobile phone from a cab driver near the busy Jamia Nagar Metro station. In a third case, two brothers were found using a toy gun as a secondary weapon along with a real pistol.In none of the 14 known instances, did the victims suspect that they were being threatened with a fake gun.When a mobile phone trader, who lost money in gambling, decided to target a bank in outer Delhi’s Prashant Vihar in March 2019, the only weapon he took with him was an air pistol — that is usually used to shoot balloons. Yet, operating alone, he was able to hold a dozen staff hostage for good 30 minutes and collect ₹40 lakh in cash, until the bank manager decided to challenge him and tackle him down.Till the time he was brought down, everyone in the bank believed he was wielding a real gun. In fact, the bank manager on duly even submitted the robbed cash and the gun to the police believing it was a real weapon. It was only when the police were examining the weapon, that they noticed it was a dummyweapon.Then in September, the same year, two men barged into a bank in east Delhi’s Farsh Bazar and briefly made away with nearly ₹9 lakh in cash. Police said that of the two weapons they brought along, one was a toy gun that looked real.While the toy guns in none of these 14 instances aroused suspicion, an incident in which a woman mocked some robbers for threatening her with “toy guns” took a tragic turn. In the robbery that took place in New Friends Colony, the robbers shot her in her foot to prove that they were carrying real weapons.Experts say that a host of reasons prompts criminals to opt for toy guns. Prakash Singh, former Uttar Pradesh Police chief, says that toy weapons are able to inspire the same kind of fear in victims that real guns do. Sometimes, a toy gun is used as a back-up of a real firearm as it comes at only a fraction of a cost of the genuine weapon.“A criminal knows that with a toy gun, he won’t be able to kill someone, even if the situation turns ugly. Moreover, he won’t be tried under the Arms Act,” says Singh.The Delhi Police does not maintain data on the use of toy guns in crimes, or the seizure of such “weapons”, but their use could be more prevalent than what the police records show. When it comes to real guns, there were at least 672 cases last year when firearms were used in Delhi. The police went on to recover 2,735 illegal guns through last year.RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east Delhi), says that the offence cannot be deemed non serious just cause a toy gun was used in it. “We do not apply the Arms Act, but it is still a robbery, and the charges stand the scrutiny of the court,” says Meena, whose team recovered two of the last three toy guns in Delhi.But Prakash Singh believes that the use of toy guns falls in a grey area. “It is less serious than using of a real gun, but more serious than snatching without the use of a weapon,” he says.While these dummy guns maybe not capable of causing deaths, they are not entirely harmless either. Four years ago, a boy in Shahdara lost his left eye after being hit by a pellet fired from a toy gun being playfully wielded by his neighbour.Meena says that these dummy guns are found in normal toy shops, online shopping platforms, sold as Diwali crackers and even in the form of cigarette lighters. “They look as good as real. And there is no ban on them,” says Meena.If convicted for a robbery using even a toy gun, the punishment remains imprisonment for up to 10 years.Delhi Police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, attributes the use of toy guns by some criminals to the “difficulty” in procuring a real gun. “It is not so easy for criminals in Delhi to obtain a real gun. The non-habitual criminals may find it easier to use a toy gun rather than find a real gun,” says Biswal. “We ensure that using a toy gun doesn’t reduce the gravity of the crime in court,” Biswal adds.The toy guns, sometimes, even catches the police by surprise. A notorious vehicle thief, when surrounded by the police in Shahdara, chose to attack them only with an iron rod, despite possessing a pistol. The mystery was solved only when the suspect was overpowered. An examination of the gun revealed it was only a toy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toying-with-our-fears-dummy-guns-a-real-threat-in-delhi-heists-101615747368292.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal flags off sewer work at Kirari, Mundka||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday flagged off work on a sewer project slated to cover 114 unauthorised colonies and six villages across Kirari and Mundka assembly constituencies in the northwestern periphery of the Capital.“Before the last elections (February 2020), I promised you all that I will resolve all the sewer issues in Kirari and road-repair work. I have come here today to fulfil my promise. Despite the shortage of funds, I instructed officers to arrange funds from anywhere and start the sewer project as soon as possible because I had made a promise to you,” said Kejriwal, addressing a gathering in Kirari on Sunday.According to a statement released on Sunday, the government plans to lay 423km of sewer lines across the areas, as well as set up wastewater pumping stations in three areas.He further said, “We have already provided water to every household in Kirari, and we now aim to provide sewer lines to every household as well as good roads and lanes. I continue to face huge backlash from opposition parties for providing free services such as water and bus rides to people, but the support of the people keeps me going. In the last 70 years, no other party has worked for the development of unauthorised colonies, as much as AAP has have worked in the last five years.”The Delhi government in a press statement, issued later in the day, said, “The sewer scheme for Kirari and Mundka has been prepared to facilitate the public at large residing in these colonies and villages and achieve better sanitary conditions and further reduce the pollution of the River Yamuna. Under the scheme, there are provisions to lay the sewer lines in the length of about 423km. The scope of work also includes the construction of waste water pumping stations at Prem Nagar, Bhagya Vihar, and Pratap Vihar with capacities of 6.5, 9.0, and 41 MGD, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-flags-off-sewer-work-at-kirari-mundka-101615747367684.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Man killed, 2 injured in separate shootings in N-E Delhi||A man was killed and two others were injured in three separate shooting incidents in North-east Delhi on Friday and Saturday.The first incident was on Friday evening when two men shot at a motorcycle mechanic who police identified by a single name as Tasleem from Chauhan Bangar. The previous day Tasleem allegedly had an argument with a man named Mohammad Sohail who wanted his vehicle to be repaired before others. On Friday, Sohail allegedly returned with another man named Mohammad Ghazi and shot at Tasleem five times.Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Sain said, “He has suffered bullet injuries to his shoulder and hands but no vital organs were hit and his condition is stable. Both Sohail and Ghazi were arrested within hours. They have both bene booked for attempt to murder and under other relevant sections.”On Saturday evening, Manoj Sharma, a dairy booth owner, was shot in his shop in Ghonda. Police said people in the area saw a few masked persons flee the area.“Sharma was shot rushed to Jag Pravesh Chandra hospital from where he was referred to Max Patparganj,” a police officer, requesting not to be named, said. DCP Sain said they had sine arrested one person for the attack. “Our teams obtained CCTV footage from inquired into it. Prima facie, it looks like that the attack was fallout of personal enmity and we arrested one person. Sharma’s condition was said to be stable,” he said. Police did not divulge details of the arrested men as more arrests are expected in the case. The third incident was reported on Saturday between 8 pm and 9 pm when garments shop owner Shoiab Ansari was gunned down in his Khajuri Khas shop. Police said Ansari was shot three times in his head and did not survive. DCP Sain said that Ansari was involved in multiple criminal cases like murders, attempts to murder and illegal possession of arms in Bihar. “We have possible leads and suspects will soon be arrested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-2-injured-in-separate-shootings-in-n-e-delhi-101615747309239.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Sewer work affects traffic in Patparganj||What started as a routine sewer laying work by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has led to residents of east Delhi’s Patparganj suffering long traffic snarls and dust on the Narwana Road for the last two years.The road connects Patparganj with Laxmi Nagar and Pandav Nagar. Along it is the Mother Dairy headquarters near the Laxmi Nagar Metro station. The sewer line was laid in 2019 but the road was left unpaved.“Then last year they dug up the road again to lay some more sewer lines and left it unpaved again. Vehicles on both carriageways were forced to squeeze by. In January this year, we met senior Delhi Jal Board officials who assured us that the work will be completed in 15 days, but it is March now and they are yet to open the road for traffic,” said Navneet Nayyar, president of the Ekta Garden residents’ welfare association.Suresh Bindal, founder and former president of IPEX Societies Mahasangh, an umbrella body of 119 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in IP Extension, said, “We have had meetings with the agencies informing them of the delays and how it is causing grave inconvenience to the of residents in the area. Since this is a development work, and this will ease of lot of the area’s water problems, we are also not saying much.”Officials from the Delhi water utility did not respond to repeated calls and messages asking for a completion date for the project.On Saturday, when Hindustan Times visited the area, large sewer pipes were on the road side, soil from the excavated road and other construction material was set aside.Sunil Kumar, a shop owner in Pandav Nagar, said that the closure of road had not only resulted everyday traffic jams and pollution, but also made the road unsafe.“One carriageway is closed, so commuters from both sides are having to more on just the one available carriageway. Especially after sundown, there have been incidents of minor accidents,” Kumar said.A senior traffic official of the district said that more than the traffic volume, it was the construction on the road that was causing the traffic snarls.“It’s becoming a safety hazard more than anything. In the morning and evening rush hours, because of the chaotic movement on this road, cascading jams are causing on the main road near the Mother Dairy and also in internal roads,” the above-mentioned traffic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unfinished-djb-work-strangles-patparganj-traffic-101615747308641.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Water shortage cripples life in part in east, N-E Delhi as DJB undertakes repairs||Several parts of east and north-east Delhi continued reeling under an acute water shortage for more than 48 hours on Sunday, as the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) carried out repair work of an interconnection pipeline.A statement issued by the DJB on Sunday said that the work on a 1200mm main pipeline, supplying water to the east and north-east parts of the national capital, was completed by 4pm on Sunday and the evening supply was restored in many parts. “Repair work was successfully completed by 4pm on Sunday. Pumping of water also began immediately after the work was completed and by evening, water with appropriate pressure will be available in most areas. Further, by late evening or early tomorrow (Monday) morning, the entire east and north-east Delhi will get supply in full swing,” the statement read. Despite the assurance that the evening water supply will be resumed in most parts, residents of most localities said that water was not available till at least late Sunday. Water supply in some of the areas started getting impacted from Friday, after the DJB began interconnection work on 1200 mm diameter main lines at Jal Vihar and Greater Kailash. The work was started after complaints received by residents of Vikas Kunj, reporting major leakages in the GK main lines, which resulted in water entering the basements of their houses, posing a threat to the building structure. DJB on March 11 had issued an advisory to people that due to the repair work of pipeline, water supply would be affected from 10am on Friday to 10am on Saturday. However, on Saturday the water utility agency issued a fresh advisory, extending the timing of the water shortage till Sunday morning. The worst impacted by the repair work were areas such as Laxmi Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Chitra Nagar, Ghazipur, Mayur Vihar phase-I, II and III, East Azad Nagar, New Kondli, Shahdara, Mandawali, Patparganj, Shalimar Park and Vishwakarma Park. Mujid Alam, a resident of Mandawali, said that the water supply in his colony has been hit for three days now. He said that by Saturday evening, the last drop of water that was stored had been exhausted, and at least for two hours on Sunday morning he went around with empty buckets for search of some water to meet basic household requirements. “We went to the local shops and even they did not have water. I heard that in some shops in Pandav Nagar, drinking water bottles are being sold for R100 per bottle. People are desperate and some shopkeepers are taking advantage of that,” Alam said. Many people also took to social media to reach out to the DJB, desperately trying to get some information on water availability. Some also highlighted that while the supply was impacted, no efforts were made by the DJB to ensure the availability of water tankers or other sources. “No water supply in Mayur Vihar, East Delhi since the past two days. No water tanks available, no bottled drinking water available on shops today morning. Emergency situation Please do something urgently @DJB, (sic)” tweeted Ruchi Kokcha. A senior DJB official refuted the allegation and said water tankers were running late because of the increased demand, but was being made available wherever supply was hit. Abhishek Dutt, Congress party spokesperson and municipal councillor from south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj, said that the water shortage was also being experienced in parts of south Delhi. “Over the past few months, the only message that the DJB has been posting is ‘repair/breakdown/ammonia will impact water supply in Delhi’. Every week they come up with one such excuse. Residents of Lajpat Nagar-4 and Andrews Ganj are suffering for the past two days,” Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-shortage-cripples-life-in-part-in-east-n-e-delhi-as-djb-undertakes-repairs-101615747307529.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Argument over music led to murder, say cops||The death of a 36-year-old man during a birthday party in a farmhouse in outer Delhi last Thursday turned out to be a murder over music rather than the celebratory firing as was initially believed.Police on Sunday arrested victim Anuj Sharma’s friend 28-year-old grocer Naveen Kumar for the murder.“Initially, some people tried to pass off the murder as a case of celebratory firing, but that wasn’t the case,” said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Kumar, a resident of Jharoda Kalan, near Dwarka, had been absconding since the murder until police received a tip on his location. He was arrested from Dwarka and police recovered the murder weapon, allegedly illegal, and two live bullets.During questioning, Kumar’s allegedly told police that he was drunk at the time and was miffed with the music selection. “He took it up with Sharma. The petty issue snowballed into an argument and he shot Sharma in his chest,” the DCP said.What threw police off the murder scent initially was the confirmed celebratory firing during the party for Sharma’s younger brother. Nine spent bullets found at the crime scene were taken as evidence that someone had fired in the air and accidentally hit Sharma. Police said they had identified the person who had fired in celebration and was on the lookout to arrest him.At least 12 guests had been present at the function.Last year, there were 672 instances when firearms were used, slightly fewer than 736 such cases in 2019. Through last year, the police also recovered 2,735 illegal firearms and at least 5,138 bullets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fatal-shooting-during-celebration-at-farmhouse-was-over-playing-music-there-was-celebratory-firing-too-at-the-venue-101615747308050.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||NGO to help homeless people get vaccinated||A Delhi-based NGO is helping vaccinate people living in government-run shelters against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Centre for Holistic Development (CHD) is registering eligible people on the CoWin government portal. Sunil Aledia, CHD executive director, said, “There are a lot of people in shelters who meet the criteria, either above the age of 60 or are at least 45 years old with co-morbidities) but left out of the vaccination drive unintentionally.”“We will be taking them for vaccination on March 16. We are hoping to register 100-150 people from across the city. We have also discussed this with district administrations and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (which runs the shelters) to find a way to get homeless people vaccinated,” said Aledia.There are close to 200 government-run shelter homes, which are under DUSIB and managed by various NGOs.Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “The government should have a special drive to get the homeless, including those are not living in shelters, vaccinated. While most may have identity cards, several may not and some measure should be devised to inoculate them too.”A senior DUSIB official said, “We are working on a plan to get these people vaccinated. So far, no decision has been taken.”Those running the shelter homes say that while identifying vulnerable people as per the criteria is not difficult, but the real challenge is to take them to the vaccination centres. “A lot of us don’t have the resources to take these people to the inoculation centre. Also, some of the people, especially those who are above 45 years of age, have to be examined by a doctor for comorbidities before they can be registered for vaccination. There is a need to arrange a medical screening of these people,” said Rajesh Kumar, national executive director of Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ngo-to-help-homeless-people-get-vaccinated-101615747247635.html
15-03-2021||Other||AAP alleges corruption in Rani Jhansi flyover construction; BJP hits back||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption, citing excess spending on the Rani Jhansi flyover, which was constructed by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.The BJP dismissed the allegation as “baseless” and hit back with questions on expenditure incurred by the Delhi government on the Signature Bridge across the Yamuna, which connects Wazirabad with east Delhi.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.“Despite exceeding the cost by 409% on the Rani Jhansi flyover, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is not disclosing names of the people who are behind this corruption. They are BJP saving leaders. We question the inordinate delay and wastage of public money on construction of the flyover,” the AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said on Sunday.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. People are well aware that the Rani Jhansi flyover got caught up in several legal hurdles. He should rather question his government about the inordinate delay and excess expenditure in the construction of Signature bridge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-alleges-corruption-in-rani-jhansi-flyover-construction-bjp-hits-back-101615747248259.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Only around 3% in Delhi have got at least one vaccine dose: Govt data||Just over 3% of Delhi’s population has received at least a single dose of the coronavirus vaccine so far, government records show, with experts calling for the government to expedite the vaccination programme in the Capital amid a steady spike in the number of new Covid-19 cases.As on Sunday evening, 638,438 people have received at least one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine in the city, marginally more than 3% of Delhi’s nearly 20 million population.Over 178,000 persons over the age of 60 have received at least one shot of the vaccine since the drive opened for them on March 1, state government data showed. This accounts for over 8.5% of the 2.1 million people in this category living in Delhi as per estimates based on electoral rolls.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOver 28,000 persons above the age of 45 with 20 specified co-morbidities have also received the shot so far in the city. With the Centre releasing the list of eligible illness — such as severe heart condition, cancers, and complicates diabetes and hypertension — soon before the drive opened up for this category, the city does not have estimates on the number of such persons living in Delhi.Over 70% of registered health care and frontline workers, who started getting the shots in mid-January and February beginning respectively, have received at least one dose of the vaccine.Additionally, 114,564 persons have receiving both doses of the vaccines, 28 days apart, thus completing their immunisation from the infection. Both vaccines approved for use in India — Covaxin and Covishield — need two doses given four to six weeks apart.Nearly three crore vaccine doses have been administered across the country till Saturday evening, according to Union health ministry data, around 2.5% of the total population of the country.“We are already conducting vaccinations six days a week. We have also fixed 50,000 vaccine slots per day, and the number will keep increasing,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. With the number of cases of the viral infections on the rise, district officials have been asked to focus on increasing the pace of immunisation along with contact tracing and testing.“In addition to what we were doing in March and April last year — tracing contacts and testing people at risk of getting the infection — we have an effective vaccine this time around. We are focussing on encouraging more and more people to come and get immunised. We have been in touch with several resident welfare organisations (RWAs) in the city to increase awareness about the vaccines and the vaccination drive and motivate people to get the shot,” said one senior district official, on the condition of anonymity.Another official said, “We are also using our network of ASHA and Anganwadi workers to find beneficiaries over the age of 60 or those with comorbidities and encourage them to go to their nearest vaccination centre. We have allowed walk-ins after 3pm to ensure that more people turn up, just like it happened initially with the drive for health care workers.” The official said the district officials were also helping in registering those who do not know how to register on CoWIN portal to increase the numbers.On Sunday, Delhi recorded 407 cases of Covid-19, seeing over 400 cases for four days in a row. With just over 68,000 tests having been conducted, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – stood at 0.60% on Sunday.The seven-day average positivity rate has increased to 0.55% from 0.42% last week.This, experts say, is an indication of the increasing spread of the infection in the city.“When there is a fire somewhere, should we throw all the water we have at it or distribute it equally. What are the vaccines for? The government should vaccinate everyone over the age of 18 in the six states that have started seeing an increase in the number of cases. All the vaccines from other states should be diverted; the others can wait for it,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-around-3-in-city-have-got-at-least-one-vaccine-dose-govt-data-101615747187513.html
15-03-2021||Noida||Techie robbed of SUV in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: An engineer was allegedly robbed of his SUV by two men in Sector Omicron on Sunday evening. Police said they have launched a hunt to nab the suspects. The car owner was identified as Nishant.According to police, Nishant, his wife and their daughter were going to a market in their Vitara Brezza at around 6pm. “On their way to the market, Nishant had stopped and went out of the car to buy vegetables from a roadside vendor in Sector Omicron. Nishant had left the key in the car as his wife and daughter were inside it,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central. The suspects fled with the vehicle, after dumping the two around 200 metres away from the crime spot. “The suspects pointed a gun at the victims, boarded the car, and drove away with the vehicle. They dropped the mother-daughter duo around 200 metres away from the crime spot,” Chander added. Nishant dialled 112 and informed the police about the matter.A police team was patrolling the area. “The suspects drove into in a housing complex and exited from another gate to escape police. The patrolling team received a tip-off, launched a hunt, but the suspects managed to escape,” Chander said. A police team reached the spot and rejoined the family members and sent them home. According to the mother-daughter duo, they were not harmed in the incident.“A case of looting will be registered at the Surajpur police station... We have launched a hunt to nab the suspects,” the DCP said. Nishant is a resident of Omaxe Palm Greens in Sector Mu of Greater Noida. He is an engineer at a mobile company in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/techie-robbed-of-suv-in-greater-noida-101615747068597.html
15-03-2021||Other||Active cases in Ludhiana cross 1,000-mark as 197 more test positive||As many as 197 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 1,077. It is after over five months that the single-day count in the district has crossed the 190-mark. On September 24, 2020, the district had recorded 191 cases. Meanwhile, a cop posted in Shahkot of Jalandhar breathed his last in a city hospital on Sunday after battling the virus for over a month. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Shahkot) Varinder Pal Singh, 52, had been admitted to SPS Hospital of Ludhiana on February 8. Medical superintendent Rajiv Kundra said DSP Singh had come to the hospital with complaints of fever, breathlessness and acute kidney disease. He is believed to have caught virus while on duty. He was a resident of BRS Nagar of Ludhiana. His mortal remains were consigned to the flames at the Sunet crematorium on Sunday evening.He is the second high-ranking police official, having a Ludhiana connection, to have succumbed to the virus. In April 2020, the city had lost assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli to the virus. Meanwhile, the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases has left the authorities worried. It is for the ninth time in the last 14 days that the city has witnessed over 100 cases. The district’s death toll, however, did not see any change on Sunday. As the DSP had tested positive in Jalandhar, he does not figure in Ludhiana’s tally. 5 teachers, 10 students positiveAmong the 197 new cases, five are teachers while 10 are students of various government schools in the city. The infected teachers are from the government schools of Mullapur, Bhaini Barringa, BRS Nagar, Deshmesh Nagar and Mangali Nichi. Five students testing positive from Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, while from Multipurpose School, three students were found infected. Two students were found infected at Nightingale Nursing College, Narangwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-cases-in-ludhiana-cross-1-000-mark-as-197-more-test-positive-101615747068155.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 48-year-old held for forging pilot’s sign to grab his house||DN Nagar police arrested a 48-year-old man for allegedly cheating an Air India pilot by forging his signature and taking over his bungalow in Andheri (West).According to police, the complainant, Satyendra Devda, a resident of Four Bungalows area in Andheri (West), approached the police in October 2020 claiming that his childhood friend Rajan Vasudev Khandekar had made fake documents of the property that he had purchased in 2019 worth ₹36 lakh. In his complaint, Devda said Khandekar stayed in his building since their childhood and were friends. However, in 2014 he shifted from Four Bungalows to Amboli where he had been living on rent in a two-storey bungalow owned by Micheal Manterio. “Since I knew Khandekar as an estate agent, I used to meet him regularly as I was searching for a property to buy,” said Devda, who stays with his parents while his younger brother shifted to Japan.In 2014, Khandekar had informed Devda that Manterio wanted to sell his house for ₹36 lakh. As Devda showed interest in buying the property, Khandekar arranged for a meeting between Devda and Manterio’s sister Lucy Sores, 55, who agreed to the purchase. A few days later, Devda gave her the token amount of ₹1.1 lakh in the presence of Khandekar and Sheetal Kotian. Over a period, Devda gave Sores ₹36 lakh and got the agreement of the house, which he handed over to Khandekar to transfer the electricity bill etc on his name since the latter was staying there on rent. “We had drafted an agreement that Khandekar would be staying in the house as a tenant,” said Devda in his statement to the police.In 2019, after Khandekar stopped paying rent, Devda found out that the electricity bill was not on his name but in Kotian’s name. “That is when I found out that Khandekar had forged the documents of the purchase and made fake purchase copy on his name,” Devda.When Devda realised that he had been cheated, he approached the police and a case was registered for forgery and cheating under sections 465, 467, 468, 471 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code.“Based on the complaint, we arrested Khandekar and presented him before the court which remanded him in police custody,” said an officer from DN Nagar police station.Upon investigation, the police found out that Khandekar had cheated many people using the same modus operandi. “We are now finding out how many people were cheated by Khandekar,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-48-year-old-held-for-forging-pilot-s-sign-to-grab-his-house-101615746829527.html
15-03-2021||Noida||Two more suspects involved in dry fruits scam nabbed from Gurugram||Noida: The police said they arrested two more suspects allegedly involved in the dry fruits scam from Gurugram on March 13. The arrests were made by a team from the Sector 58 police station.Four people, including prime suspect Mohit Goel, had been arrested by Sector 58 police in January while a fifth was nabbed in February. Goel was the alleged mastermind of the 2016 Freedom 251 scam which offered the world’s cheapest smartphones to the public. He was arrested in 2017 in connection with the Freedom 251 case and nabbed again on January 11 this year along with an accomplice for allegedly duping wholesalers by purchasing dry fruits and spices from them at cheap prices and then not paying them. The police said that a case was registered in this regard at Sector 58 police station in December 2020 and another at Phase 2.According to Noida police, the suspects would allegedly start a firm and then shut it within a few months after duping people, following which they would start another firm at a separate location.“We had inputs that associates of the gang had started another company in Gurugram’s Sector 57 from January 15, four days after the mastermind was arrested, following which a team was sent there and the duo was taken in police custody,” said assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1, Rajneesh Verma.The suspects arrested March 13 were identified as Akash Deep Sharma and Pankaj Prakash, from Punjab and Haryana, respectively. Police said they have been named in the initial cases and allegedly worked as purchase admin managers in the initial firms. The duo had allegedly already rented a space and applied for GST registration while they were already in talks with potential buyers. Samples of products they allegedly hoped to share with victims were also recovered from the spot. “In 2019 when they were running one such company from Gurugram itself, a buyer had demanded a refund for his investment following which associates of the suspects had assaulted him. The man took his own life by consuming poison and a case was registered regarding this,” said Verma.A total of seven people have been arrested so far regarding this scam while the police are on the lookout for more. The duo was produced before a suspect and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-more-suspects-involved-in-dry-fruits-scam-nabbed-from-gurugram-101615746830029.html
15-03-2021||Noida||Over 30K beneficiaries inoculated in GB Nagar in March so far||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district health department inoculated over 30,000 out of the identified 65,048 beneficiaries against Covid-19 in 11 sessions held this month so far, officials said on Sunday. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the all the government and private hospitals were asked to maintain the updated data entries of vaccination. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that as many as 1,484 senior citizens and 45 years’ above with co-morbidities were vaccinated on Sunday. “Out of it, 1,176 were the senior citizens, while the remaining beneficiaries were from over 45 years’ age group having co-morbidities. Besides, 485 healthcare workers and frontline workers also took their maiden or booster dose today,” he said. The CMO also said that an exclusive session for serving and retired bureaucrats was held at the district hospital on Saturday. “As many as 386 officials from various departments received their jabs at district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-30k-beneficiaries-inoculated-in-gb-nagar-in-march-so-far-101615746767494.html
15-03-2021||Noida||To enhance Covid vaccination coverage, UP directs opening of community health centres for six days a week||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar administrations have decided to open more government health-care facilities for six days a week in order to increase the Covid-19 vaccination coverage in the two districts. The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh health department on Sunday directed opening of community health centres (CHCs) for six days a week as against three days a week earlier. In Ghaziabad, district health department officials said that the four CHCs at Loni, Muradnagar, Modinagar and Dasna will now open six days a week for the vaccination purposes. Besides, the district women hospital will also remain open for six days in a week, they said. “We have received directions for opening of our CHCs for six days a week. Besides, we have also decided to open the women hospital for six days in a week. Thus, we will be able to vaccinate about 4,800 more beneficiaries every week,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. Overall, Ghaziabad has presence of 45 government facilities and 31 private hospitals which are taking up Covid-19 vaccination for the senior citizens and people aged 45 years and above having comorbid conditions. Recently, the district health officials had set a target of inoculating 10,900 beneficiaries per day in the 45 government health-care facilities. In GB Nagar, the health department officials said that the five CHCs in the district will now operate for six days a week. The Government Institute of Medical Sciences and the district hospital in Sector 30 are already operating six days a week for the vaccination purposes, the officials said, adding that the district also has about 42 private hospitals which are engaged in the vaccination process. “We have also increased the government health and wellness centres for four days a week on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. There are five such centres in Jewar and four each in Dadri and Dankaur. So, with the new arrangement, we will further enhance our vaccination coverage,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar. On Sunday, Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), urged the public representatives and government staff, among others, to come out and help improve the vaccination coverage. “We have now changed opening of CHCs from three days a week to six days a week. The idea is to give more coverage to senior citizens and get them vaccinated early so that the effect of Covid-19, in case it rises, is negligible. The primary health centres will operate for three days as usual for vaccination,” said Prasad. As per previous directions of the UP government, the district hospitals and medical colleges in the state were to open for six days while other government health-care facilities were to open for three days on Monday, Thursday and Friday. The private hospitals which are charging for vaccination were directed to open for a minimum of four days a week. The officials, citing figures of Co-Win portal, said that till March 13 Ghaziabad completed vaccination of 61,205 beneficiaries while GB Nagar vaccinated 58,804 beneficiaries since the vaccination began on January 16. The state health department officials said that a total of 26,43,841 doses were administered to different categories of beneficiaries till March 13, and these included 20,30,600 who got their first dose and 6,13,241 got second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/to-enhance-covid-vaccination-coverage-up-directs-opening-of-community-health-centres-for-six-days-a-week-101615746648094.html
15-03-2021||Noida||Police arrest 2 with 750 illegal liquor bottles in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Police have arrested two persons and recovered 750 illegal liquor bottles in 15 cartons from their possession, in Greater Noida on Sunday.The suspects were identified as 35-year-old Rajiv Singh and 33-year-old Bhim Singh. Both of them are residents of Tatarpur village in Jarcha. Shripal Singh, SHO, Jarcha police station said that Rajiv is a former sarpanch of Tatarpur village in Uttar Pradesh. “He is also planning to contest the upcoming panchayat elections. The police teams are patrolling the area, and also developing networks to check the distribution of illegal liquor in the elections,” Singh said.We got a tip-off that Rajiv was transporting a huge quantity of liquor from Haryana, and storing them in a house, he added. “An informer gave a tip-off that the liquor bottles were stored at Bhim’s house, who is an aide of Rajiv. A police team conducted a raid and recovered 750 liquor bottles in 15 cartons. The liquor was supposed to be sold in Haryana,” Singh said. According to the police, the suspects were storing the illegal liquor bottles for distribution during the elections, to woo the voters. The market price of the seized liquor would be ₹80,000. Alcohol is sold at a cheaper rate in Haryana, so the suspects were storing them. A case was registered against them under Excise Act Section 63. “The two suspects will be produced before a court on Monday,” the SHO said. Meanwhile, the Dadri police arrested a liquor smuggler and recovered 48 liquor bottles in a carton from his possession, near the Railway Road on Saturday. The suspect was identified as 25-year-old Ajay Kumar, who is a resident of Dhoom Manikpur village in Badalpur.Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO, Dadri police station, said, “A police team stopped him for checking, and found liquor bottles from his possession. He revealed that he had bought the liquor in Haryana, and was trying to sell them in Dadri,” Chauhan said. A case was registered against him under sections 60 and 63 of the Excise Act. He was later produced before a court, and sent to the judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-arrest-2-with-750-illegal-liquor-bottles-in-greater-noida-101615746647531.html
15-03-2021||India||Yatnal doubts transparency of probe by SIT in harassment case against MLA||Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Karnataka, on Sunday raised doubts over the transparency of the newly formed SIT (special investigation team) set up to probe the alleged case of sexual exploitation by his colleague and former minister, Ramesh Jarkiholi.“This is a big conspiracy and an organised plan to finish him (Jarkiholi) off. They (government) have just given the case to the SIT, which has started the investigation. But I have my doubts on how transparent this will be,” Yatnal, one of the staunchest critics of chief minister B.S Yediyurappa said in Vijayapura on Sunday.Continuing his attacks on the chief minister and his son, B.Y Vijayendra, Yatnal said that SIT might not be the right agency to investigate the case and it should instead be handed to the CBI (central bureau of investigation).“There is one official there (in the SIT) who listens to everything (BY) Vijayendra (Yediyurappa’s son) says,” Yatnal said.The statements come a day after Jarkiholi filed an FIR against the alleged conspirators, who he claimed, tried to defame him and end his political career. Jarkiholi stepped down from his post in the cabinet after a social activist filed a complaint of sexual exploitation of an unnamed woman in the guise of providing her a government job.A video of a person, appearing to be Jarkiholi, was seen getting intimate with the unnamed woman. The video was played on loop by Kannada TV channels in the state until the former minister got an order by the court barring most of the news outlets from doing so.An alleged phone call recording between Jarkiholi and the unnamed woman was also played, in which the person who is suspected to be the former minister is heard saying that Yediyurappa indulges in corruption.The unnamed woman has since released a video statement, seeking protection for herself and her family, claiming they become a target of threats and intimidation since the incident.Yatnal said the video came out right after Jarkiholi filed an FIR. He added that there are many such CDs (videos) of other political leaders in the “homes of the son of one BJP leader and one Congress leader”.At least six ministers of Yediyurappa’s cabinet have sought injunctions from the court, prohibiting at least 68 entities, including Kannada news channels, papers, Twitter, Google and Facebook among others, from publishing, broadcasting or circulation of any content defamatory to them.The alleged sex scandal, rise of Covid-19 cases, protests over demands for higher reservation by dominant caste groups have added to the challenges of Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yatnal-doubts-transparency-of-probe-by-sit-in-harassment-case-against-mla-101615746468506.html
15-03-2021||Gurugram||‘Everything was destroyed in seconds’, lightning attack survivor recalls incident||“I don’t remember what happened to me and how it happened. In a matter of seconds, everything was destroyed, I have heard from people here,” said 43-year-old Shiv Dutt, who was among the four men who were injured when lightning struck a tree under which they were taking shelter from the rain in Gurugram’s Sector 82 on Friday evening. Dutt, who was discharged from a private hospital in Manesar on Sunday, said that while he has been informed about the events that transpired on Friday, he does not remember much about the incident. “The four of us had just wrapped up our work for the day when it started drizzling. Since our work was over, we decided to take shelter under the tree, hoping that the rain would stop in some time. Lightning must have hit us at a tremendous speed… we didn’t realise what happened. I don’t know anything. What happened and how it happened, I remember nothing,” said Dutt, recapping the moment just before lightning struck him.Four persons, identified as Lali (32), Anil Kumar (32), Ram Prasad (38) and Shiv Dutt (43) were injured when lightning struck a tree they were taking cover under during rainfall in Sector 82 on Friday evening. Prasad was severely injured and died during treatment late Friday. The incident took place in the Vatika India Next residential township and the four men were attached with its horticulture department.While the incident was captured by CCTV cameras and footage circulated widely on social media, Dutt said that he is yet to see the video. “I am yet to see the video. I have only heard about it from my family members and others who have shared information about the video,” said Dutt, who has been working as a gardener with the residential society since last June. “When I regained consciousness, the chain of events was narrated to me. I learned that the staff came to us and got us admitted to the hospital,” said Dutt. He said that he was having difficulty using his left hand properly since the incident. He also complained of chest pain. “My left hand is not moving efficiently since it was affected by lightning. Starting from the neck to the chest, there is pain and stiffness,” said Dutt, a native of Etah in Uttar Pradesh.His wife, Pushpa, said that while Dutt was under the doctor’s watch, she had not left his bedside fearing the worst. “My heart skipped a beat when we got to know about the incident and saw the video. My daughter was crying uncontrollably. Since we reached the hospital, I have not left his side even for a moment. We are poor people. I have no idea what to do now and where to take him next,” said Pushpa.Expressing his gratitude for not suffering a fatal injury, he said that he was thankful to everyone who helped him following the strike. “I am thankful for everything. No one can control or predict a natural occurrence. I was wearing shoes and gloves, but this was destined to happen, so it happened,” said Dutt, who only regained consciousness on Friday night, a few hours after being admitted to a private hospital in Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/everything-was-destroyed-in-seconds-lightning-attack-survivor-recalls-incident-101615744790187.html
15-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covaxin or Covishield? Pick your safe shot||With Covaxin granted the regular restricted emergency use authorisation just like Covishield manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute – and therefore the same licensure status – potential beneficiaries can exercise their choice of being inoculated with either of the two vaccines. Three days after the Centre removed the “clinical trial mode” tag against Covaxin, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) gave the nod to its five vaccination centres to administer Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed vaccine, starting Monday. The civic body will provide Covaxin vials at SevenHills hospital and jumbo centres at BKC, NESCO, Dahisar and Mulund, following which BYL Nair and Dr RN Cooper hospitals will be added to the list next week. Till Sunday (March 14), Covaxin jabs were given only at the government-run JJ hospital at Byculla, which was also the sole Phase III clinical trial site in Mumbai. On March 4, makers of Covaxin said preliminary results showed the first coronavirus vaccine developed in India has an efficacy rate of 81% in phase III of clinical trials. The civic body received 63,000 doses of Covaxin from the central government on Saturday. “Walk-in beneficiaries, during registration, will be given a choice across the table. After two-three days, the centralised Co-WIN site will also add the option to choose between the two vaccines. So, while registering online, people can choose their preferred vaccine,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. Covaxin is one of the two vaccines which has been used as part of the nationwide mass immunisation programme that was rolled out on January 16, starting with healthcare and frontline workers. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved its emergency use in clinical trial mode. Covaxin uses an inactivated virus paired with an adjuvant – a chemical that boosts immune response. When administered, immune cells recognise the dead virus which prompts the immune system in the body to make antibodies against the virus. Dr Rajesh Dere, in-charge of BKC jumbo centre, said, “Unlike earlier, Covaxin beneficiaries will not have to sign a consent letter to take the vials. Earlier, people had to give their approval as it was under clinical trial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covaxin-or-covishield-pick-your-safe-shot-101615741008034.html
15-03-2021||Other||Laxmi road stores restrict entry of shoppers to not more than two per group||PUNE The daily number of Covid positive cases is on the rise in Pune and several restrictions have been now imposed by the district collector. Taking serious cognisance of the situation, the Laxmi road Ganpati chowk traders association has now made it stricter for customers coming to their shops. As the wedding season is about to start, on weekends a heavy rush is seen on Laxmi road. Henceforth, not more than two people from the shopping party will be allowed inside the shop. Also, staff will work on a rotational basis.“for the last couple of weeks, there has been heavy crowds at the Laxmi road markets, especially people coming from rural parts for wedding shopping. They come in numbers, both, the bride and groom’s family. There are around 20 to 25 people and sometimes this number is even above 40. So we have decided to restrict the entry of people inside the shops,” said Nitesh Chopada, secretary, traders association. April and May see many wedding mahurats and preparations have begun. Laxmi road’s clothes market is one of the oldest in Pune district, and people from across the district come here to shop. Wedding shopping is known colloquially as “Lagnacha Basta”, which is known to be prestigious in the family.“The number of Covid positive cases are on the rise in Pune, so along with regular Covid safety measures like compulsory wearing of face masks, social distancing, and use of hand sanitiser, we have made restrictions stricter now. Along with entry restrictions, inside the shop even our staffers stand at a distance, and in big shops, were staff numbers are large, they are been called in shifts,” he added. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) has appealed to all traders in Pune to follow all Covid -related norms strictly.“We must be thankful to the Pune Municipal Corporation that they have not implemented a complete lockdown and now we should support them by following norms. I have got complaints that traders are flouting rules of masks and social distancing. Such things should not happen and if it continues, action will be taken on such traders,” said Fatechand Ranka, president, FTAP.“Traders should also allow entry to customers who are wearing masks,” added Ranka.With inputs from Jigar Hindocha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/laxmi-road-stores-restrict-entry-of-shoppers-to-not-more-than-two-per-group-101615730746879.html
15-03-2021||Other||3 waves of migrations that shaped Bengaluru||Bengaluru was a city that was made on a call for migration. Kempegowda, the founder of the city, made a clarion call for traders and other craftsmen to make the new city their home in 1537 after laying its foundation. Centuries later, Bengaluru is one of the most cosmopolitan, multi-ethnic and multi-lingual cities in the country. Historians say three waves of migrations made the city what it is today.According to 2011 census, out of 10 people in Bengaluru, four are migrants. A person is considered a migrant if he is staying at a place other than his or her place of enumeration. Since 42.12% of Bengaluru’s population originate from outside the district or the state, after Mumbai, Bengaluru has the second-largest migrant population in India.In Census 2001, inter-district and inter-state migrants constituted 30.27% of the city’s population. Over the next decade the migrant population increased by more than 12% points, making them the fastest-growing community in the city.For historians, these numbers are not surprising because of the waves of migration the city witnessed over the centuries. Historian Suresh Moona said, “It was an equivalent of modern-day investors’ meet. When Kempegowda built his mud fort in 1537, a call was made for traders and other craftsmen to move to the new city. He knew that unless there is no thriving trade, a city can’t grow. In fact, many areas in Bengaluru were named after the occupations such Akkipet (rice), Ragipet (Millet) among others.”He said the tradition continued with Tipu Sultan, who invited craftsmen from different parts of the country to live in Bengaluru. Most of these skill labourers migrated to Bengaluru to support Tipu’s military industry.The remanence of the Tipu era migration still remains in Bengaluru, the Kalasipalaya areas in the heart of the city, was a settlement of Kalsi, the expert tent-pitchers and organisers of military camps of Tipu’s army.However, the first wave of migration that changed Bengaluru’s demography, took place during the time of the British. Even though the British wanted to set up their cantonment in today’s Ramanagaram in Mandya district, the military engineers found Bengaluru’s topography and proximity to other cities strategically important.“When the British started constructing the cantonment area since they had a base in the Madras presidency, they brought in skilled labourers and traders as part of the development of the cantonment. This is one of the reasons why the cantonment area in Bengaluru has a large Tamil speaking population,” said Moona.“While the migration before independence was limited largely to the Tamil speaking region, post-independence the emergence of industry and public sector undertakings changed the patterns of migrations,” said Janaki Nair, a professor of modern Indian history at the Centre for Historical Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University.After Independence, Begaluru became the ideal location for strategic industries as it was away from international borders and its proximity to other major cities. The next big wave of migrants hit Bengaluru in the 1950s and 60s when major public sector undertakings — such as Bharat Electronics and Hindustan Aeronautics — made the city their base.A research carried out by Times Research Foundation in the 1980s shows during the peak of Bengaluru’s industrial era in the 1980’s, 14% of Bangalore’s population was engaged in industrial work associated with the large-scale manufacturing economy led by the public sector undertakings.Both Moona and Nair agreed that from having a large migration of Tamil speaking areas, the emergence of the industries resulted in a wider pool of migrants, especially from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha etc. The linguist influences in the city too changed during this period of time.As per the 2011 census, Kannada speaking population is only 46%, while Tamil speakers constitute 13.99% of the population, followed by Telugu (13.89%), Urdu (12%), Hindi (5.4%) and Malayalam (2.8%).As the city was through another cultural metamorphosis, came globalisation. The open markets and globalisation made Bengaluru the world’s back office. The city which has an ecosystem developed by the industries and the institutes of science and technology, soon became the hub of Information Technology, finding itself a spot among the global cities known for innovative technologies.The strong public sector presence led to private sector manufacturing that began in the late 80’s said Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani. “Remote software development was again invented in Bengaluru which led to the growth of the IT industry, which today is close to 190 billion dollars in size. That again created huge technology, which then attracted more capital units and that in turn brought in the venture capitalists who brought young talent from these companies,” he said.As Bengaluru became Silicon Valley of India, the migration patterns in the city too changed. “From having a large Tamil population post-independence, the service industry now witnesses a large migration of the citizens from north-east India,” added Nair.“Bengaluru is one of the few cities where you could survive without knowing the local language or with your mother tongue. That is because the migration has made the city a multilingual and multicultural city. These concepts are common in the new globalised worlds, but Bengaluru had such a culture even before many other cities,” said Moona.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-waves-of-migrations-that-shaped-bengaluru-101615660544003.html
15-03-2021||World||Chinese factories burnt down in Myanmar; Beijing worried about its citizens||China on Monday said it was “very concerned” about the safety of its citizens in Myanmar where dozens of Chinese factories were attacked and burnt over the weekend amid a bloody crackdown on protesters following a coup in February.“We wish Myanmar’s authorities can take further relevant and effective measures to guarantee the security of the lives and assets of Chinese companies and personnel,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing.China “is very concerned about the impact on the safety of Chinese institutions and personnel”, Zhao said, urging Myanmar to take actions to “resolutely avoid a recurrence of such incidents”.Police and firefighters have been deployed to protect the factories, which are scattered across several industrial zones in Yangon.He said China was closely watching and “is very concerned about the impact on the safety of Chinese institutions and personnel”.China urges all parties in Myanmar to keep calm, exercise restraint and resolve disputes through dialogue and negotiation, Zhao said, adding that Chinese citizens in Myanmar should raise their awareness of safety and take precautionary measures.According to a Bloomberg report, the Myanmar junta imposed martial law in two townships late Sunday after the Chinese embassy asked authorities to guarantee the safety of Chinese investments and citizens after they were attacked earlier in the day, leaving an undisclosed number of injuries.The orders were later expanded to four more townships in Yangon.In Beijing, the state-controlled tabloid, Global Times, said at least 32 Chinese companies were burnt, vandalised and looted in industrial areas.Two Chinese employees have been injured and no fatalities have been reported, with property losses touching 240 million yuan ($36.9 million), Global Times tweeted, citing the local Chinese embassy.“Several Chinese-invested factories in Myanmar were smashed, looted or burnt by delinquents. We strongly condemn such barbaric acts. We strongly urge the Myanmar side to stop these kinds of crimes, punish the perpetrators and compensate Chinese factories for the losses,” the tabloid said in an article.Separately, self-ruled Taiwan has advised Taiwanese companies operating in the country to fly the island’s flag and hang signs stating they are from Taiwan to avoid being confused with China, after Chinese-financed factories were set ablaze, a Reuters report said from Taipei.Though Beijing says it doesn’t interfere in Myanmar’s internal affairs, China is viewed as being supportive of the junta that took power in Myanmar, overthrowing the government of Aung San Suu Kyi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-factories-burnt-down-in-myanmar-beijing-worried-about-its-citizens-101615829511014.html
15-03-2021||World||WHO says surveillance systems working as nations pause AstraZeneca Covid shots||World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said systems meant to protect public health were working, as several countries suspended use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine to investigate possible side-effects."This does not necessarily mean these events are linked to Covid-19 vaccination, but it's routine practice to investigate them, and it shows that the surveillance system works and that effective controls are in place," Tedros said during a virtual media briefing on Monday.A WHO advisory committee plans to meet on Tuesday to discuss the vaccine, which Germany, France and Italy said on Monday they were pausing after several countries reported serious conditions in people who had received the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-surveillance-systems-working-as-nations-pause-astrazeneca-covid-shots-101615829245744.html
15-03-2021||World||Germany, Italy, France hit pause on AstraZeneca amid safety fears, disrupting EU shots||Germany, France and Italy said on Monday they would hit pause on AstraZeneca Covid-19 shots after several countries reported possible serious side-effects, throwing Europe's already struggling vaccination campaign into disarray.Denmark and Norway stopped giving the shot last week after reporting isolated cases of bleeding, blood clots and a low platelet count. Iceland and Bulgaria followed suit and Ireland and the Netherlands announced suspensions on Sunday.The moves by some of Europe's largest and most populous countries will deepen concerns about the slow rollout of vaccines in the region, which has been plagued by shortages due to problems producing vaccines, including AstraZeneca's.Germany warned last week it was facing a third wave of infections, Italy is intensifying lockdowns and hospitals in the Paris region are close to being overloaded.German Health Minister Jens Spahn said that although the risk of blood clots was low, it could not be ruled out."This is a professional decision, not a political one," Spahn said adding he was following a recommendation of the Paul Ehrlich Institute, Germany's vaccine regulator.France said it was suspending the vaccine's use pending an assessment by the EU medicine regulator due on Tuesday. Italy said its halt was a "precautionary and temporary measure" pending the regulator's ruling.Austria and Spain have stopped using particular batches and prosecutors in the northern Italian region of Piedmont earlier seized 393,600 doses following the death of a man hours after he was vaccinated. It was the second region to do so after Sicily, where two people had died shortly after having their shots.The World Health Organization appealed to countries not to suspend vaccinations against a disease that has caused more than 2.7 million deaths worldwide."As of today, there is no evidence that the incidents are caused by the vaccine and it is important that vaccination campaigns continue so that we can save lives and stem severe disease from the virus," WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier said.Read | These countries have suspended AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine useThe United Kingdom said it had no concerns, while Poland said it thought the benefits outweighed any risks.The EMA has said that as of March 10, a total of 30 cases of blood clotting had been reported among close to 5 million people vaccinated with the AstraZeneca shot in the European Economic Area, which links 30 European countries.Michael Head, a senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton, said the decisions by France, Germany and others looked baffling."The data we have suggests that numbers of adverse events related to blood clots are the same (and possibly, in fact lower) in vaccinated groups compared to unvaccinated populations," he said, adding that halting a vaccination programme had consequences."This results in delays in protecting people, and the potential for increased vaccine hesitancy, as a result of people who have seen the headlines and understandably become concerned. There are no signs yet of any data that really justify these decisions.”'Unusual' symptomsAstraZeneca's shot was among the first and cheapest to be developed and launched at volume since the coronavirus was first identified in central China at the end of 2019 and is set to be the mainstay of vaccination programmes in much of the developing world.Thailand announced plans on Monday to go ahead with the Anglo-Swedish firm's shot after suspending its use on Friday but Indonesia said it would wait for the WHO to report.The WHO said its advisory panel was reviewing reports related to the shot and would release its findings as soon as possible. But it said it was unlikely to change its recommendations, issued last month, for widespread use, including in countries where the South African variant of the virus may reduce its efficacy.The EMA has also said there was no indication the events were caused by the vaccination and that the number of reported blood clots was no higher than seen in the general population.The handful of reported side-effects in Europe have upset vaccination programmes already under pressure over slow rollouts and vaccine scepticism in some countries.The Netherlands said on Monday it had seen 10 cases of possible noteworthy adverse side-effects from the AstraZeneca vaccine, hours after the government put its vaccination programme on hold following reports of potential side-effects in other countries.Denmark reported "highly unusual" symptoms in a 60-year-old citizen who died from a blood clot after receiving the vaccine, the same phrase used on Saturday by Norway about three people under the age of 50 it said were being treated in hospital."It was an unusual course of illness around the death that made the Danish Medicines Agency react," the agency said in a statement late on Sunday.One of the three health workers hospitalised in Norway after receiving the AstraZeneca shot had died, health authorities said on Monday, but there was no evidence that the vaccine was the cause.AstraZeneca said earlier it had conducted a review covering more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union and the UK which had shown no evidence of an increased risk of blood clots.Investigations into potential side-effects are complicated as the history of each case and circumstances surrounding a death or illness are examined. Austrian authorities have said their review of the AstraZeneca batch will take about two weeks.Long-awaited results from AstraZeneca 30,000-person US vaccine trial are currently being reviewed by independent monitors to determine whether the shot is safe and effective, a top US official said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-italy-france-hit-pause-on-astrazeneca-covid-vaccine-amid-safety-fears-101615828633765.html
15-03-2021||World||US transport secy upbeat on summer travel as vaccines rolled out||US Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg gave an upbeat assessment about summer travel prospects on Monday as a growing number of Americans are vaccinated against Covid-19.Touring a UPS facility just outside Washington, Buttigieg got a first-hand look at how it is shipping Covid-19 shots, while some airlines are reporting a rise in leisure bookings as more Americans get vaccinated."I'm looking forward to summer travel. Of course, it's got to be based on conditions. We've got to make sure that we're getting folks vaccinated," Buttigieg said.Wes Wheeler, president of Global Healthcare and Life Sciences at UPS, said the courier has delivered 80 million US vaccine doses and about 110 million worldwide."We'll be at 100 million in the United States by the end of this month," Wheeler told Reuters. Between UPS and Fedex , the companies will have delivered 200 million doses in the US by the end of March, he added.Travel demand was hard hit by Covid-19 in 2020 as U.S. air travel fell 60% and the US travel sector shed millions of jobs.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said last week that tens of millions of Americans who have been vaccinated for Covid-19 should not travel, a blow to the airline and travel industries that have been battered by the pandemic.Buttigieg said people should follow CDC recommendations, but added that he hopes for a "safe return to travel" by July 4."The process of easing restrictions, when we're ready to do that, will be a little more complicated than the process of applying them," Buttigieg said.Many Americans are not heeding the CDC advice. The Transportation Security Administration said more than 1.35 million people were screened at US airports Friday, the single busiest air travel day since March 2020.Buttigieg declined to say when US President Joe Biden's administration will release its infrastructure plans, but noted a Sept. 30 deadline to get surface transportation reauthorized.With a $1.9 trillion Covid relief package finally passed, Biden's next big spending push is on the horizon, repairing the nation's ailing bridges, roads and airports and investing billions in new projects like broadband internet.Biden may sketch the outline of the plan in a joint address to Congress this month and provide details in April, giving lawmakers several months to work on the bill before an August recess, people familiar with the White House plans said."We've got a clock on everything we're doing," Buttigieg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-transport-secy-upbeat-on-summer-travel-as-vaccines-rolled-out-101615828462604.html
15-03-2021||World||US data for AstraZeneca vaccine under review by independent advisers: Official||Long-awaited results from AstraZeneca Plc's 30,000-person US Covid-19 vaccine trial are currently being reviewed by independent monitors to determine whether the shot is safe and effective, a top US official said on Monday.If the data are positive and all goes well, said Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, the US Food and Drug Administration could complete its reviews and issue an emergency use authorization in about a month, adding one more vaccine to the US arsenal.The AstraZeneca vaccine, developed with the University of Oxford, has been authorized for use in the European Union and many countries but not yet by US regulators.Several EU countries have halted administering the AstraZeneca vaccine after reports from Denmark and Norway of possible serious side-effects, including bleeding and blood clots.Asked about those issues, Collins said he has not personally seen the data but has been "pretty reassured" by statements by European regulators that the problems could be occurring by chance, and are not related to the vaccine.A World Health Organization expert advisory committee is currently looking into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-data-for-astrazeneca-vaccine-under-review-by-independent-advisers-official-101615827920389.html
15-03-2021||World||Moderna begins testing of new Covid-19 vaccine||Moderna Inc said on Monday it had dosed the first patients in an early-stage study of a new Covid-19 vaccine candidate for evaluation as a next-generation shot.The company said its new candidate, mRNA-1283, could potentially be stored in refrigerators instead of freezers, making it easier to distribute, especially in developing countries.The early-stage study will assess the safety and immunogenicity of mRNA-1283 at three dose levels, and will be given to healthy adults either as a single dose or in two doses 28 days apart, the company said.Last week, Moderna began dosing the first participants in a study testing its Covid-19 booster vaccine candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-begins-testing-of-new-covid-19-vaccine-101615826471514.html
15-03-2021||World||Cheerleader's mom accused of making 'deepfakes' of rivals||A Pennsylvania woman is accused of doctoring photos and video of her daughter's cheerleading rivals to try to get them kicked off the squad, officials said.The Bucks County District Attorney's Office last week charged Raffaela Spone, 50, with three misdemeanor counts of cyber harassment of a child and related offenses.Spone manipulated photos from social media of three girls on the Victory Vipers cheerleading squad in Chalfont to make it appear they were drinking, smoking and even nude, investigators said.Spone also sent messages with the so-called “deepfake” pictures to the the girls and suggested they kill themselves, officials said.Spone’s attorney, Robert Birch, told WPVI-TV he can’t comment because he said the DA hasn’t presented any evidence.“She has absolutely denied what they’re charging her with and because of the fact that this has hit the press, she has received death threats. She has had to go to the police herself, they have a report," Birch said. “Her life has been turned upside down.”The cheerleading team expressed sympathy for the families involved and said the team has a “very strict anti-bullying policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cheerleaders-mom-accused-of-making-deepfakes-of-rivals-101615821019711.html
15-03-2021||World||2 charged in assault of Capitol officer who died after riot||US officials have arrested and charged two men with assaulting US Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick with bear spray during the Jan. 6 riot, but they do not know yet whether it caused the officer's death.George Tanios, 39, of Morgantown, West Virginia, and Julian Khater, 32, of Pennsylvania, were arrested Sunday. They were expected to appear in federal court Monday.The idea that Sicknick died after being sprayed by a chemical irritant has emerged in recent weeks as a new theory in the case.Investigators initially believed that Sicknick was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher, based on statements collected early in the investigation, according to two people familiar with the case. But as they’ve collected more evidence, the theory of the case has evolved and investigators now believe Sicknick may have ingested a chemical substance — possibly bear spray — that may have contributed to his death, officials have said.Khater is the man in a video obtained by the FBI that showed him spraying Sicknick and others with bear spray, according to court papers. The act hasn’t been directly tied to Sicknick’s death.“Give me that bear (expletive), Khater said to Tanios on the video, according to court papers. Sicknick and other officers were standing guard near metal bike racks, the papers say.Khater then says, “they just (expletive) sprayed me," as he's seen holding a white can with a black top that prosecutors said ”appears to be a can of chemical spray."Sicknick died after defending the Capitol against the mob that stormed the building as Congress was voting to certify Joe Biden’s electoral win over Donald Trump. It came after Trump urged supporters on the National Mall to “fight like hell” to overturn his defeat.The circumstances surrounding Sicknick’s death remain unclear, and a final cause of death has not been determined. Capitol Police have said he died after he was injured “while physically engaging with protesters” and the agency’s acting chief said officials consider it a line-of-duty death.Sicknick collapsed later on and died at a hospital on Jan. 7. The Justice Department opened a federal murder investigation into his death, but prosecutors are still evaluating what specific charges could be brought in the case, the people said.The medical examiner’s report on Sicknick’s death is incomplete. Capitol Police say they were awaiting toxicology results.The FBI has already released about 250 photos of people being sought for assaulting federal law enforcement officers during the riot. Some have already been arrested, and the Justice Department said about 300 people have been charged with federal offenses related to the riot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-charged-in-assault-of-capitol-officer-who-died-after-riot-101615824255491.html
15-03-2021||World||Italy latest country to suspend use of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine nationwide||Italy on Monday suspended the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, making it the latest European country to put the product on hold following reports of recipients falling ill.The announcement came shortly after Germany took the same step, and followed the seizure of hundreds of thousands of doses of the vaccine by Italian prosecutors in the northern region of Piedmont.The Italian medicines authority AIFA said it was taking the decision as a "precautionary and temporary measure" pending rulings by the European Medicines Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-latest-country-to-suspend-use-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-nationwide-101615824451602.html
15-03-2021||World||France to suspend AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine pending EMA guidance||France will stop administering AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine pending an assessment by the European Union's medicine regulator due on Tuesday, French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday.Macron said the EMA regulator was expected to give guidance on Tuesday afternoon after a number of countries suspended use of the AstraZeneca shot."The decision which has been taken out of precaution is to suspend vaccinating with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the hope that we can resume quickly if the EMA gives the green light," Macron told a press conference with Spain's prime minister."We are therefore suspending its use until tomorrow afternoon."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-suspend-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-pending-ema-guidance-101615823103765.html
15-03-2021||World||China eases visa rules for recipients of its Covid-19 vaccines||China said on Monday it will simplify visa applications for foreign nationals who have been inoculated with Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines, its latest small step towards normalising international travel.Vaccinated passengers travelling to China by air will still need to show negative tests as under current rules, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said, according to an official transcript of a daily briefing. The transcript did not provide further details on how visa applications would be simplified.Travellers "should abide by China's relevant regulations on quarantine and observation after entering China," Zhao said, adding that China was willing to carry out mutual recognition of vaccination with other nations.The Chinese embassy in the Philippines said earlier on Monday China would return to pre-pandemic visa requirements for those fully vaccinated with Chinese vaccines. On Saturday China announced streamlined visa procedures for vaccinated foreigners entering Chinese-ruled Hong Kong.China has been exporting its vaccines mostly to emerging countries. This outreach prompted the United States, Australia, Japan and top global vaccine producer India to announce plans to distribute vaccines in Asia in a competition that has become known as "vaccine diplomacy".China has largely brought the coronavirus under control at home since it first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019. The country recorded just five new infections on Sunday, all imported cases.To stave off the risk of imported cases causing a resurgence in local infections, China restricts entry by foreign nationals to certain purposes, such as work, and those that are allowed in still have to undergo quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-eases-visa-rules-for-recipients-of-its-covid-19-vaccines-101615821666291.html
15-03-2021||World||Covid in UK: Leaders move to reassure public over AstraZeneca's vaccine concerns||British authorities moved to reassure the public that the AstraZeneca Plc vaccine is safe after a number of countries including Ireland suspended the shot over concerns about possible side effects.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s official spokesman Jamie Davies said the vaccine remains “both safe and effective,” and urged everyone to get the shot when asked to do so.“There is no evidence of any causal link between blood clots and the A.Z. vaccine,” Davies said at a regular briefing with journalists on Monday. “Blood clots occur naturally and there is no evidence that they are any more likely to occur following vaccinations.”Scotland’s first minister Nicola Sturgeon echoed those comments, saying the UK regulator -- the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency -- had found no evidence of any increase in clots.“As you would expect, though, the MHRA is continuing to monitor this carefully, and remains in regular contact with other regulators,” she said. “There is, however, significant and growing evidence of the benefits of vaccination in reducing death, illness and, we hope, transmission -- and the vaccination program continues to make very good progress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-in-uk-leaders-move-to-reassure-public-over-astrazeneca-s-vaccine-concerns-101615816799339.html
15-03-2021||World||Germany suspends AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine amid blood clotting concerns||The German government said Monday that it's suspending the use of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine over new reports of dangerous blood clots in connection with the shot.The Health Ministry said the decision was taken as a “precaution” and on the advice of Germany’s national vaccine regulator, the Paul Ehrlich Institute, which called for further investigation of the cases.In a statement, the ministry said the European Medicines Agency would decide “whether and how the new information will affect the authorization of the vaccine.”In its statement, the health ministry said the reported blood clots involved cerebral veins, but didn’t specify where or when the incidents occurred. Several other European countries have temporarily halted use of the AstraZeneca vaccine in recent days to investigate cases of blood clots that occurred after vaccination.AstraZeneca has said there is no cause for concern with its vaccine and that there were fewer reported thrombosis cases in those who received the shot than in the general population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-suspends-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-amid-blood-clotting-concerns-101615819682487.html
15-03-2021||World||WHO urges world not to halt vaccinations as AstraZeneca shot divides Europe||The World Health Organization appealed to countries on Monday not to pause vaccination campaigns after two more European nations and one in Asia joined a handful which have suspended use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine over safety fears.Thailand announced plans on Monday to go ahead with the Anglo-Swedish firm's shot but Indonesia said it would wait after Ireland and the Netherlands announced suspensions on Sunday.Denmark and Norway have reported isolated cases of bleeding, blood clots and a low platelet count after the AstraZeneca vaccine. Iceland and Bulgaria had earlier suspended its use while Austria and Italy have stopped using particular batches.France, Germany and the United Kingdom say they have no concerns.The WHO said its advisory panel was reviewing reports related to the shot and would release its findings as soon as possible. But it said it was unlikely to change its recommendations, issued last month, for widespread use, including in countries where the South African variant of the virus may reduce its efficacy."As of today, there is no evidence that the incidents are caused by the vaccine and it is important that vaccination campaigns continue so that we can save lives and stem severe disease from the virus," WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier said.AstraZeneca's shot was among the first and cheapest to be developed and launched at volume since the coronavirus was first identified in central China at the end of 2019 and is set to be the mainstay of vaccination programmes in much of the developing world. The virus has killed more than 2.7 million people.Thailand became the first country outside Europe to delay rolling out the vaccine on Friday, when its political leaders were due to have the first shots, but the government said on Monday they would receive the AstraZeneca vaccine on Tuesday.Indonesia, however, said it would delay administering the shot due to the reports of blood clots among some recipients in Europe and would await a review from the WHO.The WHO had already said there was no indication the events were caused by the vaccination, a view also expressed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), which said the number of reported blood clots was no higher than seen in the general population.The handful of reported side-effects in Europe have upset vaccination programmes already under pressure over slow rollouts and vaccine scepticism in some countries.The Netherlands said on Monday it had seen 10 cases of possible noteworthy adverse side-effects from the AstraZeneca vaccine, hours after the government put its vaccination programme on hold following reports of potential side-effects in other countries.Denmark reported "highly unusual" symptoms in a 60-year-old citizen who died from a blood clot after receiving the vaccine, the same phrase used on Saturday by Norway about three people under the age of 50 it said were being treated in hospital."It was an unusual course of illness around the death that made the Danish Medicines Agency react," the agency said in a statement late on Sunday.AstraZeneca Plc said earlier it had conducted a review covering more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union and the UK which had shown no evidence of an increased risk of blood clots.Political RowIn Germany, the question marks over the vaccine caused a political row, with the leader of the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU), Markus Soeder, saying the country needed clear guidance from its own experts.Noting that some other EU countries had stopped using the vaccine, Soeder told a news conference: "That's why there has to be an extra clear statement in Germany: is the vaccine good or bad?"The health ministry said the country was continuing to use the vaccine according to EMA guidelines.The reports of potential safety risks are taken seriously and data is examined constantly, a ministry spokesman told Reuters. Further proceedings would be discussed with the European and the national vaccine regulators this week, he said.Investigations into potential side-effects are complicated as the history of each case and circumstances surrounding a death or illness are examined. The Austrian authorities have said their review of the AstraZeneca batch will take about two weeks.The EMA has said that as of March 10, a total of 30 cases of blood clotting had been reported among close to 5 million people vaccinated with the AstraZeneca shot in the European Economic Area, which links 30 European countries.The WHO said that as of March 12, more than 300 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines had been administered around the world with no cases of death found to have been caused by any of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-urges-world-not-to-halt-vaccinations-as-astrazeneca-shot-divides-europe-101615818271030.html
15-03-2021||World||Canada calls on China to stop persecution of Uighurs, Tibetans||Conservative party of Canada has called on China to stop the persecution of people who practice their religion or belief including Christians, Tibetans and Uighurs.In a statement issued on the 62nd anniversary of the Tibetan National Uprising Day, Canadian Leader of the Opposition Erin O'Toole said Canada must stand behind those who advocate for religious freedom.The Conservative party leader paid tribute to "the brave women and men who sacrificed their lives for the just cause of Tibet", while noting his support for the nonviolent struggle of the Tibetan people for genuine autonomy, human rights, and justice for the past 62 years, without either malice or compromise."This is a great testament to the steadfastness and virtue that characterize His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people," the statement read.He further expressed his commitment as a leader of the Conservative party of Canada for safeguarding religious freedom and protection of human rights for those oppressed and facing abuses."Conservatives have urged China to stop the persecution of people who practice their religion or belief including Catholics, other Christians, Tibetans, Uighurs, and Falun Dafa practitioners, including the genocide of the Uyghur people," the statement read."In a time when freedom of religion and belief is under increasing threat internationally, Canada must stand behind those who advocate for religious freedom," the statement added.Last month, Canada's parliament has passed a non-binding motion that says China's treatment of its Muslim Uighur minority constitutes genocide.The motion, sponsored by the opposition Conservative Party, passed by a vote of 266-0 in the House of Commons on Monday, though Trudeau and nearly his entire cabinet abstained.Tibet was a sovereign state before China's invasion in 1950 when the People's Liberation Army (PLA) entered northern Tibet.March 10 is regarded as 'Tibetan Martyrs' Day', dedicated to the patriotism of the heroic men and women of Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-calls-on-china-to-stop-persecution-of-uighurs-tibetans-101615818308590.html
15-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Grand Princess cruise ship passengers recall deaths, confusion, quarantine||The last vacation Margrit and Lucio Gonzalez took together began with an ominous delay: a medical emergency on the cruise ship they were set to board.After a four-hour wait, the couple of 51 years got on the Grand Princess on Feb. 11, 2020, for a round-trip voyage from San Francisco to the Mexican Riviera, a decision Margrit Gonzalez came to regret.“I wish we had come back home. He would still be alive,” the 82-year-old said.Within weeks, the Grand Princess had captured the world’s attention and made the coronavirus real to millions in the United States when thousands of passengers on a subsequent trip were quarantined as the ship idled off the California coast.A year later, some of those who traveled on the Grand Princess remember the pain that followed, others the frustration of shifting directives as they were confined to their rooms. They now realize they had a front-row seat to a historic moment.Ultimately, more than 100 people who were on the ship were infected with the coronavirus. At least eight died.One was Lucio Gonzalez, an athletic 73-year-old who had worked maintaining trails in the California Parks system for 25 years. On the sunny afternoon they boarded, the Gonzalezes thought only of their high-seas adventure. But a few days after the trip ended, Lucio Gonzalez started feeling ill. Eventually, he went to the hospital.“They put him on a ventilator for three weeks and two days, and after that he died,” his widow said. “I never saw him alive again.”Hours after the Gonzalezes disembarked on Feb. 21 in San Francisco, a new group boarded for a 10-day trip to Hawaii. The Grand Princess was headed for a stopover in Ensenada, Mexico, when officials ordered it to reroute to California on March 4 after a 71-year-old Rocklin man who had been on the same trip as the Gonzalezes died of Covid-19.Worried about the virus, officials blocked the ship carrying 2,400 passengers and 1,100 crew members from anchoring at its home port of San Francisco. President Donald Trump said he didn't want the passengers to disembark on American soil “because I like the numbers being where they are,” but that he would yield to health officials' advice.On the ship, Laurie Miller, her friend Karen Schwartz Dever and their husbands shared the dinner table and talks of their Hawaii adventures with fellow travelers Steven and Michele Smith.Soon, they were ordered to quarantine in their cabins. Meals were delivered to their rooms, where they watched their ship, and at times themselves, on television newscasts.The sight of four California Air National Guard members rappelling from a helicopter to drop off test kits made the coronavirus real for Miller. Until then she had thought of it as something happening far away in Asia.Even after the ship anchored in Oakland on March 9, the ordeal was not over. Transferring passengers to military bases for quarantine took days, and they were in packed buses for hours. Once at the bases, many crowded together for meals and updates, despite the Centers for Disease Control advising people to keep 6 feet (2 meters) between them.“There was so much inconsistent information from day-to-day that it felt like we were guinea pigs,” said Miller, of San Jose.Steven and Michele Smith's plan for a 10-day break from overseeing the construction of homes in Paradise, California, decimated by wildfire in 2018, turned into a five-week event that Steven Smith said put them “in a sort of exclusive club of people in ground zero of the corona crisis.”The three couples have stayed in touch through a Facebook group, where passengers recall not just the stress they went through, but the champagne fountains, four-course meals and black-tie nights. More recently, the conversation has turned to future cruises.Miller and Schwartz Dever, who met on a cruise, have booked one for next year to the Great Lakes. The Smiths bought stock in Carnival Cruise Line after seeing talk about people itching to get back.“You can’t live your life based on something that might happen once every 100 years,” Steven Smith said. “You live your life in anticipation of good times and adventures ahead.”Schwartz Dever, like her friends, doesn’t blame Princess Cruises for how the ship outbreak was handled.“The people running the cruise were doing exactly what the government told them to do,” she said.Lucio Gonzalez’s family disagrees. They are suing Princess Cruises and owner Carnival Corp. for negligence and wrongful death — one of dozens of lawsuits by passengers and surviving relatives. Carnival declined to comment on pending litigation.Princess Cruises said in a statement that its response to the pandemic was based on “the directives of governments and public health authorities and consistent with industry standards. As new information about Covid-19 became available, we continually adapted our policies and protocols to reflect the latest understanding of the virus.”Gonzalez family attorney Mary Alexander said the Grand Princess should not have sailed after an earlier outbreak on Carnival's Diamond Princess off the coast of Japan.“They knew more than anybody else about what was going on with Covid and what was going on on cruise ships and they should have never sailed. They didn’t take any special precautions to protect the passengers, they didn’t warn them about the virus. People died as a result,” Alexander said.Miguel Gonzalez said he wants to make sure the industry is held accountable and future passengers aren’t put in danger as his father was.“I just miss him and I just wish I could have more time with him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grand-princess-cruise-ship-passengers-recall-deaths-confusion-quarantine-101615816144952.html
15-03-2021||World||Bolsonaro eyes health minister swap as Brazil's Covid outbreak worsens: Report||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro is weighing candidates to replace health minister Eduardo Pazuello, according to people familiar with the matter, preparing to install the fourth person in a year in the role as Covid-19 cases rage out of control.Following the most deadly week in Brazil since the pandemic began a year ago, Pazuello's job appears to be on the line, even though the government denied in a statement that he has turned in his resignation.More than 279,000 people in Brazil have died in the worsening pandemic.Bolsonaro met on Sunday with Ludhmila Hajjar, a doctor who has been at the forefront of treatment and research into fighting Covid-19.The country's leading newspapers, however, are reporting that she and the president did not agree on how to confront the pandemic and she is expected to turn down the offer.The Poder360 news portal said there could be a second meeting on Monday with Hajjar, who has publicly criticized the government's Covid-19 strategy and contradicted Bolsonaro's insistence on the use of chloroquine to treat patients."The Health Ministry informs that Minister Eduardo Pazuello continues heading the portfolio, dedicated to the measures against the pandemic," the government said late on Sunday, in response to a report by O Globo that he had resigned.The statement also denied he had any health issues.Pazuello, an active duty Army general, has been criticized for lacking medical knowledge and toeing Bolsonaro's line on chloroquine as well as opposing lockdowns to curb the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bolsonaro-eyes-health-minister-swap-as-brazil-s-covid-outbreak-worsens-report-101615816197332.html
15-03-2021||World||China bristles at Quad summit, says ‘it will end up nowhere’ and get no support||China on Monday said the four-member Quad “will end up nowhere” if it does not abandon its ideological bias and cold war mentality, underscoring its opposition to the bloc. Beijing described the Quad, or the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, as a clique based on an ideology which, it said, “detrimental to the international order”.The Quad, comprising India, the US, Australia, and Japan, has been revitalised following the grouping’s first and high-profile top leader-level online summit last Friday.Also Read: The rationale and future of QuadThe summit, attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, US President Joe Biden and Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, was closely monitored and critiqued by Beijing. The consensus in Beijing was that the four countries came together to counter China’s increasing influence and muscle-flexing in the South China Sea and the Indo-Pacific region.Also watch | Quad meet: What PM Modi, Joe Biden said on China; Australia PM's 'namaste'﻿﻿China was also riled at the US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan’s remarks that the four leaders discussed at the summit the challenge posed by China and that the four-member security grouping believed that the four democracies could outcompete “autocracy.”Asked to respond, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said the China threat is exaggerated.“For some time, some countries have been exaggerating the so-called China threat, (or) China challenges, to drive a wedge among regional countries to sow a discord between their relations with China,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Monday.Also Read: Quad leaders made history at summit. Expect pushback from China“What they have done is against the trend of times, which is peace, development and win-win cooperation and runs counter to the common aspirations of people in the region.”“They will gain no support and will end up nowhere,” the spokesperson said, repeating the same words later in the press conference to another question.Zhao said that state-to-state exchanges and cooperation should be conducive for improving mutual understanding and trust among the countries and should not be targeted against and undermine the interests of third parties.“Relevant countries should abandon the cold war mentality and ideological bias, do not form exclusive cliques and act in a way conducive to solidarity, unity, regional peace, and stability,” he added.Responding to a separate question on US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin saying that the US and its allies have the capabilities to deter China, Zhao said: “In the era of globalisation, it is the practice of forming cliques against specific countries based on ideology, which is detrimental to the international order”.“They will gain no support and end up nowhere,” Zhao repeated.China’s response to the Quad has gone through a diplomatic tonal shift, apparent from State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s statements.In 2018, Wang said: “They are like the seafoam in the Pacific or the Indian Ocean: they may get some attention, but soon will dissipate”.By 2020, Wang came around to acknowledging that the Quad had become a “security threat” and a so-called Indo-Pacific “New NATO”.Noting that the US’ Indo-Pacific strategy was a “big underlying security risk”, he said: “What it pursues is to trumpet the Cold War mentality and to stir up a confrontation among different groups and blocs and to stoke geopolitical competition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-bristles-at-quad-summit-says-some-countries-exaggerate-china-threat-101615814917562.html
15-03-2021||World||Germany expects EU to impose human rights sanctions on China||Germany expects the European Union to agree human rights sanctions against China, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said in Berlin on Monday.According to diplomats, the EU is set to sanction four Chinese officials and one entity - with travel bans and asset freezes - on March 22 over human rights abuses in China's Uighur Muslim minority."Yes, I do think there will be agreement," Maas said when asked if he believed the move would go ahead."With the human rights sanctions, we have created an opportunity to punish human rights violations, and we obviously want to make use of this instrument," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-expects-eu-to-impose-human-rights-sanctions-on-china-101615814585540.html
15-03-2021||World||These countries have suspended AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine use||Italy on Monday became the latest European country to suspend the use of AstraZeneca’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) following a similar announcement from Germany and France, despite the European Union medicines regulator’s advice that its benefits still outweigh risks. Several EU members temporarily halted the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine as a precautionary measure while the health authorities investigate the reports of some patients developing blood clots after receiving the shot, including one case in Denmark where a person died.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) released a statement last Thursday, saying it was aware of Denmark’s decision to pause its vaccination campaign, but insisted there was no indication that vaccination has caused blood coagulation. “The position of EMA’s safety committee PRAC is that the vaccine’s benefits continue to outweigh its risks and the vaccine can continue to be administered while investigation of cases of thromboembolic events is ongoing,” EMA’s statement read.Here’s the list of countries that have suspended the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine:Denmark: The Danish authorities suspended vaccinations on March 11 for two weeks as a “precautionary measure” following the death of one person who received the shot.Norway: The Nordic country decided to pause vaccinations on March 11 following reports of death in Denmark.Iceland: Although there were no reports of patients in the country developing blood clots, the island nation chose to halt the vaccine on March 11.Bulgaria: Bulgarian government suspended inoculations using the AstraZeneca vaccine on March 12, urging EMA to send a written statement dispelling all doubts about the vaccine's safety.Ireland: On March 14, the European nation decided to temporarily suspend its use to "maintain confidence" in its vaccine program, according to the chairperson of its National Immunisation Advisory Committee.The Netherlands: The Dutch government said it would halt the use of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine for two weeks “as a precautionary measure and pending further investigation.”Germany: German health ministry said that it is suspending the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine as a “precaution” and on the advice of the national vaccine regulator, the Paul Ehrlich Institute, which called for further investigation of the cases.France: French President Emmanuel Macron said that the country will stop administering the vaccine pending an assessment by the EMA due on Tuesday. He added that the decision has been taken out of precaution in the hope that the inoculations could resume quickly if the regulator "gives the green light."Apart from these European nations, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, and Latvia have also suspended the use of a particular batch of their AstraZeneca vaccine supply.Read | 10 reports of possible side effects after AstraZeneca vaccine: Dutch watchdogAstraZeneca said that a “careful review” of all available data on vaccination of 17 million people in the EU and the UK has shown no evidence of “an increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or thrombocytopenia”. As of March 9, at least 22 cases of thromboembolic events, marked by the formation of blood clots, has been reported among 3 million people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine.“This is much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population of this size and is similar across other licensed Covid-19 vaccines,” the British-Swedish company added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/these-countries-have-suspended-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-use-101615815056123.html
15-03-2021||World||Concerns rise over Sri Lanka's move to ban burqas and madrassas||A Pakistani diplomat and a UN expert have expressed concerns over Sri Lanka’s proposed move to ban the wearing of burqas.Sri Lanka announced plans over the weekend to ban the wearing of burqas — garments worn by some Muslim women that cover the body and face — and also said it would close more than 1,000 Islamic schools known as madrassas, citing national security.Pakistan's ambassador to Sri Lanka, Saad Khattak, tweeted on Monday that the ban would "only serve as injury to the feelings of ordinary Sri Lankan Muslims and Muslims across the globe.”The United Nations' special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, Ahmed Shaheed, tweeted that the “burqa bans are incompatible with int’l law guarantees of the right to manifest one’s religion or belief & of freedom of expression.”On Saturday, Sri Lanka’s minister of public security, Sarath Weerasekara, called the burqa a sign of religious extremism and said it has a direct impact on national security. Weerasekara signed a paper on Friday seeking the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers to ban burqas.The wearing of burqas in Sri Lanka was temporarily banned in 2019 soon after the Easter Sunday bomb attacks on churches and hotels that killed more than 260 people in the Indian Ocean island nation. Two local Muslim groups that had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group have been blamed for the attacks at six locations — two Roman Catholic churches, one Protestant church and three top hotels.Sri Lanka also plans to ban more than 1,000 Madrassas, saying they are not registered with the authorities and do not follow the national education policy.The decision to ban burqas and madrassas is the latest move affecting Sri Lanka's minority Muslims.Muslims make up about 9% of the 22 million people in Sri Lanka, where Buddhists account for more than 70% of the population. Ethnic minority Tamils, who are mainly Hindus, comprise about 15% of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/concerns-rise-over-sri-lanka-s-move-to-ban-burqas-and-madrassas-101615814005942.html
15-03-2021||World||EU launches legal case against UK over changes to Northern Ireland trade pact||The European Union launched legal action on Monday against unilateral British changes to Northern Irish trading arrangements that Brussels says breach the Brexit divorce deal agreed with London.The bloc sent a letter of formal notice to kick-start an "infringement procedure", which could lead to fines being imposed by the EU's top court, although that could be at least a year off, leaving time for a solution to be found.Maros Sefcovic, the top EU official in charge of UK relations, has also sent a separate letter to his British counterpart, David Frost, calling for Britain to refrain from this measure, but also seeking talks on the issue.The British government earlier this month unilaterally extended a grace period until October 1 for some checks on food imports to Northern Ireland. The period initially ran until the end of March.The EU's executive European Commission promised to respond with the legal means established by the Brexit divorce deal and the trade agreement to what it said was Britain's second threat to breach international law.Britain says it has not violated the protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland.Last September, Britain did acknowledge its Internal Market Bill would break international law by breaching parts of the Withdrawal Agreement treaty it signed in January 2020, when it formally left the EU. However, it dropped certain contentious clauses in December, two weeks before the two sides struck a trade deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-launches-legal-case-against-uk-over-changes-to-northern-ireland-trade-rules-101615814405401.html
15-03-2021||World||Facebook to label, add Information to posts on Covid-19 vaccine||Facebook Inc., trying to counteract the spread of false information about vaccines, is planning to label posts about Covid-19 shots with a link to information from medical authorities including the World Health Organization.On Facebook-owned Instagram, which already has information labels on some posts, the wording will become clearer on messages from users seeking to discourage people from getting shots. For example, the company plans to say on some posts that “Covid-19 vaccines go through many tests for safety and effectiveness before they’re approved.”Facebook and Instagram have been used for years to spread fear about vaccines, because information with the potential to scare others and spark emotions has a better chance of getting shared and commented on, boosting it into more feeds on the platforms. The company, seeing the rise in vaccine hesitancy during the Covid-19 pandemic, has started to take stronger measures, banning repeat offenders who spend false information and directing users to a central Covid-19 information center. It announced the new labels Monday in a blog post.The strategy is similar to the one Facebook used around the U.S. presidential election, when any post trying to deny Joe Biden’s win was labeled with a link to accurate information.The company said it also wants to assist users in booking vaccine appointments directly through Facebook, Instagram and Facebook-owned WhatsApp, with a goal of helping 50 million users do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-label-add-information-to-posts-on-covid-19-vaccine-101615814186680.html
15-03-2021||World||Britain imposes fresh sanctions on 6 members of Syrian regime||Britain said Monday it was imposing new sanctions on Bashar al-Assad’s regime, including asset freezes and travel bans on the Syrian dictator’s close allies.The announcement came on the 10th anniversary of the start of the Syrian uprising. The six sanctioned individuals include Syrian Foreign Minister Faisal Miqdad, presidential adviser Luna al-Shibl, and two military generals who Britain said were responsible for the violent repression of civilians by troops under their command.The Foreign Office said they also include two prominent businessmen, one of whom, Yassar Ibrahim, allegedly “acts as a front" for the “personal hold on the Syrian economy” wielded by Assad and his wife, Asma, while millions of Syrians go without food.Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab condemned the Assad regime for subjecting the Syrian people “to a decade of brutality for the temerity of demanding peaceful reform.”“Today we are holding six more individuals from the regime to account for their wholesale assault on the very citizens they should be protecting,” Raab said in a statement.The sanctions were the first against the Syrian leadership under Britain’s new autonomous sanctions regime after Brexit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-imposes-fresh-sanctions-on-6-members-of-syrian-regime-101615813273248.html
15-03-2021||World||Suspension of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine could delay Europe's vaccination goal||The suspended rollout of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine in some European Union countries over concerns about possible side effects could delay a goal of immunizing three-quarters of their populations against the resurgent coronavirus by as much as a month.Limiting the use of the AstraZeneca shot as a precautionary measure could push back efforts to hit that threshold by at least a couple of weeks and potentially longer -- to September instead of August -- according to London-based research firm Airfinity Ltd.While the European Union is relying heavily on the AstraZeneca-University of Oxford inoculation, it has a number of weapons at its disposal in the race to escape the pandemic. Those include vaccines from Pfizer Inc. and its partner BioNTech SE, as well as Moderna Inc. The bloc last week cleared Johnson & Johnson’s shot, too, though it’s not yet available for use.The bloc will need all of those supplies as it seeks to make up for a sluggish start to its immunization campaign. Beginning in the second quarter of the year, other shots are expected to take on more of the burden from the AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines, which have accounted for most of the injections given so far.Now the suspensions, along with continued production delays for the AstraZeneca vaccine, threaten to slow the pace of immunizations further, at least in the short term. Meanwhile, infections are rising again in a number of EU countries, including Italy and France, and some face renewed restrictions.Europe is still on track to meet vaccine supply targets as increased output from Pfizer offset any shortages in AstraZeneca shots, EU Industry Commissioner Thierry Breton said on Europe 1 radio over the weekend.At the current average rate of 1.26 million doses per day, it would take 16 months for the European Union to cover 75% of its population with two-dose vaccines, compared with five months for the U.S. and seven months for the U.K., according to Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker. Airfinity’s estimates assume that the daily rate of shots will increase as supplies grow, speeding up progress toward that key threshold.The Netherlands joined about a dozen places, including northern Italy and Ireland, in deciding to suspend AstraZeneca’s shot amid reports of serious blood clotting. But regulators from Europe to Asia said there was no indication of any direct link with the vaccine.AstraZeneca said more than 17 million doses had been administered in Europe and the UK, with no evidence that the shot increased the risk of blood clots. As of March 8, there had been 15 reports of clots in the legs, called deep vein thrombosis, and 22 cases where they reached the lungs, known as pulmonary embolism. The company said it is continually monitoring safety.Denmark’s medicines regulator said Monday that a 60-year-old woman who died after receiving the AstraZeneca vaccine suffered from an “unusual” combination of symptoms that are now being thoroughly investigated by the European Medicines Agency and other authorities.Supply woes and questions about the initial trials that extend to the shot’s efficacy against novel variants have hit the AstraZeneca vaccine. Even as some countries suspend its use, others like the US are moving to protect their own stockpiles, blocking efforts to redistribute the shot’s supply to places with urgent needs.There are a number of factors that could affect the pace of the immunization campaign in Europe and elsewhere over the coming months. But if doubts grow and people are slow to get vaccinated across the continent, the European timelines could be pushed back even further, according to Airfinity.The EMA is scheduled to evaluate data on the AstraZeneca shot on Thursday, Marco Cavaleri, chair of the regulator’s vaccine evaluation team, told Italy’s Radio24.The regulator sees “no reason to stop using” the injection, he said. “Still, we understand the position of member states which, as a precautionary measure, prefer to wait until we complete our investigations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspension-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-could-delay-europe-s-vaccination-goal-101615811322573.html
15-03-2021||World||UK accused of racism over treatment of 'IS bride' Shamima Begum||A lawyer for the family of Shamima Begum, who was stripped of her citizenship after joining the Islamic State group, on Monday accused Britain of racism over her treatment, calling her a "tragic scapegoat".Begum was just 15 when she and two other schoolgirls from east London travelled to Syria to join the jihadists, and was later tracked down in a refugee camp.She had her citizenship revoked in 2019 on national security grounds, after an outcry led by right-wing newspapers.But the UK's highest court last month ruled she could not return to Britain to appeal the decision.Begum's family lawyer, Tasnime Akunjee, and the sculptor Anish Kapoor said she was "the tragic scapegoat of a punitive unforgiving government intent on harsh retribution"."What happened to Christian forgiveness? Does it not apply to a woman -- and a dark-skinned one at that? It seems that different rules apply," they said in a joint statement."Is it perhaps that some of us are more British than others of us? Shamima is of Bangladeshi descent, does that change her right to British nationality?"I am tempted to think it does especially in the light of the Supreme Court's judgment."Kapoor, best known for his conceptual art installations, and Akunjee called the government's stance "a disgraceful indictment of our national conscience".They suggested "four young white schoolgirls" from a less ethnically diverse area outside London would "no doubt" be treated differently."This is 'divide and rule', the horror that sustained the British Empire for 200 years. Have we regressed to now practising this on home turf?" they asked.Begum married a Dutch IS fighter shortly after crossing into the militant group's territory from Turkey. She had three children, but they all died.The Sunday Telegraph last weekend published pictures of Begum wearing Western clothing -- sunglasses, a T-shirt and a zip-up sweater -- at the Al Roj camp where she has been for the last two years.She has previously been seen in a black niqab mandated by IS.She agreed to being photographed, but she and others who came from Britain detained in the camp declined to be interviewed on the basis of legal advice, the weekly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-accused-of-racism-over-treatment-of-is-bride-shamima-begum-101615809954115.html
15-03-2021||World||Trump’s December call recording located in trash folder of Georgia investigator's device: Report||A recently released call recording of former US president Donald Trump to Georgia’s chief elections investigator was found in the trash folder of the official’s device, according to CNN. Last week, the Georgia secretary of state’s office, while responding to a public records request, released a six-minute-long audio recording from December 23 in which Trump was heard encouraging the lead elections investigator, Frances Watson, to uncover “dishonesty” in her probe.“The people of Georgia are so angry at what happened to me. They know I won, won by hundreds of thousands of votes. It wasn’t close,” Trump told Watson, according to the call recording. “When the right answer comes out, you’ll be praised.” he said, later telling the investigator that she had the “most important job” in the country at that time. “Whatever you can do, Frances, it would be - it’s a great thing. It’s an important thing for the country. So important. You’ve no idea. So important. And I very much appreciate it,” Trump added.The Washington Post had first reported on the substance of the call in January, detailing how the then-president pressured Watson to help him overturn the results of the presidential election. Georgia officials had earlier said that they didn’t believe a recording of the call existed. The Washington Post and CNN, citing people familiar with the matter, have now reported that the recording was located on a trash folder on Watson’s device while the officials were responding to a public records request.Fulton County district attorney Fani Willis had sent letters to state officials last month, asking them to preserve all relevant documents related to alleged election interference. The call recording could form a part of Willis’ investigation. While it is not clear why Watson moved the recording to the trash folder, the investigator told a WSB-TV reporter that she didn’t perceive any pressure from the phone call.Georgia officials are also investigating Trump for his attempts to overturn state election results, particularly his phone call to secretary of state Brad Raffensperger. Trump was caught on tape pressurising Raffensperger to “find” enough votes to overturn President Joe Biden’s win. During the phone call, Trump repeatedly argued that the state official could change the certified results.“All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have,” said Trump. “Because we won the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trumps-call-recording-located-in-trash-folder-of-georgia-investigator-s-device-101615806147294.html
15-03-2021||World||Where climate scientists see danger, Russia sees an opportunity||Russia, the world’s fourth-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, is bearing witness to one of the most obvious effects of climate change: rapidly rising temperatures in the Arctic. The region is warming more than twice as fast as the rest of the world, altering weather patterns as far south as Texas. Home to more than a fifth of the planet’s forests, Russia has suffered two consecutive years of record-breaking wildfires that released emissions equivalent to those of a mid-sized country such as Spain. Permafrost, the frozen ground that covers about half of Russian land, is thawing fast, damaging infrastructure, houses and industrial installations at a cost of up to $2.3 billion a year. The Siberian tundra stores an estimated 1,700 gigatons of planet-warming carbon dioxide, twice the amount currently in the atmosphere. Much of it could be released as the ground unfreezes.But Russia is also home to the world’s largest reserves of liquified natural gas, and melting ice in the Arctic means it can ship more of its most valuable export to other countries. It could also potentially increase oil production. Warnings from climate experts that both activities could accelerate global warming haven’t deterred Russia’s leaders. “Moving north and east is a job Russia has been doing for four and a half centuries —we know weather and nature are challenging up there” Aleksey Chekunkov, Russia’s minister in charge of developing the Arctic, said in an interview. “We will be living, working and developing our north in all scenarios.”LNG burns cleaner than coal or oil, though it still releases emissions. Russia is betting that demand will rise over the coming decades as more countries move to replace coal in order to lower their carbon footprints. The Northern Sea Route, which links northern Europe and Russia to China through the Arctic seas, used to be blocked by ice most of the year, with navigation only possible in summer months, from June to October. This year, record-low sea ice and an increasingly powerful Russian fleet of icebreakers meant the season was the longest ever, from May to February. “We believe navigation can be made year-round and we’re not waiting until it happens climate-wise,” Chekunkov said. “We’re building the most powerful fleet of nuclear icebreakers in the world.” All-year navigation could be a reality by mid-century, he said.By then, the world will be a much different place if humans haven’t drastically cut emissions. Much of the Earth’s ice will have melted, sea levels will have risen, and coral reefs and forests will have shrunk significantly. The planet will be hotter and more humid, leading to more extreme weather events such as hurricanes and wildfires. Moscow is aware of the dangers. Chekunkov’s ministry has a team of 68 scientists and developed a digital model of the Arctic economy and ecology with about 10,000 different parameters, 800 of which can be tweaked to simulate different scenarios.Yet the country is not doing enough to slow global warming. Russia’s climate plan is rated “critically insufficient” by the nonprofit Climate Action Tracker. If all countries followed its approach, global temperature rise from pre-industrial times would exceed 4ºC by the end of the century—the worst-case scenario outlined by scientists. “We need to be realistic about the size of the country,” Chekunkov said. “Building a grid for a land that has on average one person per square kilometer is not always economic.' Solar power is not an option for Arctic regions where the sun doesn’t shine for more than half of the year, and where wind energy is not constant. “Unless we see a major breakthrough in the technology of batteries and on moving power from one place to another, I believe LNG is the best possible solution,” he said. In the meantime, Russia will do its best to profit from the opportunities unveiled by the melting ice, even as it struggles to deal with the impacts of climate change in its own territory.“The Arctic is warming faster than the continent—this has a very negative potential, but also a very positive one,” said Chekunkov.Laura Millan writes the Climate Report newsletter about the impact of global warming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-climate-scientists-see-danger-russia-sees-an-opportunity-101615807274336.html
15-03-2021||World||Germany’s future could hinge on Greens after successes in states||Germany’s Green party is positioning itself to be the kingmaker after September’s national election with its hand strengthened by a strong showing in Sunday’s state votes.The Greens cemented their decade-long hold on Baden-Wuerttemberg with a third straight victory in the industrial southwest and also saw the biggest gains in neighboring Rhineland-Palatinate. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union, by contrast, suffered its worst ever results in both states.A national alliance between the CDU and the Greens remains the most likely outcome of September’s vote, but Greens co-leader Annalena Baerbock is playing up the chances of an alternative coalition as well. If there’s a realistic chance that Merkel’s CDU-led bloc could be left out for the first time in 16 years, that will give the Greens more leverage when it comes to negotiating a program for governing.“There are now many different parties that can be in government,” Baerbock said at a press conference on Monday in Berlin. “What is possible in the heartland of Germany’s industry can also be possible at a federal level.”Sunday’s results are a sign of the long-term challenges facing Merkel’s party once the chancellor steps aside after the federal election. Both regions used to be strongholds for the CDU but support for the party has been slipping for decades and frustration over the government’s handling of the pandemic and the slow pace of vaccinations has deepened its problems.In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the Greens -- led by popular state premier Winfried Kretschmann -- won 32.6%, a gain of 2.3 points, according to official preliminary results. The CDU’s support slumped by 2.9 points compared with the last election in 2016 to 24.1%.The two parties are in coalition there, but the results could prompt the Greens to explore other alternatives potentially setting a precedent for what could happen after September’s national vote.The CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the CSU, lead the Greens by about 12 percentage points in national polls but those numbers mask a number of uncertainties as the parties look toward the campaign.The CDU is yet to decide on its candidate for chancellor and it’s longtime coalition partner, the Social Democrats, has seen its support slump and has indicated it won’t support another CDU-led administration. That leaves the Greens as the CDU’s most likely partner, but the Greens could have other options for forming a majority if the declines suffered by the CDU in Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate were replicated on a national level.The SPD would consider working as a junior partner in a government with the Greens, the Social Democrats Co-Leader Saskia Esken said Monday on ARD television.“We don’t rule anything out, this is not what this is about,” she said, adding that Merkel’s junior coalition partner is still hopeful of claiming the chancellery itself despite its trailing poll numbers. “A good victory means that we will be able to take the formation of a government into our own hands.”The SPD is the only major party to name a chancellor candidate. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz was out of the gates early in order to help the party make up lost ground after years suffering in Merkel’s shadow.In Rhineland-Palatinate, The Social Democrats got 35.7% of the vote, defending its position as the state’s strongest party despite losing 0.5 points. The Greens climbed 4 points to 9.3%, with the CDU shedding 4.1 points to 27.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germanys-future-could-hinge-on-greens-after-successes-in-states-101615806502801.html
15-03-2021||World||Iran inaugurates new underground missile facility: Report||Iran's paramilitary Revolutionary Guard on Monday inaugurated a new underground facility designated for missile storage, the country's state TV reported.The report quotes Guard commander Gen. Hossein Salami as saying that cruise and ballistic missiles will empower the force's navy even more. The TV report showed footage of scores of missiles in an enclosed space resembling an underground corridor. It did not say where the facility is located nor how many missiles are stored there.Since 2011, Iran has boasted of underground facilities across the country as well as along the southern coast near the strategic Strait of Hormuz. Iran claims to have missiles that can travel 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles), placing much of the Middle East, including Israel, within range.The US and its Western allies see Iran’s missile program as a threat, along with the country’s nuclear program — particularly after Tehran gradually breached its commitments to the 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, following the Trump administration's withdrawal from the deal in 2018.Last July, the Guard launched underground ballistic missiles as part of an exercise involving a mock-up American aircraft carrier in the Strait of Hormuz, highlighting its network of subterranean missile sites.Since Iran's bloody 1980s war with Iraq, which saw both nations fire missiles on cities, Iran has developed its ballistic missile program as a deterrent, especially as a UN arms embargo prevents it from buying high-tech weapons systems. The underground tunnels help protect those weapons, including liquid-fueled missiles that can only be fueled for short periods of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-inaugurates-new-underground-missile-facility-report-101615806912651.html
15-03-2021||World||German Chancellor Merkel's party faces election 'wake-up call'||Two German state election defeats have put the spotlight on chances of a government without Chancellor Angela Merkel's bloc after September's national vote. A possible contender to succeed her said Monday that the center-right needs to raise its game to keep the country's top job.Final results showed that Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union was handily defeated in Sunday’s elections by two popular incumbent state governors: the Green party’s Winfried Kretschmann in Baden-Wuerttemberg and the center-left Social Democrats’ Malu Dreyer in Rhineland-Palatinate.While the CDU always faced an uphill battle against the pair, the results were painful. It lost the two states — both of which were once strongholds, but have long since slipped from its grasp — by about eight percentage points. It won 24.1% of the vote in Baden-Wuerttemberg and 27.7% in Rhineland-Palatinate, its worst post-World War II showing in both states.Merkel’s federal government faces discontent over a slow start to Germany’s coronavirus vaccination drive, while most restrictions remain in place and infections are rising again. And her center-right bloc has been hit over the past two weeks by allegations that a few lawmakers profited from deals to procure masks early in the coronavirus pandemic.In both states that voted Sunday, the results make three-way coalitions between the Greens, Social Democrats and pro-business Free Democrats possible — highlighting the possibility, though it has seemed a long shot so far, of such an alliance at national level.So far, the Union bloc of Merkel's CDU and Bavaria's Christian Social Union leads polls by a distance from the Greens and Social Democrats, despite softening support. But it can't count on a popular incumbent in the Sept. 26 election for the new German parliament, since Merkel isn't seeking a fifth term after nearly 16 years in power.CSU leader Markus Soeder, the governor of Bavaria and one of two serious contenders to be the center-right candidate to replace Merkel, described the results as a “wake-up call.”“One thing is clear since yesterday evening: theoretically, there are majorities beyond the Union,” Soeder said. “So the belief or hope that 1 or 2% more or less doesn't matter, that the Union will have the chancellor in any case, is no longer 100% certain since yesterday evening.”“That means we won't be able to get through the federal election in September in the sleeping car,” he added. “We need a clear direction, a clear strategy.”He called for vaccinations to be speeded up and for the center-right “to line ourselves up more broadly than just with corona.”Sunday’s results aren’t helpful for new CDU leader Armin Laschet, the governor of North Rhine-Westphalia state, who was elected in January. He has said that he and Soeder, who hasn't officially declared his ambitions, plan to make a decision in April or May on who will seek the chancellorship.The state elections gave the environmentalist and traditionally left-leaning Greens new confidence for the national election campaign, in which they are expected to make their first bid for the chancellery. Co-leader Annalena Baerbock said a decision on the candidate will be made “in the coming weeks.”The Greens' general secretary, Michael Kellner, noted that this is the first time since West Germany's first election in 1949 that there is no incumbent seeking re-election. “The race is open and that gives us a huge opportunity,” he told ARD television.The elections gave some comfort to the Social Democrats, who have been struggling with dismal federal poll ratings.The Social Democrats’ candidate for chancellor, Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, said the results showed that “forming a government is possible without the CDU.”One party that didn’t benefit from discontent was the far-right Alternative for Germany, which has opposed coronavirus restrictions and is in a court standoff with the domestic intelligence agency over whether it can be put under observation as a “suspected case” of right-wing extremism.The party lost about a third of its support compared with strong showings in 2016, taking 9.7% of the vote in Baden-Wuerttemberg and 8.3% in Rhineland-Palatinate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-chancellor-merkel-s-party-faces-election-wake-up-call-101615805462759.html
15-03-2021||World||Money, talent flowing into mRNA research after Covid-19 success||The success of Covid-19 vaccines based on messenger RNA (mRNA) is smoothing the way for using the novel technology not only in other vaccines, but possibly as treatments for cystic fibrosis, cancer and other hard-to-treat diseases.Scientists say mRNA has the potential to target diseases that cannot be reached by conventional drugs.US emergency authorisation of the vaccines - one from Moderna Inc and another from partners Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE – and their gene-based manufacturing processes has shown that the Food and Drug Administration is open to broader use of the previously unproven technology, according to interviews with eight top experts in the field of mRNA.Billions of dollars in capital have flowed into mRNA-focused companies based on these raised expectations – hundreds of millions in the last few months alone. And with FDA acceptance, the field is attracting top scientific talent, experts said."There is more attention and focus on mRNA now that it has proven to be a technology that works," said Glenn Hunzinger, U.S. pharmaceutical and life sciences leader at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.Regulatory authorization of the vaccines "accelerates the process" for other mRNA therapies, providing real-world evidence that it is possible to secure fragile mRNA components during manufacturing and distribution, said Josh Kellar, co-lead of Boston Consulting Group's Covid-19 team.The technology is often likened to the operating system on a computer, allowing drugmakers to alter their target by inserting new genetic code into a manufactured form of mRNA, a natural chemical messenger that instructs the body to produce specific proteins.Its advantage in vaccines is versatility and speed compared to standard technology requiring long lead times to produce and purify proteins and create a vaccine.Treatments Reach Human TestingIn 2020, given the urgent need created by the coronavirus pandemic, more than $5.2 billion was invested in companies engaged in developing mRNA vaccines and therapeutics - up from $596 million in 2019, according to India-based research firm Roots Analysis.In just the last three months, mRNA company CureVac NV raised $518 million, Arcturus Therapeutics Holding raised $150 million and Gilead Sciences Inc agreed to a therapeutic HIV vaccine deal worth up to $785 million to mRNA company Gritstone Oncology.Over 150 mRNA vaccines and therapeutics are in development globally, Roots Analysis said. Most are still in early animal testing, but more than 30 have reached human testing.mRNA can be very difficult to work with, making future successes with treatments uncertain.Instructions from mRNA are fleeting and non-specific about where in the body it goes, which works well when directing cells to make a harmless fragment of the coronavirus to trigger an immune response. It is more difficult to send those orders to a specific tissue, like the lungs or heart muscle, which requires different delivery methods or encapsulation to protect the fragile mRNA molecule. Most of last year's funding went to Covid-19 projects but enabled companies to also push forward with other disease categories.Moderna, for instance, is working on treatments for heart disease, cancer, and rare diseases. Its most advanced non-Covid program is a vaccine for cytomegalovirus, the leading cause of birth defects in the United States.Translate Bio Inc may be the first to market with an mRNA treatment if its inhaled drug for cystic fibrosis is shown to succeed at delivering instructions to make a protein known as CFTR to the lungs, according to Chief Executive Ron Renaud.The company expects to have interim results from a mid-stage trial in the second quarter of this year. If safety and efficacy results are encouraging, it would conduct a larger trial and then potentially apply for US approval.People with cystic fibrosis, a life-shortening lung disease, have mutations in the CFTR gene that cause the protein to malfunction or not be made at all, leading to a buildup of thick mucus, which causes lung infections and other serious health complications."Most drugs treat the downstream effects of disease ... mRNA is in the business of replacing what's missing," said Joe Payne, CEO of Arcturus, which is working to develop mRNA vaccines for Covid-19 and influenza, as well as medicines for liver disease and cystic fibrosis.Dr. Drew Weissman, professor of infectious diseases at the University of Pennsylvania’s Perelman School of Medicine, is one of the two scientists credited with a groundbreaking 2005 discovery of how to alter the molecular structure of mRNA to keep it stable enough to get past the body's defences.In the past nine months, Weissman said 20 companies working in the field of mRNA have asked him to join their boards of directors, and the number of labs asking to collaborate with Penn on mRNA work has nearly tripled.As fields like cell therapy start to mature, scientists angling for cutting-edge jobs are reaching out to mRNA companies, said Jacob Becraft, CEO at Strand Therapeutics, which is working on technology to control the activity of mRNA therapies."A lot of those people are inbounding to my inbox," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/money-talent-flowing-into-mrna-research-after-covid-19-success-101615804715900.html
15-03-2021||World||Joe Biden eyes first major tax hike since 1993 in next economic plan||President Joe Biden is planning the first major federal tax hike since 1993 to help pay for the long-term economic program designed as a follow-up to his pandemic-relief bill, according to people familiar with the matter.Unlike the $1.9 trillion Covid-19 stimulus act, the next initiative, which is expected to be even bigger, won’t rely just on government debt as a funding source. While it’s been increasingly clear that tax hikes will be a component -- Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has said at least part of the next bill will have to be paid for, and pointed to higher rates -- key advisers are now making preparations for a package of measures that could include an increase in both the corporate tax rate and the individual rate for high earners.With each tax break and credit having its own lobbying constituency to back it, tinkering with rates is fraught with political risk. That helps explain why the tax hikes in Bill Clinton’s signature 1993 overhaul stand out from the modest modifications done since.For the Biden administration, the planned changes are an opportunity not just to fund key initiatives like infrastructure, climate and expanded help for poorer Americans, but also to address what Democrats argue are inequities in the tax system itself. The plan will test both Biden’s capacity to woo Republicans and Democrats’ ability to remain unified.“His whole outlook has always been that Americans believe tax policy needs to be fair, and he has viewed all of his policy options through that lens,” said Sarah Bianchi, head of US public policy at Evercore ISI and a former economic aide to Biden. “That is why the focus is on addressing the unequal treatment between work and wealth.”While the White House has rejected an outright wealth tax, as proposed by progressive Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren, the administration’s current thinking does target the wealthy.The White House is expected to propose a suite of tax increases, mostly mirroring Biden’s 2020 campaign proposals, according to four people familiar with the discussions.The tax hikes included in any broader infrastructure and jobs package are likely to include repealing portions of President Donald Trump’s 2017 tax law that benefit corporations and wealthy individuals, as well as making other changes to make the tax code more progressive, said the people familiar with the plan.The following are among proposals currently planned or under consideration, according to the people, who asked not to be named as the discussions are private:An independent analysis of the Biden campaign tax plan done by the Tax Policy Center estimated it would raise $2.1 trillion over a decade, though the administration’s plan is likely to be smaller. Bianchi earlier this month wrote that congressional Democrats might agree to $500 billion.The overall program has yet to be unveiled, with analysts penciling in $2 trillion to $4 trillion. No date has yet been set for an announcement, though the White House said the plan would follow the signing of the Covid-19 relief bill.An outstanding question for Democrats is which parts of the package need to be funded, amid debate over whether infrastructure ultimately pays for itself -- especially given current borrowing costs, which remain historically low. Efforts to make the expanded child tax credit in the pandemic-aid bill permanent -- something with a price tag estimated at more than $1 trillion over a decade -- could be harder to sell if pitched as entirely debt-financed.What Bloomberg’s Economists Say...“The next major legislative initiative, infrastructure investment, could provide the sort of durable economic gains that not only support higher pay, but promote diffusion of those gains across demographic lines and political persuasions.”--Andrew Husby and Eliza Winger, U.S. economistsDemocrats would need at least 10 Republicans to back the bill to move it under regular Senate rules. But GOP members are signaling they are prepared to fight.“We’ll have a big robust discussion about the appropriateness of a big tax increase,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said last month, predicting Democrats would pursue a reconciliation bill that forgoes the GOP and would aim for a corporate tax even higher than 28%.Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the House Ways & Means Committee, said, “There seems to a be a real drive to tax investment of capital gains at marginal income rates,” and called that a “terrible economic mistake.”While about 18% of the George W. Bush administration’s tax cuts were allowed to expire in a 2013 deal, and other legislation has seen some increases in levies, 1993 marks the last comprehensive set of increases, experts say. That bill passed on a two-vote margin in the House and required the vice president to break a tie in the Senate.“I don’t think it is an understatement to say the current partisan environment is more severe than 1993” said Ken Kies, managing director of the Federal Policy Group, a former chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. “So you can draw your own conclusions” about prospects for a deal this year, he said.Still, there could be some tax initiatives Republicans could get behind. One is a shift from a gasoline tax to a vehicle-miles-traveled fee to help fund highway projects.Another is more money for Internal Revenue Service enforcement -- a way to boost revenue without raising rates. Estimates have found that for every additional $1 spent on IRS audits, the agency brings in an additional $3 to $5.Democrats are also looking to revise tax laws that they say don’t do enough to stop U.S. companies from shifting jobs and profits offshore as another way to raise revenue, one aide said. Republicans could potentially support incentives, though it’s unclear whether they’d back penalties.White House officials including deputy director of the National Economic Council, David Kamin -- who wrote a 2019 paper on “Taxing the Rich” -- are in the process of fleshing out the Biden tax plans.As for timing, if passed, tax measures would likely take effect in 2022 -- though some lawmakers and Biden supporters outside the administration have argued for holding off while unemployment remains high due to the pandemic.Lawmakers have their own ideas for tax reforms. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Ron Wyden wants to consolidate energy tax breaks and require investors to pay taxes regularly on their investments including stocks and bonds that have unrealized gains.“A nurse pays taxes with every single paycheck. A billionaire in an affluent suburb on the other hand can defer paying taxes month after month to the point where their paying taxes is pretty much optional,” Wyden told Bloomberg in an interview. “I don’t think that’s right.”Warren has pitched a wealth tax, while House Financial Services Committee Chair Maxine Waters has said she would like to consider a financial-transaction tax.Democratic strategists see the next package as effectively the last chance to reshape the U.S. economy on a grand scale before lawmakers turn to the 2022 mid-term campaign.“Normally, the party in power gets one or two shots to do major legislative packages,” said Chuck Marr, senior director of Federal Tax Policy at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “This is the next shot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-eyes-first-major-tax-hike-since-1993-in-next-economic-plan-101615805202739.html
15-03-2021||World||Better Covid vaccines are coming, WHO’s chief scientist says||New Covid-19 vaccines, including ones that don’t require needles and can be stored at room temperature, may be ready for use later this year or next year, the World Health Organization’s top scientist said.Six-to-eight new immunizations may complete clinical studies and undergo regulatory review by the end of the year, Soumya Swaminathan, the Geneva-based agency’s chief scientist, said in an interview Saturday.New vaccines will add to the 10 already shown to work within a year of Covid-19 being declared a pandemic. The world needs more immunizations, especially as the virus’s continuous circulation spawns dangerous new variants and drugmakers struggle to meet orders. Only 122 countries have started immunizing people, according to data collected by Bloomberg.“We’re thrilled with the vaccines that we have,” said Swaminathan, an Indian pediatrician best known for her research on tuberculosis and HIV. But “we can improve further,” she said. “I think, well into 2022, we’re going to see the emergence of improved vaccines.”The current crop of experimental vaccines use alternative technologies and delivery systems, and include more single-shot inoculations, and vaccines that are administered orally, via a nasal spray, and through the skin using a type of patch. These could bring immunizations that are better suited to specific groups, such as pregnant women, according to Swaminathan.More than 80 candidate vaccines are being studied in people, though some are still in the early stages of testing and may not be successful. Companies with Covid-19 vaccines already in use have also begun testing updated version designed to thwart variants of the coronavirus that have emerged in recent months.Booster Shots“We need to continue to support the research and development of more vaccine candidates, especially as the need for ongoing booster immunization of populations is still not very clear at this point,” Swaminathan said. “So we need to be prepared for that in the future.”The WHO’s strategic advisory group of experts on immunization is reviewing whether people who have been infected with Covid-19 need to have two doses of vaccine. Some research indicates that a natural infection works to prime the immune response to SARS-CoV-2, much as a first dose would, making a second injection unnecessary.Giving only one dose of vaccine to Covid-19 survivors could free up more supplies, Swaminathan said, though it could present “practical and logistical challenges in many countries” if blood tests are needed to measure patients’ antibody levels before deciding if a second jab is warranted.The roll out of safe and effective vaccines is also raising questions about how to efficiently and ethically conduct clinical trials of experimental vaccines, she said. Placebos will be replaced with a “gold standard” vaccine in a so-called non-inferiority design when it’s no longer ethical to use a placebo, Swaminathan said.Global TrialOne approach the WHO is exploring is to compare three or four candidate vaccines simultaneously with a placebo. A similar study design was used to test the efficacy of drug therapies for Covid-19, and would mean trial participants would have an 80% chance of receiving an experimental vaccine and only a 20% chance of getting placebo.“We are in discussions now with several companies with vaccines in development to see if we could launch something like this on a global trial platform,” Swaminathan said, adding that she’s optimistic such a study may begin in the first half of 2021.A global trial involving a wide pool of people and countries offers several advantages, she said. Testing vaccines in diverse ethnicities, age groups, and people with different medical conditions makes the results more generalizable, and when the epidemic wanes in some parts of the world it’s often still active in others, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/better-covid-vaccines-are-coming-who-s-chief-scientist-says-101615804709068.html
15-03-2021||World||South Korean province orders Covid testing for foreign workers||South Korea's most populous province has ordered all of its foreign workers to be tested for Covid-19 by March 22, sparking complaints of long lines and logistical problems, as well as of implicit xenophobia in government messaging.Last week, Gyeonggi province issued a sweeping administrative order mandating all international workers be tested after at least 275 foreigners tested positive, many in outbreaks at manufacturing plants.The province says the order covers roughly 85,000 registered foreigners as well as an unknown number of potential undocumented workers, while those who don't comply could face fines of up to 3 million won ($2,640).Social media lit up with complaints from foreign residents: poor communication by the government, hours-long waits at testing centres where it was difficult to maintain distancing, and other challenges.At one centre in the city of Ansan on Monday, hundreds of people were lined up in a queue that stretched for around 100 metres."I agree that everyone should get tested for Covid, but it is so exhausting to wait for hours," Jin Dianshun, a 65-year-old restaurant worker from China who said she had been standing in line for four hours, after already having stood in line for hours on Saturday before being turned away."I am sure Koreans would have protested if this was done the same way for them."One health worker at the site, who asked not to be named as they were not authorised to speak to the media, said the temporary centre usually handled about 100 people per day, but surged to an average of 1,400 people after the order."The problem is that already by 7am there can be more than 2,000 people waiting in line," the worker said.As of Sunday, 120,310 foreigners had been tested, with 120 testing positive, a provincial official told Reuters.Derval Mambou, a car parts maker from Cameroon, said he welcomed the testing regime."They want people living here in Korea to be safe from the coronavirus, even foreigners," he said as he stood in line.Some people took the order itself as an invasion of human rights, however."I’ve lived in Korea for years, pay a mortgage, run a business, have a family, pay tax," John, a graphic designer from the United Kingdom who owns his own business and has lived in South Korea for 10 years, told Reuters by online messenger, asking to be identified only by his first name. "Yet they are treating us like we are the problem because of coronavirus. Feels xenophobic and racist."Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) Director Jeong Eun-kyeong said on Monday that the rate of infections among foreign workers was a high-risk situation."We don't think this is to discriminate or stigmatise foreign workers, and it shouldn't be accepted that way," she said.Jeong said the KDCA would work with local governments to improve testing capabilities to resolve the long waits.One American university professor who has worked in South Korea for 15 years said it made no sense to test people like her - who have been teaching online for almost a year and rarely go out - rather than fixing the workplace safety at factories that had outbreaks."There is no reasoning behind forcing foreign workers to take this test," she said in an email.In Ansan, some locals denied that there was any racial animosity, but admitted they were reassured by the campaign."Since there are a lot of foreigners here, every time a foreigner comes in, it would worry me," said Hwang Mi-sun, a clothes shop owner. "Now that they are filtering out everyone, it gives me a sense of assurance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korean-province-orders-covid-testing-for-foreign-workers-101615803739275.html
15-03-2021||World||Jailed french tourist in Iran, Benjamin Briere, faces spying charges: Lawyer||French tourist Benjamin Briere, who was arrested in Iran 10 months ago, faces charges of "spying and propaganda against the system", one of his lawyers Saeid Dehghan told Reuters on Monday."On Sunday, March 15, he was charged with two counts of espionage and propaganda against the Islamic Republic," Dehghan said, adding that Briere faces a long-term jail sentence.Iran's judiciary was not available to comment. Last month, France’s foreign ministry confirmed that a French citizen was being held in Iran, adding that it was monitoring the situation.Dehghan said the 35-year-old had been arrested after flying a drone in the desert near the Turkmenistan-Iran border."He is in Vakilabad prison in the city of Mashhad. His health is good and he has access to his lawyers and he benefits from consular protection and the French embassy officials have been in regular contact with him," Dehghan said.The lawyer said he has been charged with "propaganda against the system" because of a post on social media, in which he said "the hijab is mandatory" in the Islamic Republic of Iran, but not in other Islamic countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jailed-french-tourist-in-iran-benjamin-briere-faces-spying-charges-lawyer-101615788373093.html
15-03-2021||World||South Korea aims to expand Covid-19 vaccination to quarter of population by June||South Korea unveiled on Monday plans to expand its immunisation campaign in the second quarter to include more senior citizens, health workers and other frontline professionals, with an aim to inoculate nearly a quarter of its 52 million people by June.Starting in April, more priority groups will receive a vaccine, including more people aged 65 or above, other healthcare workers, police, fire officials, soldiers and flight attendants, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) said.South Korea began inoculating high-risk medical workers and the critically ill at the end of February as it battles a third wave of COVID-19 and seeks to achieve herd immunity by November."Our primary goal is to vaccinate up to 12 million people within the first half of this year," KDCA director Jeong Eun-kyeong told a briefing."We're seeking to focus on protecting high-risk groups, while preventing schools and care places from infection and inoculating more health and medical workers and those who play an essential role in society."Nearly 18 million doses of vaccines will arrive in South Korea by June, including the nearly 1.7 million doses that already came into the country last month, Jeong said.But health authorities have cut their first quarter inoculation target by more than 40% to around 750,000 after delaying the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine on people aged 65 and older last month, citing a lack of clinical trial data on them. South Korea authorised the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine for that age group last week.More than 95% of the nearly 590,000 who were inoculated as of midnight on Sunday have received the AstraZeneca vaccine and the remainder the Pfizer vaccine, KDCA data showed.The government has secured enough supplies to cover 79 million people. It has procured COVID-19 vaccines from Pfizer, Novavax, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and the COVAX global distribution scheme.The KDCA reported 382 new cases as of Sunday, raising the total caseload to 96,017, with 1,675 deaths.(Reporting by Hyonhee Shin; Editing by Ana Nicolaci da Costa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-to-expand-covid-19-vaccination-to-quarter-of-population-by-june-101615795586315.html
15-03-2021||World||Hong Kong scientist develops retinal scan technology for early childhood autism||A Hong Kong scientist has developed a method to use machine learning and artificial intelligence to scan retinas of children as young as six to detect early autism or the risk of autism and hopes to develop a commercial product this year.Retinal eye scanning can help to improve early detection and treatment outcomes for children, said Benny Zee, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong."The importance of starting early intervention is that they are still growing, they are still developing. So there is a bigger chance of success," Zee said.His method uses a high-resolution camera with new computer software which analyses a combination of factors including fibre layers and blood vessels in the eye.The technology can be used to identify children at risk of autism and get them into treatment programmes sooner, said Zee.Seventy children were tested using the technology, 46 with autism and a control group of 24. The technology was able to identify the children with autism 95.7 percent of the time. The average age tested was 13, with the youngest being six.Zee's findings have been published in EClinicalMedicine, a peer-reviewed medical journal.Autism specialists welcomed his findings but said there remained a huge stigma, with parents often reluctant to believe their children have autism even when there are clear signs."Many times, parents will initially be in denial," said Dr Caleb Knight, who runs a private autism therapy centre."If you had a medical test or biological marker like this, it might facilitate parents not going into denial for longer periods and therefore the child would get treatment more quickly."Children with autism have to wait around 80 weeks to see a specialist in the public medical sector, according to an emailed statement from Hong Kong's government.Zee told Reuters that his research is intended to be a supplemental tool to a professional assessment by licensed healthcare professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-scientist-develops-retinal-scan-technology-for-early-childhood-autism-101615772309396.html
15-03-2021||World||Sputnik V production agreements reached in key EU countries: Vaccine developers||The developers of the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine said Monday they had reached production agreements in key European countries as the EU's medical agency deliberates official approval for the Russian jab.The head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) Kirill Dmitriev said in a statement that his organisation "has already reached agreements with companies from Italy, Spain, France and Germany to launch production of Sputnik V".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sputnik-v-production-agreements-reached-in-key-eu-countries-vaccine-developers-101615803383734.html
15-03-2021||World||Afghan officials reverse ban on girls singing after social media backlash||A ban on girls singing in public imposed by education officials in the Afghan capital last week has been overturned after a social media campaign that included local women uploading videos of themselves belting out their favourite songs.Schoolgirl choirs are a regular feature of official Afghan events, but when education authorities in Kabul banned the participation of teenagers it prompted an immediate backlash.The order raised fears that education officials were "Talibanising" the country, heralding a return to when the authoritarian Islamist group barred the participation of women in almost all parts of society outside their own homes.Late Sunday, the education ministry issued a statement saying the ban "does not reflect the positions or policies of the Ministry".The announcement followed a furious backlash from social media users using the hashtag "#IAmMySong" to raise awareness."In Afghanistan today the Ministry of Education suffocated the voices of our little girls by making it illegal for them to sing," tweeted Shamila Kohestani, former captain of the national women's football team."They are quite literally teaching girls that they have no voice. #IAmMySong.'On Facebook, Tayeb Safa wrote: "I feel the Taliban are making a comeback."The controversy comes amid fears for a possible Taliban return to power as the US mulls pulling its remaining troops from the country in the coming weeks in accordance with a landmark deal signed with the insurgents last year.Peace talks between the Taliban and the government have largely stalled in recent months, while a targeted assassination campaign -- including the murders of high-profile Afghan women -- has further rattled the country.Afghanistan continues to be one of the most oppressive countries for women despite decades of international aid and the fall of the Taliban.Gains in urban areas, however, have raised hopes that opportunities for women were slowly gaining traction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-officials-reverse-ban-on-girls-singing-after-social-media-backlash-101615795477322.html
15-03-2021||World||Flights cancelled during China's worst sandstorm in a decade||China’s capital and a wide swath of the country's north were enveloped Monday in the worst sandstorm in a decade, forcing the cancelation of hundreds of flights.Skyscrapers in the center of Beijing appeared to drop from sight amid the dust and sand. Traffic was snarled and more than 400 flights out of the capital's two main airports were canceled amid high winds and low visibility.The National Meteorological Center said Monday's storm had developed in the Gobi Desert in the Inner Mongolia Region, where schools had been advised to close and bus service added to reduce residents' exposure to the harsh conditions.Such storms used to occur regularly in the springtime as sand from western deserts blew eastwards, affecting areas as far as northern Japan.Massive planting of trees and bushes in fragile areas has reduced the effects on other parts of the country in recent years, but the expansion of cities and industries, along with strip mining and overgrazing, has put constant pressure on the environment throughout China. With its mix of desert and grassy steppe, Inner Mongolia is particularly prone to extreme weather resulting from resource exploitation.Like Covid-19, which is believed to have spread from bats and other wild animals, sandstorms are a reminder of the need to respect nature, said Zhou Jinfeng, secretary general of the conservation group China Biodiversity Conservation and Green Development Foundation.“Together with the pandemic, that’s another big lesson we should take and we should change our behavior," Zhou said.The National Meteorological Center forecasted the sand and dust would affect 12 provinces and regions from Xinjiang in the far northwest to Heilongjiang in the northeast and the eastern coastal port city of Tianjin.“This is the most intense sandstorm weather our country has seen in 10 years, as well as it covering the broadest area," the center said in a post on its website.It wasn't clear if the storm was related to a recent general decline in air quality despite efforts to end Beijing's choking smog.The ruling Communist Party has pledged to reduce carbon emissions per unit of economic output by 18% over the next five years. Environmentalists say China needs to do more to reduce dependency on coal that has made it the world's biggest emitter of climate changing gasses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flights-canceled-during-china-s-worst-sandstorm-in-a-decade-101615802785283.html
15-03-2021||World||Biden declines to call on NY Guv Andrew Cuomo to resign, awaits probe outcome||President Joe Biden declined on Sunday to call on New York Governor Andrew Cuomo to resign over sexual misconduct allegations, saying he wanted to await the outcome of an investigation into the matter.Asked on returning from Delaware if Cuomo, a fellow Democrat, should step down, Biden told reporters: "I think the investigation is under way and we should see what it brings us."Cuomo faces accusations of sexual harassment and misconduct leveled by at least seven women, including former aides, and has come under pressure from disclosures that his administration withheld the number of nursing home residents killed in the state by Covid-19.On Friday, New York's two Democratic U.S. senators, Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the state's congressional delegation, including leading progressive Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, urged Cuomo, now in his third term as governor, to resign.Cuomo, 63, who is divorced, repeated his denial of the allegations on Friday and said it was "reckless and dangerous” for politicians to ask him to resign before they have all the facts."Women have a right to come forward and be heard, and I encourage that fully. But I also want to be clear: There is still a question of the truth. I did not do what has been alleged, period,” Cuomo said on a call with reporters.Asked if he ever had consensual romantic relationships with any of the women, Cuomo said he never intended to make anyone feel uncomfortable, and was sorry if he did.On Sunday, Democratic U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi declined to join the call for Cuomo's resignation, telling ABC's "This Week" program the allegations must be investigated."What these women have said must be treated with respect. They are credible and serious charges," Pelosi said. "The governor should look inside his heart - he loves New York - to see if he can govern effectively."New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, often at odds with Cuomo, told CBS' “Face the Nation” he did not think the governor would resign quickly."I think an impeachment proceeding will begin, and I think he will be impeached and perhaps right before that he'll decide to resign," the Democratic mayor said. "He should resign right now because he's holding up our effort to fight Covid-19. He's literally in the way of us saving lives right now."Republican Governors Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas and Larry Hogan of Maryland also both declined in separate appearances on Sunday news programs to call for Cuomo's resignation, but said the allegations needed to be investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-declines-to-call-on-ny-guv-andrew-cuomo-to-resign-awaits-probe-outcome-101615801562939.html
15-03-2021||World||Hong Kong's Covid-19 rules see babies isolated, families cramped in tiny spaces||Families in Asia's financial hub of Hong Kong are suffering isolation and trauma after strict coronavirus rules have led to babies being separated from parents and those with newborns herded into tiny quarantine quarters for up to 14 days. Hong Kong authorities have ordered that anyone testing positive for the virus must go to hospital, including babies, while all their close contacts, even those who test negative, are sent to makeshift quarantine camps."It’s crazy," said one mother, who said she had to abruptly stop breastfeeding following separation from her seven-month-old son last week after she was diagnosed with Covid-19."I got fever last night because I have gone from breastfeeding to 100% pumping," said the woman, who asked not to be identified."So instead of dealing with Covid, I’m dealing with blocked sore breasts."The separation of families over the virus is not common in other developed cities, say legal experts.Hong Kong's government did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shahana Hoque-Ali, a scientist who moderates the Hong Kong Quarantine support group on Facebook, said it had assisted in more than 100 cases of children who had faced separation from their parents over the past year, with dozens in the past week.She urged families to push back against such steps, saying they should stay with their children, particularly those being breastfed.Many expatriate families with young children were among the hundreds of residents sent to quarantine last week after an outbreak at a popular upmarket gym in Hong Kong's Sai Ying Pun district.That case has ensnared bankers, lawyers and the city’s international school network, with some teachers and students infected.Separately, a group of eight babies and parents who attended a playgroup last week were sent to quarantine after one parent was confirmed positive because of the gym outbreak.The rest of the group tested negative but they were still required to quarantine."I am really worried, it's such a small space. Three of us in this room for 10 days won't work," said Nicholas Worley, whose wife Kylie and 15-month-old son, Hunter, attended the playgroup.The quarantine rooms in Penny's Bay that accommodate Worley and many others are 18 sq. m. (194 sq. ft) in size and lack refrigerators, cooking facilities or baby amenities.While staff there did their best to assist, the facility is not designed for families, the residents said.Worley, who heads consultancy Bain's public relations in Asia, said hazards in the room, such as sharp nails and edges, fuelled additional concern over his son's safety. The trauma and psychological impact on families is intense, said a 40-year-old man in quarantine with his two young children."It's an absolute nightmare, it is just such a mess," said the man, who sought anonymity. On Sunday a class of 35 nine-year-olds from the city's Harbour School were told they needed to enter quarantine, its managing director, Dan Blurton, told Reuters."Parents and the school have strongly requested for alternative arrangements that are more humane, with regards to the treatment of young children," he added.Legal experts said there were no set guidelines regarding family separations, with each case being handled individually. Hong Kong barrister Kirsteen Lau said that legally health officers had wide discretion to grant or deny permission for a child or parent to enter a place of isolation.However, this meant that regulations "give very little guidance as to what circumstances would allow a parent and child to stay together," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-covid-19-rules-see-babies-isolated-families-cramped-in-tiny-spaces-101615802021246.html
15-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca jab not linked to blood clotting: Co-developer||The director of the Oxford Vaccine Group on Monday said there was no link between the jab it developed with AstraZeneca and blood clotting, after several countries suspended its use.Andrew Pollard said there was "very reassuring evidence that there is no increase in a blood clot phenomenon here in the UK, where most of the doses in Europe been given so far"."It's absolutely critical that we don't have a problem of not vaccinating people and have the balance of a huge risk, a known risk of Covid, against what appears so far from the data that we've got from the regulators -- no signal of a problem," he told BBC radio.Ireland and the Netherlands on Sunday became the latest countries to suspend their use of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine out of precaution.Denmark, Norway and Iceland have also paused their rollout of the jab.AstraZeneca said on Sunday there was no evidence of increased blood clots from the jab after outcomes from 17 million doses were analysed.The pharmaceutical company said the 15 incidences of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and 22 events of pulmonary embolism reported among those given the vaccine was "much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population"."The nature of the pandemic has led to increased attention in individual cases and we are going beyond the standard practices for safety monitoring of licensed medicines in reporting vaccine events, to ensure public safety," chief medical officer Ann Taylor said."In terms of quality, there are also no confirmed issues related to any batch of our vaccine used across Europe, or the rest of the world."The World Health Organization and the European Medicines Agency have both said there is no evidence the use of the jab should be suspended.Ireland said it had "temporarily deferred" use of the vaccine on the advice of its advisory panel following the move by Norway.The Dutch health ministry also said it was suspending the rollout as a precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-jab-not-linked-to-blood-clotting-codeveloper-101615802546914.html
15-03-2021||World||Time running out for US to revive nuclear deal: Iran||The United States should act quickly to revive Iran's nuclear deal, because once Iran's presidential election period kicks off it is unlikely much will happen until later this year, Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said on Monday.Speaking at the European Policy Centre think tank, Zarif repeated Tehran's longstanding demand that Washington return first to compliance by lifting sanctions.Former US President Donald Trump abandoned the deal, known as the JCPOA, under which Iran accepted curbs to its nuclear programme in return for the lifting of sanctions. Since then, Washington has reimposed sanctions and Tehran has responded by violating some of the conditions of the deal.President Joe Biden aims to restore the deal, but Tehran and Washington each want the other side to comply first."The Europeans are used to compromise. Iran and the United States are not. The Americans are used to imposing, and we are used to resisting," Zarif said. "So now is the time to decide will we both compromise and go back to the JCPOA, or will we go back to our own paths?"Zarif said that he had seen no change between the Biden administration and the Trump administration's policy of maximum pressure to force Iran back to the negotiating table. He said he saw no reason to hold preliminary talks, because the US was making "extraneous" demands."There is a time constraint and that is once we go to our election it is a lame duck government and (it) will not be able to do anything serious and then we will have a waiting period of almost six months," he said, referring to a presidential election due on June 18."It is advisable for the United States move fast and moving fast requires them not be shy, but takes measures that they need to take."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-running-out-for-us-to-revive-nuclear-deal-iran-101615797683762.html
15-03-2021||World||10 reports of possible side effects after AstraZeneca vaccine: Dutch watchdog||The Netherlands has seen 10 cases of noteworthy adverse side effects from AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, a Dutch drug watchdog said on Monday, hours after the government put its vaccination programme on hold following reports of possible unexpected side effects in other countries.The Pharmacovigilance Centre Lareb said in a statement that 10 cases of reported side effects seen with the vaccine in the Netherlands included cases of possible thrombosis or embolisms, but none of the cases also included a lowered number of platelets, as has been reported reported in Denmark and Norway.The Dutch government announced shortly before midnight on Sunday that it was halting use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Its decision came hours before the Dutch began casting votes in a national election seen as a referendum on the government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic.The decision meant 43,000 vaccination appointments would be cancelled at short notice, the country's health authorities said.European vaccination programmes have been upset in the last two weeks by reports that recipients of the AstraZeneca inoculation have suffered blood clots.The European Medicines Agency has said there is no indication that the events were caused by the vaccination, a view that was echoed by the World Health Organization on Friday.The Dutch vaccination programme got off to a slow start, but hoped to catch up using the Pfizer-BioNtech, Moderna vaccines, and later the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. AstraZeneca, however, was to have accounted for 30% of 4.3 million vaccinations through April 15.The Dutch health ministry said it hoped to resume vaccinations with AstraZeneca within several weeks, describing the halt as a "pause" taken only as a precaution."I hope (the halt will last) no longer than a couple of weeks, because we need vaccines to be able to put this nasty period behind us," Health Minister Hugo de Jonge said on an early morning talk show.The move follows a report that health workers in Norway who had recently received the vaccine were being treated in hospital for bleeding, blood clots and a low count of blood platelets.The Netherlands has pre-ordered 12 million doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine.AstraZeneca said on Sunday a review of safety data of people vaccinated with its Covid-19 vaccine had shown no evidence of an increased risk of blood clots.Denmark, Norway, Ireland, Iceland and Thailand have halted use of AstraZeneca's vaccine over blood clotting concerns. Italy's northern region of Piedmont on Sunday said it would stop using a batch of AstraZeneca vaccines after a teacher died following his vaccination on Saturday, while Austria also stopped using a particular batch last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-reports-of-possible-side-effects-after-astrazeneca-vaccine-dutch-watchdog-101615800276339.html
15-03-2021||World||ADB report says new focus on SDGs needed to rebuild after Covid-19 pandemic||A renewed focus on achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will be essential as countries seek to rebuild from the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a new report by Asian Development Bank (ADB) released on Monday."Achieving SDGs will require vast sums of finance to be mobilised from the widest range of sources in support of agenda at a time when governments face mounting pressure on their budgets and soaring public debt," said ADB President Masatsugu Asakawa."In 2021 as we map a path to recovery from the pandemic, we must refocus on SDGs. ADB's investments must meet the highest standards of sustainable development and deliver real results that help countries realise the vision set out in strategy 2030 and rebuild for the SDGs."2020 was to be the start of a decade of action to accelerate progress on SDGs but the Covid-19 pandemic has threatened the region's prospects for achieving the goals. Asia and the Pacific were already off track to meet these ambitious goals before the pandemic began.The ensuing crisis is estimated to have pushed 162 million people in the region back into poverty and economic growth in developing Asia contracted for first time in 60 years.At the same time, there has been limited progress on SDGs that protect environment and the region is at the front lines of climate change crisis. There is a huge financing gap to make SDGs a reality.A green, resilient, inclusive and sustainable recovery from Covid-19 that aligns with SDGs will be imperative, said the report.The report explains ADB's institutional approach to integrating 17 SDGs and their associated targets into its strategies, programs and financing under its long-term strategy in 2030 through its seven operational priorities. ADB's corporate results framework is fully aligned with SDGs.ADB projects and programmes that help countries achieve the SDGs like in Indonesia, ADB has helped government establish institutions to coordinate SDGs and develop a road map for SDG implementation, while also supporting the national infrastructure finance company PT SMI to establish the SDG one fund.In Kazakhstan, ADB helped the government establish platforms for donor coordination in support of national implementation of SDGs.The ADB ventures platform established in 2020 deploys venture capital investments and technical assistance to support early-stage technology businesses that address SDGs.It also partners with the United Nations and others to support knowledge and policy dialogue that enables developing member countries to implement SDGs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/report-by-asian-development-bank-says-new-focus-on-sdgs-needed-by-countries-to-rebuild-covid-19-pandemic-101615800322684.html
15-03-2021||World||2 key US Cabinet members visit Japan for China-focused talks||Shared worry about China's growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region will take center stage when President Joe Biden's defense chief and secretary of state visit Japan for their first in-person talks with their Japanese counterparts.US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin arrived Monday, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken to join him later in Tokyo for meetings meant to reaffirm America's commitment to the region and to the two nations' alliance following former President Donald Trump's more confrontational approach.The two secretaries are holding so-called “two plus two” diplomatic and security talks on Tuesday with their Japanese counterparts, Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Defense Minister Nobuo Kishi.“The United States is now making a big push to revitalize our ties with friends and partners — both in one-to-one relationships and in multilateral institutions — and to recommit to our shared goals, values, and responsibilities,” Blinken and Austin said in a piece published Monday in The Washington Post.The US and others share the values and principles of keeping an open Indo-Pacific region, but China is “all too willing to use coercion to get its way,” the two ministers said. “Here again, we see how working with our allies is critical."The US will lead with diplomacy, maintain America's military might “and renew our alliances and ensure they're fit for purpose to address the threats and opportunities of our time," Blinken and Austin wrote. Together they can hold China accountable for its human rights abuses and other problems in Xinjiang, Tibet, as well as Hong Kong and Taiwan, they said.In a move meant to signal his intention for the US to return to the Asia-Pacific region, Biden on Friday held a first summit of the leaders from Australia, Japan, India and the US known as the “Quad” virtually and emphasized Washington's commitment to the region.Motegi said in a parliamentary session Monday that he expected China to be the topic he and Blinken discussed most and that Japan being the first destination of their foreign travel signaled “the US emphasis on the Japan-US alliance.”Motegi said he hoped to “show the rest of the world an unshakable unity” in the alliance and hoped to discuss how Japan and the US, through their alliance, can step up their deterrence and response capability in answer to China.“Japan, together with the US, will resolutely respond to China's unilateral attempt to change the status quo,” Motegi said. “But at the same time, China is the world's No. 2 economy and it is important to firmly encourage that country to act responsibly based on international rules.”Japan is in a delicate diplomatic situation because its economy, like those of other countries in the region, heavily depends on China.But it also considers China's growing presence in the region a security threat. Beijing has built militarized manmade islands in the South China Sea and is pressing its claim to virtually all of the sea's key fisheries and waterways. Japan is concerned about China's claim to the Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands, called Diaoyu in China, in the East China Sea and its increased activity in the disputed area.China has denied it is expansionist and said it is only defending its territorial rights.On the Biden administration’s first Cabinet-level trip abroad, Blinken and Austin are also expected to discuss the coronavirus pandemic and climate change, as well as the nuclear threat posed by North Korea and the situation in Myanmar after its military coup.While in Tokyo, they plan to have virtual meetings with business leaders, civil-society members, business leaders and others while in Tokyo before heading on Wednesday to South Korea, another key ally in the region.China is not on Blinken’s itinerary, but he is set to meet senior Chinese officials in Anchorage, Alaska, on his way back to Washington. Austin will go from Seoul to New Delhi for meetings with Indian leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-key-us-cabinet-members-visit-japan-for-china-focused-talks-101615799059588.html
15-03-2021||World||US consulate in Hong Kong closes after staff test positive for Covid-19||The United States temporarily closed its consulate in Hong Kong on Monday after two staff members tested positive for the coronavirus during a new outbreak that has rippled through the city's well-heeled "expat" community.The two cases emerged during an "ambush lockdown" -- a tactic used by Hong Kong authorities to descend overnight on apartment blocks where they suspect there may be cases and test everyone inside."We have closed the Consulate General to perform a deep disinfection and cleaning while contact tracing is conducted," the consulate said in a statement after it was informed of the cases on Monday.Hong Kong has managed to keep infections low thanks to some of the strictest quarantine measures in the world.It has recorded some 11,000 infections and 200 deaths since the pandemic began.In recent days, a new cluster that was first traced to an upmarket gym has swept through wealthier districts favoured by the white-collar immigrants who staff the city's finance industries and consulates.The gym infection has ballooned to more than 100 confirmed infections while some 750 people deemed "close contacts" have been sent to mandatory government-run quarantine camps.The US consulate infections were first reported by Dot Dot News, an online news outlet operated by the largest pro-Beijing state media group in Hong Kong.Their report claimed the two consulate staff invoked diplomatic immunity and refused to be quarantined.That prompted a call from Hong Kong's largest pro-Beijing political party to protest outside the consulate, but the gathering was moved to a different district and only a handful showed up.Hong Kong health authorities said the pair were being placed on a hospital isolation ward.And the US consulate said staff "have abided by all Hong Kong government requirements for the arrival, testing, and quarantine of all diplomatic personnel and their family members."In a separate statement, the consulate said it was aware that some US citizens in Hong Kong had concerns about the city's mandatory quarantine and hospitalisation procedures "particularly in regard to the possible separation of children from their parents".Hong Kong places people deemed to be close contacts with a coronavirus patient in camps for two weeks, including some children and babies.Youngsters have previously been sent to the facilities, but scrutiny and opposition have become more vocal since the current wave hit wealthy international schools and neighbourhoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-consulate-in-hong-kong-closes-after-staff-test-positive-for-covid19-101615799199826.html
15-03-2021||World||Covid-19: China administered 65 million doses of vaccine to citizens so far||A Chinese official says the country has administered almost 65 million doses of coronavirus vaccine to its citizens amid plans to immunize up to 80% of its entire population of 1.4 billion.Teams have been dispatched nationwide to oversee vaccinations and are working with targeted groups according to a schedule, Vice Chairman of the National Health Commission Li Bin told reporters at a news conference on Monday.China has been slower in its vaccination campaign than many other countries, including the US, while committing roughly 10 times more doses abroad than it has distributed at home. The lack of urgency is partly due to the near elimination of locally spread cases.With four approved vaccines, China plans to vaccinate 900 million to 1 billion people by the summer of 2022, seeking to establish herd immunity to stop the uncontrolled spread of an infectious disease like Covid-19.China announced on Friday that it would waive a Covid-19 test and health form requirement for foreigners applying for visas to the mainland from Hong Kong if they have been vaccinated with a Chinese-made vaccine.Also last week, the Foreign Ministry launched an international travel health certificate that includes a Covid-19 test and serum antibody results, as well as vaccination and other health information. It is unclear how it will be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-china-administered-65-million-doses-of-vaccine-to-citizens-so-far-101615797894795.html
15-03-2021||World||Explainer: Myanmar using martial law to 'legitimise' tactics||Myanmar's ruling junta on Monday imposed martial law in parts of the country's biggest city, a day after at least 38 people were killed in the bloodiest crackdown yet on resistance to last month's military coup.NOT THE FIRST RESTRICTIONSAfter the Feb 1 coup that ousted Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government, the military declared a nationwide state of emergency and gave itself broad powers. It also put in place similar but milder restrictions to martial law in dozens of townships across the country.Those earlier measures used Section 144 of the penal code and the main impact was a ban on gatherings of more than five people — which was generally ignored — and an 8 pm to 4 am curfew, which protesters last week began defying in large numbers.MARTIAL LAW TRUMPS ALL ELSEMartial law basically supersedes all other law, allowing the military total authority over the specified area, including administrative, judicial and law enforcement functions.The imposition of martial law in six townships in Yangon in legal terms legitimizes actions that the military had already been taking to suppress the protests. The immediate trigger appeared to be escalating violence — mostly on the part of the security forces but with increasing signs that at least some demonstrators are starting to take active self-defense measures including burning tires at makeshift barricades.The official order issued Monday said martial law was imposed “to take more effective measures for the security, rule of law and community peace and tranquility.”Violators of orders issued by the military can now be tried by military courts and could face punishments as harsh as death or life imprisonment, according to local news outlet Eleven Media. The minimum punishment, it said, was three years in prison with hard labor and a fine.Eleven Media appeared to be basing its report on times martial law was declared in 1989 and 1974. Martial law remained in place for three years after it was declared in 1989 in the wake of a failed popular uprising against a military dictatorship.PROTECTING BUSINESS INTERESTSThe first two places martial law was declared were two Yangon townships that are industrial zones home to garment factories, a major source of export earnings for Myanmar. One of those townships, Hlaing Thar Yar, was the scene of Sunday's worst violence, with at least 22 protesters killed. Later the order was extended to another heavily industrial Yangon township as well as three other townships in the city.The declaration follows reports that at least two factories that have Chinese ownership were set on fire Sunday night. It was not clear who set the fires.A Chinese Embassy statement issued Sunday said several Chinese-owned factories were burned and multiple Chinese employees were injured and trapped.“China requires Myanmar to take further effective measures to stop all violent acts, investigate and deal with relevant perpetrators in accordance with the law, and ensure the safety of the lives and property of Chinese enterprises and personnel in Myanmar,” the statement said.Many factories in Myanmar have Chinese ownership or partners. China's political and economic clout in Myanmar is a point of great resentment among many Myanmar people, who accuse China of exploiting their country for its natural resources and protecting the military from international consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-myanmar-using-martial-law-to-legitimise-tactics-101615797134920.html
15-03-2021||World||Italy under Covid-19 lockdown, AstraZeneca shots face resistance in Europe||Coronavirus restrictions were reimposed across much of Italy on Monday, while Ireland and the Netherlands became the latest countries to suspend AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shots over blood clot fears despite the firm and the WHO insisting there is no risk.More than 350 million vaccine doses have been administered globally so far, and the AstraZeneca shot -- among the cheapest available -- is crucial to roll-outs in poorer parts of the world.Despite immunisation programmes gathering pace, surges in infections remain a threat and Italian authorities reimposed restrictions on three-quarters of the country until April 6 to suppress an outbreak fuelled by the variant first detected in Britain.Health Minister Roberto Speranza said Sunday the government hoped these strict measures and ongoing vaccinations would allow a relaxation of curbs later."Each dose of vaccine injected is a step in the direction of the way out of the crisis," he added.Schools, restaurants, shops and museums will close, including in Rome and Milan, with residents told to stay home except for work, health or other essential reasons.And while France was hoping to avoid another national lockdown, it was facing a hospital crisis with intensive care beds in the Paris region running out.The coronavirus has killed more than 2.6 million people around the world, with much of humanity going through varying levels of Covid-19 restrictions.People have been growing weary of the economically painful curbs, however.The Netherlands -- under tight restrictions including an overnight curfew -- began three days of voting on Monday in a popularity test of the government's coronavirus policies.Prime Minister Mark Rutte was set to win another term in office, but opposition to the restrictions was on display on the eve of the vote in The Hague Sunday as police used water cannon to clear an anti-government protest.AstraZeneca worriesAs they battle virus surges, health authorities in Italy and France have backed the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, as several countries suspended use of the shot over fears it causes side effects such as blood clots.Ireland and the Netherlands stopped giving out the shot on Sunday, joining Denmark, Norway and Bulgaria.But the World Health Organization, Europe's medicines watchdog, AstraZeneca and experts have stressed that the jab is safe and that there is no evidence linking it to the clots.The AstraZeneca shot forms the bulk of doses being sent to poorer countries under the WHO-backed Covax scheme, which aims to ensure vaccines reach all parts of the world.The United States, meanwhile, has ramped up its vaccination programme after a stumbling start, with more than 107 million doses administered.The world's worst-hit nation gave more than two million shots a day on average last week, according to data from the US Centers for Disease Control, with 21% of the population getting at least one dose.The top US pandemic adviser Anthony Fauci said authorities were considering cutting social distancing rules to three feet (one metre), from the widely accepted six-foot global guideline.CDC experts were examining a study that found "no substantial difference" in cases at schools observing six-foot and three-foot separations, Fauci told a CNN show.New York -- the American city most bereaved by the virus -- marked the one-year anniversary of the pandemic with a tribute Sunday to its 30,258 dead, with candles lit on the famous Brooklyn Bridge.'It's hard for the poor'Distancing requirements are a core issue in discussions around the world on reopening schools, with many claiming the six-foot requirement makes it difficult to resume classes without adding portable classrooms or shortening the school day.Many teachers' unions have also insisted on six-foot distancing.Remote learning through the internet has been one option, but it has proved difficult to implement in less wealthy nations where many families do not have internet access or devices such as computers, smartphones and tablets."The rich have everything they need," said Maria Fe Morallos, a 10th-grade student in the Philippines who cannot afford a smartphone."It's hard for the poor because we don't have a gadget or the money to buy it."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-under-covid-19-lockdown-astrazeneca-shots-face-resistance-in-europe-101615793512552.html
15-03-2021||World||Japan says considering response to Myanmar's military coup||Japan's chief cabinet secretary Katsunobu Kato on Monday said the government is monitoring Myanmar's recent military coup and will consider how to respond to developments in the Southeast Asian country."Going forward, Japan will consider how to respond to the situation in Myanmar in terms of economic cooperation and policies by monitoring developments in situation, while taking into consideration responses from countries concerned," Kato told reporters.This remark comes after South Korea said it will suspend defence exchanges with Myanmar and ban arm exports to the country after last month's military coup and violent suppression of pro-democracy protests.On Sunday, at least 38 protesters and policeman were killed in Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-says-considering-response-to-myanmar-s-military-coup-101615780187741.html
15-03-2021||World||Biden to name Gene Sperling to lead Covid-19 relief plan: Official||US President Joe Biden will name Gene Sperling to lead implementation of the $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief plan signed into law last week, an administration official said on Sunday.Sperling, a top economic official in the administrations of former Democratic presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton, was ideally suited for the job because of his experience, the official added."There’s no one who knows how the federal government works better than Gene Sperling, and there’s no one better qualified to take charge of the implementation of the rescue plan and make sure it delivers for the American people," the official said.Sperling did not immediately respond to a request for comment.A White House announcement could come as early as Monday, according to Politico, which first said Sperling was being considered for the job earlier on Sunday.The relief program Biden signed into law on Thursday provides $400 billion for direct payments of $1,400 to most Americans, aid of $350 billion to state and local governments, an expansion of the child tax credit and more funds to distribute vaccines.Passage of the legislation would speed the recovery of the U.S. economy, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen had said in a statement.Sperling, who served as an economic adviser for Biden's presidential campaign, is the only person who headed the White House National Economic Council under two presidents - Obama and Clinton.From 2009 to 2011, he served as a counsel to then Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, as the Obama administration responded to the 2008-2009 global financial crisis."He has a track record of translating complex policies into tangible results for working and middle-class families," said the administration official.Sperling had helped both administrations create jobs and boost economic growth following tough economic downturns, he added.In his new role, Sperling will work with the heads of the White House policy councils and leaders of federal agencies to ensure swift adoption of the relief package, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-name-gene-sperling-to-lead-covid-19-relief-plan-official-101615782232894.html
15-03-2021||World||Indonesia offers aggressive tax benefits for electric vehicles||Indonesia, a top supplier of a key battery metal, will aim to boost sales of electric vehicles with a new regulation that will cut tax breaks for hybrid cars.Battery-powered electric vehicles will retain their 0% luxury tax rate, while plug-in hybrid vehicles will see their tariff increase to 5% from 0%, according to a draft regulation issued by the finance ministry on Monday. Full and mild hybrid types will be taxed at a rate of 6%-12%, compared with a previous range of 2%-12%.The new rates will apply only to locally-produced vehicles.This is the latest in a series of initiatives that Indonesia has unveiled to meet its ambition to become a global EV battery hub. The country wants to expand its role as a major source of nickel -- used in the batteries -- to also producing other components as demand for greener transport skyrockets across markets like the U.S., China, Japan and Europe.World’s Top Nickel Producer Sets Out End-to-End Battery AmbitionHigher rates will kick in in two years after the battery-powered EV sector realizes investments of 5 trillion rupiah ($347 million), or when it starts commercial production with an investment of the same amount. After this, plug-in hybrids will be taxed at a rate of 8%, while other hybrids will see a tariff of 10%-14%, the draft rules showed.While Southeast Asia’s largest economy has caught the attention of the world’s major battery makers, the government is also keen to prop up the usage of electric vehicles in the fossil-fuel dependent country, especially where traditional and hybrid cars remain cheaper. Only 120 electric vehicles were sold there in 2020, about a tenth of the sales of hybrids, industry data showed.Indonesia, among the countries most vulnerable to climate change, has shown renewed focus on reducing its carbon emissions, with the government weighing incentives for clean-energy use and expanding its renewables sector.The transport sector accounts for nearly 30% of the country’s total emissions, with land transport comprising bulk of it. Indonesia has committed to reduce its emissions by at least 29% by 2030 under the Paris Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-offers-aggressive-tax-benefits-for-electric-vehicles-101615790157140.html
15-03-2021||World||'Republic of Queues': 10 years on, Syria is a hungry nation||The lines stretch for miles outside gas stations in Syrian cities, with an average wait of five hours to fill up a tank. At bakeries, people push and shove during long, chaotic waits for their turn to collect the quota of two bread packs a day per family.On the streets in the capital of Damascus, beggars accost motorists and passers-by, pleading for food or money. Medicines, baby milk and diapers can hardly be found.As Syria marks the 10th anniversary Monday of the start of its uprising-turned-civil war, President Bashar Assad may still be in power, propped up by Russia and Iran. But millions of people are being pushed deeper into poverty, and a majority of households can hardly scrape together enough to secure their next meal.With Assad preparing to run for a fourth seven-year presidential term in the spring, some have questioned whether he can survive the sharp economic deterioration and anger in areas under his control. Poverty levels are now worse than at any point throughout the 10-year conflict.“Life here is a portrait of everyday humiliation and suffering,” said one woman in Damascus. Her husband lost his job at an electronics store last month, and now the family is drawing on meager savings that are evaporating fast. The woman said she had taken up teaching part-time to help make ends meet. Like others, she spoke on condition her identity remains hidden, fearing arrest.With two kids and an elderly father to care for, she said life had become unbearably difficult and she is gripped by anxiety for the future. Until recently, she could smuggle in her father’s medicines from Lebanon, but now Lebanon has its own meltdown and shortages.“I go to the souk and really have to think of priorities, buying only the bare necessities for cooking. I try not to look at the other stuff my children might like,” she said.The decade of war has wreaked unfathomable destruction on Syria. Nearly half a million people have been killed and more than half the pre-war population of 23 million displaced, whether inside or outside the country's borders, the world’s worst displacement crisis since World War II. Infrastructure is in ruins.Through most of the conflict, Assad was able to shield Syrians in government-held territory from unbearable economic pain. Even if barely sometimes, the state kept fuel, medicine and other supplies coming and the currency propped up.Now he has gained a decisive upper hand in the war with Russia and Iran’s help, his grip on areas under his control is unquestioned, and the rebellion is largely crushed.But the economy has fallen apart with startling swiftness. It was hit by a double blow of new, far-reaching US sanctions imposed last year and the financial meltdown in Lebanon, Syria’s main link with the outside world. That proved too much, on top of the strains of war, government corruption, other Western sanctions in place for years and the coronavirus pandemic.The United Nations says more than 80% of Syrians now live in poverty, and 60% are at risk of hunger. The currency has crashed, now at 4,000 Syrian pounds to the dollar on the black market, compared to 700 a year ago and 47 at the beginning of the conflict in 2011.“When you put all of these things together, there is no surprise that we are seeing rising food insecurity, rising hunger," said Arif Hussein, chief economist at the U.N. World Food Program. "Not only in the breadth, meaning lots and lots of people, but also in the depth, meaning people are closer to starvation today than ever before.”Residents of government-held areas who spoke to The Associated Press paint a grim picture. Prices go up several times a day. Families now rely on electronic “smart cards” to secure subsidized and rationed goods that include fuel, gas canisters, tea, sugar, rice and bread. To collect them, they wait in long lines, often pushing, shoving and fighting.At gas stations, some park their cars at night to claim a place in line and come back early in the morning to fill their cars. Residents carpool or walk whenever possible, to avoid wasting fuel.REPUBLIC OF QUEUES“It is the ‘Republic of Queues,’” said Ibrahim Hamidi, a Syrian journalist based in London who covers Syrian affairs for the Saudi-owned newspaper Asharq Al-Awsat.Despite the rising discontent, Assad’s rule is not threatened, because people are too busy with their own survival, he said. "They don’t have time to think about anything political. They have no time to think about transition, or the constitution or reforms, because they are busy all the time.”Food prices have risen 230% the past year, and many Syrians say they are consumed with searching for essential goods that are no longer available. Many families go without meat and fruits for months. At vegetable markets, people often buy a single piece, because they can’t afford more. The monthly salary of a state employee is now worth $15-$20, compared to around $170 a year ago.In the main cities, many plan their day around the electricity schedule, since power is cut four hours for every two it’s on, sometimes longer. Unlike in Lebanon, where neighborhood generators have been institutionalized, only well-off people can afford them in Syria.In winter, with gas bottles in short supply, many resorted to using toxic old wood heaters for warmth, with children seen rummaging through trash for anything to burn.The simultaneous crises in Lebanon and Syria have fed off each other. Where Lebanese once traveled to Damascus to buy cheaper, good quality medicine, textiles and other goods, now Lebanon’s subsidized goods, including fuel and medicine are smuggled to Syria, exacerbating Lebanon’s economic crisis.A Syrian media activist who goes by the pseudonym of Omar Hariri said rations of bread, gasoline, cooking gas and diesel barely cover 10% of people’s needs. Waiting in line for hours has become “a way of life,” he said.“I have a relative who got his turn for gasoline in January after two months of cold had passed, and he was forced to buy from the black market at a much higher price,” he said.WALLS OF FEARSyrian economist Samir Seifan said the collapse of Lebanon's banking system, the US sanctions, and the pandemic are all “factors that exploded at the same time.” Now the regime has no more sources of income, so they are printing money and fueling inflation, he said.Frustration is voiced even among Assad's most loyal supporters. One lawmaker questioned recently why Iran and Russia were not helping by sending oil and wheat.The government has cracked down, detaining at least nine people in the last six weeks, including a prominent state TV anchor for social media posts deemed critical.“The regime is trying to rebuild the walls of fear, to remind people that even if you are loyalists you cannot criticize us,” Hamidi said.Assad blames the U.S., calling its sanctions economic terrorism that seeks to starve the people. Shifting regional dynamics are boosting his confidence; some Gulf Arab countries that supported the Syrian opposition now openly criticize the sanctions.“In 10 years of war, the (Syrian) regime did not offer a single concession. There is a general feeling that things can only get worse,” Hamidi said.“There is no horizon, no hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republic-of-queues-10-years-on-syria-is-a-hungry-nation-101615791535110.html
15-03-2021||World||Facebook to label all posts about Covid-19 vaccines||Facebook Inc, which has been criticized by lawmakers and researchers for allowing vaccine misinformation to spread on its platforms, said on Monday it has started adding labels to posts that discuss the safety of the shots and will soon label all posts about the vaccines.The social media company said in a blog post it is also launching a tool in the United States to give people information about where to get Covid-19 vaccines and adding a Covid-19 information area to its photo-sharing site Instagram.False claims and conspiracies about the coronavirus vaccines have proliferated on social media platforms during the pandemic.Facebook and Instagram, which recently tightened their policies after long taking a hands-off approach to vaccine misinformation, remain home to large accounts, pages and groups that promote false claims about the shots and can be easily found through keyword searches.Facebook's Chief Product Officer Chris Cox said in an interview that the company had taken viral false claims "very seriously" but said there was "a huge gray area of people who have concerns...some of which some people would call misinformation and some of which other people would call doubt.""The best thing to do in that huge gray area is just to show up with authoritative information in a helpful way, be a part of the conversation and do it with health experts," he added.The company said it was labeling Facebook and Instagram posts that discuss the safety of COVID-19 vaccines with text saying the vaccines go through safety and effectiveness tests before approval.In the blog post, it also said that since expanding its list of banned false claims about the coronavirus and vaccines in February, it has removed an additional 2 million pieces of content from Facebook and Instagram. Facebook said it had also implemented temporary measures including reducing the reach of content from users who repeatedly share content marked false by fact-checkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-label-all-posts-about-covid-19-vaccines-101615791911184.html
15-03-2021||World||US overtakes Saudi Arabia to become India's second largest oil supplier||The United States overtook Saudi Arabia as India's second biggest oil supplier last month, as refiners boosted cheaper U.S. crude purchases to record levels and to offset supply cuts from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (OPEC+), data from trade sources showed.India's imports from the world's top producer rose 48% to a record 545,300 barrels per day (bpd) in February from the prior month, accounting for 14% of India's overall imports last month, the data obtained by Reuters showed.In contrast, February imports from Saudi Arabia fell by 42% from the previous month to a decade-low of 445,200 bpd, the data showed. Saudi Arabia, which has consistently been one of India's top two suppliers, slipped to No. 4 for the first time since at least January 2006.Country-wise oil import data for before 2006 is not available with Reuters.Iraq continued to be the top oil seller to India despite a 23% decline in purchases to a five-month low of 867,500 bpd, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-overtakes-saudi-arabia-to-become-india-s-second-largest-oil-supplier-101615791229354.html
15-03-2021||World||No evidence of increased blood clot risk from Covid-19 vaccine: AstraZeneca||Amid the rising concern over thrombotic (blood clots) events, pharma major AstraZeneca issued a statement on Monday saying a review of 17 million people administered its Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine suggested it was entirely safe.“AstraZeneca would like to offer its reassurance on the safety of its Covid-19 vaccine based on clear scientific evidence. Safety is of paramount importance and the company is continually monitoring the safety of its vaccine,” said the company in a statement. “A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and UK with Covid-19 vaccine of AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or thrombocytopenia, in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country,” it added. So far across the EU and UK, there have been 15 events of deep vein thrombosis and 22 events of pulmonary embolism reported among those given the vaccine, based on the number of cases the company has received as of March 8. This is much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population of this size and is similar across other licensed Covid-19 vaccines. The monthly safety report will be made public on the European Medicines Agency website in the following week, in line with exceptional transparency measures for Covid-19. Also Read | Ireland, Netherlands halt AstraZeneca Covid-19 jabs as Italy gets set for curbsFurthermore, in clinical trials, even though the number of thrombotic events was small, these were lower in the vaccinated group. There has also been no evidence of increased bleeding in over 60,000 participants enrolled. Chief medical officer of AstraZeneca, Ann Taylor, said: “Around 17 million people in the EU and UK have now received our vaccine, and the number of cases of blood clots reported in this group is lower than the hundreds of cases that would be expected among the general population. The nature of the pandemic has led to increased attention in individual cases and we are going beyond the standard practices for safety monitoring of licensed medicines in reporting vaccine events, to ensure public safety.” “In terms of quality, there are no confirmed issues related to any batch of our vaccine used across Europe, or the rest of the world. Additional testing has been, and is being conducted by ourselves and independently by European health authorities and none of these re-tests have shown cause for concern. During the production of the vaccine, more than 60 quality tests are conducted by AstraZeneca, its partners and by more than 20 independent testing laboratories. All tests need to meet stringent criteria for quality control and this data is submitted to regulators within each country or region for independent review before any batch can be released to countries,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-evidence-of-increased-blood-clot-risk-from-covid-19-vaccine-astrazeneca-101615790930334.html
15-03-2021||World||Thousands of women across Australia march against sexual violence, gender inequality||Tens of thousands of women protested across Australia against sexual violence and gender inequality on Monday, as outrage grew over rape allegations that have convulsed the conservative government.The #March4Justice rallies were held in more than 40 Australian cities and towns, with a major demonstration in Canberra following allegations of sexual assault in the nation's parliament.Dressed mostly in black, the crowd gathered outside Parliament House holding aloft placards with slogans including "You're Not Listening", "How Many Victims Do You Know?" and "I Believe Her".Protester Kathryn Jamieson, who travelled from Melbourne to take part, said she was "fuming with rage"."I wanted to be at the heart of the matter, I've completely had enough," she told AFP. "We need immediate change -- I'm sick of women not being believed."Former government staffer Brittany Higgins alleged publicly last month that she had been raped by a colleague in a minister's office in 2019.And earlier this month, Attorney-General Christian Porter vigorously denied swirling accusations he had raped a 16-year-old girl in 1988 when they were both students.The controversy has placed growing pressure on Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who critics say has fumbled the government's response to the scandals.The latest gaffe came Monday when he told parliament: "Not far from here such marches, even now, are being met with bullets, but not here in this country" -- drawing furious interjections from opposition politicians and stunned reactions online."The prime minister thinks women should be grateful that we weren't shot for rallying for our own safety," Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young tweeted.Public anger at Morrison's government was reflected in a new opinion poll Monday showing voter support has fallen to levels not seen since 2019 when he vacationed in Hawaii while massive bushfires were raging in Australia.The government has ordered an independent inquiry into parliament's workplace culture and established new staff support services but activists say systemic change is now needed -- not just in politics but across Australian society.Higgins told the crowd in Canberra her story was "a painful reminder to women that it can happen in Parliament House, and can truly happen anywhere"."We fundamentally recognise the system is broken, the glass ceiling is still in place," she said."We are here because it is unfathomable that we are still having to fight this same stale, tired fight."'Toxic' workplace cultureNo senior government ministers attended Monday's rallies and organisers refused Morrison's offer to speak in private, saying a closed-door meeting would be "disrespectful" to alleged victims."I think the prime minister, if he really cared about women, really cared about our voices... he (could) open the door, walk across the forecourt and come and listen to us," organiser Janine Hendry told the ABC.An estimated 10,000 joined the protest in Melbourne, with thousands more in major cities including Canberra, Sydney and Brisbane. Several thousand also rallied in Porter's hometown of Perth on Sunday."Evil thrives in silence," sexual abuse survivor and Australian of the Year Grace Tame told a crowd in the Tasmanian capital, Hobart."Behaviour unspoken, behaviour ignored, is behaviour endorsed."The #March4Justice is demanding a raft of measures including independent investigations into all cases of gendered violence, a boost in public funding for prevention and the implementation of recommendations from a 2020 national inquiry into sexual harassment at work.Australia's parliament has been repeatedly criticised for a "toxic" workplace culture that has allegedly spawned persistent bullying, harassment and sexual assault.The ruling coalition has been accused of not doing enough to support female party members, including after a spate of women quit parliament ahead of the 2019 election, with several citing bullying as a factor.Local media also reported that women in the opposition Labor party had recently set up a Facebook page that details alleged sexual harassment by male colleagues and politicians.A group of independent and minor-party female politicians on Monday announced they would attempt to amend a "loophole" in legislation that shields members of parliament and the judiciary from liability for workplace sexual harassment."It seems crazy that we would be, in 2021, having to present an amendment to a legislation that is vital to ensure all workplaces in Australia are safe and secure and respectful," independent MP Zali Steggall said.On Monday, Porter launched defamation proceedings against public broadcaster ABC, which first published the allegations against an unnamed senior minister, with lawyers saying the attorney-general was "easily identifiable" in the article and has since been subjected to "trial by media".Porter remains on medical leave in the wake of the allegations, as does Defence Minister Linda Reynolds, who is accused of mishandling the Higgins case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-women-across-australia-march-against-sexual-violence-gender-inequality-101615789485200.html
15-03-2021||World||Missile strike in northern Syria 'targeted' civilian settlements: Turkey||A missile strike in Turkish-controlled northern Syria wounded several civilians, Turkey's defence ministry and a monitoring group said Monday.Officials said the ballistic missiles were fired from the Kuweires airbase in Aleppo, under the control of the Syrian government, and struck Al-Bab and Jarablus towns in the north of the war-torn country.The strike "targeted civilian settlements and fuel tankers... civilians were wounded," the ministry said in a tweet, accompanied by a video appearing to show several lorries on fire.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said its sources on the ground heard loud explosions near Jarablus "caused by rocket attacks of unknown origin."Several civilians and workers had been wounded, it added.In March, missile strikes on oil refineries in the same area left four dead and 24 wounded.The facilities have been the subject of repeated attacks in recent months, although neither Damascus nor ally Moscow -- which has troops in Syria -- have claimed the strikes.Ankara had contacted Russian troops to demand a halt to the firing, the defence ministry said Monday, adding its troops in the region had been "alerted."Turkey launched the "Euphrates Shield" operation in 2016, taking control of a swathe of territory in northern Syria.The operation allowed Syrian rebels supported by Turkey to control several towns -- including Jarablus and Al-Bab.Syria's war has killed more than 387,000 people and displaced millions since starting in 2011 with the brutal repression of anti-government protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/missile-strike-in-northern-syria-targeted-civilian-settlements-turkey-101615788696433.html
15-03-2021||World||Hong Kong activists say democracy fight to continue abroad||Hong Kong democracy activists have launched a new push to continue their fight among residents living abroad in the wake of a sweeping crackdown by Beijing and changes to the the semi-autonomous Chinese city's electoral system aimed at shutting out opposition voices.In a letter titled the “2021 Hong Kong Charter," the activists stated that, “Numerous Hongkongers have no choice but to leave in exile, while those remaining in their city are living with the constant fear of being politically persecuted on any day."“The 2021 electoral reform imposed by the Chinese Communist Party further annihilated the democratic elements in our elections, putting the last nail in the coffin for “One Country, Two Systems,” the letter said, citing the framework for running the city after its handover from British colonial rule in 1997.The letter, cosigned by eight prominent opposition figures, calls for international support to counter what they called the “global aggression” of China's ruling Communist Party, along with reforms to the government and police force and the abolishment of a sweeping national security law imposed last year. Dozens of activists including former lawmakers have been charged under the law, prompting many to seek asylum abroad.“Under such high pressure from China, the diaspora from Hong Kong have more responsibility than ever to speak out and ensure we continue to draw international concern,” Nathan Law, who now resides in the UK, said during an online news conference Sunday. “We hope our overseas communities can continue to fight until the day we can elect our own leaders.”Hong Kong was rocked by months of antigovernment protests in 2019 that were met with increasingly repressive measures by security forces and the authorities in Beijing.China's legislature this month approved changes to election rules in the city that will virtually eliminate the influence of any political opposition, bringing strong criticism from the US and the UK, which ruled Hong Kong as a colony for 156 years. The changes tighten Beijing's control over the selection of Hong Kong's leader, along with the makeup of its legislative council.China had pledged to allow the city to retain freedoms not permitted elsewhere in the country for 50 years, but its recent steps are seen as a betrayal.British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab on Saturday said Beijing’s decision to “impose radical changes to restrict participation in Hong Kong’s electoral system ... is part of a pattern designed to harass and stifle all voices critical of China’s policies.”Raab said the moves amount to the third breach of a 1984 agreement between the sides that Britain hoped would protect Hong Kong's freedoms after the handover of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-activists-say-democracy-fight-to-continue-abroad-101615788276227.html
15-03-2021||World||US ministers' Japan visit under Biden to focus on China concerns||Concerns about China's growing influence in the region is expected to be a main focus when two ministers of President Joe Biden's administration visits Japan for their first in-person talks with their Japanese counterparts.US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin are on their way to Tokyo to meet their counterparts and other top officials as they try to reaffirm America's commitment to the region and their alliance following Donald Trump's temperamental approach.The two secretaries are holding so-called “two plus two” diplomatic and security talks with their Japanese counterparts, Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Defense Minister Nobuo Kishi on Tuesday.“The United States is now making a big push to revitalize our ties with friends and partners — both in one-to-one relationships and in multilateral institutions — and to recommit to our shared goals, values, and responsibilities,” Blinken and Austin said in a piece published Monday in the Washington Post.Despite the US and others that share the values and principles to keep an open Indo-Pacific region, China is “all too willing to use coercion to get its way,” the two ministers said. “Here again, we see how working with our allies is critical."The US will lead with diplomacy, while maintaining America's military might “and renew our alliances and ensure they're fit for purpose to address the threats and opportunities of our time," Blinken and Austin wrote. Together they can hold China accountable for its human rights abuses and other problems in Xinjiang, Tibet, as well as Hong Kong and Taiwan, they said.Signaling the US return to the Asia-Pacific region, Biden on Friday held a first summit of the leaders from Australia, Japan, India and the US known as the “Quad” virtually and emphasized Washington's commitment to the region.Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato on Monday welcomed the outcome of the talks as “a good opportunity for the four countries to confirm their strong commitment as a driving force to achieve ‘a free and open Indo-Pacific.'" Kato praised the “quad” summit held early in the Biden administration.Japan considers China's growing presence in the region a security threat. Beijing has built militarized manmade islands in the South China Sea and is pressing its claim to virtually all of the sea's key fisheries and waterways. Japan is concerned about China's claim to the Japanese-controlled Sekaku Islands called Diaoyu in China, in the East China Sea and its increased activity in the disputed area.China has denied it is expansionist and said it is only defending its territorial rights.On the Biden administration’s first Cabinet-level trip abroad, Blinken and Austin are also expected to discuss the coronavirus pandemic and climate change, as well as the nuclear threat posed by North Korea and the situation in Myanmar after its military coup.While in Tokyo, they plan to have virtual meetings with business leaders, civil-society members, business leaders and others while in Tokyo before heading to South Korea, another key ally in the region, Wednesday.China is not on Blinken’s itinerary, but he is set to meet senior Chinese officials in Anchorage, Alaska, on his way back to Washington. Austin will go from Seoul to New Delhi for meetings with Indian leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ministers-japan-visit-under-biden-to-focus-on-china-concerns-101615786478864.html
15-03-2021||World||Biden, Harris and others organise roadshow to promote relief plan's benefits||President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and their spouses are opening an ambitious, cross-country tour this week to highlight the benefits of his $1.9 trillion plan to defeat the coronavirus and boost the economy.The road show — dubbed the “Help is Here” tour by the White House — begins Monday with Harris heading to a Covid-19 vaccination site and a culinary academy in Las Vegas, and first lady Jill Biden touring a New Jersey elementary school.The president will have more to say about the plan Monday at the White House, and he plans to visit a small business in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, on Tuesday. He and Harris are slated to appear together in Atlanta on Friday.Harris will meet with small-business owners in Denver on Tuesday. Wednesday sees Jill Biden in Concord, New Hampshire, and Harris' husband, Doug Emhoff, in Albuquerque, New Mexico.The stops at vaccination sites, businesses, schools and more are meant to educate the public about different aspects of the giant American Rescue Plan and how it will help people get to the other side of the pandemic.Biden has said President Barack Obama's administration, in which Biden was vice president, failed to adequately educate the public about the benefits of its economic recovery plan. He said he wants to do a better sales job this time around on the details of his first big legislative victory.One of the plan's key features is direct payments of $1,400 for a single taxpayer, or $2,800 for a married couple filing their taxes jointly, plus 1,400 per dependent — for a total of $5,600 for a married couple with two children. The payments phase out for those with higher incomes.An extension of federal unemployment benefits will continue through September 6 at $300 a week. There's $350 billion for state, local and tribal governments, $130 billion for K-12 schools and about $50 billion to expand Covid-19 testing, among other measures.Restaurants and bars that were forced to close or limit service will take advantage of a new multibillion-dollar grant program, and the plan also has tens of billions of dollars to help people who have fallen behind on their rent and mortgage payments.The bill cleared Congress without any backing from Republicans, despite polling that found broad public support for the plan. Republicans argued the bill was too expensive. Democrats provided the votes and Biden signed it into law last week.The “Help is Here” tour is taking Harris on her first domestic trip as vice president. She'll be accompanied by her husband, the nation's first “second gentleman,” who plans to break off for separate events in Las Vegas on Monday and New Mexico on Wednesday.Since taking office, Harris has presided over swearing-in ceremonies for members of Biden's Cabinet. She has stood with the president at his speeches, delivered remarks of her own, spoken by telephone with assorted world leaders and made appearances in the Washington area, including at funeral services for Washington power broker Vernon Jordan.Harris also cast three tie-breaking votes in the 50-50 Senate in her role as president of the Senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-harris-and-others-organise-roadshow-to-promote-relief-plan-s-benefits-101615784964569.html
15-03-2021||World||China's factories, consumers drive recovery into 2021||China's factory and retail sector activity surged in the first two months of the year, beating expectations, as the economy consolidated its brisk recovery from the coronavirus paralysis of early 2020.While the impressive set of numbers released on Monday were heavily skewed by the very low base from last year's massive slump, analysts said they nonetheless showed China's strong rebound remained intact.Industrial output rose 35.1% in the first two months from a year earlier, up from a 7.3% on-year uptick seen in December, data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed, stronger than a median forecast for a 30.0% surge in a Reuters poll of analysts.Retail sales increased 33.8%, also faster than a forecast 32% rise and marking a significant jump from 4.6% growth in December and a 20.5% contraction for January-February of 2020."We have a positive outlook for exports and manufacturing investment this year," said Louis Kuijs, head of Asia economics and Oxford Economics. "And we expect household consumption to become a key driver of growth from Q2 onwards as confidence improves and the government’s call to reduce travel is toned down."China's ability to contain the coronavirus pandemic before other major economies were able to do so has allowed it to rebound faster.In 2020, it was the only major economy to report positive annual growth, with an expansion of 2.3%.The recovery has been driven by robust trade, pent-up demand and government stimulus.Export growth hit a record pace in February while factory gate prices posted their biggest expansion since November 2018.China’s economic activity is normally distorted in the first two months because of the week-long Lunar New Year holiday, which fell in February in 2021.MODEST EXPECTATIONSDespite the statistical noise in the latest data, other measures show a broad-based recovery with industrial output up 16.9% and retail sales growing 6.4% compared with the first two months of 2019.However, Liu Aihua, an NBS spokeswoman, warned that while positive factors for China's economy are increasing, the foundation for the recovery is not yet solid."Covid-19 is still spreading around the world and global economic conditions are complex and severe; domestically the imbalances of the recovery are still quite obvious," Liu told a briefing in Beijing.The country saw scattered Covid-19 outbreaks re-emerge earlier this year, but brought them under control by early February.Surveyed urban unemployment reversed a steady decline and rose to 5.5% in February from 5.2% in December, indicating increasing pressure on China's job market.While millions of workers normally travel home over the Lunar New Year holiday, many stayed put this year due to Covid-19 fears. That kept factories humming over the period, but it also had some impact on consumer spending.Seasonally adjusted month-on-month data showed retail sales growth actually fell in January-February, likely due to both travel restrictions but also elevated unemployment, analysts at Capital Economics said in a note.Fixed asset investment increased 35% in the first two months from the same period a year earlier, slower than a forecast 40.0% jump. That compared with 2.9% on-year growth in 2020, and a 24.5% plunge in January-February last year.Investment grew 3.5% compared with the first two months of 2019.Private-sector fixed-asset investment, which makes up 60% of total investment, rose 36.4% in January-February, versus a 1.0% increase for the full year of 2020.Beijing this month set a modest annual economic growth target, at above 6%, well below analysts' consensus forecast of more than 8% this year.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said last week the focus for growth this year is on consolidating the economic recovery.Zhang Yi, chief economist at Zhonghai Shengrong Capital Management, said the recovery seen in month-on-month indicators may have already peaked, a sign momentum is slowing.However, he expects infrastructure to receive a boost from still accommodative fiscal policy while exports are likely to maintain growth as the world economy opens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-factories-consumers-drive-recovery-into-2021-101615783931725.html
15-03-2021||World||Ireland, Netherlands halt AstraZeneca Covid-19 jabs as Italy gets set for curbs||Ireland and the Netherlands on Sunday became the latest countries to suspend their rollouts of AstraZeneca jabs over concerns about post-jab blood clots despite the firm insisting there was no risk, as most Italians were bracing for a new round of restrictions.Vaccinations are a key tool to end the worst of a pandemic that has killed more than 2.6 million people since it emerged in China in late 2019.So far more than 350 million doses have been doled out across the world, but countries including Denmark, Norway and Bulgaria suspended the rollout of jabs from the Anglo/Swedish pharma giant this week after reports of blood clots developing in patients who had received the shot.The World Health Organization, Europe's medicines watchdog, governments and experts have stressed that no causal link has been established between the vaccine and blood clotting and insisted that the shot is safe.An AstraZeneca spokesman said it had found no evidence of increased risk of blood clot conditions after analysing reported cases from more than 17 million doses."In fact, the reported numbers of these types of events for COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca are lower than the number that would have occurred naturally in the unvaccinated population," said the spokesman.AstraZeneca's shot is among the cheapest available and forms a bulk of deliveries to poorer nations under the WHO-backed Covax initiative, which aims to ensure vaccines get to all parts of the globe.- 'We must have confidence' -A spokesman for Ireland's health ministry told AFP that the rollout had been "temporarily deferred" after the country's advisory panel recommended a suspension because of concerns raised by Norwegian officials.The Dutch health ministry similarly said it was suspending the rollout as a precaution.Norwegian officials said on Saturday the country had reports of people "bleeding under the skin" and "severe cases of blood clots or brain haemorrhages in younger people" who had received the shot.AstraZeneca became embroiled in a bitter row with European leaders earlier in the year when it announced it would not be able to supply the number of doses it had promised.Since then, European leaders have bitterly criticised the company and cast doubt on the vaccine's efficacy while at the same time blocking some exports of doses to destinations outside the European Union.French Prime Minister Jean Castex, however, defended his country's decision to carry on with the AstraZeneca jab saying on Sunday France had found no reason to suspend the rollout."At this stage, we must have confidence in this vaccine," he said, highlighting instead the danger of leaving large sections of the population unprotected from Covid.France is facing a hospital crisis with intensive care beds in the Paris region running out and patients having to be taken to other parts of the country.- 'Vulnerable family' -While France is hoping to avoid being plunged back into a national lockdown, neighbouring Italy is set to reimpose restrictions across most of the nation on Monday -- a year after it became the first European nation to face a major outbreak.Schools, restaurants, shops and museums will close with Health Minister Roberto Speranza saying he hoped the measures and vaccination programme would allow restrictions to be relaxed in the second half of spring."Each dose of vaccine injected is a step in the direction of the way out of the crisis," he said on Sunday.Across the world, businesses and families are still counting the cost of the lockdowns and other measures that have left millions without jobs -- and forced others to carry on working even if they feel they are lacking protection.Matt Valentin in the US told AFP his job in a Michigan state cafe became an increasingly anxiety-ridden environment."It went from 'get these drinks and orders done as fast as possible' to 'do all of that, and try not to bring a deadly virus home to your vulnerable family,'" the 21-year-old told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ireland-netherlands-halt-astrazeneca-covid-19-jabs-as-italy-gets-set-for-curbs-101615777276417.html
15-03-2021||World||Myanmar: Aung San Suu Kyi to face court, day after 'deadliest' anti-coup unrest||Myanmar's ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi is to appear in court on Monday, after one of the country's bloodiest days since the February 1 coup.At least 38 protesters were killed on Sunday as security forces cracked down on anti-coup protesters, taking the total death toll to more than 120, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) monitoring group.Protesters demanding the release of Suu Kyi and the restoration of democracy have taken to the streets across Myanmar every day for around six weeks despite the junta's increasingly forceful attempts to quell the dissent.Sunday -- the joint deadliest day of unrest along with March 3 -- saw violent clashes between security forces and protesters and the torching of several Chinese-owned factories in a textile-producing district of Yangon, as many protesters believe Beijing to be supportive of the coup.State-run television confirmed on Monday that a police officer was shot dead in the city of Bago during a protest.The Yangon court hearing for Suu Kyi -- who spent more than 15 years in house arrest under previous military rule -- is expected to start by video link around 10 am (0330 GMT), her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw told AFP.The Nobel laureate faces at least four charges: possessing unlicensed walkie-talkies, violating coronavirus restrictions, breaching telecommunications laws and intent to cause public unrest.Military authorities have also accused her of accepting illegal payments of $600,000 in cash as well as a large quantity of gold -- allegations her lawyer says are "groundless"."The ruling junta has showed its teeth and taken its mask off... they are showing their true self," Khin Maung Zaw said of Sunday's violence.Khin Maung Zaw has complained he has not been allowed to meet Suu Kyi, who has been in custody since the coup, though he said the 75-year-old appeared in good health at her last court appearance, by video link, on March 1.Chinese factories attackedThe international community is growing ever more alarmed at the bloodshed, but so far the generals have shown no signs of heeding calls for restraint.The UN's top rights expert on Myanmar Tom Andrews tweeted that he was "heartbroken/outraged" at Sunday's events."Junta leaders don't belong in power, they belong behind bars," he wrote."Their supply of cash & weapons must be cut now. I appeal to UN member states to heed my call to action."On Sunday night state media announced that Yangon's massive Hlaing Tharyar township and the neighbouring Shwepyitha township were being put under martial law.The move came after protesters and security forces clashed violently and five factories -- several of them Chinese-owned -- in Hlaing Tharyar, a garment-producing district, were razed.Security forces opened fire on demonstrators wielding sticks and knives and using cut-out trash cans as shields.Beijing's embassy in Myanmar issued a statement condemning the actions of "destroyers" and urging police to "guarantee the security" of Chinese businesses.The declaration of martial law means anyone arrested in the two townships faces trial by a military tribunal rather than civilian courts, with sentences ranging from three years' hard labour to execution.The UN envoy for Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener strongly condemned Sunday's bloodshed, while the former colonial power Britain said it was "appalled" by the use of force "against innocent people."Last week Andrews, the UN Special Rapporteur on rights in Myanmar, said there was growing evidence that the junta was engaging in crimes against humanity -- including murder, forced disappearances and torture.The human rights campaign group Amnesty International has also accused the military of using battlefield weapons on unarmed protestors and carrying out premeditated killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-aung-san-suu-kyi-to-face-court-day-after-deadliest-anti-coup-unrest-101615782920193.html
15-03-2021||World||‘Everyone liked it a great deal,’ says Joe Biden on first Quad summit||US President Joe Biden is expectedly pleased with the outcome of the historic first summit-level meeting of the Quad last Friday, one of his most significant foreign policy initiatives since taking office less than two months ago. “It went very well,” Biden told reporters when asked how the Quad summit was. “Everyone seemed to like it a great deal.”Biden and his counterparts - Prime Ministers Narendra Modi of India, Scott Morrison of Australia and Yoshihide Suga of Japan - made history by getting together virtually for the first summit of the four-nation grouping, which they have described as a “flexible group of like-minded partners”.They also announced a major vaccine initiative to battle Covid-19 in Indo-Pacific countries facing acute shortage of vaccines; and set up working groups on coronavirus vaccines, climate and emerging technologies that clearly set up mechanisms for long-term and open-ended engagement. And they signed off on a joint statement and a factsheet.The day after, they lent their bylines to a joint op-ed in The Washington Post portraying their partnership as a “spark of hope”. They explained in detail what they did last Friday and what they intend to do going forward. They assured the rest of the world they are not an exclusive club and that they will “work with all of those who share” their goals, chiefly, a free and open Indo-Pacific.Work began on the summit early February, according to people familiar with its planning and execution, and continued at a frenetic pace since even as their respective nations fought the deadly Covid-19 pandemic at home.“These last few weeks were complete madness, and unending series of meetings and exchange of notes and documents,” said one of those involved.Negotiations and discussion were conducted across three continents and multiple time zones – 7.51am in New Delhi, for instance, is 1.21pm in Canberra, 11.21am in Tokyo and 10.22 pm in Washington, DC.The US had set high a high bar for the summit – and cleared it. A senior Biden administration official who previewed the summit outcomes for reporters singled out the Vaccine Initiative for a glowing mention. He called it “historic deliverable… unprecedented… complex… deeply strategically significant, and… timely”. India will use it vast pharma manufacturing capabilities to produce an estimated 1 billion does of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022-end under the initiative, which will be financed by the US and Japan. Australia will fund the last-mile distribution of the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/everyone-liked-it-a-great-deal-says-joe-biden-on-first-quad-summit-101615780789578.html
15-03-2021||World||Chinese capital Beijing reels under heavy sandstorms||The Chinese capital Beijing was shrouded in thick brown dust on Monday morning as a result of heavy winds blowing in from Inner Mongolia and other parts of northwestern China.The China Meteorological Administration announced a yellow alert on Monday morning, saying that the sandstorms had spread from Inner Mongolia into the provinces of Gansu, Shanxi and Hebei, which surrounds Beijing.Beijing's official air quality index reached a maximum level of 500 on Monday morning, with floating particles known as PM10 reaching 2,000 micrograms per cubic metre in some districts.Readings of PM2.5, smaller particles that infiltrate the lungs, were also approaching 300 micrograms per cubic metre, far higher than China's standard of 35 micrograms.Beijing faces regular sandstorms in March and April as a result of its proximity to the massive Gobi desert as well as deforestation throughout northern China.Beijing and surrounding regions have been suffering from relatively high levels of pollution in recent weeks, with the city also shrouded in smog during the opening of parliament starting on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-capital-beijing-reels-under-heavy-sandstorms-101615772218497.html
15-03-2021||World||'Stay home': Dangerous winter storm in western US forces airport, highways to shut||A dangerous winter storm pummeled parts of the US Rockies and western Plains with heavy snow on Sunday, shutting down Denver's busy airport and forcing the closure of major highways.Snowfall accumulations were expected to reach 3 feet (1 meter) or more in high-altitude areas. In Cheyenne, Wyoming, about 26 inches (65.5 cm) of snow had fallen by noon, the National Weather Service reported, setting a new two-day record for the city."STAY HOME. YOU WILL BE STRANDED!" the agency's Cheyenne office posted on Twitter.In eastern Colorado, wind gusts of 45 miles per hour (72 km per hour) prompted the National Weather Service on Sunday afternoon to issue a blizzard warning for about a 90-mile (145 km) stretch of the state's urban corridor along Interstate 25, from Fort Collins to Castle Rock.The warning extended to the Denver metropolitan area, where about a foot (30 cm) of snow had fallen by midday, with another 8 inches (20 cm) likely before the storm wanes by nightfall, said Frank Cooper, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Boulder, Colorado."The wind has really become an issue," Cooper said.The deteriorating conditions forced Denver International Airport, the nation's fifth-busiest airport, to close all six of its runways, officials said. The airport recorded more than 19 inches (48 cm) of snow by lunchtime.The closure will have minimal impact on airport operations, as more than 2,000 weekend flights were already canceled, including 1,346 on Sunday, officials said.The heavy and wet snow was threatening trees and power lines. More than 57,000 customers were without power in Colorado, according to an outage tracker maintained by utility Xcel Energy.Interstates 70 and 25, Colorado's the main roadways, were shut down as of Sunday afternoon. Interstate 80, which runs east-west across Wyoming, was also closed.The system bringing blizzards to the Rockies was also responsible for severe thunderstorms in Texas, including reports of multiple tornadoes on Saturday in the Texas Panhandle. No deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stay-home-dangerous-winter-storm-in-western-us-forces-airport-highways-to-shut-101615773889251.html
15-03-2021||World||Man charged in Capitol riot had a Hitler mustache, say coworkers||An Army reservist charged with taking part in the attack on the US Capitol was known as a Nazi sympathiser who wore a Hitler mustache, coworkers told federal investigators.Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, 30, was employed as a security contractor at a Navy base when he was alleged to have breached the Capitol on Jan. 6, authorities said.In court papers filed Friday, federal prosecutors in Washington said his coworkers at the Naval Weapons Station Earle in Colts Neck, New Jersey, told investigators that he held white supremacist views.The filing included photos from Hale-Cusanelli's cellphone of him with a Hitler mustache, along with pro-Nazi cartoons.One Navy seaman said that Hale-Cusanelli told him “he would kill all the Jews and eat them for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and he wouldn't need to season them because the salt from their tears would make it flavorful enough.”Other coworkers recalled Hale-Cusanelli making derogatory remarks about women, Black people and other minorities.Prosecutors argued in the filing that Hale-Cusanelli is a danger to the public and should remain jailed while he awaits trial.Jonathan Zucker, Hale-Cusanelli's attorney, wrote in a filing that there was no evidence his client belongs to any white supremacist organizations.Authorities said Hale-Cusanelli made videos of himself screaming at Capitol Police officers, climbing a scaffolding to enter the building through doors kicked open by rioters, and chanting “Stop the steal!” Some of those videos were posted to social media.Hale-Cusanelli has since been discharged from the Army Reserve and barred from the Navy base, according to the filing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-charged-in-capitol-riot-had-a-hitler-mustache-say-coworkers-101615773261987.html
15-03-2021||World||Rape scandals hit Australian PM Morrison in polls as women march on Parliament||Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government has lost its lead in an important opinion poll, as allegations of sexual assault that have roiled parliament impact its popularity and spur women to protest nationwide on Monday.The incumbent Liberal-National coalition declined 4 points in the Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper on Monday, giving the Labor opposition a 52%-48% lead. Morrison’s net approval rating fell 4 points to +28% as preferred leader, although he remains ahead of opposition leader Anthony Albanese on +1%.Morrison is backing his Attorney-General Christian Porter to remain as Australia’s first law officer after police earlier this month said they couldn’t proceed with an investigation into an allegation the Cabinet minister raped a teenage girl in 1988.The prime minister has resisted calls to hold an inquiry into the matter, magnifying scrutiny about his handling of women’s issues. This initially came under the spotlight last month when former government media adviser Brittany Higgins said she was raped in 2019 by a fellow staffer in a minister’s office.Thousands of women are expected to rally in Australia’s major cities on Monday, including outside Parliament House in Canberra. A march in Perth on Sunday drew about 5,000 people.Parliament will be suspended for 90 minutes from midday so lawmakers are able to attend the march. Several members of the Labor opposition indicated they will attend.One of the organizers for the marches, Janine Hendry, said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview on Monday that Morrison’s office indicated he would not attend, but had offered to meet a delegation in his office.The protesters declined the offer, saying that the prime minister would attend “if he really cared about women, really cared about our voices,” Hendry said.Not attending parliament on Monday will be Porter, who has been on leave to address mental-health issues after denying the charges in a press conference on March 3. Also absent to address health issues will be Defence Minister Linda Reynolds, who has come under pressure from Morrison for not informing him the details of Higgins’ incident when it came to light two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rape-scandals-hit-australian-pm-morrison-in-polls-as-women-march-on-parliament-101615772431057.html
15-03-2021||World||'Look inside his heart': Pelosi, Biden sidestep calling on Cuomo to resign||US President Joe Biden sidestepped questions Sunday on whether New York Governor Andrew Cuomo should resign over sexual misconduct allegations, while House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the state leader should "look inside his heart" to decide if he can govern.The pair stopped short of joining a growing list of other politicians, including many fellow Democrats, in demanding Cuomo's resignation.Exiting Marine One Sunday, Biden told a reporter that "the investigation is underway and we should see what it brings us."Eight women have come forward since last month to denounce what they said were inappropriate words and gestures from Cuomo. One former employee said he slipped his hand under her blouse in an incident last year.New York's senior senator, Chuck Schumer, now the majority leader in the US Senate, is among those who have explicitly called for the governor to step down.Cuomo's accusers, most of them women who worked in the state government with him, "must be treated with respect," Pelosi said in carefully worded comments on ABC's "This Week" program earlier Sunday, adding that "they are credible and serious charges."She added: "The governor should look inside his heart -- he loves New York -- to see if he can govern effectively."Cuomo, who at 63 has been governor for the last 10 years, has repeatedly denied acting in any way he considered "inappropriate."He has shrugged off the calls to resign, asking people to wait for the results of several investigations, including one being led by the state's attorney general, Letitia James.Pelosi told ABC she had "zero tolerance for sexual harassment" and said Cuomo's accusers should be listened to.But she said both the women and Cuomo "deserve to hear the results of these investigations," adding that she had confidence in the state's attorney general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/look-inside-his-heart-pelosi-biden-sidestep-calling-on-cuomo-to-resign-101615771271453.html
15-03-2021||World||Anthony Fauci says Donald Trump should urge his followers to get vaccinated||Dr. Anthony Fauci said Sunday he wishes former President Donald Trump would use his popularity among Republicans to persuade more of his followers to get the Covid-19 vaccine.In a round of interviews on the morning news shows, the government's top infectious disease expert lamented polling showing that Trump supporters are more likely to refuse to get vaccinated, saying politics needs to be separated from “commonsense, no-brainer” public health measures.Fauci said it would be a “game changer” for the country's vaccine efforts if the former president used his “incredible influence” among Republicans.“If he came out and said, Go and get vaccinated. It's really important for your health, the health of your family and the health of the country,' it seems absolutely inevitable that the vast majority of people who are his close followers would listen to him,” Fauci told “Fox News Sunday.”There was no immediate comment from the former president's office Sunday.Trump has urged people to get vaccinated, doing so again two weeks ago at a conservative political gathering in Florida.But he hasn't been among former presidents and other public officials who have been vaccinated on camera to encourage others to get the shot. It was revealed only recently that he was vaccinated in private at the White House before leaving office in January.Trump did not appear in a new public service campaign for the COVID-19 vaccine that included former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama.Polls have shown Republicans joining Black people and other groups in expressing greater skepticism than others about the safety of the vaccine.Fauci said he doesn't understand the resistance.“What is the problem here? This is a vaccine that is going to be lifesaving for millions of people,” he said on NBC's “Meet the Press.” He added: “I mean, I just can't comprehend what the reason for that is when you have a vaccine that's 94-95% effective and it is very safe. I just don't get it.”The number of vaccine doses distributed and administered each day in the U.S. is rising, with more than 2.5 million daily shots in arms on average in the last week.About 1 in 5 Americans have received at least one dose, with about 1 in 9 fully vaccinated, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The coronavirus is blamed for over 530,000 deaths in the United States. Deaths and newly confirmed infections per day have tumbled over the past two months. But cases are running at a still-troubling average of about 55,000 a day.Fauci repeatedly warned against pulling back on public health measures too early, saying the virus could come surging back, endangering the goal of getting the country closer to normal by early July.He pointed to Europe as a cautionary tale. Rising virus cases this winter followed rollbacks on restrictions on the continent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-says-donald-trump-should-urge-his-followers-to-get-vaccinated-101615768747152.html
15-03-2021||World||Dubai conducts trial to assess breath test to detect coronavirus||Dubai is conducting a clinical trial to assess the accuracy of a breath test to detect the coronavirus within one minute.The rapid test, developed by the National University of Singapore’s Breathonix Pte Ltd., is being trialled on 2,500 patients, according to a statement. Breathonix is carrying out the trial with Dubai Health Authority and Mohammed Bin Rashid University of Medicine and Health Sciences.Machine learning software will analyze a breath sample and generate the result in less than a minute, according to the statement. Breathonix had previously conducted a Singapore-based pilot study that involved 180 patients and achieved a sensitivity of 93% and specificity of 95% with the machine learning algorithm, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubai-conducts-trial-to-assess-breath-test-to-detect-coronavirus-101615716401192.html
15-03-2021||World||Decoding the boom in visual art and NFTs||On March 11, Christie’s auctioned a JPG file for $69 million, catapulting its creator – digital artist Mike Winkelmann, who goes by the name of Beeple, to instant worldwide fame. The auction house said in a tweet that the first purely digital artwork’s auction places Beeple among the top three most valuable living artists.Behind this record is the story of the rise of virtual art, how it is valued and, possibly, the future of fine art collecting. The technology is known as non-fungible token (NFT).What is it? To understand NFTs, it is crucial to look at two concepts separated by the ages — the economic principle of fungibility (which derives its name from medieval Latin ‘fungibilis’) and the modern-day information standard known as blockchain.A fungible is any asset that holds the same value and interchanged with another of its kind – for instance, currency. A piece of art, however, is unique – the original creation will always have a different value than, say, a copy or another piece of art perhaps even by the same creator. Hence, it is non-fungible.The blockchain is a distributed ledger over a vast computer network, storing information, such as transactions, as an open database that is duplicated in a manner that the record becomes immutable. It has several uses (most famously known for currencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum) due to its virtue of being authentic as well as decentralised.Also Read | After outcry, Israeli museum calls off sale of Islamic artAs useful as it is to make an authentic record of cryptocurrency (a fungible) transactions, the blockchain can also serve as an authentic, digital database of non-fungible assets. And this has been done, since at least 2014, by NFTs.To put it simply, an NFT is the formalisation of digital ownership, in a way that the information is decentralised and distributed, which makes its authenticity undebatable. It is the digital equivalent of establishing the Louvre owns the Mona Lisa, although its copies are ubiquitous around the world and mean little in terms of value.The history NFTs have existed since at least 2014. But they really began to gain popularity in 2017, particularly when people began creating and trading digital cats known as cryptokittens. Some more sought-after kitten avatars would go on to be traded for hundreds or thousands of dollars.Over the past year, a company called NBA Top Shot has been selling officially licensed digital collectibles, similar digital trading cards. The most valuable NFT sold by it yet was in mid-February, when a video of a user paid $208,000 to acquire a clip of a Lebron James slam dunk.The explosion NFTs have been in mainstream news since February. It began with the auction of the Nyan Cat gif – a 12-frame animation of a cat, with a pop-tart for a torso, flying through space leaving what can only be described as a rainbow-colour contrail. The winning bid was $587,000, making it one of the most expensive pieces of digital art sold, on February 19.But that record fell quickly. On February 21, it was shattered by a $6.6 million sale of a 10-second video, which was made by Beeple but owned and then sold by a Miami-based art collecter who originally bought it for $66,666 in October.The explosion is such that according to nonfungibles.com, $204 million worth NFTs have been traded in the last month alone. This is almost half of the $417 mn it has tracked since June 2017.Why the boom now? The year 2021 appears to have brought the inflection point for NFTs even though they existed for years (and went through a largely unnoticed boom in 2017). There are several theories for why this has happened now.Digital culture watchers believe that some of this is linked to the rise of cryptocurrencies (using which NFTs are traded at present), with crypto HNIs not just more willing to acquire more assets, but artists and musicians opening up to the idea as well.Also Read | Lagerfeld’s art, furniture collections to be auctioned in Monaco in autumnThe Covid-19 pandemic dried up traditional sources of incomes, halting exhibitions and concerts. When some musicians (the first success stories are by Grimes and 3LAU earlier this year) began raking in top dollars, others followed. Rock band Kings of Leon, for instance, released their latest album as an NFT in early March, bundling several real-world perks as well, such as front-row tickets for life.The future, or a passing fad? On the face of it, the sudden explosion resembles the rapid build-up that has often been the hallmark of a bubble. Critics have pointed to how social media may be fuelling a speculative frenzy, not unlike what was seen in “meme stocks” mayhem last month. GameStop went from $20 per share in mid-January to over $480 within a month, before coming back down to the 50s, bringing major gains to those who got out on time and leading to heavy losses to that didn’t.But NFTs are also unmatched in their utility in two crucial areas - they allow for exclusivity in a digital era and can monetise new forms of internet-birthed art, such as gifs, memes and even tweets. The March 11 auction by a major auction house will be seen as a significant endorsement, even if it lasts temporarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/decoding-the-boom-in-visual-art-and-nfts-101615532138744.html
15-03-2021||India||Shah, Nadda step up attack against Congress in Assam||SILCHAR/Guwahati: Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Monday hit out at the Congress for allying with the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front ahead of the three-phase assembly elections in Assam, as they promised to ensure the preservation of the state’s indigenous culture if the party retains power.The Congress is “shamelessly” talking of secularism and culture preservation even as it has Ajmal’s party “seated on its lap”, Shah told reporters after launching the BJP’s social media campaign, Selfie with development. The BJP will bank on five pillars to fight the assembly polls -- ‘Suraksha aur Samman’ (protection and respect), ‘Samriddhi aur Judao’ (prosperity and connection), ‘Sanskriti aur Sabhyata’ (culture and civilisation), ‘Shanti aur Samvad’ (peace and dialogue) and ‘Swanirbharta aur Atmanirbharta’ (Self-reliance), Shah said. “Assam elections will not just ensure that the BJP stays in power, but will also guarantee preservation of the state’s culture, traditions and civilisation,” he said, urging BJP’s social media volunteers to act “marg-darshaks” (guide) “to create awareness on our mission to build golden Assam”.The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam, has allied with the AIUDF and six other parties to fight the election for the 126-member assembly against the BJP-led NDA.Attacking the opposition party for its poll alliance on the second consecutive day, BJP president Nadda said the “Congress has sold its soul to AIUDF”.“In 2006, former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said ‘Who is Ajmal?’ He never allowed Ajmal and its communal thoughts to enter into mainstream. But today the Congress party is contesting election by taking help from a communal political party like AIUDF. I don’t know what the son of Tarun Gogoi is thinking right now. I don’t want to say this but Congress has sold its soul to AIUDF. Today Congress leaders are calling Badruddin Ajmal brother and friend, they are bending their heads before Ajmal,” Nadda said.“If we look at ideology of present leaders of the Congress party, they are contesting against left parties in Kerala while in West Bengal they are in friendship with CPM. In Assam they are fighting election with the help of a communal party like AIUDF. And these people are talking about development of the country. I’d like to tell them, first you save your party and the ideology. The country is in a good hand, Modi ji will take care, don’t worry,” Nadda said.Nadda accused the Congress of “latkana” (delaying), “atkana” (stalling) and “bhatkana” (misleading), saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi only believes in “jodna” (integrating). “It is the Prime Minister who through his initiatives has joined Assam and the Northeast with mainstream India,” Nadda said.Sharpening his attack on the Congress, Nadda said, “Congress party is now talking about 5-gurantee, though I am not aware of what guarantee they are giving, I can assure the people of Assam that Congress can give one guarantee that is corruption.”He was referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s recent speech at a rally in Assam, where she launched the Congress’s five-guarantee campaign including the promise to withdraw the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA).The Congress, however, refuted the BJP’s allegations that it allied with communal forces. “These claims are false. AIUDF is not communal and they have not said anything that is communal. The BJP is desperately trying to polarise the election knowing well they are losing,” said Congress leader and leader of opposition Debabrata Saikia.The state will vote in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6 for the assembly’s 126 seats. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-nadda-step-up-attack-against-congress-in-assam-101615832871753.html
15-03-2021||India||Warehouses in Odisha running out of space as FCI slows down lifting rice||A delegation of BJD MPs on Monday requested Union Food and Civil Supplies Minister Piyush Goyal to ask the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to pick up more rice from Odisha’s warehouses which are running out of space to store the foodgrain procured from farmers of the state.The MPs said FCI needs to evacuate 30 lakh tonnes of rice from the state's warehouses, but till March 13 it has evacuated only 6.65 lakh tonnes of rice."The movement plan for the month of March 2021 has been reduced substantially. At this pace, the surplus 30 lakh of rice cannot be evacuated by the start of the next kharif marketing season or till the start of the next calendar year which will greatly hamper the ensuing Rabi procurement and the next Kharif procurement. If like previous years, FCI lifts only 17 lakh tonnes of rice then 13 lakh tonnes of rice will be left with Odisha. Long storage of rice will lead to discolouration and even FCI will then not accept it. Loss of 1 lakh tonnes of rice due to deterioration in quality would mean a loss of about Rs. 320 crore and the state would lose ₹4160 crore this way," the MPs said in their petition.The MPs told Goyal that Odisha's own consumption under PDS and other welfare schemes currently comes to around 24 lakh tonnes of rice and supplying the extra rice under NFSA/SFSS to people of the state will be unethical.In the ensuing kharif marketing season, Odisha has procured nearly 61 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers, an all time record. "As the growth in the number of farmers selling paddy to the government has gone up, more farmers have benefitted from MSP payment. If the surplus rice is not evacuated, then the paddy procurement by rice millers would come to a halt," the MPs said.The BJD MPs also requested Goyal to release the subsidy due to Odisha over decentralised procurement system.Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation which is the nodal agency for paddy procurement in Odisha, has so far pending subsidy dues of Rs. 5,616 crore. While the central subsidy is yet to be released, the state-run corporation has borrowed Rs. 19,000 crore to clear the dues of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warehouses-in-odisha-running-out-of-space-as-fci-slows-down-lifting-rice-101615830736143.html
15-03-2021||India||Two-day nationwide bank strike: Here's how day 1 panned out||Banking operations across the country were affected on Monday as public lenders observed day one of a two-day nationwide strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions, on March 15 and 16, to protest against the central government's proposed privatisation and disinvestment plan.Here's how the first day of the strike panned out:> Delhi saw massive demonstrations of employees of public sector banks who protested at Parliament Street, Jantar Mantar and Connaught Place against the proposed privatisation of banks.> In Maharashtra, unions claimed that more than 86 lakh cheques, other financial instruments worth ₹6,500 crore were held from clearance. The body's state convenor, Devidas Tuljapurkar, claimed that cheque clearances and cash transactions were mostly impacted. Over 50,000 bank employees from the state, from more than 10,000 different branches, participated in the nationwide strike.Also Read | 5 Lt Colonels among 17 Army personnel booked by CBI in recruitment scam> All India Nationalised Bank Officers' Federation (AINBOF) organised demonstrations across the country. The Hyderabad unit devised folk song singers to create awareness amongst the public regarding the issue.> In Rajasthan, more than 8,200 branches of public and rural banks were affected by the strike. UFBU state convenor Mahesh Mishra claimed that business worth ₹10,000 crore was disturbed by the strike that saw participation of around 36,000 employees and officers, including over 500 assistant general managers. Around 15,000 ATMS in the state were also out of cash, Mishra claimed.> Bank employees of various other big and small cities- Agartala, Chandigarh, Agra, Madurai, Chennai, Muzaffarpur, Gaya, Bhubaneswar, Silchar, Rohtak, Patna etc.-also participated in the strike and raised slogans. The three main slogans raised during the strike were 'save PSBs', ‘sustain social banking’ and ‘safeguard people’s savings.’> The Opposition Congress extended support to the strike and accused the Union government of causing ‘inconveniences’ to the public. "We stand in solidarity with 10 lakh bank officials and staff participating in the strike against reckless privatisation of public sector banks. The strike called by the United Forum of Bank Union is against the ill-placed priorities of the Modi government. The Modi government is responsible for the inconvenience being faced by the people," news agency PTI quoted party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala as saying.The two-day strike was called after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her Budget speech on February 1, announced privatisation of two public sector banks as part of the disinvestment plan of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twoday-nationwide-bank-strike-here-s-how-day-1-panned-out-101615823579594.html
15-03-2021||India||Will discuss racism issue with UK when required: Jaishankar||India has been working with countries around the world, especially in West Asia, to facilitate the return of citizens working or studying there and more than a million people have travelled abroad on Air India flights, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday. The process of facilitating the return of Indians to their jobs or studies abroad was part of post-pandemic recovery efforts, and India has been actively urging “partner governments to look sympathetically at the employment of our citizens as they chart their own recovery pathway”, the minister said in similar statements in both houses of Parliament. The largest numbers of Indians had returned to countries in West Asia, which is home to some nine million Indian nationals. Over the past few months, the Indian government has called on the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states to speed up the process of allowing Indian workers to return to their jobs. Jaishankar acknowledged that “real challenges” remain to be addressed regarding the economic impact of the pandemic on Indians employed abroad. “The government is fully cognisant of the employment concerns that our people abroad have in the context of the Covid pandemic. Especially in the Gulf, there has been tremendous economic and social disruption that has impacted them. We have softened it somewhat but real challenges are there to be addressed,” he said. “We are aware that there are problems of compensation, re-employment and re-skilling that need solutions. And these are today the core of our agenda with our partner governments,” he added. Jaishankar said the Gulf has been the focal point of India’s endeavours. “In recent months, the prime minister has engaged the leaders of Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar and Oman. Under his directions, I have travelled even during the Covid to the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman to discuss with the governments there the welfare of our people,” he said. “Because of restrictions at their end, such travel was not possible to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. But I have been in regular touch with their foreign ministers,” he said. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan also travelled to Oman and the UAE, and India recently hosted the UAE’s foreign minister while the Kuwaiti foreign minister too is expected to visit soon, he added. The Indian government has concluded air transport bubbles, or temporary reciprocal arrangements for commercial passenger services, with 27 countries until the resumption of regular international flights. Air India has operated more than 9,500 flights that took 1.09 million passengers abroad. During visits to West Asia, Jaishankar and Muraleedharan interacted with community organisations and partner governments, and learnt that the “overall picture was that our people were well taken care of during the pandemic by the host authorities”. “From the governments, the message was of appreciation for the responsibility shown by our people amidst the pressures of the pandemic...The support extended from India for the stay and travel of our citizens was warmly acknowledged by community and governments alike. The provision of medical supplies and food items from India as an exceptional gesture to the Gulf during this period clearly had a powerful resonance,” Jaishankar said. “So did the arrival of health professionals and medical staff, especially the dedicated medical team we sent to Kuwait. From our recent interactions, we have reason to expect that partner governments in the Gulf would be helpful in facilitating the early return of many who had been compelled to go back during the pandemic,” he said. The government is also working to help students who returned from abroad during the pandemic to go back to their universities. “Some countries have been more open in this regard than others, obviously reflecting their particular Covid challenge. This, therefore, remains a high priority and our endeavour will be to encourage an early return to normalcy,” Jaishankar said. Indian fishermen too faced difficulties because of the pandemic, especially serious problems faced by those working in Iran. Some Gulf nations also witnessed this, and the “repatriation phase is over and the re-employment one has just started”, he added. The Vande Bharat Mission brought back nearly 4.6 million people from 98 countries, and Kerala received the maximum returnees, followed by Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The UAE was the country from where the maximum number of stranded Indians returned, followed by Saudi Arabia, the US and Qatar. A total of 39% of the returnees were workers, 39% professionals, 6% students and about 8% visitors and 4.7% stranded tourists. The government spent Rs.33.5 crore from the Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF) to help Indians stranded abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-racism-issue-with-uk-when-required-jaishankar-101615830710358.html
15-03-2021||India||Delayed due to Covid-19, Census work may begin this year, MHA tells parliamentary panel||Fieldwork related to housing conditions and amenities for Census 2021, delayed due to the Coronavirus pandemic, is likely to start this year with the government sharing with a parliamentary panel a broad five-year item-wise distribution of activities related to the decennial exercise.The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, headed by Congress MP Anand Sharma, in its report on the Demands for Grants for the ministry, said as per the broad item-wise and year-wise distribution of activities for the census, the conduct of pre-test for census and National Population Register (NPR) to test-check the mobile app and CMMS portal has been done during 2020-21.The fieldwork for the first phase of census 2021 will be carried out during 2021-22 even though timelines are yet to be finalised, the government told the panel, as per the report.During this phase, data on housing conditions, household amenities and assets possessed by the households will be collected.This phase of the census work was supposed to be carried out from April 2020 to September 2020 but it could not be done due to the pandemic.As per the revised schedule, fieldwork for the population enumeration phase of the census will be carried out in 2022-23 even though no timelines has been fixed yet.The population enumeration was supposed to be carried out from February 9 to 28, 2021 with a revision round from March 1 to 5, 2021. This crucial part of the census was also could not be carried due to the pandemic.During 2022-23, census work on demography, religion, SC and ST population, language, literacy and education, economic activity, migration and fertility will also be carried out.In 2023-24, results of the provisional census data, primary census abstracts (PCA) providing village-level data on important indicators will be released.In 2024-25, census tables (more than 250 data tables), dissemination of census data customised visualisation tool will be released, besides carrying out other census-related activities.The committee, during its meeting, sought to know from the Ministry of Home Affairs about the reasons for the drastic decrease in allocation from Rs.4,568.00 crore in Budget Estimate (BE) 2020-21 to ₹3,768.28 crore in BE 2021-22.The MHA replied that the funds under BE 2020-21 were kept for various activities of the ensuing decennial census 2021 to be conducted in two phases.The first phase from house listing and housing census from April 2020 to September 2020 and the second phase namely population enumeration from February 9 to 28, 2021 with a revision round from March 1 to 5, 2021.The National Population Register (NPR) was also to be updated along with the first phase of the census.The Union Cabinet has approved ₹8,754.23 crore for the conduct of the census and ₹3,941.35 crore for updating of the NPR.The funds kept would be incurred towards various census preparatory activities like training to 30 lakh field functionaries, the printing of census and NPR material, assistance to States in terms of Technical Manpower.However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the first phase of census, update of the NPR and other related field activities have been postponed and accordingly, the allocation for 2020-21 was reduced to ₹755.00 crore at Revised Estimate (RE) stage, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delayed-due-to-covid-19-census-work-may-begin-this-year-mha-tells-parliamentary-panel-101615827579809.html
15-03-2021||India||5 Lt Colonels, 2 Majors among 17 Army personnel booked by CBI in recruitment scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a corruption and criminal conspiracy case against 17 Indian Army personnel, including five Lieutenant Colonels and two Major-ranked officers apart from six others, in a recruitment scam at several Service Selection Board (SSB) Centres.The agency teams on Monday carried out raids at 30 locations across 13 cities including the Army’s Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment Area, residences of several accused in Bhatinda, Kapurthala, Kaithal, Palwal, Lucknow, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Visakhapatnam, Jaipur, Guwahati and Jorhat, CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi said.Also watch: ‘CBI & ED are BJP’s only allies’: TMC on notice to Abhishek Banerjee’s wife﻿﻿﻿﻿Among the officers named in the CBI First Information Report (FIR) are - Lt Col MVSNA Bhagwan (presently on study leave), who is also the alleged mastermind; Lt Col Surender Singh of 31 SSB centre North; Lt Col YS Chauhan of 6 Mountain Division Ordnance Unit; Lt Col Sukhdev Arora - Directorate General Recruiting; Lt Col Vinay (Group Testing Officer- Selection Centre South Bangalore); Major Bhavesh Kumar (GTO at 21 SSB, Kapurthala) and Major Amit Fagna (422, Field Hospital, Delhi Cantt). According to the CBI, all of them facilitated the selection of the candidates at SSBs.The central anti-corruption agency registered its case on March 13 on a complaint filed by Brigadier (Vigilance) VK Purohit from the office of Additional Directorate General, Discipline and Vigilance, Adjutant General's Branch, Army Headquarters. It is alleged that on February 28, 2021, input was received about the alleged involvement of serving personnel in accepting bribes for the clearance of review medical exam of temporarily rejected officer candidates at Base Hospital, New Delhi.It is alleged that bribes in lakhs were paid to the officers and their relatives/family members through cheques, cash, RTGS, UPI, for the selection of candidates.For example, an undisclosed amount of bribes were received from 10-15 candidates by Lt Col Surender Singh and Major Bhavesh Kumar through their relatives who have also been booked. The CBI has named Major Kumar’s wife Devyani, father Surender Kumar and mother Usha Kumawat as accused as well in the scam for allegedly receiving money.Similarly, Lt Col Surender Singh’s brother-in-law Bhupender Bajaj and one Pragati Singh received bribes on behalf of Naib Subedar Kuldeep Singh, another key player in the racket.Apart from senior ranking officers, other army personnel named in the case include Naib Subedar Kuldeep Singh; Havildar Pawan Kumar; Naik Parwinder Jeet Singh; Sepoys Kuldeep Singh and Rohit Kanwar; Havildar Rajesh Kumar and Havildar Harpal Singh; Lieutenant Navjot Singh Kanwar and Cadets Inderjeet and Hemant Dagar.The Army said in its complaint that there is sufficient evidence of culpability of civilians and service personnel as the recipient of bribery. It said that to take the case to a logical turn so that the accused do not go scot-free, the matter is given to the CBI.There was no statement from the Army on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-lt-colonels-2-majors-among-17-army-personnel-booked-by-cbi-in-recruitment-scam-101615827596119.html
15-03-2021||India||Zomato executive files assault case against Bengaluru woman||Kamaraj, the 28-year-old Zomato delivery executive on Monday lodged a complaint with the police against social media influencer Hitesha Chandranee, who had accused him of attacking her last week.Bengaluru’s Electronic City police said that based on the complaint an FIR has been registered under sections (wrongful restraint), 355 (assault), 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.On March 10, Bengaluru-based content creator Hitesha Chandranee posted a video on social media alleging that the Zomato delivery person assaulted her following an argument over a delay in delivery. She claimed that Kamaraj barged into her house, verbally abused her and punched her in her face.On the same day, Electronic City Police registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) against Kamaraj. He was subsequently arrested but let off on bail the same day.On March 11, Thursday, Kamaraj claimed that contrary to the woman’s claim, it was he who was attacked. “As she was hitting me, I tried to block using my hands. When she tried to push my hand away, a ring on her finger hit her nose,” he said.The complaint comes days after Zomato co-founder Deepinder Goyal said the company will take care of the legal cost of the delivery person Kamaraj. “We are also in constant touch with Kamaraj, extending all possible support to make sure both sides of the story come to light and that due process is followed in the spirit of fairness,” Goyal said in a statement.The Electronic City Police said that based on the FIR, they will call Chandranee for questioning at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zomato-executive-files-assault-case-against-bengaluru-woman-101615827227301.html
15-03-2021||India||Pakistan must create conducive atmosphere for meaningful dialogue: Foreign Secy||Listing India’s relations with Pakistan as one of the challenges in the neighbourhood, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on Monday said the onus is on Islamabad to create a conducive atmosphere for a meaningful dialogue.Shringla made the remarks while delivering an address on the theme “What next for the neighbourhood” at Ananta Aspen Centre. He gave an overview of India’s relations with neighbouring countries and connectivity initiatives to boost economic activity.“India desires good neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully,” Shringla said.“However, any meaningful dialogue can only be held in a conducive atmosphere and the onus is on Pakistan to create such an atmosphere,” he said.The Indian and Pakistani armies recommitted themselves to the ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – the apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two countries.Shringla also listed the situation in Afghanistan and Myanmar as challenges in the political situation in the neighbourhood.“We continue to follow the developments relating to the Afghan peace process. External affairs minister participated virtually at the opening of the intra-Afghan negotiations in September 2020 in Doha,” he said.“The recent developments in Myanmar are a matter of deep concern. We remain concerned that the gains made by Myanmar over the last decades on the path towards democracy, should not be undermined,” Shringla said.India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar, “for it to emerge as a stable democratic federal union”, he said.“Our developmental and humanitarian efforts in Myanmar have been aimed at the socio-economic development of the country. We need to continue with these efforts in the interest of the people of Myanmar,” he added.Shringla further said: “We feel that people on the ground should not suffer. India will continue to closely monitor the situation and remain engaged with like-minded countries to meet the hopes and aspirations of the people of the country.”The world community, he said, must work together and lend its meaningful support at this critical juncture so that the people of Myanmar do not suffer.“We are working in the UN Security Council in a constructive manner to facilitate balanced outcomes that could assist in resolving the situation,” Shringla said.The foreign secretary referred to India’s development and connectivity initiatives, noting that lines of credit to its neighbours had jumped from $3.27 billion in 2014 to $14.7 billion in 2020.“In addition, we undertake a large number of quick gestation and high impact projects aimed at benefiting communities directly. We trade more. We invest more in each other. Total trade with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal and Sri Lanka has increased from $19.44 billion to $26.455 billion in the last six years,” he said.“These increases have both contributed to and have benefitted from significantly enhanced connectivity and improved border infrastructure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-must-create-conducive-atmosphere-for-meaningful-dialogue-foreign-secy-101615826103909.html
15-03-2021||India||Behave in dignified manner in House, Bihar Assembly Speaker tells lawmakers||Bihar Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said Monday evening that video footage of the House proceedings were being reviewed to identify those who created ruckus with their undignified behaviour in the House last Thursday.“After identification, the concerned legislature party leaders will be informed so that they could pass necessary instruction in this regard and any recurrence would invite strong action from the chair,” he said at the all-party meeting in the morning to discuss the opposition’s demand for a debate on prohibition, according to a statement issued by the Speaker’s office.Sinha said that on Tuesday, the debate on the budgetary demand of the home department is scheduled for three hours and during that the members would get plenty of opportunity to debate prohibition and other issues. “The dignity of the House is paramount and it should be the responsibility of all to ensure smooth conduct of the proceedings,” he added.The Speaker also exhorted the leaders of all political parties to start a public awareness programme in support of prohibition and make a beginning from their house, with a writing on the wall that their house is addiction free.“This will have a big impact on the society,” he said, adding that all the members were for strict enforcement of prohibition without any attempt to implicate or protect anyone.The Speaker said that the law should protect informers passing on information about illegal liquor trade. “There should not be any action against them,” he added.Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that the government was neither into implicating nor protecting anyone. “Once any case comes to notice, action is initiated in an unbiased manner and law takes its own course,” he added.Leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav, however, said that he had raised a relevant matter about a case being instituted against the brother of a minister in a case of liquor recovery. “The minister should clarify his position in the House,” he added.However, the Speaker, in the statement, said that he could not level allegations against a minister like this and cited rules of legislative business. “If one has to say anything against a member or a minister, it should be presented with facts before the Speaker for disposal as per laid down provisions,” he added.Four minister of the government, including parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, deputy CM Tar Kishore Prasad, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Shravan Kumar, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi of HAM-S and other legislature party leaders attended the meeting ahead of day’s session||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behave-in-dignified-manner-in-house-bihar-assembly-speaker-tells-lawmakers-101615822925815.html
15-03-2021||India||'Misleading': Railways clarifies report on cancellation of trains from March 31||The Railway Ministry on Monday rubbished reports that appeared on social media that Railways is going to cancel its trains which are currently operational from March 31, 2021 is misleading and not based on facts."Wrong news clips are being circulated in social media. All may please be informed that the video being circulated is last year's news being peddled today," the Railway Ministry said.The ministry in a statement said, "It may be noted that express trains and suburban trains currently operational as special trains will continue to run. It is also requested that the passengers may follow covid protocol while travelling."एक खबर में दावा किया जा रहा है कि 31 मार्च तक सभी ट्रेनें रद्द कर दी गई हैं। #PIBFactCheck: यह खबर पुरानी है। @RailMinIndia ने 31 मार्च, 2021 तक ट्रेन रद्द करने का यह फैसला नहीं लिया है। इस पुरानी खबर को गलत संदर्भ में साझा किया जा रहा है। pic.twitter.com/YcZ8Za9Vj1Meanwhile, the Indian Railways has rendered yeoman service during the coronavirus pandemic by transporting 43 lakh migrant labourers, distributing two crore free food packets and making available several hundred coaches to be used as healthcare centres, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Ram Kripal Yadav said earlier in the day.Initiating the debate on Demands for Grants of the Ministry of Railways, Yadav said the Indian Railways has been completely changed into a dynamic development-oriented organisation under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the past several years.He said that during the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), the railways has offered over 200 coaches to be used as healthcare centres, 43 lakh migrant labours were transported through hundreds of special trains, two crore free food packets were distributed while 55,000 litres of drinking water have also been given to the poor.Criticising the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government for announcing many railway projects, he said that everything has changed after the Modi government came to power and every decision is taken in the interest of the nation.He said 513 projects worth ₹1.83 lakh crore have been completed during the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government while "annual expenditure on new projects has gone up to ₹45,000 crore in 2020-21 from a mere ₹11,527 crore in 2009-10".He said priority has been given to northeastern states and states like West Bengal and Kerala, ruled by opposition parties. "There has been no discrimination against any state during the Modi government," he added.Referring to the Modern Coach Factory in Raebareli, he said it was established during the UPA rule but "had not produced even a single railway coach till the NDA government came." Since the NDA government came to power, production has started and so far 1,500 coaches have been built and some of them exported abroad, he added.(With iinputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misleading-railways-clarifies-report-on-cancellation-of-trains-from-march-31-101615823477286.html
15-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Commercial activity to cease in 8 wards of Gujarat’s Ahmedabad post 10pm||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Monday ordered the closure of shops after 10pm in 8 municipal wards of the capital city, reported ANI. Commercial establishments in the wards of Jodhpur, Navrangpura, Bodakdev, Gota, Paldi, Thaltej, Maninagar, and Ghatlodia are subject to these new rules.“In the wake of rising cases of Covid-19, Gujarat's Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation orders closure of shops after 10 pm in eight wards -- Jodhpur, Navrangpura, Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Paldi, Ghatlodia and Maninagar,” tweeted ANI.The Gujarat government had earlier extended the night curfew imposed in the cities of Vadodara, Surat, Ahmedabad, and Rajkot till March 15. This was the fifth such extension of the night curfew that was announced in November. While it was not immediately clear from which date the new closure rules would kick in, it is most likely to come into effect from March 16, immediately after the day the previous extension is scheduled to come to an end.Under the new rules, restaurants, shops, malls, showrooms, hair salons, clubs, tea stalls will have to shut down after 10pm. Two food markets, the Manekchowk food and beverage market and Raipur food and beverage market, will also be closed.“Restaurants, malls, showrooms, pan shops, clubs, tea stalls, hair salons will be closed after 10 pm in eight wards of Ahmedabad. Manekchowk Food and Beverage Market and Raipur Food and Beverage Market will also be closed,” ANI tweeted.As many as 890 new cases of Covid-19 were detected in Gujarat on Monday. Surat led the count with 262 cases, followed by Ahmedabad with a total of 209 cases. The state’s only fatality was also reported from Surat, according to news agency PTI. The total tally of coronavirus cases in Gujarat now stands at 2,79,097.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-commercial-activity-to-cease-in-8-wards-of-gujarat-s-ahmedabad-post-10pm-101615823058271.html
15-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'I am a street fighter' says Mamata Banerjee in rally after injury and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.I am a street fighter, don’t try to stifle me, Mamata Banerjee dares BJPWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who addressed her first public rally with her leg plastered and sitting on a wheelchair on Monday, challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying that she was a street fighter, and none should dare try to stifle her. Read moreCovid-19: Over 3.15 crore vaccine doses administered in India, says govtThe Union Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced on Monday that India has administered more than 3.15 crore doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more'It's about hitting the next ball for 4 or 6': Manjrekar says players like Kishan, Pant 'not worried about getting out'After India wrapped up the second T20I against England on Sunday, Virat Kohli used the adjective 'fearless' to describe Ishan Kishan and his blazing half-century on debut. Read moreOscar nominations 2021 full list: Priyanka Chopra's White Tiger scores a nod, Mank leads with 10Priyanka Chopra and her husband, Nick Jonas, on Monday announced the nominations for the 93rd annual Academy Awards. Netflix's Mank led with 10 nods. Read moreGalaxy Buds Pro review: Samsung's best yetSamsung launched the Galaxy Buds Pro along with the Galaxy S21 series earlier this year. It’s the company’s latest TWS carrying a price tag of ₹15,990. With the Galaxy Buds Pro, Samsung seems to have finally done things right. Read moreExplained | Bank staff on 2-day strike: Why, & how you'll be impactedEmployees of many banks in India have gone on a two-day strike beginning March 15. The 'hartal' has been called by the United Forum of Bank Union, an umbrella body of 9 bank unions. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-i-am-a-street-fighter-says-mamata-banerjee-in-rally-after-injury-and-all-the-latest-news-101615821128074.html
15-03-2021||India||Bank strike: Congress lends support; says Modi govt responsible for inconvenience to public||The Congress on Monday extended its full support to the two-day strike call given by bank employee unions and said the Modi government is squarely responsible for the inconvenience caused to people.AICC general secretary and party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, in a statement, said the United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions, has given a call for a two-day nationwide strike on March 15 and 16 against privatisation of public sector banks and "retrograde banking reforms"."We stand in solidarity with 10 lakh bank officials and staff participating in the strike against reckless privatisation of public sector banks. The strike called by the United Forum of Bank Union is against the ill-placed priorities of the Modi government. The Modi government is responsible for the inconvenience being faced by the people,” he said.Surjewala stated that there is no rationale for selling state-owned lenders to private players--foreign or domestic--and alleged that this is yet again a desperate attempt to meet the disinvestment target of ₹1.75 lakh crore.He said experts like former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan have red-flagged the move, calling it a “colossal mistake”.The Congress leader also accused the government of "running away" from its responsibility of ensuring better governance in public sector banks by "recklessly selling" such lenders."What we really need is higher accountability of public sector banks and not their outright sale. These banks have been at the forefront of lending to priority sectors like public infrastructure roads and also rural areas which need financing," he said.Surjewala said a very large part of the country’s population lives in rural areas and are involved in agriculture, adding that “we need public sector banks for outreach and to ensure banking is more accessible to the largest number of population that we have in villages and smaller towns, which are not high on the priority list of private lenders”.He said the whole idea of bank nationalisation was to bring banking closer to every Indian. PSU banks are not just profit-making ventures. They have been in the past used as vehicles of social reforms, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-strike-congress-lends-support-says-modi-govt-responsible-for-inconvenience-to-public-101615819652523.html
15-03-2021||India||Finance ministry releases entire ₹1.10 lakh crore estimated FY'21 GST shortfall to states||The finance ministry on Monday said it has released the full ₹1.10 lakh crore estimated GST compensation shortfall to the states with the release of final weekly installment of ₹4,104 crore.With the release of the 20th installment, 100 per cent of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall of ₹1.10 lakh crore for the year 2020-21 has now been released to the states and UTs with Legislative Assembly. Out of this, an amount of ₹1,01,329 crore has been released to the states and an amount of ₹8,879 crore has been released to the three UTs with Legislative Assembly, the ministry said in a statement.The Government of India had set up a special borrowing window in October last year to meet the estimated shortfall of ₹1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of implementation of GST. The borrowings are being done through this window by the central government on behalf of the states and UTs. Starting from October 23, 2020, the borrowings were completed in 20 weekly installments.Under the special window, the government has been borrowing in Government Stock with a tenure of three years and five years.The borrowings made under each tenure are equally divided among all the states as per their GST compensation shortfall. With the current release, the proportionate pending GST shortfall with respect to borrowing under both five and three year tenure has been concluded for 23 states and three UTs with legislature. The remaining five states don't have any GST compensation shortfall, the ministry added."The total amount of ₹1,10,208 crore has been borrowed by the central government through the special borrowing window at an weighted average interest rate of 4.8473 per cent," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-releases-entire-rs-1-10-lakh-crore-estimated-fy-21-gst-shortfall-to-states-101615816631535.html
15-03-2021||India||Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray on damage control mode as cop’s arrest singes MVA||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar met Monday afternoon to deliberate on damage control measures after the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze by the NIA in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case left the MVA government singed, people familiar with the development said.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole also met Thackeray later as the government went on a crisis management overdrive.The MVA government is likely to take a few corrective measures in its bid to put an end to the controversy and a few heads are likely to roll in the police department.Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze’s arrest by the NIA is seen as a major setback for the MVA government. The opposition BJP has hit out at the Thackeray-led government and alleged that the chief minister was shielding the officer.According to the MVA leaders, Pawar and Thackeray discussed a strategy to find the way out from the crisis.“Sharad Pawar was not happy with the way the Sachin Vaze case was handled by the MVA government and lack of efforts put in to control the damage. He is said to have expressed his displeasure over the attempt made by the chief minister and home department to shield the controversial police officer despite his role in the bomb scare case coming to the fore,” said a NCP leader privy to the developments.The leader said that the state government is likely to make an attempt to distance itself from the entire episode involving Vaze and instead point at it as a misdeed of a few officials.Shiv Sena's top leaders Anil Parab and Eknath Shinde were also said to be present for the meeting.The NCP chief, who later held a marathon meeting with ministers from his party and senior leaders, has reportedly told the state leadership to take immediate corrective measures.There have been speculations that Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and home minister Anil Deshmukh could be replaced but NCP’s Maharashtra unit chief Jayant Patil dismissed them as rumours.“These are just rumours as there is no such proposal of change in the leadership of the home department. Pawar saheb met the CM to discuss various issues related to the people of the state. It was just one of the routine meetings that took place between them,” Patil said.Patole, after meeting the chief minister said they did not discuss the reshuffle in the state cabinet. “The transfers of the officers take place in March-April. anyways. There may be some officers transferred,” he said.Thackeray also met senior police officers of the Mumbai police Commissionerate to discuss the scheme of things in the city’s police force. He is believed to have expressed his unhappiness over the bomb scare case and lack of control of the top officials on the affairs of the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-uddhav-thackeray-on-damage-control-mode-as-cop-s-arrest-singes-mva-101615817021821.html
15-03-2021||India||Sitharaman introduces Bill in Rajya Sabha to allow 74 pc FDI in insurance sector||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced a Bill in Rajya Sabha that seek to amend the Insurance Act to pave the way for 74 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) in the sector.The Union Cabinet on Wednesday had gave its nod for amendments in the Insurance Amendment Bill 2021.Finance Minister Sitharaman introduced the Bill for amendments in the Insurance Act, 1938.Currently, the permissible FDI limit in the life and general insurance stands at 49 per cent with ownership and management control with Indian.Sitharaman presenting the Union Budget for 2021-22 had said, "I propose to amend the Insurance Act, 1938 to increase the permissible FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in insurance companies and allow foreign ownership and control with safeguards." Under the new structure, the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50 per cent of directors being independent directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as a general reserve.She had also said that for investor protection, an investor charter would be introduced as a right of all financial investors across all financial products.It was in 2015 when the government hiked the FDI cap in the insurance sector from 26 per cent to 49 per cent.Increase in FDI will help improve life insurance penetration in the country. Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP is 3.6 per cent in the country, way below the global average of 7.13 per cent, and in case of general insurance, it is even worse at 0.94 per cent of GDP, as against the world average of 2.88 per cent.The government has earlier allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment in insurance intermediaries.Intermediary services include insurance brokers, reinsurance brokers, insurance consultants, corporate agents, third party administrators, surveyors and loss assessors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-introduces-bill-in-rajya-sabha-to-allow-74-pc-fdi-in-insurance-sector-101615813919420.html
15-03-2021||India||No new hydel projects were given permission in Upper Ganges region in last 6 years, says Prakash Javadekar||The government has not given permission to any new hydroelectric project in the Upper Ganges region in the last six years, Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar told Rajya Sabha on Monday.Replying to supplementary queries during the Question Hour, he said the ministries of Environment, Jal Shakti and Energy have decided not to grant fresh permission to any hydel project in the region, but asserted that hydel projects are required in other parts of the country as it is clean energy."In the last six years no fresh permission has been granted to any such projects," he told the House."A total of 19 projects are already operational and seven are under construction, of which two are less than 25 MW and six are run-of-the-river projects," he also said.To a question, the minister clarified that the Chamoli disaster happened due to a glacier fall that led to flooding in the region killing many people, and was not caused due to hydel projects."We must understand that the Chamoli tragedy happened due to the glacier falling down. The flood happened due to the flood caused by the glacier meltdown and not due to the power plant. An inquiry is already on in this regard," he said.Javadekar said there are a total of 37,000 glaciers and some of them are receding and some are increasing."In the last six years, the Jal Shakti, Environment and Energy ministries together decided not to grant any fresh permissions to new hydel power projects in the Upper Ganges region. But, we need hydel power in the country as it is clean power. Wherever there is no tinkering with nature, in such areas hydel projects would be set up," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-hydel-projects-were-given-permission-in-upper-ganges-region-in-last-6-years-says-prakash-javadekar-101615814101362.html
15-03-2021||India||‘Not a playground’: Congress MLA evicted from Gujarat assembly for wearing t-shirt||Vimal Chudasama, a member of the Gujarat assembly, was on Monday evicted from the House by Speaker Rajendra Trivedi for turning up in a t-shirt. Chudasama, who is a Congress representative in the assembly, was reprimanded by the Speaker a week ago for a similar offence.Chudasama, who represents the assembly constituency of Somnath, was reminded by Trivedi on Monday of the warning given to him last week and asked to come back after changing into a proper attire like a shirt, kurta, or a blazer, reported news agency PTI.Following this, a minor altercation broke out between Chudasama and Trivedi as the Congress leader said since he campaigned for elections in t-shirts it carries the stamp of approval of his voters. He added that questioning it is equivalent to “insulting his voters”. "I sought votes wearing a t-shirt. This t-shirt is a certificate given to me by my voters. You are disrespecting my voters," Chudasama said to the Speaker of the House, reported PTI.Trivedi disregarded Chudasama’s words and accused him of disrespecting the Speaker. He reminded the MLA that the assembly has its own set of protocols to follow and he has to abide by it. "I don't want to know how you approached your voters. You are disrespecting the Speaker's order. You can't come to the House wearing whatever you want just because you are an MLA. This is not a playground. There are protocols to follow," PTI said quoting Trivedi.A Congress MLA was also suspended from the Karnataka assembly on March 4 for removing his shirt during a House session, according to a PTI report. BK Sangamesh, the Congress MLA from Bhadravathi, had done it as an act of protest during a discussion on ‘One Nation One Election’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-playground-congress-mla-evicted-from-gujarat-assembly-for-wearing-tshirt-101615814023068.html
15-03-2021||India||Your chequebook, passbook will become invalid from April 1. Here's why||Account-holders of eight banks, which were merged with other lenders in the last two years, will face some difficulties as their cheque books and passbooks will become invalid from next month. Besides invalidation of the books, the account numbers, the IFSC and MICR codes will also change for people who have their accounts with the banks whose mergers came into effect from April 1, 2019, and April 1, 2020.These banks include Dena Bank, Vijaya Bank, Corporation Bank, Andhra Bank, Syndicate Bank, Oriental Bank of Commerce(OBC), United Bank of India (UBI) and Allahabad Bank.The Punjab National Bank (PNB) has already alerted customers of Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) and United Bank of India, which were merged with the lender in April 2020, to change their existing cheque books as they will become invalid from April 1, 2021, as their validity remains till the end of this month.Also Read | Kerala Congress list has 55% new faces, party calls it ‘generational shift’Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank were merged with another big lender, Bank of Baroda that came into effect on April 1, 2019. Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank merged with Union Bank of India, Syndicate Bank was merged with Canara Bank and Allahabad Bank was merged with Indian Bank.The account holders with these banks need to get their information updated in order to avoid any trouble. Customers of these banks need to update their mobile number, address, name of the nominee, etc in order to get a new cheque book and passbook of the banks with which their old banks have been merged. After this, customers also need to update their personal information in various other financial instruments.The mergers were part of the major consolidation exercise that the government did in August 2019. The exercise had merged 10 public sector banks into four bigger and stronger banks.Public sector banks all across the country are on a two-day strike that has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) after the government has proposed to privatise two public sector banks. Banking operations in the branches of these banks have also been hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-chequebook-passbook-will-become-invalid-from-april-1-here-s-why-101615812518482.html
15-03-2021||India||India will take up incidents of racism with UK, says S Jaishankar||India will take up incidents of racism in the UK with the British government, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday against the backdrop of strains caused by a debate on the farmers’ protest in the British Parliament.Jaishankar made the remarks while responding to concerns raised in Rajya Sabha by BJP lawmaker Ashwini Vaishnaw, who contended that racism and cyber-bullying forced Rashmi Samant, the first Indian woman elected president of the Oxford University Student Union, to quit her post.“What I do want to say is that we have strong ties with the UK, we will take up such matters with great candour when required. We will monitor these developments very, very closely,” he said in his response after Vaishnaw brought up the matter through a zero hour mention.“We will raise it when required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance,” Jaishankar said.He further said: “I do want to say that as the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism, wherever it is, particularly when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. As a friend of the UK, we also have concerns about its reputational impact.”Vaishnaw also referred to the issue of alleged racism within the UK royal family that was brought up in a recent interview by Meghan Markle, the wife of Prince Harry. Noting that the behaviour of a society is a reflection of its beliefs and value systems, Vaishnaw said: “If such practices of racial discrimination are followed at the highest level in a society, what would be the following at the lower levels?”He also contended migrants were poorly treated and segregated in the UK and this was a matter of concern in India because of the large diaspora in Britain. Vaishnaw also claimed a recent report had said the death rate among people of Asian origin because of Covid-19 was higher than the death rate of other communities in the UK.Samant quit as president of the Oxford University Student Union after the emergence of old social media posts that were deemed to be “racist” and “insensitive” by groups representing Asian and Jewish students. She also upset others by comparing imperialist Cecil Rhodes to Adolf Hitler in a Student Union debate and separating “women” and “transwomen” in an Instagram caption.She initially offered an apology for the social media posts, some dating back to 2017, but later stepped down as president-elect after facing continued criticism. Since returning to India, Samant has claimed she was unfairly targeted.The remarks in Rajya Sabha came about a week after the foreign secretary summoned British envoy Alex Ellis to protest against what it said was an “unwarranted and tendentious” debate in the UK Parliament that saw lawmakers criticise the Indian government’s handling of the farmers’ protest.The debate was held in response to a public petition that garnered more than 115,000 signatures, and saw Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democratic and Scottish National Party lawmakers calling on the Boris Johnson government to raise their concerns about the handling of the protest and media freedoms with the Indian government.Most of the British MPs who joined the debate acknowledged India’s agricultural reforms were a domestic matter but noted their constituents had strong links with India’s farm sector and were upset by what they described as the use of force against protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-take-up-incidents-of-racism-with-uk-says-s-jaishankar-101615813266575.html
15-03-2021||India||Bill to grant national importance tag to 6 pharma institutes tabled in Lok Sabha||Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Monday introduced a bill in Lok Sabha that seeks to provide the national importance tag to six pharmaceutical education and research institutes in the country.The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 provides for granting the status of nation importance to the six institutes in Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Raebareli.The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Act, 1998 (13 of 1998) was enacted to declare the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research at Mohali, Punjab to be an institute of national importance and to provide for its incorporation and matters connected therewith.The Act was subsequently amended in 2007 to empower the central government to establish similar institutes in different parts of the country.Thereafter, six new institutes in Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Raebareli were established during 2007-08."A need is felt to bring clarity that the six institutes so established as well as any other similar institute to be established under the said Act shall be institutes of national importance," the statement of objects and reasons regarding the bill said.In order to coordinate the activities of all such institutes, to ensure coordinated development of pharmaceutical education and research and maintenance of standards, etc., there is a need to establish a central body, to be called the Council, it noted.Also, there is a need to rationalise the Board of Governors of each such institute and to widen the scope and number of courses run by such institutes, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-grant-national-importance-tag-to-6-pharma-institutes-tabled-in-lok-sabha-101615811918699.html
15-03-2021||India||CRPF preps to secure 56-day Amarnath yatra amid terror threats||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on Monday said that more troops, gadgets and logistics will be deployed during the 56-day long annual Amarnath pilgrimage this year amid an increased terror threat and sticky bombs finding their way to Kashmir.The pilgrimage will commence from June 28 and this year the government has been making arrangements for six lakh pilgrims.In 2019 it was curtailed on August 2, three days before revocation of Article 370 on August 5.Last year the pilgrimage had to be cancelled in view of Covid-19 pandemic."The CRPF has been holding meetings with the police. Our force with all requisite logistics is prepared and whatever required for the pilgrimage is being analysed and will be done," said CRPF’ Inspector General (IG), Jammu zone, PS Ranpise here on Monday."This year we are expecting more pilgrims and therefore we have made a demand for more personnel and logistics from the government," he said.The IG, however, said that the Centre has to decide about the number of personnel to be deployed for the pilgrimage."The government will decide about the troops after taking into account the overall security situation," he added.He assured that the CRPF and other security forces will ensure the success of the pilgrimage this year too.On the Kashmir highway that pilgrims from Jammu use, he said that sufficient manpower will be deployed."We have sufficient manpower on the highway but it will be further fortified during the pilgrimage by various methods like use of drones, RFID and other technology-driven interventions," said Ranpise.The CRPF also deploys sniffer dogs, quick reaction teams, metal detectors and a slew of other measures to secure the pilgrims.On the new threat of sticky bombs, the CRPF IG said, "It is a cause of serious concern. CRPF units and formations have been briefed about them. We have to be very careful about them because they work with timer devices. Everyone has to remain cautious about them"."As far as convoys are concerned, they are always protected. We have to ensure that they ply in a secured environment," he added.The IG also said that various lodging centers and Yatri Niwas base camp in Jammu will be secured 24x7 by QRTs. The CRPF largely shoulders the responsibility of Amarnath Yatra's security every year.Police, Army and other paramilitary forces chip in with their bit to keep it safe.This year the annual pilgrimage will end on August 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-preps-to-secure-56-day-amarnath-yatra-amid-terror-threats-101615811832784.html
15-03-2021||India||Renowned Goa-based artist Laxman Pai no more||Renowned Goa-based artist Laxman Pandharinath Pai passed away on Sunday night in Goa after a brief battle with illnessPai was 95 when he passed away at his home in Dona Paula in Margao, South Goa.A much-decorated artist, Pai was a recipient of the Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri, the Nehru Award and three Lalit Kala Akademi awards.He had also participated in Goa’s liberation movement from Portuguese rule and was imprisoned at least thrice for his political activism.Pai began his art education at the Sir JJ School of Art in Mumbai but went on to hone his skills in Paris where he studied etching and fresco at the École des Beaux-Arts. Syed Haider Raza, another noted alumnus of the same institution, helped Pai travel to the city where he spent a decade from 1951 to 61.During his stay in Mumbai, Pai participated in the activities of the Bombay Progressive Artists’ Group, comprising fellow Goan artist FN Souza, Raza, MF Husain, Tyeb Mehta and KH Ara.Also Read | New children’s book to tell story of Raja Ravi Varma“During my ten year stay in France (1951-61), I visited and minutely observed the exhibits in Musee du Louvre, Musee Rodin, Musee d’Orsay and other Paris museums and art galleries. I absorbed the elements I needed for my needs, digested and released them as my own through my paintings and drawings... However themes in my artworks were my memory recollections of Goan subjects, Jaidev’s ‘Geet Govind’, the Ramayaan series and life of Mahatma Gandhi…My entire body of work created in Paris got sold in exhibitions held there. FN Souza, Bakre, Alkazi and Raza were instrumental in supporting and finding venues for my exhibitions,” Pai said in an interview to Jugneeta Sudan for literary journal Joao Roque in 2019.Pai was renowned for his Raagmala series of abstract paintings based on different Indian raags, which showcased his deep rootedness in classical music, texts and philosophy. He was also trained in the sitar, dilruba and the flute.Pai also served as the principal of Goa College of Art from 1977-87.A successful artist, his highest-selling work, A Market Scene, fetched ₹36.8 lakh at Pundole’s auction in 2015 according to the Artery India Price Databank.“Deeply saddened by the passing away of renowned Goan artist Padma Bhushan Shri Laxman Pai. Goa has lost a gem today. We will always remember his immense contribution in the field of art. My heartfelt condolences to his family. Om shanti,” Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted on hearing the news of demise.“Deeply saddened by the passing away of eminent Goan artist of international repute Padma Bhushan Laxman Pai. His passing away will create a big void in the field of art. He belonged to the Pai Fondekar family of Margao. My condolences to his family. May his Aatma attain sadgati,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted.Pai, whose works are part of collections all around the world, had nine exhibitions while in Paris; he had also shown at London, Munich, Stuttgart, Bremen, New York, San Francisco and Bangkok among other global cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renowned-goa-based-artist-laxman-pai-no-more-101615811510679.html
15-03-2021||India||PM Modi mourns Kathakali maestro Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair's demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the demise of Kathakali maestro Guru Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair, calling Nair's passion towards Indian culture and spirituality 'legendary.'"His passion towards Indian culture and spirituality was legendary. He made exceptional efforts to groom upcoming talent in our classical dances. My thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti", tweeted PM Modi.Saddened by the demise of Kathakali maestro, Guru Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair. His passion towards Indian culture and spirituality was legendary. He made exceptional efforts to groom upcoming talent in our classical dances. My thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti.Nair, 104, died at his residence in Kerala's Koyilandi early on Monday, family sources said, according to news agency PTI. He was honoured with the Padma Shree in 2017 in recognition of his contribution to the art form.Nair's tryst with Kathakali, the ancient dance drama of Kerala, began at the age of 14, when he left his home to join a kathakali troupe run by Guru Karunakaran Menon.After years of practice and hard work, he founded Bharatiya Natyakalalayam in 1945, which was the first school of dance in north Kerala and later went on to establish several other dance schools, includingthe Cheliya Kathakali Vidyalayam in his native village.Born to Chadayankandy Chathukutty Nair and Kinattinkara Kunhamnakutty Amma on June 16, 1916, Kunhiraman Nair had his debut performance at Keezhpayur Kuniyil Paradevatha temple in 1930.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-kathakali-maestro-guru-chemancheri-kunhiraman-nair-101615807055908.html
15-03-2021||India||Congress suspends senior leader in MP who opposed induction of Godse admirer||A senior leader in the Madhya Pradesh unit of the Congress, Manak Agrawal was suspended for six years on Monday for opposing the induction into the party of Babulal Chaurasiya, an admirer of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse.Agrawal had sought reply from MP Congress Committee president Kamal Nath for welcoming a Godse admirer. Agrawal said that he was ashamed of this act of Kamal Nath and he announced to hold a protest against it.A disciplinary committee of the Madhya Pradesh unit of the Congress on Monday suspended Agrawal from the party for the next six years, said KK Mishra, general secretary, Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee.Mishra said, “In many internal meetings, the party leaders have been told to follow the discipline and respect each other but Agrawal, who might have been upset with the party leadership for some other reason, raised questions against the party president and also gave anti-party statements.”But the MPCC has not taken any action against former minister and senior Congress leader Arun Yadav, who had written an open letter against induction of Chaurasiya.Mishra said, “Yadav had shared only his personal opinion. He didn’t attack any party leader and didn’t say anything against the party. His letter was on the ideology of the party. Yadav also met Kamal Nath and explained his purpose of writing the letter. The party found his explanation satisfactory so no action will be taken against him.”However, Manak Agrawal said he was a member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) so MPCC cannot take action against him.Babulal Chaurasiya, a former corporator from Gwalior, who played an important role in building a temple dedicated to Nathuram Godse in November 2017, joined the Congress party on February 25 the presence of former chief minister Kamal Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-suspends-senior-leader-in-mp-who-opposed-induction-of-godse-admirer-101615810088830.html
15-03-2021||India||Sponsored by Congress, says BKU (Bhanu) chief on unions protesting farm laws||Thakur Bhanu Pratap, whose Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) was one of several farmers’ unions protesting against the three contentious central farm laws in Delhi, but withdrew from the stir after violence on January 26, on Monday alleged that other farmers’ organisations protesting at the capital’s borders were ‘Congress sponsored.’Violence had broken out on Jan. 26 after a section of protesting farmers diverted from the route agreed upon between the farmers’ leaders and Delhi Police for ‘kisan tractor parade,’ and clashed with the force in the national capital. Some protesters later entered the iconic Red Fort and unfurled a Sikh religious flag there.“Till Jan. 26, we were supporting them but then we found out that all these organisations at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders were Congress-sponsored. When they attacked police and hoisted another flag at Red Fort, we withdrew our support and came back,” Bhanu Pratap, who withdrew from the stir on January 27, said, according to news agency ANI.#WATCH 26 जनवरी को हमें मालूम पड़ा था कि जितने भी संगठन सिंघु बॉर्डर, गाज़ीपुर बॉर्डर, टिकरी बॉर्डर पर आंदोलन कर रहे थे। ये सब कांग्रेस के खरीदे हुए और कांग्रेस के भेजे हुए संगठन थे। कांग्रेस इनको फंडिंग कर रही थी: भारतीय किसान यूनियन (भानु) के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष भानु प्रताप सिंह pic.twitter.com/lEivlJe1G3“We'll talk to the Centre for a solution and tell them to form a farmers' committee which will advise on MSP (Minimum Support Price). So far demands are not meant as those sent by others want to delay it by four-five years. This can be only terrorists' words and not of Indian farmers," he further said.We'll talk to the Centre for a solution & tell them to form a farmers' committee which will advise on MSP. So far demands are not met as those who've been sent by others want to delay it for 4-5 years. This can only be terrorists' words & not of Indian farmers: BKU (Bhanu) chief pic.twitter.com/JGTo8PYyT1The BKU (Bhanu) was protesting at Chilla, which is Delhi’s border with the satellite town of Noida in the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh. Its participation in the agitation lasted 58 days.Also Read | Fissures in BKU Bhanu over withdrawal from farmers protestFarmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Singhu and Tikri, which are Delhi’s borders with Haryana. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, under the leadership of Rakesh Tikait, are camped at Ghazipur, the state’s border with Delhi. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmers' organisations, is leading the protests, which have been going on since November 26 last year.Total 11 rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock between the Union government and farmers, with the last round taking place on Jan. 22. Farmers’ unions have now formed teams to go to poll-bound West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, to urge voters to not vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has a government at the Centre. Also, with summer on the horizon, farmers have started building permanent structures at the borders for their accommodation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sponsored-by-congress-says-bku-bhanu-chief-on-unions-protesting-farm-laws-101615809222710.html
15-03-2021||India||Over 383 Myanmarese have crossed over to Mizoram from the trouble-torn country: Official||At least 383 Myanmar nationals, including women and children, have so far sneaked into Mizoram seeking refuge since late February following military coup and subsequent crackdown on pro-democracy movement in the neighbouring country, a state home department official said on Monday.He said about 98 per cent of the Myanmar nationals entering Mizoram claimed that they belonged to police force and fire service. But, they don't have documentary proofs in support of the claim, the official said. Of the 383 foreign nationals, 297 have been already verified while 86 are yet to be verified or confirmed, the official said. "As per the state home department record as on Monday, 383 people from Myanmar have already entered five Mizoram districts and 86 of them are yet to be confirmed," the official told PTI on condition of anonymity. Six Mizoram districts- Champhai, Lawngtlai, Siaha, Saitual, Hnahthial and Serchhip- share a 510 km long porous international border with Myanmar's Chin state. According to the official, among the six border districts, only Saitual district has not reported any influx of refugees from the trouble-torn country after the coup. He said that many of them were accommodated by the locals as a mark of showing hospitality towards strangers, which is part of tradition of the Mizos. Though the state government and Assam Rifles were trying their best to prevent illegal influx, the Myanmar nationals, who had already entered the state due to humanitarian crisis, could not be prevented due to the porous border. The state government could not immediately push them back on humanitarian ground, he said. Speaking to PTI, Lalramnghaka, village council president of Lungkawlh village in Serchhip district, said that at least 19 Myanmarese are currently taking refuge there. While three persons were accommodated by a family in North Vanlaiphai village, 16 others are being provided foods and other reliefs by residents of Lungkawlh village by raising community fund, he said. Chief Minister Zoramthanga and Home Minister Lalchamliana had earlier said that the state government will on humanitarian ground provide relief to the Myanmar nationals, who have entered the state due to the humanitarian crisis. The Union Home Ministry on Friday cautioned four Northeastern states -- Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh -- bordering Myanmar against influx from the neighbouring country in the wake of largescale protests following a coup there, and asked them to take appropriate actions as per law. In a communication, the home ministry told the four states to guard against influx of civilians and government officials from Myanmar and take all precautions to deal with any such situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-383-myanmarese-have-crossed-over-to-mizoram-from-the-trouble-torn-country-official-101615809218716.html
15-03-2021||India||Rajnath Singh urges for dialogue between government, protesting farmers||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday urged dialogue between the protesting farmers and the Centre while addressing a meeting of BJP office-bearers, during which he also invoked the border clashes with China and the construction of the Ram temple.Making an appeal to farmers upset over the new agri-marketing laws, the senior BJP leader said any problem can be resolved through talks."The BJP resolve is to double the farmers’ income, and in no case the MSP will end,” he said, referring to the apprehension among farmers camping at Delhi’s borders for months now.“We are all from farmers' families and we are ready for amendments and solutions, whatever is needed in the interest of agriculture," Singh said at the inaugural meeting of the Uttar Pradesh BJP executive committee.He highlighted the role of grassroots workers in the Bharatiya Janata Party and said this was the only party which has not seen a split so far.“This is not a crowd of workers aiming to gain power but a lively party which has a political vision,” he said.He referred to the recently begun construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, after the historic verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute."People used to say that whenever elections come, BJP leaders speak about construction of the Ram temple,” he said, referring to the foundation laying ceremony last year.“It is a coincidence that when the structure fell in Ayodhya, there was a BJP government in UP, and Kalyan Singh was the chief minister. And when the foundation stone for construction of the Ram temple was laid, there was a BJP government in UP, and Yogi ji was the chief minister," Singh said alluding to the demolition of the Babri mosque, and the more recent development.On the face-off with China in Ladakh last year, the minister said, "Our Army jawans displayed courage and valour with patience. We don’t wish to attack anyone but will not tolerate the grabbing of our land."He said no power on earth can stop India from becoming a global superpower.Singh claimed that in the 2022 UP Assembly elections the BJP will get more seats than its 2017 tally.Addressing party workers, he said they cannot complain of any injustice to them by the party, though there can be “delays”Giving his own example, Singh said he did not make any demands from the party and just kept working. "We are lucky that we got an opportunity to become BJP worker," he added."Credibility is the biggest capital in politics,” he said, giving the example of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Be it the abrogation of Article 370, triple talaq or bhoomi pujan for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, there has been no doubt over our credibility. We do not indulge in politics of caste or religion, but that of humanity," he said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-urges-for-dialogue-between-government-protesting-farmers-101615808267969.html
15-03-2021||India||Bikaner land scam case: HC extends Vadra’s protection from arrest till April 5||The Rajasthan high court on Monday extended businessman Robert Vadra’s interim protection from arrest till April 5 in an alleged money laundering case related to land scam in Bikaner.An application by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) was scheduled to be heard in the high court, where the ED has sought the custodial interrogation of Vadra. A single bench of Justice Vijay Bishnoi directed the matter to be listed for final hearing on April 5 and granted Vadra and his mother interim protection from arrest till then. The ED has registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) in the alleged Bikaner land scam.Also Read | Rajasthan: Judge recuses himself in Robert Vadra caseThe probe is related to the purchase of 275 bigha land allegedly by the company in the Kolayat area of the border town of Bikaner.The central probe agency had registered a criminal case of money laundering in 2016 on the basis of First Information Reports filed by the state police after the local tehsildar made a complaint. On January 21, 2019, the court had asked Vadra, a partner in Sky Light Hospitality, and his mother Maureen Vadra, to appear before the ED for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bikaner-land-scam-case-hc-extends-vadra-s-protection-from-arrest-till-april-5-101615808390378.html
15-03-2021||India||All-party meet in Bihar to discuss prohibition remains inconclusive||An all-party meeting called by Bihar assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Monday to decide on the Opposition’s demand for a debate on prohibition remained inconclusive, people familiar with the matter said.The day’s session got underway smoothly soon after with the question hour without any reference to what transpired in the chamber of the Speaker from any side.The meeting was called following er heated exchanges between the treasury and the opposition benches on Thursday after leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav levelled serious charges against Ram Surat Kumar, a minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, and described prohibition as a failure. He raised the issue of recovery of liquor bottles from a school with which the minister’s brother is associated and an FIR that has also been lodged in the case.Though there was no official statement about the outcome of the meeting, people familiar with the development said the government made it clear that the minister would not give any clarification on the matter and that the opposition should first allow the House to run properly. The Speaker also did not decide on any special debate.The Speaker could not be contacted for comments.The opposition RJD had also demanded an adjournment motion three days ago on the issue of recovery of liquor from the school the minister’s kin is associated with and later, after an ugly spat with the BJP, staged a walkout. The RJD also took out a march to the Raj Bhawan, alleging failure of prohibition due to rampant smuggling that have been underlined by frequent seizures.With the demand for adjournment motion rejected by the Speaker, Tejaswhi insisted that there should be debate on the matter in the House. The Speaker then called an all-party meeting to discuss the matter.Four ministers, including parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and rural development minister Shravan Kumar, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi of HAM-S and other legislature party leaders attended the meeting at 10 am.Ahead of the meeting, BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand hit out at Tejashwi for making an issue out of nothing to discredit prohibition which was actually aimed at the betterment of the society. “The way the Opposition is doing propaganda about prohibition, it seems it is hand in glove with the liquor mafia. They should try to contribute in making prohibition a success for the larger good of the society they are also part of,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allparty-meet-in-bihar-to-discuss-prohibition-remains-inconclusive-101615807380283.html
15-03-2021||India||Government says ₹2,000 notes not been printed in last 2 years||₹2,000 currency notes have not been printed in the last two years even as the quantum of India's highest denomination currency note has come down, the Lok Sabha was informed Monday. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said 3,362 million currency notes of ₹2000 denomination were in circulation on March 30, 2018, constituting 3.27 per cent and 37.26 per cent of the currency in terms of volume and trade respectively. As of February 26, 2021, 2,499 million pieces of ₹2,000 notes were in circulation, constituting 2.01 per cent and 17.78 per cent of banknotes in terms of volume and value, respectively. "Printing of banknotes of a particular denomination is decided by the government in consultation with RBI to maintain desired denomination mix for facilitating transactional demand of the public."During the years 2019-20 and 2020-21, no indent has been placed with the presses for printing of ₹2000 denomination banknotes," he said.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had in 2019 stated that 3,542.991 million notes of ₹2,000 were printed during the financial year 2016-17 (April 2016 to March 2017). However, in 2017-18, only 111.507 million notes were printed, which further reduced to 46.690 million notes in the year 2018-19. No new ₹2,000 currency notes were printed since April 2019. The move is seen as an attempt to prevent hoarding of the high-value currency and thus, curb black money. The ₹2,000 notes were introduced in November 2016, soon after the government withdrew ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes in an attempt to curb black money and fake currencies. While a new ₹500 note was printed, ₹1,000 currency notes were discontinued. Instead, ₹2,000 note was introduced. Besides ₹2000, the other currency notes in circulation are of the denomination ₹10, ₹20, ₹50 and ₹100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-rs-2-000-notes-not-been-printed-in-last-2-years-101615806558293.html
15-03-2021||India||India's 78% of Covid-19 cases emerging from 5 states amid fears of second wave||Nearly three-fourths of India's Covid-19 cases have been traced to five states as the country has been witnessing a resurgence in March after two months of reduced tally, data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed on Monday. The country, which expert say may be witnessing a second wave of the pandemic, has witnessed more than 100,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in the second week of March, data shows. The likely signs of the second wave are surfacing almost a year after India announced its first lockdown triggered by rising cases in March 2020.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in Covid-19 daily cases and account for 78.41 per cent of the new infections, the Union health ministry said. India's worst-affected state of Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 16,620 and is responsible for 63.21% of the daily infections seen in the country. It is followed by Kerala with 1,792 while Punjab reported 1,492 new cases. Additionally, Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, cumulatively account for 77 per cent of India's active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for more than 58 per cent of the active cases in the country."A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana," the ministry said.Six states account for 82.20 per cent of the new deaths and Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 50. Punjab follows with 20 daily deaths and Kerala reported 15 deaths in a span of 24 hours.India reported its biggest daily spike in the cases of Covid-19 this year, with 26,291 infections in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry. The new Covid-19 cases have pushed the tally of the country, which is now behind the United States and Brazil, in terms of numbers, to over 11.38 million. India has been recording more than 20,000 cases of coronavirus disease for the last five days now.The last time India registered a high number of daily infections was on December 20 last year when as many as 26,624 new infections were recorded. Registering an upward trend for five days in a row, the active caseload has gone up to 219,262 which is 1.93 per cent of the total infections in the country, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.68 per cent, the data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-78-of-covid-19-cases-emerging-from-5-states-amid-fears-of-second-wave-101615801439550.html
15-03-2021||India||Parliament session: Centre introduces Bill to give more powers to Delhi L-G||The ministry of home affairs on Monday introduced in Lok Sabha a controversial Bill that gives overarching powers to the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of Delhi in day-to-day functioning of the national Capital, a move which is set to revive the tussle between Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government and the Centre. According to the Bill, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, the “government” in Delhi would mean L-G in context of all legislations to be passed by the state assembly. The statement of objects and reasons of the Bill said this is in consistency with the status of Delhi as a Union Territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions. The Bill makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action in the city. It also bars Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made till this Act comes into effect will be void, according to the Bill. Also Read | Parliament session: Bill to amend juvenile justice law introduced in Lok SabhaIt further says that the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating, its procedure and the conduct of its business which are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Parliament of India. The Supreme Court had, on July 4, 2018, ruled that the L-G cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and that he must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of seeking to drastically curtail the powers of an elected government in Delhi, which he added was contrary to the judgement by a constitution bench of the SC. He tweeted, “After being rejected by ppl of Delhi (8 seats in Assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected government through a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move.” “The Bill says- 1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean L-G Then what will elected govt do? … 2. All files will go to L-G. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to L-G, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to L-G,” he said in another tweet,” Kejriwal said in another tweet. The new NCT Bill, according to the Centre, seeks to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court. “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 (1of 1992) was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers for the National Capital Territory of Delhi and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Section 44 of the Act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism provided in the act for effective time bound implementation of said section. Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to Lieutenant Governor before issuing order thereon,” the statement of objects and reasons stated. “It further seeks to ensure that the L-G is necessarily granted an opportunity to exercise the power entrusted to him under proviso to clause (4) of article 239AA of the Constitution, in select category of cases and also to make rules in matters which incidentally encroach upon matters falling outside the preview of the Legislative Assembly. It also seeks to provide for rules made by the Legislative Assembly of Delhi to be consistent with the rules of the House of the People,” it added. The Bill, the statement added, will “promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of NCT of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-session-centre-introduces-bill-to-give-more-powers-to-delhi-lg-101615807370435.html
15-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC took corruption to another level in Bengal, says Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Corruption at next level': Shah slams TMC, says 'Bengal at unprecedented low'Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday charged that the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) took corruption in West Bengal to 'another level,' promising people that if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) comes to power in the eastern state, 'you will not be troubled by corruption and syndicate.' Read moreSC notice to Centre, EC on plea to nullify election result if most votes for NOTAThe Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine a public interest litigation (PIL) that seeks fresh polls in constituencies where voters reject all candidates by casting maximum votes in favour of the NOTA (None of the Above). Read moreBetter Covid vaccines are coming, WHO’s chief scientist saysNew Covid-19 vaccines, including ones that don’t require needles and can be stored at room temperature, may be ready for use later this year or next year, the World Health Organization’s top scientist said. Read moreBitcoin extends drop after weekend rally to record above $61,000Bitcoin dropped by as much as 9.2% on Monday after scaling a fresh record on bets that some of the pandemic relief payments in the US will end up chasing the digital token’s towering rally. The largest cryptocurrency was trading at $55,326 as of 9:51 a.m. in London, after topping out at $61,742 on Saturday. Read more'Love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course': Jasprit Bumrah ties the knot in Goa - See picsIndian pacer Jasprit Bumrah on Monday tied the knot with sports presenter Sanjana Ganesan in Goa. According to reports, the wedding took place in the presence of just 20 people and no mobile phones were allowed during the ceremony. Read moreFloral Folklore: Taylor Swift brings spring in mini dress at Grammys red carpetTaylor Swift made a return to the Grammys red carpet and she did it in the most beautiful way. The singer who was last seen at the Grammys in 2016 posing with close friend and fellow singer Selena Gomez made jaws touch the floor as she stepped out wearing the most mesmerising floral dress that we have seen in a long time. Read moreKangana Ranaut says no 'woman-centric film' has had impact greater than Manikarnika in cinemas, shares videoActor Kangana Ranaut, reacting to a video of audiences sloganeering after watching the film Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi, has said that no other 'woman-centric' film has had a bigger impact. Read moreWatch| Alia Bhatt's b’day: Deepika-Ranveer, Arjun-Malaika attend party at Karan Johar’s﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-took-corruption-to-another-level-in-bengal-says-shah-101615806114490.html
15-03-2021||India||Bill to define role, powers of Delhi LG introduced in Lok Sabha||With the objective of giving a proper "interpretation" of a Supreme Court ruling, the government on Monday introduced a bill in Lok Sabha that seeks to define certain role and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi.Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021.According to proposed amendments, Section 21 of the Act -- dealing with restrictions on laws passed by legislative assembly with respect to certain matters -- is sought to be revised to clarify that the expression 'government' referred to in any law to be made by the legislative assembly shall mean the 'Lieutenant Governor'. A sub-section shall be inserted to this effect in Section 21.In section 24 of the principal Act -- which requires a Bill passed by the Delhi legislative assembly to be presented to the LG who may assent, withhold or reserve it for consideration of the President -- an additional clause will be inserted to cover any of the matters that fall outside the purview of the powers conferred on the legislative assembly.In Section 33 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1) after the words "conduct of its business", the words "which shall not be inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in House of People" shall be inserted.Also, in the proviso, for the words "Provided that", the following shall be substituted, "Provided that the Legislative Assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its Committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions, and any of the rule made in contravention of this proviso, before the commencement of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, shall be void".In section 44 of the principal Act dealing with powers to makes rules for conduct of business, in sub-section (2) -- which states that as otherwise provided in this Act, all executive action of the Lieutenant Governor whether taken on the advice of his Ministers or otherwise shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the Lieutenant Governor -- the following proviso shall be inserted, namely "Provided that before taking any executive action in pursuance of the decision of the Council of Ministers or a Minister, to exercise powers of Government, State Government, Appropriate Government, Lieutenant Governor, Administrator or Chief Commissioner, as the case may be, under any law in force in the Capital, the opinion of Lieutenant Governor in term of proviso to clause (4) of article 239AA of the Constitution shall be obtained on all such matters as may be specified, by a general or special order, by Lieutenant Governor".According to the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, the original bill was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the legislative assembly and a Council of Ministers for Delhi and for matters connected therewith."The section 44 of the act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism provided in the act for effective time bound implementation of said section. Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to the LG before issuing order thereon," it said.It said that to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court which had ruled that the city government need not obtain the Lieutenant Governor's "concurrence" of every issue of day-to-day governance, the bill has been brought.The government said it wanted to clarify the expression "Government", which in the context of legislations to be passed by the Delhi assembly, shall mean the LG of Delhi, consistent with the status of Delhi as a Union Territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions.It further seeks to ensure that the LG is necessarily granted an opportunity to exercise the power entrusted to him under proviso to clause (4) of article 239AA of the Constitution, in select category of cases and also to make rules in matters which incidentally encroach upon matters falling outside the preview of the assembly."The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the LG, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court," the statement of objects said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-define-role-powers-of-delhi-lg-introduced-in-lok-sabha-101615804959211.html
15-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand ex-CM Trivendra Rawat flags easing of Covid restrictions for Kumbh||Just a day after Uttarakhand’s new chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced scrapping all restriction for the Mahakumbh, his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat urged the government to exercise caution amid rising cases of Covid-19.“Twenty-five thousand Covid cases, highest so far in 2021 were recorded on Sunday across the country. So we need to be more cautious in organising mega religious fair like Mahakumbh,” Trivendra Singh Rawat said after paying obeisance at Parad Shivlingam, Mahamrityunjay temple at Hari Har ashram."Seven states in recent weeks have shown a sharp rise in Covid infection spread. Lockdown type measures are being adhered to by some state governments so we need to be cautious when it comes to a global fair like Mahakumbh in which pilgrims from across the country and other countries arrive to take a sacred dip in the Ganga," he said.When questioned that CM Tirath Singh Rawat a day before announced that pilgrims need not possess negative Covid-19 reports 72 hours prior to their arrival in Haridwar, Trivendra Singh Rawat said that Mahakumbh is for everyone but Covid -19 has impacted every global and national event."We should make arrangements in such a way that Covid infection doesn't spread further as exactly a year has passed since the country and the whole world was affected by the pandemic. Risks cannot be taken at this stage at such a global fair," the former chief minister said.Later Rawat also met spiritual leader Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Swami Avdeshanand Giri.Meanwhile, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Shri Mahant Narendra Giri urged the CM to direct the Kumbh Mela administration to set up camps, tents and food courts for Akhada saints."We welcome the new CM’s stance of easing restrictions for saints and pilgrims during Mahakumbh. This fair should now be held on the lines of the grand fair held in 2010.Some officials sitting in Dehradun mislead former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, so new CM Tirath Singh Rawat should be cautious of such officials. Mahakumbh comes in 12 years. One cannot contain faith with rules and SOPs," said Narendra Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-ex-cm-trivendra-rawat-flags-easing-of-covid-restrictions-for-kumbh-101615806301513.html
15-03-2021||India||Will make arrangements for peaceful pilgrimage: CRPF on Amarnath Yatra||This year's Amarnath Yatra is likely to witness heavy rush of pilgrims, a top CRPF officer here said on Monday, and asserted that all necessary arrangements will be made to ensure it passes off peacefully.Inspector General (IG) of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Jammu sector, P S Ranpise said all units and formations have been briefed about the threat posed by sticky bombs, and asked to remain on high alert.The 56-day yatra to the 3,880-metre-high cave shrine of Amarnath in the South Kashmir Himalayas is scheduled to start from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28 and culminate on August 22.Talking to reporters after inaugurating a free medical camp organised by the 166th Battalion of the force in Sidhra here, the CRPF IG said, "It is likely that the yatra this year will attract heavy rush, and keeping this thing in mind, we will study the requirements, and all necessary arrangements will be made for the success of the pilgrimage.""We already had a meeting with civil police and projected the requirement... We will study the logistic requirements needed at the Yatri camps and might require more forces," he added.To a question on the number of troops required for the pilgrimage, the IG said, "That will be decided by the government after a review of the overall situation."The CRPF officer said quick reaction teams (QRTs) would be deployed wherever required, including in yatri camps and along the 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway."Personnel who will be deployed on yatra duty will also undergo pre-induction training like in the past," Ranpise said.He said the CRPF has adequate deployment along the highway and would be utilising drones and other technology during the yatra.On the recent recovery of sticky bombs and measures taken by the force to counter the threat, he said, "I agree with police that it is a serious matter as the timer-activated devices are easy to use against civilian and security targets.""We have already alerted our units and formations, and briefed them about the new threat. We have to remain alert (to counter the terrorist plan)," the officer said.He said CRPF convoys always take necessary precautionary measures before proceedings towards their destinations and usually remain protected."We have to ensure that our convoys have minimum contact with the public, and there should be no unnecessary halting. Strict vigil and precautionary measures need to be taken (against sticky bombs)," he said.Hundreds of locals availed the free medical camp.CRPF spokesperson Shivnandan Singh said the force is organising medical camps on a daily basis in different areas to reach out to the people as part of a goodwill programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-arrangements-for-peaceful-pilgrimage-crpf-on-amarnath-yatra-101615804417727.html
15-03-2021||India||India’s arms imports down by 33%, says Sipri report||India’s arms imports fell 33 % between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) on Monday, at a time the country has taken a raft of measures to cut dependence on imported military hardware.  The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes.  “Russia was the most affected supplier, although India’s imports of US arms also fell by 46%,” the report said, adding that India is planning large-scale arms imports in the coming years from several suppliers. India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%), the report said.According to Sipri, India accounted for 0.2% of the share of global arms exports during 2016-20, making the country the world’s 24th largest exporter of major arms. This represents an increase of 228% over India’s export share of 0.1 % during the previous five-year period of 2011-15. Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius were the top recipients of Indian military hardware, the report said.The latest import data is a clear indicator that the country’s drive towards Atmanirbharta is showing results, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “India is finally at an inflection point and the Indian defence industry is coming of age,” he said.Arms exports by Russia, which accounted for 20% of all exports of major arms in 2016–20, dropped by 22%, the report said. “The bulk -- around 90% -- of this decrease was attributable to a 53% fall in its arms exports to India,” Sipri said.  India was the biggest importer of Russian military hardware during the last five years, accounting for 23% of Russia’s total exports.It also said that exports by China, the world’s fifth largest arms exporter in 2016-20, fell 7.8% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. China accounted for 74% of Pakistan’s military imports during the last five years, up from 61% in 2011-15. “Pakistan is now firmly in China’s hold for its arms requirements,” Chopra said. Also Read | Deepening India-UAE defence cooperation enlarges India’s footprint in West AsiaBut the United States, the world’s largest arms exporter, saw its exports rise. Its global share of exports went up from 32% to 37% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. The five largest arms exporters in 2016-20 were the US, Russia, France, Germany and China, while the top importers were Saudi Arabia, India, Egypt, Australia and China.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore - 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation. The allocation for indigenous procurement -- made for the second consecutive year -- will power the purchase of Tejas LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jets, light combat helicopters (LCHs), basic trainer aircraft, Arjun Mk-1A tanks, Astra beyond-visual-range missiles, Pinaka rocket systems and anti-tank missiles, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. The budget will be used for making milestone payments for several domestic acquisitions through the year. Such payments refer to a certain percentage of the total deal amount that has to be paid at different stages of the execution of a contract. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases. The ₹48,000-crore contract for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets, awarded to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited last month, is the biggest indigenous defence procurement deal so far.  Basic trainers and LCHs figure on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. This year, the government is likely to notify a second list of weapons, systems and ammunition that cannot be imported.  India will sign a $2.5-billion contract this year for buying 56 medium transport aircraft for IAF to replace its fleet of ageing Avro-748 planes.  Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with 56 C-295 transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector.But Sipri said India’s military imports are likely to grow over the next five years. “As India perceives increasing threats from Pakistan and China and as its ambitious plans to produce its own major arms have been significantly delayed, it is planning large-scale programmes for arms imports. Based on its outstanding deliveries of combat aircraft, air defence systems, ships and submarines, India’s arms imports are expected to increase over the coming five years,” the report said.It is a clear indicator that the country’s drive towards Atmanirbharta is showing results, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “India is finally at an inflection point and the Indian defence industry is coming of age,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-arms-imports-down-by-33-says-sipri-report-101615806230302.html
15-03-2021||India||SC notice to Centre, EC on plea to nullify election result if most votes for NOTA||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine a public interest litigation (PIL) that seeks fresh polls in constituencies where voters reject all candidates by casting maximum votes in favour of the NOTA (None of the Above).A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, issued notices to the Central government and the Election Commission of India (EC), seeking their replies in four weeks to the PIL by Ashwini Upadhyay, a Supreme Court lawyer and a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Representing Upadhyay, senior advocate Menaka Gurusway submitted before the bench that the petition has sought formalisation of the voters’ right to reject so that fresh elections should be conducted where NOTA received votes more than any other candidate in the fray. The bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was initially reluctant to admit the plea. “The problem is that if a political party with sufficient influence on the voters gets many candidates rejected, the Parliament will not be constituted properly. If many candidates are rejected, those constituencies will go unrepresented. How will you constitute a proper Parliament then?” it asked Guruswamy. Also Read | Has the Supreme Court set the ball rolling for a Uniform Civil Code?The senior counsel replied that there had been recommendations even by the EC that fresh polls could be held where NOTA got maximum votes. Guruswamy added that the present situation was untenable since even if 99% of votes were polled in favour of NOTA, a candidate who got just one vote could still be declared elected since NOTA had no real consequences on the results of an election. “A right to reject will prompt the political parties to be more careful in putting up candidates and those with clean records would be put up,” she said.The bench retorted that it found it “difficult to accept an underlying assumption” that the parties did not wish to put such candidates otherwise, but agreed, at the same time, to examine the matter. Upadhyay’s PIL has sought directions for the EC to use its plenary power under Article 324 to nullify the election result and hold fresh polls if NOTA got maximum votes in a constituency. It further sought to restrict the candidates, who had earlier participated in the invalidated election, from contesting the fresh poll.In the alternative, Upadhyay has said that the Centre should be directed to come up with appropriate steps, including suitable amendments in the law, so as to empower the voters with a right to reject with consequences on an election. The petition cited the 2013 judgment by the Supreme Court, which had issued directives to the EC for introducing NOTA, recognising the voters’ right not to vote and choose NOTA to express discontent and dissatisfaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-ec-on-plea-to-nullify-election-result-if-most-votes-for-nota-101615805570240.html
15-03-2021||India||‘Main reason for spike in Covid-19 cases...’: Health minister Harsh Vardhan as India’s sees highest daily spike of 2021||As India is witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday pointed to people’s disregard for social distancing and other guidelines. Vardhan also said that Covid-19 cases are on the rise in a few states only. “Around 85% of cases are in five to six states. The main reason behind the increase in cases is people not taking Covid appropriate behaviour,” the health minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also watch | Covid surge: How India can avoid Lockdown 2.0﻿﻿These remarks of the health minister came after he highlighted on Saturday that India was ahead in numerous parameters as compared to other nations across the globe with regard to the fight against the pandemic. He appealed to all citizens to maintain the same level of awareness against the disease as they had been doing since last year.कोरोना वायरस के मामले कुछ प्रदेशों में ही बढ़ रहे हैं, क़रीब 85% मामले पांच-छह राज्यों में हैं। मामलों के बढ़ने का प्रमुख कारण समाज में लोगों के द्वारा कोविड उपयुक्त व्यवहार को गंभीरता से नहीं लेना है: केंद्रीय स्वास्थ्य मंत्री डॉ.हर्षवर्धन #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/9fyWW6cHL7India on Monday registered 26,291 new Covid-19 disease cases and 118 more related fatalities which pushed the caseload and death toll to more than 11.38 million and 158,725 respectively, according to the health ministry’s update at 8am. The recoveries are 1,1007,352 and constitute nearly 97 per cent of the caseload. The active cases have meanwhile climbed to 219,262, the update showed. Monday’s case count has been the highest in 2021 and it is also the seventh time it breached the 20,000-mark. The last time these many cases were seen was on December 20, 2020, when 26,624 cases were reported.Also Read| AstraZeneca jab not linked to blood clotting: Co-developerMaharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu contributed more than 78 per cent of the new cases recorded on Monday, the health ministry said. Six states, including Maharashtra, Punjab and Tamil Nadu accounted for 82.20 per cent of Monday's fatalities, it added. “Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 16,620 (accounting for 63.21% of the daily new cases). It is followed by Kerala with 1,792 while Punjab reported 1,492 new cases,” a statement by the ministry read.India currently is the third worst-hit country by the pandemic after the United States and Brazil, which have seen 30,081,657 and 11,483,370 respectively, according to figures by worldometers. Brazil on Saturday had surpassed India’s caseload to become the second country with the most number of cases and fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-gives-main-reason-for-recent-spike-in-india-s-covid-19-tally-101615803706636.html
15-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court, district courts resume physical hearing of cases||The Delhi High Court and all district courts of the national capital on Monday resumed their physical hearing.Advocates practicing in these courts reacted differently. While some lawyers welcomed the move others opined for continuing hearing through video-conferencing.Vikas Singh, a lawyer, welcomed the decision and said that nothing can replace a physical hearing."Resuming of the physical hearing will help in improving the financial condition of various lawyers who have suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic," Singh told ANI.On the other hand, Ranjit Gambhir, a 66-year-old advocate said that virtual hearing should have been continued as the threat of coronavirus infection still exists."Some lawyers were facing difficulties in attending hearing through video-conferencing, therefore physical hearing will help them to handle their case efficiently now," said another lawyer Kamal Kant Sharma.The Delhi High Court suspended its functioning on March 23, 2020, followed by the government's decision to imposed a lockdown in wake of the pandemic. However, the high court continued to take up urgent matters through video conferencing and later resumed physical hearing of limited benches.Many lawyers practicing in district courts welcomed the decision and said: "It will help the lawyers of trial court who had suffered financially due to limited hearing in the courts."In a notification issued last month, the Delhi High Court said: "All the Courts of Joint Registrars (Judicial) shall continue to hold courts as per the existing arrangement up to March 12 and shall hold regular physical courts, on a daily basis, with effect from March 15,"Further adding that the Court may, in exceptional cases, permit any of the parties and/or their Counsel to join the proceedings through video conferencing, subject to availability of requisite infrastructure.The notification also said that it is expected that the advocates, litigants and other visitors to this Court strictly adhere to the norms of social distancing and all other Covid-19 protocols, guidelines and directions issued by the Centre and Delhi government and this Court from time to time.Earlier, Delhi High Court in an official statement announced that all district courts of Delhi to hold hearings physically on an alternate day basis and continue to take up the matters through 'videoconferencing' on non-physical days from January 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-district-courts-resume-physical-hearing-of-cases-101615804550276.html
15-03-2021||India||Bodies of Bihar gangster, his driver, helper found on Uttar Pradesh highway||Bullet ridden bodies of a Bihar gangster, his helper and driver were found on the Varanasi-Mirzapur state highway in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The bodies lying in a pool of blood and covered with a plastic sheet were recovered by the UP police from a field near Nandupur village under Chunar police station in Mirzapur district. The police suspect it to be a case of gangwar.Among the dead were: notorious criminal Pintu Kumar Kushwaha, his driver Raj Kumar and helper Om Kumar.On Saturday at about 3pm, Kushwaha was visiting the Tutala Bhawani temple in Kaimur hills in his SUV. He was accompanied by his driver, Raj Kumar, and helper, Om Kumar.“The SUV they were travelling in was not found at the place. We are in contact with our Bihar counterparts. The manner indicated that it was a cold blooded murder in gang war. Primary investigation suggested that the three were murdered in Bihar area and the bodies were dumped in the remote hilly area of UP to divert the attention of police,” Chunar SHO Gopal Prasad Gupta said.The identity of the deceased was confirmed through Rohtas police and the family members had been informed and called for legal formalities, the SHO added.Deceased Kushwaha, an accused in murder and murder attempt cases, was involved in illegal mining and transportation of sand from Bihar. His brother Sunil Kumar alias Raja, an accused in several cases of murder and loot, was among the top 10 list of criminals of Rohtas district and presently lodged in Bhagalpur central jail, police said.Bikramganj sub divisional police officer, Raj Kumar Singh said that Rohtas police was waiting for official details from UP police before commenting on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-bihar-gangster-his-driver-helper-found-on-uttar-pradesh-highway-101615803813561.html
15-03-2021||India||Kejriwal hits out at Centre over 'unconstitutional, anti-democracy' NCT bill||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday lashed out at the Centre for introducing a bill that proposes to redefine the role of the council of ministers and lieutenant governor (LG) in the Capital. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was ‘unconstitutional and anti-democracy' and also blamed the Centre for trying to curtail the powers of the government in the national capital through it.“The Bill says- 1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean LG Then what will elected govt do? 2. All files will go to LG This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG,” he tweeted.The Bill says-1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean LGThen what will elected govt do?2. All files will go to LGThis is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG https://t.co/beY4SDOTYIKejriwal also tagged his previous tweet that strongly condemned the Bharatiya Janata party-led central government's move. "After being rejected by people of Del (8 seats in Assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected govt through a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional and anti-democracy move," the chief minister said.The bill was approved by the cabinet in February and is to be moved by the Union home minister Amit Shah to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991.Also Read | 'Corruption at next level': Shah slams TMC, says 'Bengal at unprecedented low'This is not the first time that the AAP government has accused the party in the Centre of trying to curtail its power and legislative functioning. The chief minister and the then LG Najeeb Jung locked horns with the AAP party workers even going on a nine-day sit-in protest in front of his residence in 2018.The tussle between the Kejriwal-led Delhi government and the LG was resolved after the issue reached the Supreme Court. The top court’s constitution bench in 2018 ruled in the favour of the government announcing that the lieutenant-governor cannot intervene in the decision taken by the government. “The LG is the administrative head but can’t act as an obstructionist," the bench had said in its ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-hits-out-at-centre-over-unconstitutional-anti-democracy-nct-bill-101615798318498.html
15-03-2021||India||SC seeks response from Centre, companies over 'iron ore smuggling' allegations||The Supreme Court Court on Monday sought a detailed response from the Centre and certain iron exporting companies after hearing a petition filed by lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma, seeking directions to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to register an FIR and probe the alleged duty evasion by 61 companies in allegedly 'smuggling' iron ore to China since 2015."We seek a response from the Centre," a three-judge bench of the Apex Court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde and also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said.The Apex Court also sought a reply from certain iron exporting companies.During the course of the hearing today, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, sought and pleaded for more time as he wanted to file a reply in the case.The petitioner, Sharma, submitted to the Apex Court that an application has been filed."It is an urgent matter. A date be given, my lords in this matter, please," Sharma pleaded to the Apex Court, to which, the CJI, however, then, adjourned the matter.The petitioner-cum-lawyer, Sharma had moved the Apex Court seeking its appropriate orders and or directions to the CBI to register an FIR and probe the alleged duty evasion by 61 companies in allegedly 'smuggling' iron ore to China since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-companies-over-iron-ore-smuggling-allegations-101615802803247.html
15-03-2021||India||Has the Supreme Court set the ball rolling for a Uniform Civil Code?||It has been more than four decades since the Supreme Court set a legal milestone in the battle for protection of rights of Muslim women and dwelt on the need to implement a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) in the matter famously known as Shah Bano case. Last week, the top court sought a reply from the Central government over religion-neutral inheritance and succession laws in India. Supreme Court lawyer and a member of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), Ashwini Upadhyay, has succeeded in getting five such petitions admitted by the apex court that can be seen as a precursor to a UCC in the country. What exactly is a Uniform Civil Code and why do the proceedings in the Supreme Court matter? What is UCC? UCC essentially refers to a common set of laws governing personal matters such as marriage, divorce, adoption, inheritance and succession for all citizens of the country, irrespective of religion. Currently, different laws regulate these aspects for adherents of different religions and a UCC is meant to do away with these inconsistent personal laws. These laws include the Hindu Marriage Act, Hindu Succession Act, Indian Christian Marriages Act, Indian Divorce Act, Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act. However, Muslim personal laws are not codified and are based on their religious texts, though certain aspects of these are expressly recognised through laws such as the Shariat Application Act and Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act. What does the Constitution say about UCC? Article 44 of the Constitution, which is one of the Directive Principles of State Policy, says: “The State shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a Uniform Civil Code throughout the territory of India.” Directive Principles, as Article 37 makes clear, are not enforceable by any court but lays down at the same time that these are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. Also Read | SC issues notice on plea to nullify election result if maximum votes for NOTAA body of judicial precedents, including the famous Minerva Mills Case (1980), have held that the harmony and balance between Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles of State Policy was an essential feature of the basic structure of the Constitution. “The Indian Constitution is founded on the bedrock of the balance between the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles,” held this judgment. Similarly, in Dalmia Cement Case (1996), the apex court held that the preamble to the constitution, fundamental rights, and directive principles — the trinity — were the conscience of the Constitution. Several such judgments have maintained that directive principles were fundamental in the governance of the country, and the State shall strive towards fulfilling obligations laid therein. How has the Supreme Court handled the issue of UCC? Starting with its judgment in Shah Bano Case in 1985, the top court has dwelt on the UCC in several of its judgments. In many of these, the court favoured a common law for all citizens and reminded the Parliament of the spirit of Article 44. But the Supreme Court also remained mindful of its boundaries under the Constitution when it refrained from issuing any positive directive to the government in this regard, underlining that law-making is the exclusive right of the Parliament. In Shah Bano case, the court had lamented: “It is a matter of regret that Article 44 has remained a dead letter... Common civil code will help the cause of national integration by removing desperate loyalties to laws, which have conflicting ideologies. No community is likely to bell the cat by making gratuitous concessions on this issue. It is for the State, which is charged with the duty of securing a uniform civil code and it has legislative competence to do so.” Again, in Sarla Mudgal Case (1995), which dealt with issue of bigamy and conflict between the personal laws existing on matters of marriage, the court highlighted the need for a UCC yet again. The court underlined that until UCC was enacted for all the citizens of the country, there will be always a loophole because different faiths had different beliefs, and naturally due to different beliefs and practices of communities, there will be a conflict. It also requested the Prime Minister of India to have a fresh look at Article 44 and endeavour to secure for the citizens a UCC throughout the territory of India and wanted the court to be informed about the steps taken. Also Read | SC notice renews debate over holy sites in Varanasi, MathuraHowever, the Supreme Court’s subsequent orders in Ahmedabad Women Action Group case (1997) and Lily Thomas case (2000) clarified that no direction was issued to the government for enactment of UCC in the Sarla Mudgal case. But in John Vallamattom Case (2003), the court said that a common civil code will “help the cause of national integration by removing all contradictions based on ideologies”. But 2015 witnessed the top court divided over the subject once again. In September-October 2015, the apex court revived the debate over the common law when it asked the Central government whether it was willing to bring UCC since there was, it said, “total confusion” over the incoherent stipulations about marriage, divorce, adoption, maintenance and inheritance among different religions. In December 2015, however, another bench in the Supreme Court turned down a PIL for a UCC, saying the apex court’s observations for enacting a common law could only be in the “realm of hope and expectations” but a mandamus (directive) could not be issued to the government. In 2019, the top court again expressed its disappointment over lack of UCC, saying: “Whereas the founders of the Constitution in Article 44 in Part IV dealing with the Directive Principles of State Policy had hoped and expected that the State shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a Uniform Civil Code throughout the territories of India, till date no action has been taken in this regard.” How has the BJP-led government dealt with UCC?The Bharatiya Janata Party considers the introduction of the UCC as a core ideological issue, and has, in the past, cited the example of Goa, which has a common law called the Goa Civil Code.Narendra Modi, in an interview to Urdu weekly Nai Duniya published in May 2014, had acknowledged that the Constitution said the government will make efforts to implement UCC while adding that a common law did not mean thrusting of Hindu code on all citizens. After coming to power, the Modi government did bring the debate to the fore. In a written reply to a question raised by Yogi Adityanath in Parliament in July 2014, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad cited Article 44 of the Constitution and said that a wide consultation of stakeholders would be required for further steps in this regard. In June 2016, the ministry of law and justice, made a reference to the Law Commission to examine all matters relating to the implementation of the UCC. The Law Commission, however, did not submit a final report on the issue and furnished a consultation paper on “Reform of Family Law” in August 2018. Also Read | ‘Worrying that SC now has just one woman judge’: ChandrachudThis consultation paper stated that a Uniform Civil Code was “neither necessary nor desirable at this stage” and recommended that existing family laws across religions required to be amended and codified to tackle discrimination and inequality in personal laws. The consultation paper was one of the last reports submitted by the 21st Law Commission. How have the petitions in the Supreme Court renewed the debate on UCC? Beginning December 16, 2020, advocate Ashwini Upadhyay has succeeded in drawing the top court’s attention to as many as five petitions that pressed for uniformity in personal laws across various religions. The first two petitions to be admitted by the Supreme Court on December 16 last year related to uniform grounds of divorce and uniformity in providing maintenance and alimony. Upadhyay’s petitions argued that divorce, maintenance and alimony laws in certain religions discriminated and marginalised women. These anomalies, varying from one religion to another, were violative of the right to equality (Article 14 of the Constitution) and right against discrimination (Article 15) on the basis of religion and gender and right to dignity. On January 29, the top court also issued notice to the Central government on another PIL by Upadhyay, demanding uniform grounds of adoption and guardianship for all citizens throughout the country. His PIL complained that the current practice of adoption was blatantly discriminatory as Hindus have a codified law of adoption but Muslims, Christians, and Parsis did not have it. Upadhyay’s another PIL seeking uniformity in age of marriage was also entertained by the apex court on February 2. The court had issued notice on his request to transfer petitions demanding uniform minimum age of marriage for men and women pending in the high courts of Delhi and Rajasthan to the top court to avoid multiplicity of litigation and conflicting views. Pointing out that more than 125 countries have a uniform age of marriage for men and women, Upadhyay urged the top court to declare 21 years to be the minimum age for marriage in India. The latest one to be admitted by the Supreme Court pertains to uniform laws of succession and inheritance applicable across religious faiths. On March 10, the court issued notice to the Centre on another PIL by Upadhyay, who said uniform laws in succession and inheritance are necessary to secure justice, equality and dignity of women. This was the fifth PIL by Upadhyay entertained by the Supreme Court on uniform laws, and all these petitions have been clubbed together. While the Central government is still to make its stand clear on these issues, what cannot be doubted is that by entertaining as many as five petitions, the Supreme Court is set to rekindle a debate yet again on a Uniform Civil Code in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-the-supreme-court-set-the-ball-rolling-for-a-uniform-civil-code-101615802810671.html
15-03-2021||India||Parliament session: Bill to amend juvenile justice law introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, which seeks to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday.Congress MP Shashi Tharoor opposed the bill at the introduction stage but Women and Child Development minister Smriti Irani rejected the points raised by him.The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021 was later introduced by a voice vote.As per the Cabinet decision, in every district, the district magistrate and the additional district magistrate will get the power to monitor functions of agencies responsible for the implementation of the Act.The district child protection unit will also function under the district magistrate.According to amendments cleared by the Cabinet last month, before becoming a member of a child welfare committee, background and educational qualification checks will be included.The amendment to the bill intends to empower district magistrates and additional district magistrates to authorise orders of adoption, propose that appeals on the orders of adoption may be referred to the divisional commissioner, and to strengthen child welfare committees by incorporating provisions relating to educational qualifications for the members and stipulating eligibility conditions for selection of the committee.The bill seeks to categorise offences wherein the maximum sentence is more than seven years' imprisonment but no minimum sentence or a minimum sentence of less than seven years has been provided as "serious offences" under the Juvenile Justice Act, and to remove difficulties in interpretation of the Act."Serious offences" includes offences for which the punishment under the Indian Penal Code or any other law for the time being is imprisonment between three and seven years.The bill intends to ensure that the district magistrate is suitably placed to ensure effective coordination among the stakeholders for facilitation of necessary services for children's rehabilitation or re-integration.By further empowering district magistrates to deal with child protection and adoption processes, it aims to facilitate a coordinated and effective response of the administration to various issues pertaining to children, including adoption, the bill said.On the child welfare committee, the bill said no person shall be appointed as a member unless they have been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities pertaining to children for at least seven years or is a practicing professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or sociology or human development.The bill further proposes that the appointment of any member of the committee shall be terminated by the state government, after making an inquiry, if they fail to attend the proceedings of the committee consecutively for three months without any valid reason or if they fail to attend less than three-fourths of the sittings in a year.The bill makes the district magistrate the grievance redressal authority for the child welfare committee, and anyone connected with a child may file a petition before the official, who shall consider and pass appropriate orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-session-bill-to-amend-juvenile-justice-law-introduced-in-lok-sabha-101615800222761.html
15-03-2021||India||Allow transpersons, amend National Cadet Corps Act: Kerala High Court||The Kerala High Court on Monday ruled that Hina Haneefa, a 23-year-old transgender person, should be enrolled in the National Cadet Corps (NCC). Hearing a petition filed by her, justice Anu Sivaraman observed that a transgender person is entitled to enrol in the NCC in accordance with her self-perceived gender equality.Delivering the judgment, the court directed the Union government to amend Section 6 of the National Cadet Corps Act (1948) which excludes transgender persons from joining the NCC.“I am the happiest person today. More than my personal victory, I opened the door for my community members. It is just the beginning. I hope eventually we can join the armed forces also,” said Haneefa, a first year degree student of the University College in Thiruvananthapuram. She moved the high court last year after authorities turned down her bid to join the NCC.In her plea, she contended that she had joined the NCC at the age of 13 when she was in the school. At that time she was enrolled as a boy cadet. Two years back, she had undergone gender affirmation sex transformation surgery and enrolled at the University College for the degree course. But when she tried to enrol in the NCC she was denied admission saying it was against the existing Act.The court held that she was entitled to enrolment in the senior girl’s division of the NCC and that the rejection of her request was unsustainable. It said NALSA judgment of 2014 and the Transgender Act of 2020 overrides the argument of the defence ministry that there were no provisions to enrol transgender persons.“What we need is acceptance, not sympathy. Though Kerala is the first state to come out with an exclusive transgender policy and transgender justice board, attitude of the society will have to change,” said Haneefa, adding her fight was not for her alone but for the entire community.She said employment and accommodation remain two major challenges to the community in the state and expressed confidence things will change.“It is a historic verdict. Equal opportunity is a constitutional right. This will open many eyes,” said Shyma S Praha, state transgender cell nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-transgenders-amend-national-cadet-corps-act-kerala-high-court-101615800294065.html
15-03-2021||India||Centre, states need to think about reducing taxes on petrol, diesel, says Anurag Thakur||Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Monday said both the Centre and the states need to think about reducing taxes on petrol and diesel as their prices have risen sharply in the recent weeks.Replying to a question in Lok Sabha, Thakur also said that the government was ready to discuss the issue of bringing petroleum products under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax (GST)."The Centre is ready to consider the idea of reducing the tax on petrol and diesel, the states should also consider it," he said.The Centre levies excise duty on petrol and diesel, while the states levy VAT."The state governments should reduce taxes on petrol, we (the Centre) will also try to reduce tax on petrol."Both the Centre and the states need to think about it (reducing taxes on petrol)," the minister said.Thakur also pointed out that in March 2020, the price of crude oil was around USD 19 per barrel. AT present, the price of crude oil is around USD 65 per barrel.On why the government was not bringing petroleum products under GST as promised by the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Thakur said no state has so far given a proposal for the same."If any state feels that petroleum products should be brought under GST then the Centre has no objection in discussing about it," he said.Last month, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said the Centre and the states should talk to each other and look for a "coordinated action" to reduce taxes on diesel and petrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-need-to-think-about-reducing-taxes-on-petrol-diesel-says-anurag-thakur-101615799742391.html
15-03-2021||India||Expect govts in Gulf to help in facilitating early return of Indians: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday said India is fully cognizant of the employment concerns of people working abroad and expects governments in the Gulf to be helpful in facilitating the early return of those compelled to return home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement in the Lok Sabha on 'Recent Developments Pertaining to the Welfare Abroad of Indians, NRIs and PIOs', the minister said the focus of the government's efforts in the last few months has now shifted to Indians going back to their usual places of work, study and domicile. To that end, air transport bubble arrangements have been concluded with 27 countries so far."The Government is fully cognizant of the employment concerns that our people abroad have in the context of the Covid pandemic. Especially in the Gulf, there has been tremendous economic and social disruption that has impacted them. We have softened it somewhat but real challenges are there to be addressed. Let me assure the House that we take this as a priority," he said. The government has led the way for an economic recovery at home, and similar untiring efforts are being made to help renew livelihoods of Indians abroad, the minister said."The air travel arrangements are a necessary enabling measure. But beyond that, we have been active in urging our partner governments to look sympathetically at the employment of our citizens as they chart their own recovery pathway. The Gulf has been the focal point of our endeavours, though this is a global effort on our part," Jaishankar said.In recent months, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has engaged the leaders of Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar and Oman, while Jaishankar has travelled to UAE, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman to discuss the governments there the welfare of people there. "I have recently hosted the UAE Foreign Minister in India and expect to do so with that of Kuwait very soon," the minister said."From our recent interactions, we have reason to expect that partner governments in the Gulf would be helpful in facilitating the early return of many who were compelled to go back because of the pandemic," Jaishankar added.He said the support extended from India for the stay and travel of Indian citizens was warmly acknowledged by the community and the governments alike. The provision of medical supplies and food items from India as an exceptional gesture to the Gulf during this period clearly had powerful resonance. So did the arrival of health professionals and medical staff, especially the dedicated medical team India sent to Kuwait.The minister said ambassadors and senior officials have been in regular touch with most community organisations and get their feedback on both the health situation and economic recovery. "We are aware that there are problems of compensation, re-employment and re-skilling that need solutions. And these are today the core of our agenda with our partner governments."The welfare of students studying abroad has also been of particular concern and embassies across the world have been given instructions to reach out to them, monitor their situation and assist their return, where required, Jaishankar stressed.As with workers and professionals, the focus has now shifted to their going back to universities. Some countries have been more open in this regard than others, obviously reflecting their particular COVID challenge. This, therefore, remains a high priority and our endeavour will be to encourage an early return to normalcy, he added.Under air transport bubbles, which are temporary reciprocal arrangements for commercial passenger services until the resumption of regular international flights, the Air India group alone has operated more than 9,500 flights, taking 10.9 lakh passengers abroad so far. The largest numbers have gone to the Gulf."During the pandemic, our Prime Minister had declared that the Government would take care of both lives and livelihood. This guidance has been the basis for the activities of our diplomacy abroad," Jaishankar said.With regard to seafarers, he said the government has been working with shipping companies to ensure their well-being and where required, return to India. The challenges presented by crew change procedures were daunting but the flexibility shown by various stakeholders allowed us to overcome them."Members would also recall the predicament of two crews who were in particular difficulty outside Chinese ports. Their situation was also eventually resolved through great perseverance. We continue to interact with many governments to devise more friendly SOPs for crew change requirements," Jaishankar noted.He said serious problems were faced by fishermen who were working out of Iran. Some Gulf nations also witnessed this, perhaps to a lesser degree. The repatriation phase is over and the re-employment one has just started, Jaishankar added."I wish to assure this august House that in the days ahead, as our quest for normalcy progresses, as the global market place and work place resume activities, as centres of study reopen the doors, we will be there - to encourage, facilitate, secure and support," Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-govts-in-gulf-to-help-in-facilitating-early-return-of-indians-jaishankar-101615798063863.html
15-03-2021||India||AstraZeneca reassures safety of Covid-19 vaccine||Drug major AstraZeneca has termed its Covid-19 vaccine safe amid various nations suspending its rollout due to the cases of blood clots in certain people who received the jab.Countries like Denmark, Norway and Iceland have temporarily suspended the rollout of the company’s vaccine in their respective geographies.The AstraZeneca/Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, which is being produced by Serum Institute of India, is part of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India. Both, Covishield (AstraZeneca/Oxford) and Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) are currently being administered in the country as part of the drive."Following a recent concern raised around thrombotic events, AstraZeneca would like to offer its reassurance on the safety of its Covid-19 vaccine based on clear scientific evidence. Safety is of paramount importance and the company is continually monitoring the safety of its vaccine," the drug major said in a statement on Monday.A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and the UK with Covid-19 vaccine AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or thrombocytopenia, in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country, it added.AstraZeneca noted that so far across the EU and the UK, there have been 15 events of DVT and 22 events of pulmonary embolism reported among those given the vaccine, based on the number of cases the company has received as of March 8."This is much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population of this size and is similar across other licensed COVID-19 vaccines. The monthly safety report will be made public on the European Medicines Agency website in the following week, in line with exceptional transparency measures for Covid-19," it added.Furthermore, in clinical trials, even though the number of thrombotic events was small, these were lower in the vaccinated group, it said.There has also been no evidence of increased bleeding in over 60,000 participants enrolled, it added."The nature of the pandemic has led to increased attention in individual cases and we are going beyond the standard practices for safety monitoring of licensed medicines in reporting vaccine events, to ensure public safety.“In terms of quality, there are also no confirmed issues related to any batch of our vaccine used across Europe, or the rest of the world," AstraZeneca Chief Medical Officer Ann Taylor said.Additional testing has, and is, being conducted by the company and independently by European health authorities and none of these re-tests have shown cause for concern, she added.During the production of the vaccine more than 60 quality tests are conducted by the drug firm its partners and by more than 20 independent testing laboratories, Taylor noted."All tests need to meet stringent criteria for quality control and this data is submitted to regulators within each country or region for independent review before any batch can be released to countries," she added.The company is keeping this issue under close review but available evidence does not confirm that the vaccine is the cause, she noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-reassures-safety-of-covid-19-vaccine-101615798096939.html
15-03-2021||India||'Soaring high and united': IAF tweets photos from UAE's Desert Flag exercise||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Monday tweeted visuals of Sukhoi's Su-30 MKI in the skies of the United Arab Emirates during the nation's Desert Flag-VI exercise in which the UAE, the US, France, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Bahrain are participating.Sharing the images from the warfare exercise with 'Monday Magnum Opus' hashtag, IAF said, "#ExDesertFlag - IAF soaring high & united in the blue skies over United Arab Emirates Flag of United Arab Emirates. In Picture - Su-30MKI #IndianAirForce, F-15E #UnitedStatesAirForce and F-15SA #RoyalSaudiAirForce."#MondayMagnum opus#ExDesertFlag - IAF soaring high & united in the blue skies over United Arab Emirates 🇦🇪.In PictureSu-30MKI #IndianAirForceF-15E #UnitedStatesAirForceF-15SA #RoyalSaudiAirForce#BondBeyondBorders #IndiaUAE pic.twitter.com/Zom2HnSAuyIndia's force and aircraft are participating in the exercise, scheduled from March 3 to 21 at the UAE's Al-Dhafra airbase, for the first time. IAF is participating with six Su-30 MKI, two C-17 and one IL-78 tanker aircraft. The C-17 Globemaster will provide support for the induction and de-induction of the IAF contingent.The Exercise Desert Flag is an annual multi-national large force employment warfare exercise hosted by the UAE Air Force. "The IAF is participating for the first time in Exercise Desert Flag-VI along with air forces of United Arab Emirates, United States of America, France, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Bahrain," an IAF statement issued last week said.The Su-30 MKI aircraft will undertake a long-range ferry, routing directly from India to the exercise area with aerial refuelling support from the IL-78 tanker aircraft. The aim of the exercise is to provide operational exposure to the participating forces while training them to undertake simulated air combat operations in a controlled environment, the statement said.The participating forces will get an opportunity to enhance their operational capabilities, it said, adding that there will also be a mutual exchange of best practices. The large-scale exercise involving diverse fighter aircraft from across the globe will provide the participating forces, including the IAF, a unique opportunity to exchange knowledge, experience, enhance operational capabilities and interoperability.Exercising and interacting with the participating nations in a dynamic and realistic warfare environment will also contribute to strengthening international relations, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soaring-high-and-united-iaf-tweets-photos-from-uae-s-desert-flag-exercise-101615792303405.html
15-03-2021||India||Kerala High Court allows transgender woman to join NCC, calls for changes in enrolment criteria||Kerala High Court on Monday allowed a transgender woman to seek admission into the National Cadet Corps, the youth wing of the Indian armed forces, saying the fact that the NCC act does not recognise the third gender cannot be a reasonable justification to deny entry to a trans person. This comes days after Hina Haneefa had moved a petition challenging a section of the NCC act that only allowed males and females to enrol with the cadet corps.The single bench of Justice Anu Sivaraman said the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, recognises a transgender person's right to self-perceived gender identity. "In view of the specific provisions of the 2019 act, a transgender person has the right to be recognised not only as a transgender but also a right to self-perceived gender, i.e. the female gender," Sivaraman was quoted as saying by LiveLaw."The denial of enrolment is unsustainable. The petitioner will be entitled to participate in the selection process on the basis of her application. If she is successful, the petitioner will be enrolled in NCC Unit," Sivaraman was quoted as saying by LiveLaw.The court also directed the NCC to amend its enrolment criteria and allow the provision to include transgender persons as eligible for seeking admission in the cadet corps. Necessary changes to the enrolment criteria must be made within six months, the court held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-says-transwoman-entitled-to-enrol-in-ncc-101615790351281.html
15-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: AstraZeneca says no evidence of vaccine causing blood clot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No evidence of increased blood clot risk from Covid-19 vaccine: AstraZenecaAmid the rising concern over thrombotic (blood clots) events, pharma major AstraZeneca issued a statement on Monday saying a review of 17 million people administered its Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine suggested it was entirely safe. Read MoreCabinet meetings continue to be held online: Here’s whyWhen the Union cabinet met on March 10, the meeting didn’t last for more than 15 minutes. Read MoreNext 3 Shahi Snans at Kumbh Mela will be challenging: Tirath Singh RawatUttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Sunday reflected on the uphill task of organising the upcoming three Shahi Snans during the Kumbh Mela and said following Covid-19 safety protocols is paramount. Read More'Virat bhai said 'top innings', then I understood I completed my fifty': Ishan Kishan explains delayed celebrationsIshan Kishan stunned England in the 2nd T20I at Motera in Ahmedabad. Making his debut in the Indian jersey, the left-hander came on to open the innings with KL Rahul. Read MoreSheer butterfly dress to bedazzled bikini set: Dua Lipa brings A-game to GrammysButterfly dresses have made appearances on the Grammys red carpet time and again but the one that Dua Lipa donned last night took things up a notch. Read MoreIndia-bound Volvo XC60 facelift unveiled with new Android-based infotainmentThe most popular Volvo in the world, the XC60 SUV, has undergone a number of upgrades and is ready to enter the assembly line. Read More‘India-US ties going deeper; reflected in PM Modi, Biden equation’: Indian envoyIndian Ambassador to the United States Taranjit Singh Sandhu said relations between India and US is going ‘much deeper’ and this was ‘very much reflected’ in the equation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-astrazeneca-says-no-evidence-of-vaccine-causing-blood-clot-and-all-the-latest-news-101615791412832.html
15-03-2021||India||Mumbai civic body files FIR against Bollywood actor for flouting Covid rules||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday filed a police case against a Bollywood actor for flouting home quarantine rules on testing coronavirus positive. The civic body, however, has not named the actor.A first information report (FIR) was filed under sections 188, 269, and 270 of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes imprisonment up to two years, or a fine."No Compromise On City’s Safety! BMC has filed an FIR against a Bollywood actor for non-compliance to COVID19 guidelines on testing positive,” the civic body tweeted, blurring the name and other details of the actor.No Compromise On City’s Safety!BMC has filed an FIR against a Bollywood actor for non-compliance to COVID19 guidelines on testing positive. The rules apply to all alike and we urge citizens to follow all guidelines and help the city beat the virus.#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/Qp9J21OLcSThe rules apply to all and we urge citizens to follow all guidelines and help the city beat the virus, it added further.The actor, according to a statement by the civic body, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 11. The civic body was informed that the actor was seen in public places and at a shoot despite testing positive."The actor's actions can result in other people getting infected, and in the spread of Covid-19 in the community," read the statement.When the civic officials reached the actor’s residence, the person refused to open the door, the statement said, adding that the calls too went unanswered."When the BMC went to the actor’s home to counsel, the person refused to cooperate,” said a civic officer.The actor later responded to appeals from a local social worker, opened the door and the BMC was able to hand stamp the person for Covid-19.Amid a surge in cases in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had warned against a “lackadaisical” attitude towards the pandemic norms."Do not force us to impose a strict lockdown. Consider this as the last warning. Follow all the rules. Everyone has to realise there is a difference between self-discipline and restrictions,” CM Thackeray said on Saturday.Several districts, like Pune, are under a partial shutdown with night curfew in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-civic-body-files-fir-against-bollywood-actor-for-flouting-covid-rules-101615793535335.html
15-03-2021||India||India to take up UK racism matters when required: Jaishankar||India will champion the fight against discrimination and will take up the matters of racism against Indian students with the UK, said the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in Rajya Sabha on Monday."We will raise it whenever required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance," the Minister said.Jaishankar's response came after a question by an Odisha BJP MP Ashwini Vaishnaw, where he expressed "shared global concerns about racism". Vaishnaw stated that there "appears to be a continuation of attitudes and prejudices from the colonial area especially in the United Kingdom".The Odisha MP alleged that Rashmi Samant, a student from Karnataka and former president-elect of Oxford University Student Union, was "cyberbullied to the point that she had to resign (from the post)." "Even the Hindu religious beliefs of her parents were publicly attacked by a faculty member," he said."As land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism wherever it is. Particularly so when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. As a friend of the UK, we also have concerns about its reputational impact," Jaishankar said while speaking in the Upper House."We have strong ties with the UK. We will take up such matters with great candour when required, he added assuring that New Delhi will monitor these developments "very very closely."Interestingly, the comments came days after India summoned British High Commissioner over an "unwarranted discussion" in the British Parliament on agricultural reforms in India.According to media reports, Samant was the first Indian woman to be elected as the president of the OUSU and was due to begin in June. She had won the election in February, winning 1,966 out of a possible 3,708 votes.She resigned days after surrounding some of her past remarks on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-take-up-uk-racism-matters-when-required-jaishankar-101615793523799.html
15-03-2021||India||On Oxford University racism row, Jaishankar says ‘will raise it when required’||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said in Parliament on Monday India can 'never turn eyes away from racism' and will champion the fight against it after a BJP leader raised the issue of Rashmi Samant, the Indian student who resigned as the president of the Oxford University's students’ union last month after controversy over some of her socials media posts.“As the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism. Particularly so when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. We have strong ties with the UK. We will take up such matters with great candour when required,” Jaishankar said in the Rajya Sabha.“We will monitor these developments very very closely. We will raise it when required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance,” the foreign minister said.The Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ashwini Vaishnaw slammed the “cyberbullying” Sawant faced. Vaishnaw also called out the “continuation of attitudes and prejudices from the colonial areas, especially in the UK.” “She overcame all the challenges to become the first Indian woman president of Oxford University student's union. What treatment was meted out to her? Shouldn't this diversity be celebrated? Instead, she was cyberbullied to the point that she had to resign,” he said.Samant, the first Indian woman to be elected president of the Oxford University Students Union, quit from her post days after her election in February. Her resignation came in the backdrop of some of her old social media posts that were deemed to be “racist” and “insensitive”.Her posts, mostly on Instagram, including one with a play on words about the Holocaust and a photo of her visit to Malaysia with the caption “Ching Chang,” were termed offensive by Jewish and Chinese students of the university. Another post in which she separated “women” and “transwomen” in the caption and her comparison of imperialist Cecil Rhodes to Adolf Hitler during a Student Union debate also upset her fellows.Samant apologised for the social media posts, some of which dated back to 2017, in an open letter. The Oxford University Chinese Society (OUCS) responded to Samant’s initial apology by saying: “Regrettably, we have not yet heard anything directly from Rashmi Samant. Her long-overdue public apology does not seem sincere to the OUCS. In her apology letter, Rashmi seems to be avoiding addressing her mistakes directly, and it does not show her taking responsibility for her insensitivity to race or ignorance towards the trans-community. We cannot see Rashmi as the SU president we ‘rightfully deserve’ or trustSamant later announced her resignation as the president-elect on Facebook as she continued to face criticism. “In light of the recent events surrounding my election to the Presidency of the Oxford SU, I believe it is best for me to step down from the role. It has been an honour to be your President-elect,” she wrote in the social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-oxford-university-racism-row-jaishankar-says-will-raise-it-when-required-101615793199371.html
15-03-2021||India||Gujarat: Statue of Unity crosses 50 lakh visitors mark||In a major milestone, the 'Statue of Unity' at Kevadia in Gujarat's Narmada district has crossed the mark of 50 lakh visitors since its inauguration in 2018, a state government official said on Monday.The statue has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups, Gujarat's Additional Chief Secretary (Forest and Environment) Rajiv Gupta said in a tweet.The 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, billed as the world's tallest and built on the Sadhu Bet islet near the Sardar Sarovar Dam in Kevadia, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modion October 31, 2018.Since then,visitors from across the country and abroad have flocked the tourist spot and several other attractions that have been added there."#StatueofUnity crosses five million visitors mark !!! Built under visionary leadership of Hon.@PMOIndiait has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups. @narendramodi @tourismgoi@souindia," Gupta tweeted.To improve rail and air connectivity to Kevadia, the government recently added eight new trains from different parts of the country and a seaplane service from Ahmedabad.The flow of visitors to the tourist spot was affected after the outbreak of Covid-19 in 2020, but picked up rapidly since it was reopened for the public on October 17 last year after remaining closed for over seven months.During his address on January18 this year after flagging off eight trains to Kevadia from across India, Prime Minister Modi said more tourists visit the Statue of Unity in Gujarat than the Statue of Liberty in the US.He had said that with increased connectivity, over a lakh people will visit Kevadia daily, as per a survey.On Patel's birth anniversary last year, Modi had also launched a seaplane service between the Statue of Unity and the Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad, further improving connectivity to the tourist attraction in Kevadia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-statue-of-unity-crosses-50-lakh-visitorsmark-101615791024236.html
15-03-2021||India||SC notice to Centre, EC on plea to nullify election result if NOTA gets maximum votes||The Supreme Court on Monday sought response from the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking to direct the poll panel to nullify an election result and conducting a fresh poll if the maximum votes are for None of the above (NOTA) in a particular constituency.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notices to the Ministry of Law and Justice and the Election Commission of India while seeking their replies on the plea.Senior advocate Maneka Guruswamy appeared for the petitioner.The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate and BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay which also sought a direction to the Election Commission to restrict those candidates and political parties, whose election has been nullified, from taking part in the fresh polls."The right to reject and elect a new candidate will give power to the people to express their discontent. If voters are dissatisfied with the background or performance of the contesting candidate, they will opt for NOTA (none of the above) to reject such candidate and elect a new candidate," the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-ec-on-plea-to-nullify-election-result-if-nota-gets-maximum-votes-101615790735777.html
15-03-2021||NA||Parliament updates: Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrow||After a stormy budget session week due to the din over the hike in fuel prices, chances are bright for the two Houses of Parliament returned to normalcy on Monday.The Opposition parties agreed to participate in House proceedings at a meeting chaired by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday after the latter’s negotiations.According to two Opposition leaders, Birla told them that while their issues—fuel price hike and farm laws—are important, urgent business with constitutional requirements needs to be completed.“The Speaker told us we need to pass the Finance Bill and the demand for grants on an urgent basis. He also told us that he will adjourn the House quickly so that the MPs can go back to their states for poll campaign,” said senior Trinamool leader Saugata Ray.The Opposition disrupted both Houses of Parliament for three consecutive days over fuel price hikes and three contentious farm laws before proceedings were adjourned till Monday. After negotiations with the Opposition failed, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said: “PM Modi wanted to make a statement in the House on the 75th independence celebrations ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. But due to lack of consensus, the statement will not be made. It will happen when a consensus is reached.”Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrowpic.twitter.com/TobBITcDKlGovt likely to introduce Electricity Amendment BillThe government is likely to introduce the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, which seeks to enable power consumers to choose from multiple service providers as in the case of telecom services, in the ongoing session of Parliament.Rajya Sabha adjourns for the day, govt to reply TuesdayRajya Sabha adjourns for the day after concluding discussion on the working of Ministry of Jal Shakti. Government's reply to take place tomorrow.Lok Sabha session extended till 8pm#लोकसभा की कार्यवाही का समय रात 8 बजे तक बढ़ाया गया@LokSabhaSectt @ombirlakota #बजटसत्र2021 pic.twitter.com/fYjp6kHreaRajya Sabha passes bill declaring food tech institutes as national onesThe Rajya Sabha on Monday approved a bill that declares two food technology institutes at Kundli in Haryana and Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu as national institutes.India cognizant of plight of Indians abroad due to Covid: JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar on Monday told Parliament that India is fully cognizant of the plight of Indian workers and students abroad on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, and has repatriated 45.82 lakh people from 98 countries under the Vande Bharat Mission till date.No proposal to include petrol, diesel under GST: Sitharaman"At present, there is no proposal to bring crude petroleum, petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas under GST," finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha.Centre tables bill to define role of LG in Delhi in Lok SabhaWith the objective of giving a proper "interpretation" of a Supreme Court ruling, the government on Monday introduced a bill in Lok Sabha that seeks to define certain role and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi.Lok Sabha discusses demands for grants under railways#LokSabha discusses on Demands for Grants under the control of the Ministry of Railways for 2021-22@ombirlakota @RailMinIndiaClick to watch live https://t.co/yZZPjicf63https://t.co/9ngIrUB10T pic.twitter.com/f7a3qeBuXWBJP MP lauds railways for its services during the pandemicBJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav on Monday initiating the debate on Demands for Grants of the Ministry of Railways in Lok Sabha said the Indian Railways has been completely changed into a dynamic development-oriented organisation under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the last several years. The Indian Railways has rendered yeoman service during the coronavirus pandemic by transporting 43 lakh migrant labourers and making available several hundred coaches to be used as healthcare centres.Amendments to Juvenile Justice Act introduced in Lok SabhaBill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 that seeks to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates, was introduced in the Lok Sabha.NTA to conduct NEET-UG only once in 2021: Education ministerIn 2021, the NEET (UG) will be conducted by NTA only one time. NTA has informed that they have not received any memorandum in this regard, said Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal in a written reply in Lok Sabha.India to take up UK racism matters when required: JaishankarIndia will champion the fight against discrimination and will take up the matters of racism against Indian students with the UK, said the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in Rajya Sabha on Monday."We will raise it whenever required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance," the Minister said.Bills to be introduced todayIn this list of bills to be introduced today are "The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021", "The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021" and "The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021", "The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021", "The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021".External affairs minister S Jaishankar delivers statement on Oxford University's racism row"As land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism. Particularly so when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. We've strong ties with UK. We'll take up such matters with great candour when required," S Jaishankar said.Om Birla inaugurates CGHS health camp in Parliament House AnnexeLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inaugurated the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) health camp in Parliament House Annexe on Monday.Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghal, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also participated were also present there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-updates-om-birla-inaugurates-cghs-health-camp-in-house-annexe-101615770651614.html
15-03-2021||India||Banking services in Maharashtra hit as 40,000 bank employees join two-day strike||Banking services in the state got affected on Monday as around 40,000 bank employees and officers have gone on a two-day strike to protest against the government's decision to privatise two more state-run banks.Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan in the Union Budget for the next fiscal.The pan-India strike on March 15-16 has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions. It has claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks are participating in the strike.UFBU's Maharashtra Convenor Devidas Tuljapurkar in a statement said that about 40,000 bank employees and officers working in about 10,000 bank branches across the state have joined the nationwide strike.State-run lenders, including Central Bank of India among others have informed their customers to use their digital channels like internet or mobile banking, ATMS services for making transactions during the two-day strike.Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI).Others are Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banking-services-in-maharashtra-hit-as-40-000-bank-employees-join-two-day-strike-101615789896185.html
15-03-2021||India||Kathakali maestro Guru Chemancheri dies at 105||Veteran Kathakali exponent Guru Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair, one of the oldest practitioners of the classical art form, died at his ancestral house in Koyilandy in north Kerala in the early hours of Monday, his family said. He was 105.Active till his end, his portrayal of Lord Parasuram on stage when he completed 100 years in Kozhikode town hall enthralled art lovers of the state. His Krishna and Kuchela characters were favourites of classical dance connoisseurs. He was conferred Padma Shri in 2017 in recognition of his contributions to Kathakali.He could not study beyond the primary level and was more drawn to the classical dance form. Leaving his home at the age of 14, he became a disciple of famous Kathakali maestro Guru Karunakara Menon. In 1944 he established the first classical dance school in Kannur, Bharatiya Nritya Kalalayam.Later he set up an exclusive school for Kathakali at his native place and dedicated his life to his art. He developed his own improvisations and charmed the audience with his mudras, grace and innumerable disciples. He was in the news recently after he received Covid-19 vaccine at a private hospital in Kozhikode. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan have condoled the death of the maestro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kathakali-maestro-guru-chemancheri-dies-at-105-101615790209850.html
15-03-2021||India||Cabinet meetings continue to be held online: Here’s why||When the Union cabinet met on March 10, the meeting didn’t last for more than 15 minutes. There was just one agenda, creation of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Nidhi as a single non-lapsable reserve fund, and the meeting was held online. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led cabinet, the highest executive body of the country, has switched to a digital mode for the past many months after the Covid-19 pandemic plagued India last year, according to officials involved in the meetings. Public health safety protocols were overhauled in 2020 as Covid-19 played havoc with human lives, livelihoods and the economy. The government imposed federal lockdown, shut down many public services and offices were closed in an effort to contain the virus in the country of 1.3 billion people. As millions of Indians clung to the internet more than ever to earn livelihoods, hundreds of public offices too, went online, discarding the age-old style of functioning. The Union cabinet, that meets every week on Wednesday, switched to a never-before digital avatar to get the government of India’s mammoth machinery going. Also Read | Cabinet clears changes to Juvenile Justice ActAnd now, even as both Houses of Parliament have partially relaxed social distancing norms and held two sessions in physical form, political parties are frequently going into a huddle to strategise for the coming polls, and government offices have usual attendance, the cabinet continues to remain online. “Yes, the cabinet meetings continue to be held online,” said a top government official who attends all such meetings. These top-secret meetings are held on a secured platform developed by NIC, the government’s IT arm that has also devised the platform for online movement of files. “The same platform had been used for the PM’s Pragati meetings with bureaucrats,” said a third official. The ministers are free to log on from their offices or residences using passwords or biometric impressions. “But they are expected to remain in Delhi when the cabinet meetings take place,” said a senior aide of a minister of a social sector. There are a few reasons, one of the officials mentioned above said, for the digital cabinet meetings. “It becomes far more easier for all ministers to meet online as most of them are extremely busy in their constituencies or states.” Another official said, accommodating all 21 ministers while maintaining the required 6-ft social distancing norm between two chairs in the cabinet room is a major challenge. While no PMO officials tested positive for Covid-19 in this entire period, there was one instance when some of the NIC officials in the PMO tested positive and in that week, no online meetings could be held. To be sure, the Union cabinet held physical meetings on a few occasions last year at the 7, Lok Kalyan Marg. The huge centre table was removed from the designated cabinet room, to ensure social distancing. The PM sat at one end and ministers’ chairs were laid out in four rows in front. “There were two separate doors—one for the ministers and the other exclusively for the PM—in the room to adhere to health norms,” said a second official. But the PMO decided to stick to the digital format as it was convenient for all ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-meetings-continue-to-be-held-online-here-s-why-101615789789882.html
15-03-2021||India||Next 3 Shahi Snans at Kumbh Mela will be challenging: Tirath Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Sunday reflected on the uphill task of organising the upcoming three Shahi Snans during the Kumbh Mela and said following Covid-19 safety protocols is paramount. The newly-elected chief minister's remark comes after more than 3 million pilgrims took a dip in the Ganga during the snan on the occasion of Mahashivratri in Haridwar last week."I had asked not to stop people from coming here but they must follow Covid guidelines… We have increased bus services four times for travelling to and from the border,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Rawat said that the upcoming three Shahi Snans will be challenging.The chief minister said it is necessary to follow all anti-Covid guidelines during the Kumbh but the people participating in it do not have to be inconvenienced, PTI reported.“We do not have to deprive people of taking a holy dip in the Ganga,” said Rawat, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “unique working style” which, he said, enabled the government to take care of people’s need even during the lockdown.Kumbh Mela will be held in Uttarakhand's Haridwar from April 1 to April 30 this year. The second Shahi Snan during the Kumbh Mela will be held April 12 on Somvati Amavasya, the third Shahi Snan on April 14 on Makar Sankranti and the fourth Shahi Snan will be celebrated on April 27, which falls on Baisakh Purnima.Rawat also announced that his government has decided to withdraw cases against 4,500 people booked for allegedly violating the anti-Covid guidelines during the lockdown in the state. "We had decided to withdraw cases registered in connection with Covid-19 rules violation during lockdown against over 4,500 individuals, who were distributing food or helping people," the CM said.Rawat said he has ordered the withdrawal of these cases in a day or two||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-3-shahi-snans-at-kumbh-mela-will-be-challenging-tirath-singh-rawat-101615783824976.html
15-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Feluda test kit tweaked to detect mutated variants quickly||Researchers from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, have modified their gene-editing technology-based Feluda paper-strip diagnostic kit in such a manner that a simple polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test can be used to detect mutated variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said the institute.After naming their first kit after the famous fictional Bengali detective, the researchers have named the second one Ray (Rapid variant AssaY) after the author of the detective series, Satyajit Ray.At present, to detect the UK, South Africa, or Brazilian variants, the entire virus genome has to be sequenced to look for specific mutations. This, however, adds cost and time to the process -- three days in comparison to a few hours it takes to do a PCR.Also Read | India records 26,291 Covid-19 cases, 118 deaths; active cases spike by 8,718“We have developed the Feluda platform to come up with a test that can tell us in a few hours whether an infected person has any of the three new variants of concern. This will make detecting the new variants simpler and eliminate the need for complete genetic sequencing for diagnosis, which raises the cost manifold and takes about three days,” said Dr Debojyoti Chakraborty, senior scientist at IGIB and part of the team that developed both the tests.He added, “This does not mean we can stop sequencing the viral genome. We will still have to sequence a proportion of our positive samples to detect whether new mutations are arising or any imported mutations are in circulation. Used along with the Feluda strip, this test will just help in diagnosing whether a particular person has the mutated variant or not.”Once a swab sample from the patient is collected, the viral RNA is extracted from it and amplified using a thermo-cycler machine. The Feluda (FnCas9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay) test then uses a paper strip barcoded with the Cas9 protein to recognise specific portions of the genetic material of the Sars-CoV-2 virus to give a positive result.For Ray, the scientists have encoded the Cas9 protein to recognise the N501Y mutation, which is present in all the three new variants of concern. “In theory, the Cas9 protein can be encoded to recognise any number of mutations as and when they arise. The high specificity of the Cas9 can be utilised to detect any point mismatch in the viral genome,” said Dr Chakraborty.The lab is currently in talks with the industry to market the product. Tata Sons had manufactured and marketed the initial Feluda test kits. The cost of the Ray test is likely to be the same as Feluda. The scientists had earlier said that the lab cost of the test came up to ₹500 per sample, but the final cost decision depends on the company marketing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-feluda-test-tweaked-to-detect-mutated-variants-quickly-101615786849910.html
15-03-2021||India||Woman, 30, allegedly gang-raped in front of husband in Rajasthan’s Baran||A 30-year-old woman in Rajasthan was allegedly gang-raped by five men in front of her husband, the police said.SP Vineet Kumar Bansal said five men, including the brother of the woman's former husband and his aides, stopped the couple on the Baran-Atru state highway on Saturday night. The couple was returning home on a motorbike after visiting the Balaji temple. The accused took the couple to a nearby field where they tied up the husband and took turns to allegedly rape her, he added.The woman, along with her husband, managed to reach Sadar police station and filed an FIR against Dinesh and his four aides, said the officer.The survivor was taken to a hospital for medical examination and the police recorded her statement. The search for the accused is underway.According to police, the woman and her former husband's family have filed cases against each other in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-30-allegedly-gang-raped-in-front-of-husband-in-rajasthan-s-baran-101615785963742.html
15-03-2021||India||World Consumer Rights Day 2021: All you need to know||With the aim to raise global awareness about consumer rights and needs, World Consumer Rights Day is observed every year on March 15, since 1983. The day was inspired by President John F Kennedy’s special message to the US Congress on March 15, 1962. Kennedy addressed the issue of consumer rights and laid emphasis on its importance and became the first world leader to talk about consumer rights. On this day every year, various organisations like Consumer International hold events and campaigns to inform more and more people about consumer rights.World Consumer Rights Day 2021 themeThe theme of the World Consumer Rights Day 2021 is ‘Tackle plastic pollution’. “Plastic pollution is one of the most pressing issues facing our planet. Consumer awareness of the plastics crisis is growing around the world. Consumers have a critical role in shaping the marketplace, and we must support them to mobilise businesses and governments, to ensure sustainable consumption is accessible to all,” Helena Leurent, director general of Consumers International, said in a message on World Consumer Rights Day.To highlight the importance of controlling the use of plastics, Consumers International gathered photos from across the world to show how the 7 'R's of replace, rethink, refuse, reduce, reuse, recycle, and repair play an important role in the world’s fight against plastic pollution.Consumer rights in IndiaIn India, the consumer rights movement finds its roots in 1966 in Maharashtra. After the Grahak Panchayat was established in Pune in 1974, several institutions for the welfare of consumers were formed in many states. On December 9, 1986, the consumer protection act was passed in Parliament with the purpose of empowering consumers. The act focuses on the establishment of consumer councils, forums and appellate courts for the settlement of consumer's grievances.The act provides consumers with the following rights:1. Right to be heard at an appropriate forum2. Right to seek redressal in case of unfair trade practices3. Right to consumer education4. Right to goods and services at competitive prices5. Right to be informed about the quality, potency, purity, standard and price of goods and services6. Right to be protected against wrong marketing of goods and services which are hazardous to the life and property||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-consumer-rights-day-2021-all-you-need-to-know-101615785268695.html
15-03-2021||India||US defence secretary Lloyd Austin’s India visit reflection of significant bilateral ties: Envoy||Ahead of US defence secretary Lloyd Austin’s visit to India this week, the Indian ambassador to the United States TS Sandhu said his trip, the first by a senior cabinet minister under Joe Biden’s presidency, hints at the significance of the ties between the two countries. “This visit is a reflection of the importance which the US accords to India and the importance of our bilateral relationship,” he told news agency ANI.During his three-day India trip starting March 19, Austin will hold talks with defence minister Rajnath Singh and other senior government officials. Austin will “discuss deepening the US-India Major Defense Partnership and advancing cooperation between our countries for a free, prosperous, and open Indo-Pacific and Western Indian Ocean Region,” according to the defence department.Austin will reach India next week after visiting Japan and South Korea. His first trip overseas after taking office to the Indo-Pacific points to the importance the Biden administration is according to the region. He began the tour on March 13 with a visit to the US Indo-Pacific command headquarters in Hawaii. Last Saturday, Austin said he was travelling to Asia to boost military cooperation with American allies and foster “credible deterrence” against China.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Biden met virtually during the Quad summit on Friday.During the virtual summit, the four leaders pledged to hold an in-person meet by the end of this year. “The desire was to have an in-person summit but due to the pandemic, it wasn't possible. You have seen in the joint statement, there's a clear indication that foreign ministers will meet, and by the year end, all four leaders have pledged to have an in-person summit,” Sandhu told ANI.The Quad leaders launched an initiative under which India will produce up to one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022, which will be funded by the US and Japan, to carry out last-mile distribution by Australia in the South-East Asian nations of the Indo-Pacific.Speaking about the success of the event, Sandhu said, “You have to just see public viewing of the first 5 minutes and I think you can see. The general atmosphere was very good amongst all leaders.” The envoy, according to ANI, also hailed the bilateral ties between India and the US, saying the relationship is much deeper, which very much reflected in the equation between PM Modi and President Biden during the summit.The envoy also spoke about the relationship that Modi and Biden have shared in the past years. “You will recall in 2014 and 2016, the equation between PM Modi and the then VP Biden was extremely good. Not only at the lunch he hosted in 2014 but also in the 2016 session of Congress where the then vice president Biden presided,” he told ANI.In the joint statement, the four leaders have termed the Quad as a “flexible group of like-minded partners dedicated to advancing a common vision and to ensuring peace and prosperity,” adding that they were a group of democratic nations dedicated to delivering results through practical cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-s-india-visit-reflection-of-significant-bilateral-ties-envoy-101615784275251.html
15-03-2021||India||Batla House case: Delhi court to hear arguments on sentence against Ariz Khan||A Delhi court on Monday will hear arguments on the quantum of sentence for alleged Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorist Ariz Khan and his accomplices, convicted for the killing of inspector Mohan Chand Sharma of the special cell in the September 2008 Batla House case in the national Capital.On March 8, additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav convicted 35-year-old Khan aka Junaid, Salim, and Anna for Sharma’s murder. The court held Khan guilty of murder, attempt to murder, obstructing public servant on duty, causing grievous hurt and non-appearance despite being declared as a Proclaimed Offender (PO). Khan was pronounced a PO in 2009 and arrested after being on the run for 10 years.Also Read | Batla House gunfight: A timeline of the 2008 caseThe gunfight took place days after five serial blasts in Delhi on September 13, 2008, in which at least 30 people were killed and over 100 injured. Inspector Sharma of the special cell reportedly had specific tip-off about terrorists involved in the blasts hiding in flat no. 108, L-18, Batla House, Jamia Nagar.While Sharma and other police officials sustained injuries during the ensuing gunfight at Batla House, two terrorists--Mohammad Atif Ameen & Mohammad Sajid--were killed. Later, Sharma also succumbed to his injuries.Ariz Khan and Shahzad Ahmad managed to flee the spot but were later nabbed by the police. While Ahmad was sentenced to life imprisonment in the case in July 2013, Khan was arrested on February 14, 2018 from the Indo-Nepal border and convicted on March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/batla-house-delhi-court-terrorist-ariz-khan-to-be-sentenced-today-101615784869876.html
15-03-2021||India||'Big threat': Rahul Gandhi warns citizens over India's rising Covid-19 cases||As India continued to record a surge in the daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday tweeted another reminder to citizens asking them to remain vigilant. The Congress leader also attached a graph, which showed that the weekly Covid-19 cases have increased by 33% in the country in a sharp surge since July last year. The graph shared by Gandhi showed that the rise in India's Covid-19 cases in the last week at 155,909 was the highest in 12 weeks."As warned earlier, #Covid19 continues to be a big threat. Please keep the guards up- wear masks and follow all precautions," Gandhi said in a tweet.His appeal came on a day the country reported this year's highest single-day spike of 26,291 Covid-19 cases. India's disease tally is now over 11.38 million and its death toll stands at 158,725.The opposition leader has constantly shared warnings and statistics on the Covid-19 disease outbreak in the country, asking citizens not to lower the guard against the viral contagion. In February this year, Gandhi accused the Centre of being "grossly" negligent and overconfident about the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, saying it was not over yet. His comments came after South African and Brazilian variants of the pathogen were detected in India. "GOI is being grossly negligent and over confident about Covid-19. It's not over yet," Gandhi tweeted.In July last year, when India was still coming to terms with the rising trajectory in cases amid scaling up of efforts by authorities to ramp up public health systems, the Congress leader had warned India would record two million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the second week of August, a day after the country reported a million infections.“10,00,000 figures exceeded. If #COVID19 spreads at the same speed, more than 20,00,000 will be infected in the country by August 10,” Gandhi tweeted. “The government must take concrete, planned steps to stop the epidemic,” he added.He backed his warning by citing a news report quoting the World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who had said that if concrete steps were not taken, the coronavirus pandemic would turn from bad to worse and that “there will be no return to the old normal for the foreseeable future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-threat-rahul-gandhi-warns-citizens-over-india-s-rising-covid-19-cases-101615782053239.html
15-03-2021||India||Ambani security scare: Terrorist Tehseen Akhtar to be questioned in Tihar today||A team of officers from the Delhi police’s special cell will visit Tihar jail on Monday and question Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorist Tehseen Akhtar on his role in the case of the explosives-laden vehicle outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, Antilia, in Mumbai on February 25. On Saturday, police questioned Akhtar, a former chief of the banned terror group, for nearly seven hours. Delhi Police officers, who did not wish to be named, said Akhtar was evasive and tried to mislead them during the questioning.Last week, while probing the case of an explosive-laden car found outside Ambani’s, central intelligences had discovered a chat on phone application Telegram, through which a terror group that called themselves Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for the incident. The Telegram group was found to have been created inside Tihar jail, after which Delhi Police were informed. They, in turn, informed the prison department. On Thursday, the Tihar prison authorities conducted a raid inside jail 8 and seized two phones from Akhtar. Akhtar was convicted in the 2013 Hyderabad blasts case and has also been named in the 2011 Mumbai blasts, and 2010 Varanasi blasts, among other cases. Also Read | Tihar has no jammers that can block 4G signalsA senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “ We are looking at the role of other inmates too. Akhtar was a top leader of the IM when he was arrested from Darjeeling, West Bengal, in March 2014. Inside jail number 8 of the high security ward, he shares space with at least four others booked in terror cases. Two are of the same IM group, while the other two are from the Indian module of the Al Qaeda. It is possible that others too were using the cell phone.”Later in the day on Monday, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal is scheduled to hold a meeting with Tihar prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, and Delhi home secretary Bhupinder Bhalla over the issue of jammers and prisoners using cell phone inside the jail. Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava is also likely to be in the meeting. The Delhi government has already ordered an inquiry to probe how a prisoner accused of terror activities managed to get himself two cell phones in prison.On Monday, as part of the investigation, Delhi Police will question Akhtar on the genesis of the little-known group Jaish-ul-Hind. The group had claimed responsibility for the January 29 low-intensity blast outside the Israel embassy in Delhi. Police suspect that Jaish-ul- Hind is a new group started by absconding IM leaders. While many key members of the group, such as Akhtar(he was the head of the Ranchi module ) or IM’s co-founder Yasin Bhatkal, have been convicted and are currently behind bars, other top operatives such as Riyaz Bhatkal, Iqbal Bhatkal, Amir Raza Khan and Mohsin Chaudhary are absconding and are suspected to be in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-security-scare-terrorist-tehseen-akhtar-to-be-questioned-in-tihar-today-101615783609719.html
15-03-2021||India||India records 26,291 Covid-19 cases, 118 deaths; active cases spike by 8,718||India reported its biggest daily spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) this year, with 26,291 infections in the last 24 hours as a resurgence continues, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. The new Covid-19 cases have pushed the tally of the country, which is now behind the United States and Brazil, in terms of numbers, to over 11.38 million, the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am showed. India has been recording more than 20,000 cases of the coronavirus disease for the last five days now.The country's active caseload increased to 219,262 and constitutes 1.85% of the total infections. The death toll also mounted to 158,725 on Monday with 118 new fatalities, data showed. On Sunday, the country saw 161 people succumbing to the coronavirus disease, the highest in 44 days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,07,352, the data stated.After a substantial decrease in the number of cases in the last two months, India is recording a steady rise in the daily infections in March. Last week, the country saw more than 100,000 cases of coronavirus disease as experts raised concerns of a second wave.India on Sunday recorded 25,320 Covid-19 infections, the highest daily rise in 84 days, taking the case tally to 1,13,59,048, according to Union health ministry data. The last time India registered a high number of daily infections was on December 20 last year when as many as 26,624 new infections were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-records-26-291-cases-118-deaths-active-cases-spike-by-8718-101615778107807.html
15-03-2021||India||Delhi Police warn OLX users on QR code frauds. Here's how you can avoid losing money||Delhi Police commissioner SN Srivastava on Sunday warned people against online marketplace OLX and local search engine company Just Dial among others and asked users to watch a video in order to avoid getting conned. "Delhi Police has prepared a short awareness video in-house on QR Code frauds, which are very common with users of OLX and Just Dial. Please watch it and avoid getting trapped by frauds," Srivastava said in a tweet.Citing the example of OLX website, which has seen a spike in cybercrime and frauds in the last few years, the police commissioner said that people use the platform to sell old furniture and the video alerts the users about a common fraud.Here are the steps listed out by the Delhi Police video on OLX QR code frauds:1. Victim lists a product (old furniture, refrigerator, air conditioner etc) for sale on OLX, Facebook Market place, Just Dial in a bid to find a buyer.2. Fraudsters posing as buyer contacts the owner of the item over phone and offers to pay in advance.3. To initiate the process of duping and conning the buyer, the fraudster further shares fake ID cards.4. In some cases, the fraudsters have also impersonated army personnel.5. In their final stage of fraud, the criminals share QR code over WhatsApp asking the victim to scan it to receive the payment.6. Following this, the victim scans QR code on his wallet apps such as PayTM, UPI and other payment platforms.7. Once the QR code is scanned, money gets debited instead of being credited.Senior officials of Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell said the number of cybercrime cases reported in the national capital spiked during last year's lockdown period, from nearly 2,000 in March to over 4,000 in May, as fraudsters adopted new methods to cheat people. "QR code cheating through Olx app became famous. Accused posed as customers and sent QR codes which when used would deduct money from victim's account," Prem Nath, joint commissioner of police (Cyber Cell), said in February.Cybercriminals, police said, have adopted a new modus operandi as fraudsters target people by creating fake government websites offering financial assistance, subsidies and government jobs. In other methods, the police have found extortion of money using edited porn videos, customer care, online search manipulation, phishing links in the name of schemes, and news and alert pushed through emails and WhatsApp.According to data shared by the Delhi Police, 62% of the cybercrime reported in the Capital were related to online financial fraud, 24% were related to social media and 14% to other cybercrime.The QR code method of fraud is on the rise as several parts of the country have witnessed this form of duping in the recent past. The Jammu and Kashmir police last week arrested two people from Rajasthan who extorted ₹1 lakh on the pretext of buying an old refrigerator, for which a seller had advertised on OLX. "The fraudsters convinced the complainant to scan a 'QR code' sent through mobile to receive money to buy the refrigerator but eventually managed to debit ₹1 lakh from his SBI bank account in five transactions,” a police official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-warn-olx-users-on-qr-code-frauds-here-s-how-you-can-avoid-losing-money-101615771153492.html
15-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ghazipur border reopens for traffic after 48 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Ghazipur border reopens for traffic after 48 daysVehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad through Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was restored after Sunday midnight, as the police opened one carriageway that had remained closed for the past 48 days due to the farmers’ protest and the violence that took place during their tractor rally on Republic Day. Read moreDelhi’s air quality in poor category; likely to remain so till March 17Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 201. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 209. Read moreIndia’s inoculation drive now second largest in worldWith 1.26 million doses of vaccines administered on average every day in the last week, India’s inoculation drive is now the world’s second largest – both in terms of daily doses being administered as well as total jabs administered – and is now behind only the US, which is administering 2.5 million doses a day. Read moreRain likely over western Himalayan region till March 18: IMDWidespread rain or snow is likely over the western Himalayan region from today till Thursday [March 18], according to India Meteorological Department. Read more‘Made a promise’: CM Kejriwal flags off work on sewer lines in Kirari, MundkaDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday flagged off work on a sewer project slated to cover 114 unauthorised colonies and six villages across Kirari and Mundka assembly constituencies in the northwestern periphery of the Capital. Read more'Had a special chat with AB de Villiers before this game': Kohli reveals ABD's advice, explains Anushka's roleJust when the noise regarding Virat Kohli's form was beginning to grow loud, The India captain silenced his detractors with a timely half-century. Kohli notched up his 26th T20I fifty on Sunday during the second match against England, and did what he does best – successfully shepherding a chase for India that helped the home team to level the series after the crushing defeat on Friday. Read moreGovinda says Bollywood conspired against him, reveals he's lost ₹16 crore: 'Apne bhi paraaye ho jaate hain'Actor Govinda has said that a conspiracy has been hatched against him by certain sections of the film industry. He said that he has been deliberately sidelined, which has resulted in financial losses for him. Read moreDid you know birthday girl Alia Bhatt has Kashmiri, Gujarati, German roots?There is no disputing the fact that among the young crop of actors, Alia Bhatt stands tall. At 28, she already boasts of having featured in some of the most memorable films of her generation. Read moreGrammy Awards 2021: From Billie Eilish to Kanye West, a complete list of winnersThe 63rd Annual Grammy Awards were delayed owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The annual show shifted from its original January 31 broadcast to March 14. The ceremony honours musical artists, compositions and albums across 84 categories. Read moreWatch: Falcon & Winter Soldier: Kari Skogland on Marvel's 'politically charged' show||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ghazipur-border-reopens-for-traffic-after-48-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101615776300116.html
15-03-2021||India||Manipur Guv house grenade attack ordered by UNLF from Myanmar; NIA takes over||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over probe into the grenade attack outside Manipur Governor Najma Heptulla’s official bungalow in Imphal in January this year after initial investigation revealed that it the attack was carried at the behest of Myanmar-based commanders of United National Liberation Front (UNLF), people familiar with the development said.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) handed over the probe to the NIA last week after which the agency has registered a case under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), explosive substances act as well as attempt to murder.A Chinese made grenade was lobbed at the security personnel deployed at Raj Bhavan on January 19 around 4.30pm by two bike-borne suspects. Nobody was injured in the incident. Manipur police arrested three persons in the case – Lisham Iboshana Meitei alias Jojo, Konsam Manithoi Singh and Huidrom Sangba, all having links with the banned outfit UNLF.Also Read | MHA tells 4 N-E states to prevent influx of people from MyanmarThe central intelligence agencies believe that the attack was planned in Myanmar after which the cadres were activated here in Imphal.NIA officials familiar with the case said they will take custody of the three arrested UNLF members and ask them about those who gave them directions for the attack.Even as Indian government is holding peace talks with most of the insurgent groups from the north-east, several commanders of outfits like UNLF have been hiding in Myanmar. UNLF chairperson Rajkumar Meghen was released from Guwahati Central Jail in November 2019 after serving a decade-long sentence.The central anti-terror probe agency has investigated several cases related to north-east insurgent groups in the last 11 years and has secured conviction against several ultras.As reported by HT on March 2, insurgency-related incidents in the northeastern (N-E) states have dipped by 80% and civilian deaths by 99% in 2020 compared to 2014, according to MHA data. The deaths of security forces’ personnel also came down by 75%.Several officials and experts said that fewer insurgency-related incidents in the N-E was due to majority of insurgent groups, including the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) and its factions, having signed ceasefire agreements with the government. They added that regional diplomatic cooperation between India and neighbouring countries, including Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar, have denied insurgents safe havens. Also, economic development in the region and movement of people to the mainland for job opportunities has resulted in the dip in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlf-from-myanmar-ordered-grenade-attack-on-manipur-guv-house-nia-to-probe-101615779169490.html
15-03-2021||India||Rain likely over western Himalayan region till March 18: IMD||Widespread rain or snow is likely over the western Himalayan region from today till Thursday [March 18], according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance as a trough ( area of low pressure) is likely to cause widespread rainfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on March 15 and 16. Scattered rainfall over Himachal Pradesh with isolated thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm is also likely. A fresh Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from March 16. Under its influence, isolated rainfall or snowfall over western Himalayan region is likely during March 17-18 -- isolated thunderstorm with lightning over the region on March 17 and isolated rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning over parts of northwest India on March 18.Also Read | Zoos on forest land to be considered ‘forestry activity’; experts flag concernsA trough (area of low pressure) in westerlies in lower and middle tropospheric levels is likely to cause widespread rainfall over Arunachal Pradesh during the next 3-4 days and decrease thereafter; isolated rain or thundershower is also likely over rest parts of northeastern states during the same period.Light rains and thundershower hit parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh over the weekend. Gusty winds also swept isolated parts of eastern UP, said IMD. The weather is likely to remain dry over the state till Tuesday [March 16]. Light showers were recorded in most parts of Madhya Pradesh, while hail with thunderstorms struck 11 districts of the state till Saturday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-likely-over-western-himalayan-region-till-march-18imd-101615776229448.html
15-03-2021||NA||LIVE: Countries should continue using AstraZeneca jab for now, says WHO||India added 26,291 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 118 more related deaths on Monday, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. The active cases reached 219, 262 while 11,007,352 people have recovered till now. Confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) globally reached 120,057,630 on Sunday, according to data by worldometer. The tracker also said 2,659,831 people have succumbed to the viral disease and 96,589,358 have recovered from the infection across the world. The US, India and Brazil occupy the first, second and third positions, respectively in terms of the caseload of Covid-19. Brazil took over the second position in the list only on Saturday outpacing India after more than 30,000 cases were reported in the country.Follow all the updates here:Countries should continue using AstraZeneca jab for now: WHOCountries should continue using the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine for now, the World Health Organization said Monday, after a number of nations halted its use over blood clot fears."We do not want people to panic and we would, for the time being, recommend that countries continue vaccinating with AstraZeneca," WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan told a press briefing."So far, we do not find an association between these events and the vaccine."Due to rising Covid-19 cases, remaining T20 International Matches between India and England will be played without audienceDue to rising Covid-19 cases, remaining T20 International Matches between India and England will be played without audience at Narendra Modi Stadium (in file photo) in Ahmedabad. Refund will be given to the spectators who have purchased tickets, says Gujarat Cricket Association.WHO experts to meet Tuesday on AstraZeneca Covid vaccine safetyWHO experts to meet Tuesday on AstraZeneca Covid vaccine safety, says Tedros.Moderna begins testing of new Covid-19 vaccineModerna Inc said on Monday it had dosed the first patients in an early-stage study of a new Covid-19 vaccine candidate for evaluation as a next-generation shot.Cinema halls/hotels/restaurants found violating Covid-related rules will remain closed for a period: Maharashtra govtIn an order, Maharashtra government says cinema halls/hotels/restaurants found violating Covid-related rules will remain closed for a period until Covid-19 pandemic stays notified as a disaster by Central government.Italy suspends use of AstraZeneca Covid vaccine nationwideItaly on Monday suspended the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, making it the latest European country to put the product on hold following reports of recipients falling ill.Britain reports 5,089 new cases of Covid-19Britain reported 5,089 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, government statistics showed, with a further 64 new deaths within 28 days of positive coronavirus test.France suspending use of AstraZeneca Covid vaccinePresident Macron says France suspending use of AstraZeneca Covid vaccineKarnataka reports 932 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka reports 932 new Covid-19 cases, 429 recoveries, and 7 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 9,61,204Total recoveries: 9,39,928Active cases: 8,860Death toll: 12,397Germany to halt AstraZeneca vaccinations: Health MinistryGermany will stop administering AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, a spokesman for the Health Ministry said on Monday, making Germany the latest of several European countries to pause following reports of recipients being taken ill.In wake of rising cases of Covid-19, Gujarat's Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation orders closure of shops after 10 pm in 8 wardsIn wake of rising cases of Covid-19, Gujarat's Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation orders closure of shops after 10 pm in eight wards -- Jodhpur, Navrangpura, Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Paldi, Ghatlodia & ManinagarDelhi reports less than 400 new Covid-19 cases for first time since March 10, 368 fresh infections recordedDelhi reports 368 new Covid-19 cases, 306 recoveries, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,44,064Total recoveries: 6,30,799Death toll: 10,944Active cases: 2,321Goa sees 89 Covid-19 cases, 62 recoveries, 1 deathGoa's coronavirus caseload went up by 89 and reached 56,006 on Monday, while the toll rose by one and the recovery count by 62 during the day, an official said.Maharashtra reports 15,051 new Covid-19 casesMaharashtra reports 15,051 new Covid-19 cases, 10,671 discharges, and 48 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 23,29,464Total discharges: 21,44,743Active cases: 1,30,547Death toll: 52,909Bangladesh records 1,773 new Covid-19 cases, 26 more deathsBangladesh reported 1,773 new Covid-19 cases and 26 more deaths on Monday, taking the tally at 559,168 and the death toll at 8,571, the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) said.94 new Covid-19 cases in Jammu and KashmirJammu and Kashmir recorded 94 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the tally to 1.28 lakh, while no fresh death was reported, officials said.Facebook to label, add Information to posts on Covid-19 vaccineFacebook Inc., trying to counteract the spread of false information about vaccines, is planning to label posts about Covid-19 shots with a link to information from medical authorities including the World Health Organization.Negligence towards Covid-19 appropriate behaviour behind rising cases: Harsh VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said negligence towards Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is the main reason behind rising cases, adding that few states account for more than 80 per cent of the cases.1,054 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,463 recoveries reported in Kerala1,054 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,463 recoveries reported in Kerala today.Total active cases: 27,057Recovered cases: 10,60,560Pandemic has negatively impacted teens' mental health, says National PollFor teens, pandemic restrictions resulted in restrictions included months of virtual school, less time with friends and cancelling activities like sports, band concerts, for the ones who rely on social connections for emotional support, the Covid-19 induced lockdown may have taken a heavy toll on mental health, a new national poll suggests.147 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra PradeshThe rise of Covid-19 cases continued in Andhra Pradesh as 147 were added afresh in 24 hours ending 9 am on Monday, pushing the gross to 8.92 lakh.Around 20 lakhs people in Mumbai have been fined for not following Coviid norms: Rajesh TopeCorona cases are increasing, if situation deteriorates then lockdown will be announced in districts that will report more cases. Around 20 lakhs people in Mumbai have been fined for not following Coviid norms: Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope.US prison guards refusing vaccine despite Covid-19 outbreaksA Florida correctional officer polled his colleagues earlier this year in a private Facebook group: “Will you take the Covid-19 vaccine if offered?”The answer from more than half: “Hell no.” Only 40 of the 475 respondents said yes.Better Covid vaccines are coming, WHO’s chief scientist saysNew Covid-19 vaccines, including ones that don’t require needles and can be stored at room temperature, may be ready for use later this year or next year, the World Health Organization’s top scientist said. Six-to-eight new immunizations may complete clinical studies and undergo regulatory review by the end of the year, Soumya Swaminathan, the Geneva-based agency’s chief scientist, said in an interview Saturday.Russia says Sputnik V production agreements reached in key EU countriesThe developers of the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine said Monday they had reached production agreements in key European countries as the EU's medical agency deliberates official approval for the Russian jab. The head of Russia's Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev said in a statement that his organisation "has already reached agreements with companies from Italy, Spain, France and Germany to launch production of Sputnik V".Somalia receives 300,000 doses of Covid vaccineSomalia on Monday received its first shipment of 300,000 doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, destined for frontline workers and those most at risk from Covid-19, the government said in a statement. The conflict-torn nation has seen coronavirus cases soar 77 percent over the past month, to 9,190, while deaths have more than doubled to a total of 367.South Korea to expand Covid-19 vaccine drive, aims to inoculate a quarter of population by JuneSouth Korea unveiled on Monday plans to expand its immunisation campaign in the second quarter to include more senior citizens, health workers and other frontline professionals, with an aim to inoculate nearly a quarter of its 52 million people by June. Starting in April, more priority groups will receive a vaccine, including more people aged 65 or above, other healthcare workers, police, fire officials, soldiers and flight attendants, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) said.Indonesia orders 20 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for private inoculationsIndonesia expects to receive 20.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines developed by Moderna Inc and China's Sinopharm from the second quarter to use in a private vaccination scheme, the head of a state pharmaceutical firm said on Monday. Indonesia authorised one of the world's first private vaccination programmes last month to run alongside its national drive, enabling firms to buy state-procured vaccines for their staff in Southeast Asia's biggest country.Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 6,604The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 6,604 to 2,575,849, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Monday. The reported death toll rose by 47 to 73,418, the tally showed.One new Covid-19 case in Andamans; tally at 5,031The Covid-19 caseload in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 5,031 as one more person has tested positive for the disease in the Union Territory, a health department official said on Monday. The death toll remained at 62 as no new fatality due to the infection was reported in the last 24 hours.China reports 5 new mainland Covid-19 cases vs 10 a day earlierMainland China reported five new Covid-19 cases on March 14, down from 10 a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Monday. The National Health Commission, in a statement, said all of the new cases were imported infections originating from overseas. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, fell to nine from 10 cases a day earlier.France records 26,343 coronavirus infections in past 24 hoursFrance registered 26,343 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours while coronavirus-linked hospitalizations went up again, according to data released by the health authorities on Sunday. The country now recorded an accumulative total of 4,071,662 Covid-19 cases. Some 90,429 patients have succumbed to the respiratory illness. After fourth successive daily fall, the number of Covid-19 patients who are hospitalized went up again. Some 318 more people were admitted to hospitals in one day, bringing the total to 24,989. That included 4,127 cases in intensive care, up by 57.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-cases-15-march-death-toll-coronavirus-hindustan-times-101615775354129.html
15-03-2021||India||No child’s play: Toy guns turn real threat||What is a common link connecting a nearly successful 30-minute bank robbery, a phone snatching near a Metro station, extortion by a man posing as a police officer, and a fake heist at a jewellery showroom orchestrated by its owner?All the four crimes, officers investigating the cases in the last two years found, had the suspects using toy guns.As odd as it may sound, toy guns are not uncommon “weapons” in the hands of criminals in Delhi. Over the last two years, there have been at least 14 recorded instances of dummy firearms being used in crimes, ranging from bank robberies to street crimes, such as snatching, and extortion to fake robberies.In fact, two of the last four bank robberies in the national capital involved toy guns – in one instance it served as the lone weapon, and in the other as a back-up weapon.And this year, in a span of three days in January, there were three separate toy guns seized by the Delhi Police. In one of those cases, it was used for extortion by a club singer posing as a crime branch inspector and using the fake gun to extort people not wearing masks in Govindpuri. In another, a dummy gun was used to rob a mobile phone from a cab driver near the busy Jamia Nagar Metro station.In none of the 14 known instances, did the victims suspect that they were being threatened with a fake gun.When a mobile phone trader, who lost money in gambling, decided to target a bank in outer Delhi’s Prashant Vihar in March 2019, the only weapon he took with him was an air pistol — that is usually used to shoot balloons. Yet, operating alone, he was able to hold a dozen staff hostage for good 30 minutes and collect ₹40 lakh in cash, until the bank manager decided to challenge him and tackle him down.Till the time he was brought down, everyone in the bank believed he was wielding a real gun. In fact, the bank manager on duly even submitted the robbed cash and the gun to the police believing it was a real weapon. It was only when the police were examining the weapon, that they noticed it was a dummy weapon.Then in September, the same year, two men barged into a bank in east Delhi’s Farsh Bazar and briefly made away with nearly ₹9 lakh in cash. Police said that of the two weapons they brought along, one was a toy gun that looked real.While the toy guns in none of these 14 instances aroused suspicion, an incident in which a woman mocked some robbers for threatening her with “toy guns” took a tragic turn. In the robbery that took place in New Friends Colony, the robbers shot her in her foot to prove that they were carrying real weapons.Experts say that a host of reasons prompts criminals to opt for toy guns. Prakash Singh, former Uttar Pradesh Police chief, says that toy weapons are able to inspire the same kind of fear in victims that real guns do. Sometimes, a toy gun is used as a back-up of a real firearm as it comes at only a fraction of a cost of the genuine weapon.“A criminal knows that with a toy gun, he won’t be able to kill someone, even if the situation turns ugly. Moreover, he won’t be tried under the Arms Act,” says Singh.The Delhi Police does not maintain data on the use of toy guns in crimes, or the seizure of such “weapons”.When it comes to real guns, there were at least 672 cases last year when firearms were used in Delhi. The police went on to recover 2,735 illegal guns through last year.RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east Delhi), says that the offence cannot be deemed non serious just cause a toy gun was used in it.“We do not apply the Arms Act, but it is still a robbery, and the charges stand the scrutiny of the court,” says Meena, whose team recovered two of the last three toy guns in Delhi.But Prakash Singh believes that the use of toy guns falls in a grey area. “It is less serious than using of a real gun, but more serious than snatching without the use of a weapon,” he says.While these dummy guns maybe not capable of causing deaths, they are not entirely harmless either. Four years ago, a boy in Shahdara lost his left eye after being hit by a pellet fired from a toy gun being wielded by his neighbour.Meena says that these dummy guns are found in normal toy shops, online shopping platforms, sold as Diwali crackers and even in the form of cigarette lighters. “They look as good as real. And there is no ban on them,” says Meena. If convicted for a robbery using even a toy gun, the punishment remains imprisonment for up to 10 years.Delhi Police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, attributes the use of toy guns by some criminals to the “difficulty” in procuring a real gun.“It is not so easy for criminals in Delhi to obtain a real gun. The non-habitual criminals may find it easier to use a toy gun rather than find a real gun,” says Biswal.“We ensure that using a toy gun doesn’t reduce the gravity of the crime in court,” Biswal adds.The toy guns, sometimes, even catches the police by surprise. A vehicle thief, when surrounded by the police in Shahdara, chose to attack them with an iron rod, despite possessing a pistol.The mystery was solved only when the suspect was overpowered. An examination of the gun revealed it was only a toy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-child-s-play-toy-guns-turn-real-threat-101615761182840.html
15-03-2021||India||NGO helps those living in homeless shelters in capital register for vaccine jabs||A Delhi-based NGO is helping vaccinate people living in government-run shelters against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Centre for Holistic Development (CHD) is registering eligible people on the CoWin government portal.Sunil Aledia, CHD executive director, said, “There are a lot of people in shelters who meet the criteria, either above the age of 60 or at least 45-years-old with co-morbidities but have been left out of the drive unintentionally.”“We will be taking them for vaccination on March 16. We are hoping to register 100-150 people from across the city. We have also discussed this with district administrations and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (which runs the shelters) to find a way to get homeless people vaccinated,” said Aledia.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere are close to 200 government-run shelter homes, which are under DUSIB and managed by various NGOs.Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “The government should have a special drive to get the homeless, including those not living in shelters, vaccinated. While most may have ID cards, several may not and some measure should be devised to inoculate them too.”A senior DUSIB official said, “We are working on a plan to get these people vaccinated. So far, no decision has been taken.”Those running the shelter homes said that while identifying vulnerable people as per the criteria is not difficult, the real challenge is to take them to the vaccination centres. “A lot of us don’t have the resources to take these people to the inoculation centre. Also, some of the people, especially those who above 45 years of age, have to be examined by a doctor for comorbidities before they can be registered for vaccination. There is a need to arrange a medical screening of these people,” said Rajesh Kumar, national executive director of Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngo-helps-those-living-in-homeless-shelters-in-capital-register-for-vaccine-jabs-101615756170424.html
15-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Door-to-door drive to boost shots turnout||With Covid-19 vaccination turnouts in the city consistently below the government’s expectations, district teams have fanned out across the Capital in a bid to convince people aged above 60 and those over 45 with serious illness to get inoculated against the infection, which has steadily inched up in the city over the past few days.A senior government official said the teams have also been entrusted with helping people register and book vaccine slots through the Centre’s CoWin system and arrange conveyance for them if required.“We want to scale up the vaccination drive by increasing capacity as well as turnout. This cohort mobilisation exercise is an important step in that direction. We have to ensure that a large number of people are protected against the disease at the earliest,” said Vijay Dev, Delhi’s chief secretary.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSince January 16, when the vaccination drive was rolled out across the country starting with health care workers, 664,620 people in Delhi — roughly 3.3% of its total population — have received the first dose of the vaccine. These include 173,408 health workers, 264,282 front line workers, 196,007 people aged over 60 years and 30,923 people between ages 45-59 who have comorbidities, government records showed.Of 900,000 health workers and frontline workers in the city, around 600,000 registered for the vaccine. Delhi has around 2.1 million individuals aged over 60, according to election data which the government has used to record jab estimates. There is no clear estimate of people aged between 45-59 who have specific comorbidities as listed by the Union health ministry.“We are using booth-level machinery to reach out door-to-door, meet eligible beneficiaries and speak to them about the benefits of the vaccine, help reduce hesitance and assist them with the registration process,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East Delhi).Delhi currently has 438 vaccine sites across 192 health care facilities. Of these, 56 are government facilities, where the vaccines are administered for free and 136 are private that charge up to ₹250 for a single dose.“The focus of the drive is on potential beneficiaries who live in slums and low-income group colonies, where people are generally less aware about the programme. Many are too poor to afford travel or are less comfortable with technology to register themselves on CoWin. Another focus group is elderly people who have no relatives,” said Dharmendra Kumar, additional district magistrate (west Delhi).Each district has between 25 and 50 teams depending on its size and population.The government’s initiative comes amid a nationwide resurgence of infections. The seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases across India has risen by 67% from lows seen after the end of the first wave of the pandemic (from 10,988 cases a day week ending February 11, to 18,371 cases a day for week ending March 12).Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination taskforce for India, said: “Door-to-door drives are crucial to speed up the vaccination drive and ensure more people are protected against the disease at the earliest, especially in the light of uptick in cases in some states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-door-to-door-drive-to-boost-shots-turnout-101615755704034.html
15-03-2021||India||Lloyd Austin's Asia trip to foster ‘deterrence against China’||US defence secretary Lloyd Austin said on Saturday he was travelling to Asia – including India, Japan and South Korea — to boost military cooperation with American allies and foster “credible deterrence” against China.At the three-day trip — the first visit to India by a senior member of the Joe Biden administration — Austin will hold talks with defence minister Rajnath Singh and other senior government officials. Military-to-military cooperation, defence trade, the Indo-Pacific region and the situation in Afghanistan are expected to be on the agenda during Austin’s visit to India from March 19-21.“This is all about alliances and partnerships,” Austin told reporters, kicking of the Asia visit from Hawaii, seat of the American military command for the Indo-Pacific region.“It’s also about enhancing capabilities,” he added, recalling that while the US was focused on the anti-jihadist struggle in the Middle East, China was modernising its army at a high speed.“Our goal is to make sure that we have the capabilities and the operational plans... to be able to offer a credible deterrence to China or anybody else who would want to take on the US,” he added.This tour in Asia of the heads of diplomacy and defence of the US follows an unprecedented summit of the Quad grouping — an informal alliance of India, Australia, Japan and the US born in the 2000s to counterbalance a rising China.The maiden Quad Summit convened by US President Joe Biden and joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Friday too reviewed common challenges across the Indo-Pacific, especially China’s assertive actions.The Biden administration has generally backed the tougher approach to China initiated by former president Donald Trump, but has also insisted that it can be more effective by shoring up alliances and seeking narrow ways to cooperate on priorities such as climate crisis.In his first months in office, Biden has several times signalled his desire to return the Asia-Pacific to the top of the US foreign policy agenda.In keeping with his broader “America is back” diplomatic theme, the US’s national security strategy pledged to reaffirms ties with traditional allies and said the country will maintain a “more robust” military presence in the Indo-Pacific region.The report released earlier this month noted that the US recognises the “deepest connection” with Indo-Pacific region, and will “deepen our partnership with India” along with other countries.Lloyd will be joined in Tokyo and Seoul by secretary of state Antony Blinken. “One of the things that the secretary of state and I want to do is begin to strengthen those alliances,” he said. “This will be more about listening and learning, getting their point of view.”Blinken will join President Joe Biden’s national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, in Anchorage on March 18 with their Chinese counterparts Wang Yi and Yang Jiechi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lloyd-austin-s-asia-trip-to-foster-deterrence-against-china-101615752919454.html
15-03-2021||India||Vaze in NIA custody till Mar 25; focus on 2nd car||A special court on Sunday remanded assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to the National Investigation Agency’s custody till March 25 after the central agency arrested him late on Saturday for his alleged role in planting explosives in a vehicle found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25.Vaze was summoned at the agency’s Mumbai office at Cumballa Hill in south Mumbai around 11:30am on Saturday to record his statement after 20 unassembled gelatin sticks were discovered along with a threat letter in a Scorpio parked outside Ambani’s residence. He was arrested at 11:50pm the same day after an official said he confessed to his involvement in planting the car.On Sunday, NIA seized a white Innova car used by officers of the crime intelligence unit (CIU), which was headed by Vaze before he was moved out pending investigations. An official aware of the developments said the car appeared to be the same Innova that tailed the Scorpio on the night it was parked on Carmichael Road at a spot across the street from Ambani’s residence. CCTV footage from a nearby departmental store showed that an Innova remained parked behind the Scorpio for a few hours and then left, bearing the Scorpio driver.Vaze’s lawyers denied NIA’s claims and his alleged admission to his role in parking the explosives-laden car outside Ambani’s residence, Antilia. Vaze moved the Bombay high court challenging the grounds of his arrest, and the special NIA court will take up the matter on Monday after the prosecution refused to give Vaze a copy of his remand application citing privilege and confidentiality.Vaze’s advocate Sudeep Pasbola told news agency PTI that the arrest has been made only on the basis of suspicion and that there was no concrete evidence against him.After questioning him for several hours on Saturday, NIA arrested Vaze under sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 506(2) (criminal intimidation, if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4(a)(b) (1) (punishment for attempt to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosive with intent to endanger life or property) of the Indian Explosives Act, 1908.According to a top NIA official who did not wish to be named, Vaze confessed to being part of a group that placed 20 loose gelatin sticks (unassembled, without a detonator or a timer) in a green-coloured Scorpio that was found parked outside Antilia.NIA, while seeking Vaze’s custody for 14 days, told the court that it received inputs about his role in placing gelatin sticks in the SUV and that when he was questioned about it, he admitted his involvement.Vaze, who was part of the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch, was one of the lead investigators of the case before it was transferred to the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad.The developments linked to Vaze have triggered a political slugfest in Maharashtra, with the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Chandrakant Patil on Sunday holding chief minister Uddhav Thackeray responsible for the entire episode. The Shiv Sena has denied allegations made by the opposition.NIA further submitted that the investigation being conducted by Vaze was flawed. In its remand plea, NIA submitted witnesses’ statements to show Vaze’s alleged involvement in the case. The central agency also told the court that his custodial interrogation was required to unearth the conspiracy and gather evidence.NIA is also scrutinising the mobile call data records of Vaze and other people close to him in the police department and outside, another official said. “The NIA has also been interrogating another officer, API Riyaz Kazi, and a police constable from CIU who were allegedly close to Vaze,” the NIA official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Vaze is also under investigation for his alleged role in the suspicious death of 48-year-old Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based auto spare parts businessman who was linked to the Scorpio found parked outside the Ambani residence in South Mumbai. The case is being probed by the ATS.(Inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaze-in-nia-custody-till-mar-25-focus-on-2nd-car-101615752271258.html
15-03-2021||India||Most misguided efforts for tiger redistributions failed: K Ullas Karanath||Veteran wildlife biologist and a renowned expert on tigers, K Ullas Karanth, speaks to Sharan Poovanna on the concerns surrounding the human-animal conflict in Karnataka. Edited excerpts:Has there been an increase in human-tiger conflict in Karnataka? If yes, what are the reasons behind it?There has been an increase in the last two decades, but it is still relatively low and mostly restricted to the fringes of the landscape bordering the cluster of major reserves, i.e., Nagarahol National Park (Karnataka), Wayanad (Kerala), Bandipur (Karnataka), Mudumalai (Tamil Nadu) and Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy Temple (Karnataka). This entire area of about 3,000 sq km was relatively better protected from the 1970’s onwards and has attained a high number of tigers since then. Given the natural productivity of the species, one female can produce 10-15 cubs in her lifetime. This leads to an annual surplus of tigers in this region that are wandering off into human-dominated areas. Most of them are either older ones that have been evicted naturally from their home ranges while in some cases, it involves younger animals of two to four years of age which are in search of home ranges to settle down.Are authorities dealing with the problem in the most effective way possible?Not in my opinion, and this is not unique to Karnataka. It starts with the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and most states handle these incidents with little professional skill or understanding of tiger ecology. The same mistakes and loss of human lives are repeated when the situation is not handled well. When an animal is habituated preying on humans, it must be killed immediately using the quickest possible method. It must be done only by experts and should not take days to “rescue” it as more lives continue to be lost during this period and public animosity towards parks and wildlife increases. This obsession over “saving every individual cat” is an attitude problem and not scientific or useful when it comes to dealing with human-animal conflict.The forest department has said that there been no encroachment of forest land and there is no shortage of food for tigers in the jungles. Do you agree with this assessment?In protected areas like Bandipur, I agree that there is no shortage of food. It is the very nature of their space use patterns. However in reserves like Nagarahol and BRT, an increasing number of humans in settlements within the parks are a major problem. While tigers which are killing people outside the forests can be isolated and shot at quickly, what will you do if these outbreaks happen inside the protected areas? Despite persistent demand from hundreds of forest-dwellers in Nagarahol who have petitioned to be relocated for more than a decade, no one has bothered to take any step. After some good work in the earlier years, this critical conservation step necessary to prevent conflicts has been stalled.However, we must note that the encroachment of potential tiger habitat by humans continues in reserved and deemed forests. This is encouraged by the endless extension of Forest Rights Act procedures, which has caused significant damage. No one, including “conservationists” talk about this out of political correctness.How can authorities contain this problem and what are the challenges they face to ensure the safety of both humans and tigers? Outside the reserves in human-dominated landscapes, human safety must be prioritized. Money and time should not be wasted on ‘tiger rescue’, releasing captive bred tigers, needless translocations, etc. All these interventions only add to the problem.Also, if the tigers involved are old and infirm, even if they are captured, they must be humanely euthanized immediately and not kept in captivity artificially for decades under stressful conditions. “Authorities” have become too insular towards science and expertise, and this needs a cultural change.How have these incidents impacted tiger conservation efforts? The public is becoming increasingly interested in wildlife conservation and as a result, local hunting has taken a dip compared to the 1970s in Karnataka. However, due to the conflict cases, the public is resistant towards the creation of new protected areas. This has come as a huge setback for tiger conservation because more habitats need to be conserved if we are to increase the tiger population beyond the 3,000 we have in India now.Have the conservation efforts led to a higher density of tigers that has further created a new challenge?I would not call them “conservation efforts”. They are artificial and excessive, misguided manipulations of vegetation and water, which have increased prey densities to unnaturally high levels. As a result, the number of tigers has also reached unnaturally high levels. These civil works and vegetation manipulations with huge budgetary outlays are drastically altering the natural state of the habitat and animal density levels. If the park budgets are drastically trimmed, the habitat will revert to a more natural state and prey and tiger densities will also settle down to those levels. We are turning our tiger habitats into “Disney-lands” and the ignorant tourists think that this is a great idea!Can there be more coordination between states to redistribute these animals? What are the challenges to this proposal or approach?It is utterly foolish to think of “redistributing tigers”. They are not chess pieces or cattle to be redistributed in this manner. The distribution will happen naturally once the prey base recovers, and the dispersing animals find new habitats. Most misguided efforts for tiger redistributions across India have failed and can have tragic consequences both for locals as well as the tigers. The problem is, in the absence of any scientific inputs on tiger management, only such failed ideas are going around again and again.We have barely increased the tiger habitat in the last 50 years while the animal’s population has only increased from about 2,000 to 3,000. Look at the progress in other sectors India has made during the same period. It is a sad commentary indeed on the last two decades of failures in wildlife conservations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/most-misguided-efforts-for-tiger-redistributions-across-india-failed-k-ullas-karanath-101615746470999.html
15-03-2021||India||Karnataka registers 37% jump in tiger attacks in 2020-21 from last year||There have been at least 434 cases of tigers attacking cattle and humans in Karnataka in 2020-21, registering a 37% increase in such encounters from around 316 in 2019-20, according to data from the state forest department.This includes at least nine deaths of humans in two years, around 10-12 cases of injuries while a majority of them are of cattle being attacked or killed, according to the department.The increasing encounters come even as around 150 forest department and other personnel continued combing operations for a human-eating tiger in the coffee-growing region of Kodagu, about 225 km from Bengaluru.“Territorial fights are the problem as youngsters will push the older ones out, who then move towards human settlements and cattle,” Subhash Malkhade, Additional Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), said. He added that there were no problems of encroachments, poaching or shortage of food within the forests in the state.This particular tiger, who remains at large in Kodagu for nearly eight months now, was suspected to have killed at least three persons, critically injured another person and has so far preyed on around 25 cattle in the district, prompting angry reactions from people living in the region, who have blocked highways and other roads in protest.However, activists, environmentalists and conservationists have raised concerns over the efforts, which according to them, have so far proved ineffective for reasons including the use of inexperienced personnel, the department of being insular from science and expertise, inability to control large crowds, estate owners and even one BJP legislator among others who have been itching to shoot or kill the tiger.On February 21, the forest department had captured a tigress lurking in the locality and the one on the prowl currently is believed to be a male.“The same mistakes and tragic loss of human lives occur repeatedly when things are mishandled. When an animal becomes habituated to preying on humans it must be killed immediately using the quickest possible method and by real experts not by blundering around for days trying to “rescue” it,” K Ullas Karanth, veteran wildlife biologist and one of India’s well-known experts on the subject, said.He added that the delays in the capture of big cats fuel public animosity as the obsession with “saving every individual cat” was an attitude problem, which was neither scientific nor useful to contain the conflict.The incident in Kodagu also highlights the problem of wildlife forced out of reserves for various other reasons.In a 2018 report from the Centre titled, ‘Status of Tigers, copredators & prey in India’, it was shown that only around 1,923 big-cats live within the reserves while around 35% of them were outside the protected forests.With an estimated 524 tigers on last official count, Karnataka is home to the second largest population of these big cats spread over forest ranges like Bandipur, Nagarhole, Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy Temple (BRT) and Bhadra among other reserves.But a growing number of wild animals like tigers, leopards and elephants straying into areas of human settlements, agricultural lands and plantations in search of food outside the forest have been another major reason.Forest department data shows that there have been 17,561 human-animal conflicts in Karnataka in 2020-21 as against 16,314 in 2019-20.Incidents of leopards killing and dragging away dogs, livestock and calves have also been reported from across the state, including Bengaluru, where an increase in commercial activity around ecologically sensitive and fragile areas have led to more big cats wandering out of the forest in search of food.The death—natural or unnatural—of wildlife often garners an outpour of anger and grief on social media largely from people living in cities who are also the most frequent visitors to the tens of hundreds of jungle resorts and safaris that have mushroomed over the last decade or so to accommodate the growing demand.Karnataka is possibly the only state to continue safaris even during the monsoon, leaving very little room for the forest to remain without the noise of jeeps filled with tourists and nature enthusiasts, snaking through them all year long.Over 3.46 lakh people visited national parks and sanctuaries in Karnataka in 2020-21 (until November) due to Covid-19 induced travel restrictions. This number on an average hovers over the 15-lakh mark in normal years.Other developmental projects like railways, roads, construction of resorts, homestays and other works also tend to displace wild animals.“There is no effort to reclaim wildlife corridors that can help animals pushed out of one territory to move into another forest area,” Joseph Hoover, a wildlife activist said.He added that there should be an effort by authorities to hire and use the services of only those people with critical wildlife skills in such areas and not those who “buy” postings on recommendations by elected representatives and others.The government, experts said, are more interested in showing an inflated and often misleading increase in forest cover than reclaiming corridors and allowing commercial activities to flourish, leading to eroding buffer zones around these jungles.Though such conflicts are limited to specific landscapes, Karanth said, that better reproductive rates on account of effective strategies to contain poaching and other reasons has led to higher densities of tigers given that each female can produce 10-15 cubs in its lifetime.“This is producing some annual surplus of tigers in this region, which are dispersing into human dominated landscapes. Most such animals are either old that have been evicted naturally from their home ranges and in some cases younger animals of 2-4 years of age that are in search of home ranges to settle down,” Karanth said.Shrinking spaces forces a higher density of tigers in these areas, which activists claim, has left tigers with less than 10 square km of territory as against earlier requirements of over 25 sq km, forcing more conflicts within them and pushing them closer to human civilisation.Experts also reason that while there may be no encroachments from outside, human settlements from within these parks are a problem for the future as governments stall on requests by forest dwellers to be relocated.“It increases the animosity of people towards tigers, negatively impacts opinion of policy makers towards tigers, increases the risk of assault to frontline staff of the forest department, and causes many other indirect problems. Until conflict is brought down to tolerable limits, wildlife conservation becomes a serious pinch point,” Sanjay Gubbi, a wildlife scientist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-registers-37-jump-in-tiger-attacks-in-2020-21-from-last-year-101615746469104.html
15-03-2021||India||SC notice renews debate over holy sites in Varanasi, Mathura||In April 1984, 558 Hindu seers from across India joined forces with leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) at the first Dharm Sansad, or religious Parliament, in the heart of Delhi. Among their main resolutions was a nationwide call to press for the “return” of the holy shrines of Varanasi, Mathura and Ayodhya to the Hindus.As the Ram Janmabhoomi movement gained strength in north India through the 1980s, so did the campaign to remove Muslim religious structures in Mathura, considered by many as the birthplace of Hindu god Krishna, and Varanasi, where the Kashi Vishwanath temple dedicated to Hindu god Shiva stood. In Mathura, the Shahi Eidgah was adjacent to the Krishna temple and in Varanasi, the Gyanvapi mosque shared space with the Vishwanath shrine complex.But in 1991, with mobilisation growing in Ayodhya and the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute gaining enormous political traction, the then Narasimha Rao government passed a law freezing lawsuits to reclaim any place of worship after India was declared independent, except Ayodhya.In effect, this meant that the movements in Mathura and Varanasi petered out, and seers and Hindu activists focused their energies on the Ram Janmabhoomi. At the time, the Bharatiya Janata Party opposed the law.Now, with the Supreme Court agreeing to review the 1991 Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, advocates and Hindu seers at Varanasi and Mathura say their claims — currently in litigation in lower courts across Uttar Pradesh — have been boosted. Muslim groups have expressed concern and pointed out that unlike Ayodhya — where a makeshift temple was erected for Hindu god Ram — grand temples already exist in Varanasi and Mathura.“We welcome the news of the Supreme Court agreeing to examine the law. We have the registration papers of the property. It’s a confirmed property of Hindus,” said Mahendra Kumar, one of the advocates in the Mathura case.Last Friday, a bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justice AS Bopanna sought the response of three Union ministries, home, law and justice, and culture, on a plea filed by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay against the law that fixed the “character” of all places of worship prevailing as on August 15, 1947, except Ram Janmabhoomi.The petition challenged the provisions of the 1991 Act on the ground that it barred Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists from restoring their places of worship and pilgrimage and placed an arbitrary cut-off date by which the “illegal barbarian acts of invaders” were allowed to continue in perpetuity.Vijay Shankar Rastogi, the main advocate in the Varanasi case, also welcomed the top court’s decision and said the 1991 law violated Article 14, 21 and 27 of the Indian Constitution that provided for equality before law, right to life and personal liberty.But he added that the law didn’t apply to the Kashi Vishwanath temple case. “We are not changing the religious character of the place. Any structural change cannot alter the character of the religious place. In Kashi, the walls of first floor were demolished. Also, the deity has not been installed by anyone but the Jyotirlinga [deity] appeared itself thousands of years ago,” he said.In November 2019, the apex court’s verdict paved the way for a Ram temple, work on which has begun in the 2.77-acre site in Ayodhya. The Muslim parties were allocated a five-acre site to build a mosque. That judgment also referred to the 1991 law and said it “imposes a non-derogable obligation towards enforcing our commitment to secularism”.“The five-member bench had devoted almost ten pages to the Places of Worship Act as the basic structure of the constitution and had defined it too. By challenging the law, question is raised on the entire Ayodhya verdict. Thus it should concern all — Hindus or Muslims — who had welcomed the verdict,” said Athar Hussain, the spokesperson of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, which is responsible for building the mosque. In both cases, litigation is currently on in lower courts.On September 30, last year, a case was filed on behalf of the deity, Sri Krishna Virajman, in the court of the civil judge in Mathura but was dismissed. The petitioner, Ranjana Agnihotri, filed an appeal in the court of Mathura district judge on October 12. The case is pending. While one more petition was filed in the court of district judge, three were filed in the court of civil judge. All petitions seek removal of Shahi Eidgah adjacent to the Shri Krishna temple complex and transfer of 13.37-acre land to the deity.The Varanasi case reached the courts in 1991 when Hindu seers filed a petition in a local court on behalf of the deity, Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar, seeking permission to worship in Gyanvapi mosque area. The petitioners claimed Muslims occupied parts of the temple complex and built a mosque there.After 22 years, on December 10, 2019, Rastogi filed an application in the court of the civil judge, requesting a survey of the entire Gyanvapi compound by the Archaeological Survey of India. He filed the petition as the next friend of the deity.In his petition, he said the first additional district judge, Varanasi, passed an order in 1998, directing a lower court to take evidence from the entire Gyanvapi compound for determining the religious status or character of the compound. Later, the hearing was suspended following a stay order by Allahabad high court.The Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, which runs the mosque, objected to Rastogi’s application in their own petition. Anjuman committee joint secretary Mohammad Yasin said the stay order given by the high court was still effective. Last February, the court of civil judge rejected the objection petition and ordered that the hearing will continue.On the ground, the movements are gaining support from Hindu groups. On September 30 last year, when BJP and VHP leaders were acquitted in the Babri Masjid demolition case, senior Hindu seer Acharya Dharmendra had said, “Abhi to yeh jhanki hai, Mathura Kashi baki hai.”The Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the top decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders, also passed a resolution at Prayagraj in September, demanding “liberation” of the two places of worship. Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said the ABAP was ready to move the Supreme Court, if needed.“We wish for an amicable solution through consensus to this long-pending demand. We already held talks with the state government,” he said.The state government has not officially commented on the twin demands. But it has announced ambitious development plans in both towns. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on February 14 announced schemes worth ₹411 crore in Mathura. Work on the flagship Kashi Vishwanath corridor is in full swing in Varanasi.The leader of opposition in UP Assembly and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ramgovind Chaudhary said: “BJP and its forces that support it are busy in these kind of things — how to play with Hindu sentiments and encash it. All the more for all these years they could not and did not do any public interest, welfare, development works. Price rise is unprecedented, unemployment has reached highest in 45 years. So they are back to usual tricks.”While senior BJP leaders maintained silence, other leaders like former party MP Sakshi Maharaj, while talking to media in January 2020, demanded that justice should be done with Hindus by handing over Kashi and Mathura.Some Hindu groups oppose the litigation. The Akhil Bhartiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha (ABTPM) condemned the filing of the suit in the Mathura court. Its national president Mahesh Pathak said, “The ground realities are different in the two temple cities. While Ram was living in a makeshift temple in Ayodhya, in Mathura a grand temple exists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-renews-debate-over-holy-sites-in-varanasi-mathura-101615746408742.html
15-03-2021||India||India’s inoculation drive now second largest in world||With 1.26 million doses of vaccines administered on average every day in the last week, India’s inoculation drive is now the world’s second largest – both in terms of daily doses being administered as well as total jabs administered – and is now behind only the US, which is administering 2.5 million doses a day. These statistics highlight how India’s inoculation drive has been picking up pace in the recent days.The development, however, comes at a time when new infections have been rising for the past few weeks, with daily cases crossing the 26,000 mark on Sunday, the first time since December 19, or in 85 days, sparking fears of the start of a new wave of Covid-19 infections. India on Sunday reported 26,360 new Covid cases, taking the country’s total cases to 11,385,170, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn total, India has administered 29.74 million doses, with 24.31 million people receiving at least one dose as of Saturday night, placing it at the second spot in the world, ahead of the UK, which has administered 25.87 million doses to 24.19 million people as of Saturday, according to data issued by the respective governments.The US, which has administered 101.13 million doses as of Saturday, with 68.88 million people receiving at least one shot, however, is the runaway leader in the world in terms of vaccinations. Brazil is a distant fourth with 11.36 million doses administered till Saturday. India has administered more doses than all of South America (21.42 million doses), according to vaccination data compiled by website Our World in Data.In the past week, 1,259,438 shots have been administered every day in India on average – also the second highest in the world. Much of this increase has come in the past few weeks — India’s daily dose rate has tripled in the last 20 days (it was 415,332 shots a day for week ending February 22). It is only behind the US, which has administered 2,541,597 doses a day in the last seven days. On the distant third spot, the UK has been administering 349,372 shots a day last week. The vaccination process, however, needs to be scaled up in India quickly to break the transmission cycle, experts say. “Although it is heartening to see an increase in pace, It is sort of an underaccomplishment to go at this rate as India has the capacity to cover 7 to 10 million per day,” Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, told HT on Saturday.To be sure, due to the opaque nature of China’s data sharing on Covid-19 over the past year, numbers from Beijing have been excluded from global calculations, even though the country says it has administered 52.52 million doses as on February 28.NEW WAVES INCOMING, INDIA AND ABROADHowever, despite the rising vaccination, several nations including India are again trying to grapple with the start of a new wave of infections, which is threatening to thwart inoculation efforts.Daily infections in India have been growing at an alarming rate again – from Wednesday (March 10) onwards, the country has set four consecutive records for the most single-day infections in 2021. The country has reported 21,168 new cases a day in the past week – the highest since December 27. While this is nowhere close to the peak the country has seen (over 96,000 average cases a day in mid-September), the worrying trend is that it is rising — the case rate dropped to 10,988 for the week ending February 11.This trend isn’t limited to India alone – six out of the 10 countries in the world with the most Covid-19 cases are currently seeing new waves. These are Brazil (the world’s biggest hot spot with 71,419 new cases a day on average in the past week), France (23,273 new cases a day in the last week), Italy (22,160 new cases a day), Turkey (13,826), and Germany (9,675). The US, the world’s worst-hit country so far, is currently seeing 55,356 new cases a day, but the trendline is currently declining, which many experts have said is the first glimpse of the country’s immense vaccination drive paying dividends.In Europe, many countries have either kicked off fresh lockdowns or are on the verge it.In Italy, locals on Monday rushed to parks, shopping centres and to get haircuts before a majority of the country goes into lockdown on Monday to try to curb a surge in cases. Italian PM Mario Draghi backed the lockdown because infections are at three-month highs and the country’s vaccine programme has faced a spotty roll-out. Italy has suffered more than 100,000 deaths, the most in Europe after the UK.Officials in France said the Paris region may be headed toward a new lockdown as a third wave of infections has started to fill up ICUs and low vaccine supplies have dragged down inoculation efforts.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-inoculation-drive-now-second-largest-in-world-101615745738512.html
15-03-2021||India||Slugfest intensifies over Vaze’s arrest, NIA role||The political slugfest over the security scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and the subsequent arrest of Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze intensified on Sunday. While the ruling Shiv Sena termed the National Investigation Agency (NIA)’s intervention as an attempt to “destabilise the state”, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged a deeper conspiracy and called for the resignation of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Addressing reporters in Mumbai, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said repeated attempts were being made by the Centre to take over cases that are being probed by the city or state police to demoralise the forces. “The manner in which the NIA came to Mumbai for just 20 gelatin sticks (begs the question): Did they want to investigate a terror angle or just wanted to arrest an officer named Sachin Vaze to settle political scores? This officer, some months ago, had arrested their dear TV anchor in connection with a suicide case and was probing the TRP scam,” the Sena’s chief spokesperson said.He added that the Centre was only trying to put pressure on the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi-led government. “The Mumbai Police is capable of investigating any case. But they want to enter the state to try and destabilise it, demoralise the police to show the terror and pressure of the Centre. There was no need for a central team. The cops here can unearth a conspiracy, if there is one,” Raut said.Speaking on similar lines, revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said: “The government keeps changing but the police force remains the same everywhere. Maharashtra and Mumbai Police are famous for its work across the world. Mumbai Police is equated to the Scotland Yard. With the central agency taking over, we suspect if there is politics behind it.”Former chief minister and BJP leader, however, said those backing Vaze should be investigated thoroughly. “I am of the opinion that the case is not limited to Sachin Vaze. It is a big plot and many more names will be revealed during the course of the probe. It is just the beginning. Now, the NIA has sought Vaze’s custody for parking the car (outside Ambani’s residence) but the agency has already got evidence and links on Hiran’s murder as well. I am expecting action on that front soon,” he said.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar refused to comment on the case. “I can’t speak much about it as it is a small and local issue. It is also not about the state government’s policy,” he said at Baramati in Pune on Sunday.BJP leader Prasad Lad said, “The chief minister should take moral responsibility and tender his resignation. He had asked if Sachin Vaze was Osama Bin Laden. The NIA should also take over the Mansukh Hiren case and get to the bottom of the conspiracy.”Meanwhile, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that both the NIA and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) are probing the case and appropriate action would be taken on the basis of the findings. “The bomb scare case related to industrialist Mukesh Ambani and murder of Mansukh Hiren are being probed by the NIA as well as the ATS,” he told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slugfest-intensifies-over-vaze-s-arrest-nia-role-101615746228103.html
15-03-2021||India||Vaze held, Tihar angle: Tracing the trail of probe||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai on Sunday remanded assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to custody till March 25 after the central agency arrested him late on Saturday for his alleged role in planting explosives in a vehicle found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25.He is also under investigation for his role in the suspicious death of 48-year-old Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based auto spare parts businessman, who was linked to the Scorpio.Here’s what we know of Vaze’s alleged role — and the investigation into this case — so far.A car outside AntiliaOn February 25, when Bharat Patil, a security officer at Antilia, made a call to the Mumbai police control room and the Gamdevi police station regarding a suspicious SUV parked opposite the house where the Ambanis reside, Vaze, the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit, was one of the many officers who arrived at the scene.A Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) officer said the 2.5kg gelatin was enough to trigger a low-intensity blast, but that the gelatin sticks were not in the form of an assembled explosive device.On February 26, Vaze was made lead investigator in the case and CCTV footage revealed that the Scorpio car arrived the previous night, accompanied by an Innova, and the driver left in the Innova after sitting in the car for a few hours. The driver was not visible. The Innova was later found at a toll point. The case was transferred to a higher ranking officer of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad after the Opposition began to demand that the NIA be called in to investigate.The police were able to link the car to Hiran within hours primarily because the Thane-based businessman reported it stolen on February 18.It turned out that Hiran was using the car for the past three years, but it did not belong to him. It was given to him in lieu of a payment a man named Peter Newton defaulted on. On February 17, Hiran parked the car on the side of the road after the steering wheel got jammed while he was driving it. The next day, he visited the spot, but found the car missing. Hiran visited the CIU on February 26. He admitted that the car was his, but it had not been in his possession for over a week.Between February 26 and March 4, Hiran was questioned. On March 5, his body washed ashore at a creek in Thane district. His belongings were missing, and his face was found covered with a scarf, with handkerchiefs stuck into his mouth.The Union home ministry later directed NIA to take over the investigation into the explosives from the ATS; the FIR filed in the Gamdevi police station was re-registered and on March 9, an NIA team landed in Mumbai and began its investigations. It met various police officers who were part of the initial investigation, including Vaze, assistant commissioner of police Nitin Alaknure and ACP Sripad Kale.A statement that set the ball rolling Two days after his death, Hiran’s wife Vimla recorded her statement with ATS, which was now also tasked with investigating the murder. Her statement spoke at great length of Vaze’s connection to Hiran, and the Scorpio.In her statement, Vimla told the investigators that Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio (that was found parked outside Antilia) in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021. The car, she stated, had been in possession of Vaze for four months.On March 4, Vimala said her husband returned from his shop at 8.30pm and told her that he was going to meet a police officer named Tawade, somewhere along Ghodbunder Road. Vimala told the investigating team that when she tried calling her husband at 11pm, his mobile phone was switched off. Later at night, when Hiran had still not returned home, Vinod called Vaze who reportedly expressed surprise at the meeting and informed Vinod that Hiran had not mentioned that he was going to meet Tawde.The following morning, Hiran’s son Meet, and Vinod lodged a missing person’s report. Hiran’s body was found by fishermen on March 5 around 10.30am. Prima facie, the police said, it seemed that Hiran died by suicide. But Vimla contested that claim. She told the ATS team that Hiran was too good a swimmer to have drowned. “Taking into consideration all the above circumstances, I am sure that my husband was murdered,” her statement read. “I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder.”Based on her statement, ATS began to treat Hiran’s death not as a case of suicide or accidental drowning.The ATS team questioned Vaze for several hours. On Friday, March 12, Vaze filed an anticipatory bail plea, which came up for hearing on Saturday. In his application, Vaze stated that he was in Dongri, South Mumbai, at the time of Hiran’s disappearance on the night of March 4, when the businessman left his home and didn’t return.Vaze, the officerVaze joined the Maharashtra police force in 1990 as a sub inspector. His first posting was in Gadchiroli, a Maoist-affected area and he was moved to Thane city police in 1992. It was there that he gained a reputation of being a good criminal investigator.In 2000, Vaze was transferred to the Powai unit of the Mumbai crime branch. It was during his stint there that, together with three other policemen, he faced a charge of murdering Khawaja Yunus, an accused in the 2002 Ghatkopar blast case. Vaze resigned from service on November 30, 2007. The following year, he joined the Shiv Sena.Vaze was reinstated in the police force on June 6, 2020. So were the three other policemen who were booked for their alleged involvement in Yunus’s custodial death. A dispute over the framing of charges in this case is pending before the Bombay high court.On Saturday, Vaze’s WhatsApp status made a reference to this case, when he wrote: “3rd March 2004. Fellow officers from the CID arrested me in a false case. That arrest inconclusive till date. Sensing the history is going to repeat. My fellow officers are on to falsely trap me.”A Tihar jail angleIndian Mujahideen terrorist Tehseen Akhtar was on Saturday questioned for “nearly four hours” inside the Tihar Jail by a team of the Delhi Police’s Special Cell in connection with the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare probe, according to officials. A mobile phone, recovered from Akhtar’s barrack in Tihar Jail, is suspected to have been used for creating a Telegram channel used by a group named Jaish-ul-Hind for claiming responsibility for parking the SUV with gelatin sticks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaze-held-tihar-angle-tracing-the-trail-of-probe-101615746227598.html
15-03-2021||India||Quad offers spark of hope amid pandemic: Leaders||After creating history by holding the first-ever summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — also called the Quad — leaders of the four member countries have written a joint op-ed offering their partnership as a “spark of hope to light the path ahead” in the darkness brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic.India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden met virtually on Friday for the first time at the summit level for the fledgling group. They have said they plan to meet in person later in the year.They launched a Vaccine Initiative under which India will produce up to 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022, financed by the US and Japan, for last-mile distribution by Australia in the South-East Asian nations of the Indo-Pacific.“Over the course of these past months, each of us has grieved the suffering that our people and the world have endured. But in this dark hour, our partnership offers a spark of hope to light the path ahead,” the leaders wrote in a joint op-ed in The Washington Post on Saturday.“We summon from tragedy the strength and resilience to unify and overcome. And we recommit ourselves, once again, to an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, secure and prosperous,” they added.The article repeated the announcements from Friday, and much of what appeared in the joint statement and the fact sheet that were released after the summit. It also recalled the history of the grouping from being founded in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami, to being turned into a dialogue in 2007 to being reborn in 2017.The leaders described the Quad as a “flexible group of like-minded partners dedicated to advancing a common vision and to ensuring peace and prosperity”. And the member countries, the leaders added, were “a group of democratic nations dedicated to delivering results through practical cooperation”.Since the 2004 tsunami, the world has come to face other challenges such as climate change, which has grown more perilous; new technologies, which have “revolutionized our daily lives”, geopolitics have become ever more complex, and a pandemic has devastated the world, they wrote, adding: “Against this backdrop, we are recommitting to a shared vision for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, resilient and inclusive.”The leaders also wrote about the Quad Vaccine Experts Group, which they announced on Friday to support cooperation in the long term. They also reiterated their commitment to cooperating as a group to combat climate change and deal with emerging technologies, which will be led by the Quad Climate Working Group and the Quad Critical and Emerging Technology Working Group.But they will not be an insular group and will work with other countries and groups. “We welcome and will seek opportunities to work with all of those who share in those goals,” they wrote. Other countries and groups of countries have expressed the desire to work with the Quad, which was discussed at the summit, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-offers-spark-of-hope-amid-pandemicleaders-101615746167966.html
15-03-2021||India||Bank strike on March 15, 16; services may get affected||Banking operations in the country might get affected on Monday and Tuesday as the public lenders will go on a two-day strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) protesting the government's proposal to privatise two public sector banks.The umbrella body of nine bank unions has claimed that over 10 lakh bank employees and officers will participate in the strike that can affect services like cash withdrawal, bank deposits, cheque clearance and loan approvals.Also Read | US inflation risk remains small, ‘manageable’, says Janet YellenBanks like State bank of India, Canara Bank have informed their customers that the services in branches and their offices might get affected during the normal working hours if the strike materializes."We have been informed by the Indian Banks' Association (IBA) that the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has given a call for strike in the banking industry on March 15 and March 16, for issues relating to industry level and not for any bank-level issues," PTI quoted Canara Bank as saying.Last month, the banking workforce sported black badges on their arms as a sign of protest against the government's decision of privatization of public lenders.As per a PTI report, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary C H Venkatachalam said the conciliation meeting before the additional chief labour commissioner that took place on March 4, 9 and 10 did not reap positive results and hence the strike will take place.The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh after the presentation of the Union Budget 2021 on February 1 had announced that it has decided to conduct phase-wise agitation against the government's disinvestment plan. The BMS notification has a list of agitational programmes scheduled to be conducted in phases till the end of this year.#BMS to launch phasewise #agitation against #Disinvestment and #Privatisation.#AatmanirbharBharat @FinMinIndia @LabourMinistry @DoPTGoI @editorvskbharat @ANI @PTI_News pic.twitter.com/T77x7AfdwCAt least 14 public sector banks have been merged in the last four years of the BJP-led government, including the privatisation of IDBI Bank after the majority of its stake was sold to LIC in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-strike-on-march-15-16-services-may-get-affected-101615733122261.html
15-03-2021||India||Pak resorted to highest number of border violations just before LoC ceasefire||Pakistan resorted to the highest ever ceasefire violations during the 12 months preceding the announcement by the Indian and Pakistani militaries that they had begun strictly observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) from the midnight of February 24, according to government data.The two countries first agreed in 2003 to observe the truce along their de facto border in Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read | 1999 Kargil war: Ex-Pak envoy denies US diplomat’s claimAccording to government data accessed by HT, the Pakistani army violated the ceasefire at least a dozen times on average daily between February 2020 and February 2021.Pakistan resorted to 4,645 violations in 2020. August and September 2020 accounted for the highest number of violations for any two consecutive months in 17 years.The number of violations was more than 5,100 if those along the international border are also counted. The escalation in ceasefire violations coincided with the first anniversary of the Centre’s move in August to strip Jammu & Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status that Islamabad reacted sharply to.The data shows 835 ceasefire violations were reported in August and September last year. “There were 427 ceasefire violations on the LoC in August 2020. That is the highest number for any single month since November 2003. The Indian Army responded forcefully to the Pakistani violations. The LoC was most active last year since 2003,” said an official, asking not to be named.Ceasefire violations sharply increased over the last five years – recording a 10-fold jump since 2016 when India carried out surgical strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in response to the Islamabad-backed suicide attack on an army camp in Uri. The year 2016 accounted for 449 violations, with the numbers only increasing in the following years – 881 (2017), 1629 (2018), and 3168 (2019).Pakistan resorts to ceasefire violations to help terrorists sneak into Jammu & Kashmir to destabilise the region.“It is a positive [move] that India and Pakistan have agreed to renew and abide by the ceasefire,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former Director-General of Military Operations (DGMO).“At the tactical level, the Indian Army has raised the costs for Pakistan by effective retaliation to ceasefire violations, as also the robust counter-infiltration grid has effectively neutralised any major infiltration bids…India also benefits from a cold LoC, but the army will still need to be on the high vigil,” Bhatia said.He added lowering tensions can also facilitate the resumption of talks at the diplomatic and political level. “The effort should be to sustain the ceasefire for as long as possible. But the challenge for India will be to change Pakistan’s behaviour as it continues with its proxy war.”In a rare meeting, Bhatia as DGMO met his Pakistani counterpart at the Attari-Wagah border near Amritsar on December 24, 2013, to discuss ways to restore calm along the Line of Control. There were no ceasefire violations by Pakistan for almost seven months after those talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-number-of-border-violations-by-pakistan-before-february-ceasefire-101615533278418.html
15-03-2021||Today's||Under Joe Biden, a return to professional diplomacy with India||India, United States (US), Japan and Australia came together for the Quad summit on March 12, 2021, hosted by US president Joe Biden. This was the first interaction between Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden in a multilateral forum since the change of power in Washington earlier this year, though they have spoken on the phone since Biden took over.In the past two decades, bilateral relations have grown under successive Democratic and Republican administrations, with the two countries cooperating on a wide range of areas, from trade, commerce and technology to defence and terrorism. The two have also been working together on several multilateral forums. In recent years, Quad has come to be seen as a platform that will serve as a counterweight to China. In fact, the Donald Trump administration had even floated the idea of an Asian NATO.Some in India, who have been increasingly worried about the Chinese border transgressions in recent years, may have been hoping for Quad to become just that. Biden’s participation in last Friday’s summit signals that his administration does indeed see strategic potential in Quad.However, judging by the remarks delivered by Biden and the other leaders at the summit, it is clear that Quad will serve as a multi-dimensional forum that will address myriad topics from economic growth to health care, but not as a military alliance.There are already signs that ties are moving back to the old days of being channelled through institutions and processes. Biden is a firm believer in ironing out differences and cementing ties through multilateral forums and bilateral institutional co-operation. So, we will see a sharp departure from the presidentially-centred diplomacy that was the hallmark of the Trump White House. But, that does not mean Biden will not forge a good working relationship with Modi.During the campaign, there were concerns among some in India about Biden because of his criticism of India on issues such as Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Many were also worried whether Modi’s relationship with Trump, especially the two campaign-style rallies where they made join appearances in Houston and Ahmedabad, would hamstring New Delhi when dealing with Biden. While we are likely to hear US concerns on Kashmir and CAA, they are not going to be deal-breakers.Another issue that pundits in both countries have been keeping a close eye on is, of course, China. Beijing has been a factor in US-India bilateral relations since the early 2000s, when China arrived as an economic power and its spectacular rise on the world stage began. Some Indian analysts have suggested that the recent military disengagement by both New Delhi and Beijing would not have taken place if then secretary of state Mike Pompeo were still in office because of his continuous attempts to insert himself into the India-China dispute.Under the current secretary of state, Antony Blinken, the US is more likely to play the role of a firefighter, rather than that of an arsonist. That does not, however, mean Washington will be blind to potential Chinese aggression.Even though the Quad summit and the readout of the Modi-Biden call did not mention China, they both emphasised the importance of a free and open Indo-Pacific. It means China will remain a factor in India-US relations, but not in the way anti-China hawks in Washington and New Delhi envisaged during the Trump administration.Biden understands geopolitics better than most other heads of state, having served in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for decades. He has more India expertise than any previous president, which will only be a good thing for bilateral relations. But it’s not Biden’s experience and expertise alone that will count. It will equally be the extensive experience and expertise of others whom he will bring to the table to meet with their Indian counterparts to work collaboratively to construct policy positions that will work to the benefit of both nations and the world.Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/under-joe-biden-a-return-to-professional-diplomacy-with-india-101615822070990.html
15-03-2021||Today's||For the US, the competing priorities on India||Relations between the United States (US) and India, which were in the doldrums during much of the Cold War era, started to take a more cordial turn from the waning days of the second Bill Clinton administration. However, they were placed on a genuinely secure footing following the US-India civilian nuclear agreement of 2008. Since then, there has been a remarkable bipartisan consensus about the significance of India in the US foreign policy calculus.Even Donald Trump, who used strong-arm tactics in trade negotiations, curbed H-1B visas and saw the relationship in transactional terms did not undermine it. Though otherwise mercurial, he nevertheless allowed his administration to adopt a pro-India stance when the Sino-Indian border troubles flared up in Ladakh last year.The Joe Biden administration assumed office with the promise of moving away from the nativist outlook of the Trump administration. Earlier, during the presidential campaign, Biden made it clear that his administration would return to multilateralism, promote democracy and global human rights and stand up to the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and Russia’s attempts to support and promote authoritarian regimes across the world.Earlier this month, the White House released a document, the Interim National Security Strategic Guidance, which provides a working blueprint for the administration’s new national security strategy. To no one’s surprise, it affirms the administration’s return to multilateralism, commits it to strengthening long-standing alliances and declares its interest in promoting democracy and protecting human rights. There is little question that the administration will attempt to implement these goals.However, it has already recognised that certain trade-offs are inevitable. To that end, last month, it released an unclassified version of a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) analysis of the killing of the Saudi dissident and The Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi. (The Trump administration, in an effort to avoid offending the Saudi monarchy, and with its lack of interest in promoting human rights abroad, kept it under wraps.) The report left little or no doubt that the murder could not have taken place without the imprimatur of the Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto ruler of the desert kingdom. In its wake, the US Department of the Treasury placed a series of sanctions on a number of high-level officials in Saudi Arabia.However, the administration chose not to impose any costs on the Crown Prince. Political commentators argued that the administration decided not to publicly upbraid him for fear of unsettling this long-standing relationship. Clearly, as has happened many a time in previous administrations, this one too felt the need to strike a delicate balance between ideals and self-interest.Will the administration feel compelled to strike a similar balance in dealing with India? On the one hand, the report has, albeit quite briefly, alluded to the significance of India in promoting cooperation and advancing its strategic interests in the Indo-Pacific. Yet, in several places, this document highlighted US concerns about promoting democracy and human rights on a global basis. During the campaign, both Biden and vice-president Kamala Harris expressed their unease about the state of human rights in India in general, and in Kashmir in particular. After assuming office, the administration has raised these concerns again. The issue is one that the administration will not abandon. This is even more likely as there are a number of key Congressional Democrats who are prone to holding it accountable on this particular score.However, it is also evident that the Biden administration continues to attach considerable strategic significance to the Indo-US relationship. This is reasonable to infer given that Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, is making his initial trip to India this week. His visit signals a continuity in policy. In the meanwhile, last week, at the virtual Quad conference, the members agreed to boost vaccine distribution and coordinate their policies to counter China’s assertiveness.Given these two competing imperatives, how is the Biden administration likely to tackle them? Faced with the growing aggressiveness of China, India remains a prospective linchpin in American regional strategy. Consequently, the US will elicit India’s cooperation in guaranteeing security and stability in the region. Yet it cannot allow its stated commitment to protecting human rights and boosting democracy to ring hollow. How then is it likely to weigh in on these demands which are likely to be at odds?The strategic relationship, after years of vicissitudes, is now stable. More to the point, New Delhi, after decades of vacillation, sees considerable value in it despite some lingering reservations. Accordingly, it cannot distance itself from the US. Despite this strategic convergence, the new dispensation in Washington, it will not, as occasion demands, shy away from quietly, but firmly, reminding New Delhi to adhere to its democratic traditions. Negotiating between these two shoals may prove to be taxing for both Washington and New Delhi.Sumit Ganguly is a distinguished professor of political science and holds the Rabindranath Tagore Chair in Indian Cultures and Civilizations at Indiana UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-the-us-the-competing-priorities-on-india-101615816733832.html
15-03-2021||Today's||In poll season, the security of leaders||The heady mix of chanting crowds, streaming banners, blaring loudspeakers and curious onlookers can drive any political leader to violate security and safety protocols during election campaigns. The exuberance is infectious enough to make even security personnel complacent and disregard the basic canons of protection. Popular leaders from across the globe love reaching out to the fawning masses, literally throwing all caution to the wind. History is witness to many such serious mishaps and yet, unfortunately, this keeps repeating itself, since no lessons are learnt.The injury suffered by Mamata Banerjee, during her public rally in Nandigram after filing her nomination, is a case in point. The Election Commission (EC) report, compiled by special observers, terms it as an accident caused by critical gaps in the security arrangements laid out by district authorities. The state police finding is along the same lines. The EC suspended director, security, and SP, Nandigram but strangely spared the collector and only transferred him.But a chief minister (CM) getting hurt on an election campaign does raise issues of safety and security of candidates during electioneering. More so, when the CM has Z+ scale of security. It is the highest scale accorded in individual protection against threats emanating from terrorists and anti-national elements. The recent internecine battles between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) cadres warranted strict implementation of security and safety guidelines by Banerjee’s security personnel. A Z+ scale of security provides layered protection comprising an isolation cordon too, which is critical for insulating the protectee from an assault or proximate threat. While the protected person is on the move, the personal security officer (PSO) is responsible for opening and closing of the vehicle door. In the current case, one theory is that a car door hit a standing pillar and, while closing banged against the victim’s leg. If only an advance recce of the road show was conducted, two imminent threats would have stood out — pillars on the way and unchecked crowds lined up sans barricade. Even if the crowd was friendly, mobile security teams could have managed a semblance of order and warned of the pillars ahead, along the way.Another glaring security lapse was the manner in which the injured was carried to the hospital 125 km away, lying in the same vehicle. Every state has a security manual for the CM’s security which is scrupulously followed. Advance planning for such rallies would surely include an ambulance in the arrangements, with a doctor and paramedics.Before every election, an elaborate exercise is undertaken for studying threat assessment of political leaders, and the state government is alerted on the security guidelines to be followed. However, politicians mostly disregard the advice of even senior police officers. The personal security detail merely stands as a silent observer of what goes on — in the name of all being free and fair during elections. Candidates, precariously perched on their vehicles, standing with the door half open and waving to the crowd, are watched helplessly by the accompanying security personnel.The alleged presence of the director and deputy director, security at the rally has spawned a huge debate of jurisdiction between EC and the state government. TMC leaders have accused EC of usurping the law-and-order authority from the state, resulting in such lapses. EC has retorted stating that law and order was not taken over and still remained under the state.A former chief election commissioner has said that before every election, a notification puts every police officer, from the director general of police (DGP) downwards to the constable, on deputation to EC. Then, how can EC escape responsibility? It transferred the DGP and key officers of the state to eschew perceived bias in the conduct of elections. It also announced an unprecedented eight-phase poll schedule in exercise of its unfettered powers. If law and order was so fragile, then wasn’t it incumbent on EC to issue strict guidelines for compliance of security and safety of candidates? Isn’t safety of star campaigners, especially during exciting but dangerous road shows, essential? Mamata Banerjee is not just the CM but the most popular local leader in West Bengal. She is the lone star of Trinamool — the main battle tank against the BJP juggernaut. Her safety is paramount. Then why did the Trinamool not think of getting her a custom-made vehicle, which would enable her to participate in such rallies with safety while waving to the crowds? Many political leaders have benefited from using such vehicles.A number of issues arise from Mamata Banerjee’s accident for the conduct of elections in future. Central and state security agencies have to play a much more assertive role in assessing threat perception, laying out security cordons and firmly implementing them. The candidates must adhere to security and safety norms for their own good and smooth conduct of elections. And, lastly, EC, while denying that it is micromanaging governance activities during the period, should accept some measure of responsibility for such lapses and take serious corrective measures to prevent their recurrence in future.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer who served as Secretary (Security), Government of India. He is also a former Central Information CommissionerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-poll-season-the-security-of-leaders-101615816670958.html
15-03-2021||Today's||Address political finances, election malpractices||Two recent news reports paint an image of India today. The first report was about how Delhi’s residents saw a dip of ₹20,000 in their average income during the Covid-19 period. If this is the case in Delhi, one can well imagine the situation in many other states.The other report, from Assam, highlighted how more than ₹18 crore in cash, alcohol, drugs and other banned substances were recovered in the state in just 11 days. So, on the one hand, the world’s largest democracy has been left poorer by the pandemic. On the other, the political system, instead of doing anything constructive, is using cash and liquor to woo voters, in a democratic election.These reports remind me of a dinner I attended when the Janata Dal was in power. The host was a Union minister and many Members of Parliament (MPs) and influential people were in attendance. Before moving into the Lutyens’ bungalow he now occupied, the minister lived in a tony area of Vasant Kunj in Delhi. A self-proclaimed socialist, he was born into riches.At that party, a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Rajasthan blithely told me that liquor and money were necessary lubricants for elections in India. He went on to say that the main demand from voters after the elections was not to build roads, schools or hospitals but for jobs, contracts or a back-door entry for some sinecure or other.That, said the MLA, is why elected representatives need much more money than their salaries would afford them — to build up a corpus to provide liquor and cash for the next election, not to mention hiring musclemen.His words were met with much mirth. But I was deeply disturbed. I recalled a popular slogan of that time — “Raja nahi faqir hai, Bharat ki taqdeer hai” (not a king but a beggar, he’s the destiny of India).Many in that room were fellow travellers of the then faqir-raja prime minister, Vishwanath Pratap Singh. Yet, their sentiments were that voters could be bought with cash and liquor.Since the conversation, three decades ago, a whole new generation has emerged in the country. Statistics may not always be completely accurate, but they give us an indication of which way the wind is blowing. It does not matter which party won the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, but the figures that the Election Commission made public are shocking.During the 2014 elections, ₹300 crore in cash and hundreds of kilos worth of drugs was recovered across the country. Action was taken against more than 1.1 million people in this connection. And during the next general election, ₹844 crore in cash, liquor worth ₹304 crore, narcotics worth more than ₹1,200 crore, and jewellery or gifts worth about ₹1,000 crore were recovered. In just five years, this trend has deteriorated sharply.The Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR) found in an investigation that out of 539 members in the Lok Sabha, 475 were multi-millionaires. Of these, 266 have assets of more than ₹5 crore. There has been a steady increase in the number of millionaire MPs in our country. In the 2009 Lok Sabha, 58% of the MPs were crorepatis. In 2014, their number rose to 82% and 88% of the MPs in the current House are multi-millionaires.It does not end here. At least 51% of those elected to the Bihar assembly in 2020 have serious criminal charges against them. The previous assembly had 40% members with criminal charges.At the same time, the people’s incomes have not gone up, and, in many cases, they have come down. In the Covid-19 era, many people have sunk further into poverty while another section has profited significantly. This disparity does not bode well for our democracy.Elections in a democracy should not be so expensive that only those with financial power can hope to win. Such high-cost elections can never lead to a healthy democracy. The great socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia, a champion of the poor, came up with the slogan “one note, one vote”.His candidates used to hand around bags at their meetings and appeal for one rupee notes. Many of these people won and went on to have successful political careers. But most of them changed, for the worse, once in power. If they had followed the principles of Lohia, surely our democracy would have been the better for it.These are all matters of regret. But regret changes nothing. For the last five decades at least, our collective consciousness has been largely guided by money power. This goes against the very grain of democracy.Our leaders and the people who elect them must introspect on this and hopefully engage in course correction before it is too late.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/address-political-finances-election-malpractices-101615732550582.html
15-03-2021||Editorials||Manage privatisation, with political finesse | HT Editorial||A key government initiative this year will be the proposed privatisation of public sector enterprises, while the State will confine itself to the bare minimum presence in strategic sectors. Coupled with the monetisation of assets, as proposed in the budget, this will herald a major change in India’s political economy, where, over time, the State will retreat from directly managing companies and assets and confine itself to a broader regulatory and oversight rule. This newspaper supports the privatisation drive and believes that it is not the State’s business to be in business. There was a historical context for the government to invest in public sector enterprises in the initial decades after Independence, but that era is long over. But it is important to recognise that privatisation is not merely an economic decision — it is squarely within the realm of politics. It is tied to questions about the nature and responsibility of the State, the future of employees in units which are meant to be privatised, and the future economic implications in sectors which move into private hands. And that is why it is crucial to manage this much-needed process of privatisation with political finesse. This includes reaching out to all political and economic stakeholders — from Opposition parties to trade unions. It includes building a strong intellectual case for privatisation — while reassuring those who fear that they will bear the brunt of the consequences of reforms. And it includes keeping a flexible outlook and be willing to engage in negotiations rather than adopt an absolutist attitude. As the controversy over farm laws shows, economic reforms are deeply contentious now and the role of the private sector continues to be viewed with suspicion. The government must be transparent and consultative, while the Opposition must be responsible and not engage in mindless obstructionism of sound policy initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/manage-privatisation-with-political-finesse-hteditorial-101615816732630.html
15-03-2021||Editorials||The rise of new political dynasts | HT Editorial||In Tamil Nadu, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is witnessing its first election, without the leadership and guiding hand of its late supremo, M Karunanidhi. His son, MK Stalin, is finally leading the party — and could well become the state’s next chief minister. But the focus is not as much on Mr Stalin within the DMK as it is on his son, Udhaynidhi Stalin, who has been given a ticket to contest from the same assembly constituency which his grandfather once held. An actor who became active in the party’s youth wing, Udhaynidhi Stalin will have to rise through the party’s hierarchy just as his father did — but being a third-generation dynast gives him a natural edge. It is also further evidence that a party rooted in the idea of rationality and wider social justice has become a family enterprise — given the extensive control of the wider Karunanidhi family over the party apparatus.In West Bengal, while chief minister Mamata Banerjee remains the face of the Trinamool Congress and the party’s key campaigner, there is now little doubt that her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, a parliamentarian, is possibly the second-most powerful person in the organisation. From poll strategy to finances, public relations to intra-party issues, Mr Banerjee is playing an important role — with speculation rife that he is being groomed as the party’s next leader. This has alienated other veteran leaders, but the control of the Banerjee family over the party is absolute.Dynastic politics is neither new in India, nor confined to these regional forces. It has complex sociological roots, from family elders in politics prodding their young to take on the same professional route to issues of trust since party finances are closely controlled within a circle of trust; from the political ambition of those who can see a short-cut to state power because of family links to mass support for a family brand. But none of this is adequate justification for the rise of dynasts, and as voting patterns show, a young and new India is increasingly (albeit not always) sceptical of those who have little to show but family lineage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-rise-of-new-political-dynasts-hteditorial-101615816731245.html
15-03-2021||Editorials||The political importance of Kerala | HT Editorial||The Left Front, particularly the Communist Party of India (Marxist), was often, only half in jest, referred to as a regional party which spanned across the regions of Tripura, West Bengal, Kerala and the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi. The Left lost power in Bengal in 2011 and has become so marginal in the state’s polity that it will be lucky to come a distant third this time around. It lost power to its arch ideological rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in Tripura in 2018. And so it is in only Kerala that this regional force has control over the power structure.The state is also critical for the Congress, for Kerala offers the best chance for the party to come to power. (In Assam, it is a key stakeholder but surveys suggest it will fail to oust the incumbent). Kerala has seen, for four decades, a pattern where voters alternate between the two key forces in the state led by the Left and the Congress. Going by this conventional parameter, the success of the Congress in the 2019 elections, and Rahul Gandhi’s personal stakes (he is a parliamentarian from Wayanad), this election should have been an easy win for the Congress. But the Left, under chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has succeeded in projecting an image of effective governance and service delivery in a range of areas, including health and during natural disasters. It has also carved out a broad coalition.While the BJP may improve its vote share in the state, the outcome in Kerala is important because it will determining the balance of power within the broad national Opposition, especially between Congress and non-Congress forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-political-importance-of-kerala-hteditorial-101615732727751.html
